
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Fatal Accidents Act, 1855
The Fatal Accidents Act, 1855
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/594667/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1605
]
Union of India - Act
The Fatal Accidents Act, 1855
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Fatal Accidents Act, 1855
Act 13 of 1855
Published in Gazette 13 on 27 March 1855
Assented to on 27 March 1855
Commenced on 27 March 1855
[This is the version of this document from 27 March 1855.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Fatal Accidents Act, 1855
[Act, No. 13 of 1855]
[27th March, 1855]
An Act to provide compensation to families for loss occasioned by the death of a person caused by actionable wrong.
Whereas no action or suit is now maintainable in any court against a person who, by his wrongful act, neglect, or default,
may have caused the death of another person, and it is often-times right and expedient that the wrong-doer in such case
should be answerable in damages for the injury so caused by him; It is enacted as follows:--
1.
Short title and extent.?
(1)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Fatal Accidents Act, 1855
This Act may be called the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855.
(2)
It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.
1A.
Suit for compensation to the family of a person for loss occasioned to it by his death by actionable wrong.-
Whenever the death of a person shall be caused by wrongful act, neglect or default, and the act, neglect or default is
such as would (if death had not ensued) have entitled the party injured to maintain an action and recover damages in
respect thereof, the party who would have been liable if death had not ensued, shall be liable to an action or suit for
damages, notwithstanding the death of the person injured and although the death shall have been caused under such
circumstances as amount in law to felony or other crime.
Every such action or suit shall be for the benefit of the wife, husband, parent and child, if any, of the person whose death
shall have been so caused, and shall be brought by and in the name of the executor, administrator or representative of
the person deceased;
and in every such action, the court may give such damages as it may think proportioned to the loss resulting from such
death to the parties respectively, for whom and for whose benefit such action shall be brought, and the amount so
recovered, after deducting all costs and expenses, including the costs not recovered from the defendant, shall be
divided amongst the before-mentioned parties, or any of them, in such shares as the court by its judgment or decree
shall direct.
2.
Not more than one suit to be brought.-
Provided always that not more than one action or suit shall be brought for, and in respect of the same subject-matter of
complaint.
Claim for loss to the estate may be added.-
Provided that in any such action or suit the executor, administrator or representative of the deceased may insert a claim
for. and recover any pecuniary loss to the estate of the deceased occasioned by such wrongful act, neglect or default,
which sum, when recovered, shall be deemed part of the assets of the estate of the deceased.
3.
Plaintiff shall deliver particulars, etc.-
The plaint in any such action or suit shall give a full particular of the person or persons for whom, or on whose behalf,
such action or suit shall be brought, and of the nature of the claim in respect of which damages shall be sought to be
recovered.
4.
Interpretation clause.-
The following words and expressions are intended to have the meanings hereby assigned to them respectively, so far as
such meanings are not excluded by the context or by the nature of the subject-matter; that is to say the word "person"
shall apply to bodies politic and corporate; and the word "parent" shall include father and mother and grand-father and
grand-mother; and the word "child" shall include son and daughter, and grand-son and grand-daughter and step-son
and step-daughter.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2