
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Foreign Recruiting Act, 1874
The Foreign Recruiting Act, 1874
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1759110/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
3
]
Union of India - Act
The Foreign Recruiting Act, 1874
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Foreign Recruiting Act, 1874
Act 4 of 1874
Published on 24 February 1874
Commenced on 24 February 1874
[This is the version of this document from 24 February 1874.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Foreign Recruiting Act, 1874
(4 OF 1874)
11.
/588
Statement of Objects and Reasons.-In the present state of the law, as appears from a legal opinion lately submitted to
the Government of India, there is nothing to prevent our Indian territories being made a recruiting ground for Foreign
States on the Continent of India or elsewhere. It seems that the agents of such State may beat up for recruits in a way to
expose the Government to serious embarrassment, with foreign nations if they do not interfere, and with their own
subjects if they do.
It is only when the recruiting is for the "service of any Foreign State at war with any Foreign State at peace with Her
Majesty" that the provisions of the English Foreign Enlistment Act (33 and 34 Vic., cap. 90) apply, and the Indian
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Foreign Recruiting Act, 1874
Emigration Act, to which a reference is naturally made in connection with a matter of this kind, is confined in its operation
to emigrant labourers, that is to say, taking the word in its ordinary acceptation, to persons emigrating with a view to
obtaining employment in husbandry or manufactures.
The object of the present Bill is to confer on the Governor General in Council the power of control which thus appears to
be wanting, and which at the same time it is manifestly desirable he should possess.
[24th February, 1874]
An Act to control recruiting in [India]
[ Substituted by Act 3 of 1951, Section 3 and Schedule, for " Part A States and Part C States"  (w.e.f. 1.4.1951).]
for the service of Foreign States.
Preamble .- Whereas it is expedient that the Central Government should exercise full control over recruiting in [India]
[Substituted by Act 3 of 1951, Section 3 and Schedule, for " Part A States and Part C States"  (w.e.f. 1.4.1951). ]
for the service of Foreign States: It is hereby enacted as follows:-
The Act came into force on 1.10.1963, vide Regulation 7 of 1963, Section 3 and Schedule.
This Act has been extended and brought into force in Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regulation 6 of 1963, Section 2 and
Schedule II (w.e.f. 1.7.1965).
1.
Short title .- This Act may be called The Foreign Recruiting Act, 1874.
Local extent.-It extends to the whole of India [* * *].
[* * *]
[ The commencement clause repealed by Act 12 of 1876, Section 1 and Schedule.]
2.
"Foreign State" defined .-In this Act, "Foreign State" includes any person or persons exercising or assuming to exercise
the powers of Government in or over any country, colony, province or people, beyond the limits of [India].
3.
Power to prohibit or permit recruiting .-If any person is, within the limits of [India], obtaining or attempting to obtain
recruits for the service of any Foreign State in any capacity, the Central Government may, by order in writing [* * *]
[ The words " signed by a Secretary of the Government of India"  omitted by A.O. 1937.]
, either prohibit such person from so doing, or permit him to do so subject to any conditions which the Central
Government thinks fit to impose.
4.
Power to impose conditions .-The Central Government may from time to time, by general order notified in the Official
Gazette, either prohibit recruiting for the service of any Foreign State, or impose upon such recruiting any conditions
which it thinks fit.
5.
Power to rescind or vary orders .-The Central Government may rescind or vary any order made under this Act in such
manner as it thinks fit.
6.
Offences .-Whoever, in violation of the prohibition of the Central Government, or of any condition subject to which
permission to recruit may have been accorded,-
(a)
includes or attempts to induce any person to accept or agree to accept or to proceed to any place with a view to
obtaining any commission or employment in the service of any Foreign State, or
(b)
knowingly aids in the engagement of any person so induced, by forwarding or conveying him or by advancing money or
in any other way whatever, shall be liable to imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years, or to fine to such
amount as the Court thinks fit, or to both.
7.
Place of trial .-Any offence against this Act may be inquired into and tried, as well in any district in which the person
accused may be found, as in any district in which it might be enquired into and tried under the provisions of the [Code of
Criminal Procedure].
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Foreign Recruiting Act, 1874
Translation
Page 3/3