
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Powers-Of-Attorney Act, 1882
The Powers-Of-Attorney Act, 1882
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1232250/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
450
]
Union of India - Act
The Powers-Of-Attorney Act, 1882
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Powers-Of-Attorney Act, 1882
Act 7 of 1882
Published in Gazette 7 on 24 February 1882
Assented to on 24 February 1882
Commenced on 24 February 1882
[This is the version of this document from 24 February 1882.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Powers-Of-Attorney Act, 1882
[Act No. 7 of 1882]
[As on 1956]
[24th February, 1882]
An Act to amend the law relating to Powers-of-Attorney.
For the purpose of amending the law relating to Powers-of-Attorney; It is hereby enacted as follows:?
1.
Short title.?
This Act may be called the Powers-of-Attorney Act, 1882.
Local extent, commencement.?
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Powers-Of-Attorney Act, 1882
It applies to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir and it shall come into force on the first day of
May, 1882.
1A.
Definition.?
In this Act, ?Power-of-Attorney? includes any instruments empowering a specified person to act for and in the name of
the person executing it.
2.
Execution under power-of-attorney.?
The donee of a power-of-attorney may, if he thinks fit, execute or do any instrument or thing in and with his own name
and signature, and his own seal, where sealing is required, by the authority of the donor of the power; and every
instrument and thing so executed and done, shall be as effectual in law as if it had been executed or done by the donee
of the power in the name, and with the signature and seal, of the donor thereof.
This section applies to powers-of-attorney created by instruments executed either before or after this Act comes into
force.
3.
Payment by attorney under power, without notice of death, etc., good.?
Any person making or doing any payment or act in good faith, in pursuance of a power-of-attorney, shall not be liable in
respect of the payment or act by reason that, before the payment or act, the donor of the power had died or become of
unsound mind, or insolvent, or had revoked the power, if the fact of death unsoundness of mind, insolvency or
revocation was not, at the time of the payment or act, known to the person making or doing the same.
But this section shall not affect any right against the payee of any person interested in any money so paid; and that
person shall have the like remedy against the payee as he would have had against the payer, if the payment had not
been made by him.
This section applies only to payments and acts made or done after this Act comes into force.
4.
Deposit of original instruments, creating powers-of-attorney.?
(a)
An instrument creating a power-of-attorney, its execution being verified by affidavit, statutory declaration or other
sufficient evidence, may, with the affidavit or declaration, if any, be deposited in the High Court or District Court within
the local limits of whose jurisdiction the instrument may be.
(b)
A separate file of instruments so deposited shall be kept; and any person may search that file, and inspect every
instrument so deposited, and a certified copy thereof shall be delivered out to him on request.
(c)
A copy of an instrument so deposited may be presented at the office and may be stamped or marked as a certified copy,
and, when so stamped or marked, shall become and be a certified copy.
(d)
A certified copy of an instrument so deposited shall, without further proof, be sufficient evidence of the contents of the
instrument and of the deposit thereof in the High Court or District Court.
(e)
The High Court may, from time to time, make rules for the purposes of this section, and prescribing, with the
concurrence of the State Government, the fees to be taken under clauses (a), (b) and (c).
(g)
This section applies to instruments creating powers-of-attorney executed either before or after this Act come into force.
5.
Power-of-attorney of married women.?
A married woman of full age shall, by virtue of this Act, have power, as if she were unmarried, by a non-testamentary
instrument, to appoint an attorney on her behalf, for the purpose of executing any non-testamentary instrument or doing
any other act which she might herself execute or do; and the provisions of this Act, relating to instruments creating
powers-of-attorney shall apply thereto.
This section applies only to instruments executed after this Act come into force.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Powers-Of-Attorney Act, 1882
6.
*Omitted
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3