
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Indian Reserve Forces Act, 1888
The Indian Reserve Forces Act, 1888
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/603517/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
6
]
Union of India - Act
The Indian Reserve Forces Act, 1888
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Indian Reserve Forces Act, 1888
Act 4 of 1888
Published on 1 January 1888
Commenced on 1 January 1888
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1888.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Indian Reserve Forces Act, 1888
4.
of 1888
13.
/609
[2ndMarch ,1888]
An Act to regulate [the]
[ Substituted by A.L.O. 1950, for " Her Majesty's"  (w.e.f. 26.1.1950).]
Indian Reserve Forces.
Whereasit is expedient to provide for the Government, discipline and regulation of [the]
[Substituted by A.L.O. 1950, for " Her Majesty's"  (w.e.f. 26.1.1950). ]
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Indian Reserve Forces Act, 1888
Indian Reserve Forces; It is hereby enacted as follows: -
The Act has two now been extended to the Union Territories of - (1) Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regulation 6 of 1963
(1-7-1965; (2) Pondicherry by Regulation 7 of 1963 (1-10-1963); (3) Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands by
Regulation 8 of 1965 (1-10-1967). These Islands are now known as Lakshadeep, see Act 34 of 1973, section 3 (w.e.f.
1-11-1973). The Act extended to and shall be in the State of Arunachal Pradesh (w.e.f. 1-7-1994) vide Act 44 of 1993,
S.2 and Sch.
Brought into force on 26.5.1888.
1.
Titleand commencement
(1)
This Act may be called The Indian Reserve Forces Act, 1888; and
(2)
It shall come into force on such day as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, [appoint] in
this behalf.
2.
[ Division of Reserve Forces into Regular and Supplementary Reserves
[ Substituted by Act 12 of 1931, S.2, for S.2.]
.-The Indian Reserve Forces shall consist of the Regular Reserve and the Supplementary Reserve.]
3.
Locality of service of Reserves
.- [*]
[ The figure and brackets " (1)"  repeated by Act 12 of 1931, S.3.]
A person belonging to the [Indian Reserve Forces]
[ Substituted by Act 12 of 1931, S.3, for"  Active Reserve," .]
shall be liable to serve beyond the limits of [India]
[ Substituted by 2 A.L.O., 1956, for " the territories comprised within part A States and Part C States"  (w.e.f. 1.11.1956).
 ]
as well as within those limits.
[* * *]
[ Sub-S. (2) repealed by Act 12 of 1931, S.3.]
4. Power to make rules for regulation of Reserve Forces
.- (1) The Central Government may make rules and orders for the Government, discipline and regulation of the Indian
Reserve Forces.
(2)
[]
[ S.4 renumbered as sub-S. (2) inserted by Act 20 of 1983, S.2 and Sch. (w.e.f. 15.3.1984).]
Every rule and every order made under sub-section (1) shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each
House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in
two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or order or both Houses agree
that the rule or order should not be made, the rule or order shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be
of no effect, as the case may be; so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done under that rule or order.
5.
Liability of Reserve Forces to military law
.-Subject to [* * *]
[ The words " the provision of section 3 with respect to person belonging to the Garrison Reserve, and to " repealed by
Act 12 of 1931, S.4.]
such rules and orders as may be made under section 4, a person belonging to the Indian Reserve Forces shall, as an
office, or soldier, as the case may be, be subject to military law in the same manner and to the same extent as a person
belonging to [the Regular Army]
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Indian Reserve Forces Act, 1888
[ Substituted by A.L.O. 1950, for " Her Majesty's Indian Forces"  (w.e.f. 26.1.1950).]
.
6.
Punishment of certain offences by persons belonging to Reserve Forces
.-(1) If a person belonging to the Indian Reserve Forces -
(a)
when required by or in pursuance of any rule or order under this Act to attend at any place,  fails without reasonable
excuse to attend in accordance with such requirement, or
(b)
fails without reasonable excuse to comply with any such rule or order, or
(c)
fraudulently obtains any pay or other sum contrary to any such rule or order, he shall be liable -
(i)
on conviction by a Court-martial, to such punishment other than death, transportation or imprisonment for a term
exceeding one year as such Court is by the [Army Act, 1950]
[ Substituted by Act 42 of 1953, S.4 and Sch. III, for " Indian Army act, 1911"  (w.e.f. 23.12.1953).]
empowered to award, or
(ii)
on conviction by [a Presidency Magistrate or]
[ Inserted by Act 12 of 1931, S.5.]
a Magistrate of the first class, to imprisonment for a term which may extend, in the case of a first offence under this
section, to six months, and, in the case of any subsequent offence thereunder, to one year.
(2)
Where a person belonging to the Indian Reserve Forces is required by or in pursuance of any rule or order under this
Act to attend to any place, a certificate purporting to be signed by an officer appointed by such rule or order in this
behalf, and stating that the person so required to attend failed to do so in accordance with such requirement, shall,
without proof of the signature or appointment of such officer, be evidence of the matters stated therein.
(3)
Any person charged with an offence under this section may be taken into and kept in either military or civil custody, or
partly into and in one description of custody and partly into and in the other, or be transferred from one description of
custody to the other.
7.
[ Reinstatement in civil employ of persons belonging to Reserve Forces on termination of period of training, muster or
army service
[ Inserted by Act 3 of 1958, S.2 (w.e.f. 8.3.1958).]
.-(1) If a person belonging to the Indian Reserve Forces is, during the period of his employment under an employer,
called up for training, muster or army service in pursuance of his liability under any rule or order under this Act, it shall
be the duty of every such employer to reinstate the person in his employment on the termination of the period of his
training, muster or army service in an occupation and under conditions not less favourable to him than those which
would have been applicable to him had his employment not been so interrupted: Provided that if the employer refuses to
reinstate such person or denies his liability to reinstate such person, or if for any reason reinstatement of such person is
represented by the employer to be impracticable, either party may refer the matter to the authority prescribed in this
behalf by rules made under this Act, and that authority shall, after considering all matters which may be put before it and
after making such further inquiry into the matter as may be prescribed in the said rules, pass an order -
(a)
exempting the employer from the provisions of this section, or
(b)
requiring the employer to re-employ such person on such terms as the authority thinks suitable, or
(c)
requiring the employer to pay to such person by way of compensation for failure or inability to re-employ, a sum not
exceeding an amount equal to six months 'remuneration at the rate at which his last remuneration was payable to him by
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Indian Reserve Forces Act, 1888
the employer.
(2)
If any employer fails to obey the order of any such authority as is referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1); he shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, and the Court by which an employer is convicted under
this section shall order him (if he has not already been so required by the said authority) to pay to the person whom he
has failed to re-employ a sum equal to six months 'remuneration at the rate at which his last remuneration was payable
to him by the employer, and any amount so required to be paid either by the said authority or by the Court shall be
recoverable as if it were a fine imposed by such Court.
(3)
In any proceeding under this section it shall be a defence for an employer to prove that the person formerly employed
did not apply to the employer for reinstatement within a period of two months from the termination of the period of his
training, muster or army service.
(4)
The duty imposed by sub-section (1) upon an employer to reinstate in his employment a person  such as is described in
that sub-section shall attach to an employer who, before such person is actually called up for training, muster or army
service, terminates his employment in circumstances such as to indicate an intention to evade the duty imposed by that
sub-section, and such intention shall be presumed until the contrary is proved, if the termination takes place after the
issue of orders calling him up for training, muster or army service under this Act.]
8.
[ Preservation of certain rights of persons belonging to Reserve Forces when called up for training, muster or army
service
[ Inserted by Act 3 of 1958, S.2 (w.e.f. 8.3.1958).]
.-When any person belonging to the Indian Reserve Forces and called up for training, muster or army service in
pursuance of his liability under any rule or order under this Act has any rights under any provident fund or
superannuation fund or other scheme for the benefit of employees maintained in connection with the employment he
relinquishes, he shall continue, so long as he is engaged in training, muster or army services and if he is reinstated, until
such reinstatement under the provisions of this Act, to have in respect of such fund or scheme such rights as may be
prescribed by rules made under this Act.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4