
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bankers Books Evidence Act, 1891
The Bankers Books Evidence Act, 1891
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1976331/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
4479
]
Union of India - Act
The Bankers Books Evidence Act, 1891
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Bankers Books Evidence Act, 1891
Act 18 of 1891
Published on 1 January 1891
Commenced on 1 January 1891
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1891.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bankers Books Evidence Act, 1891
(18 of 1891)
006.
The object of this Bill is to apply to British India the provisions of the English Bankers' Books  Evidence Act, 1879, under
which copies of entries in bankers' books are made receivable in evidence under certain conditions.- Gazette of India
1891, Part V, page 24.
[1st October, 1891]
An Act to amend the Law of Evidence with respect to Bankers Books.
Whereas  it is expedient to amend the Law of Evidence with  respect to Bankers Books; It is hereby enacted as follows:
1.
Title  and extent
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bankers Books Evidence Act, 1891
(1)
This Act may be  called The Bankers Books Evidence Act,  1891.
(2)
[]
[Act enforced in Sikkim vide Notification No. S.O.659 (E), dated 30.8.1984 (w.e.f. 1.9.1984).]
It extends to the [whole of India]
[Substituted by A.O.1950.]
except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.]
[Substituted by Act 3 of 1951, Section 3 and Sch., for " except Part B States" .]
.] [* * * *]
[The word "and"  and sub-Section (3)  repealed by Act 10 of 1914, Sch.II.]
[* * * *]
[The word "and"  and sub-Section (3) repealed by Act 10 of 1914, Sch.II.]
.
2.
Definitions
.In this Act, unless there is something repugnant in the subject or context,
(1)
[ company means any company as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956 (
1 of  1956
) and includes a foreign company within the meaning of section 591 of that Act;
(1-A) corporation means any body corporate established by any law for the time being in force in India and includes the
Reserve Bank of India, the State Bank of India and any subsidiary bank as defined in the State Bank of India (Subsidiary
Banks) Act, 1959;]
[Substituted by Act
56 of 1962
, for Clause (1) (w.e.f. 14.12.1962).]
(2)
bank and banker mean
(a)
[ any company or corporation carrying  on the business of banking]
[Substituted by Act
56 of 1962
, for sub-Clause (a) (w.e.f.  14.12.1962).]
,
(b)
any partnership or individual to whose books the provisions of this Act shall have been extended as hereinafter
provided,
(c)
[ any post office savings bank or money order office;]
[Added by Act 1 of 1893.]
(3)
[ bankers books include ledgers, day-books, cash-books, account-books and all other records used in the ordinary
business of a bank, whether these records are kept in written form or stored in a micro film, magnetic tape or in any
other form of mechanical or electronic data retrieval mechanism, either onsite or at any offsite location including a
back-up or disaster recovery site of both;]
[Substituted by Act 55 of 2002, Section 11, for Clause(3) (w.e.f. 6.2.2003).]
(4)
[ legal proceeding means,
(i)
any proceeding or inquiry in whichevidence is or may be given;
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Bankers Books Evidence Act, 1891
(ii)
an arbitration; and
(iii)
any investigation or inquiry under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), or under any other law for the time
being in force for the collection of evidence, conducted by a police officer or by any other person (not being a
magistrate) authorised in this behalf by a magistrate or by any law for the time being in force;]
(5)
the Court means the person or persons before whom a legal proceeding is held or taken;
(6)
Judge  means a Judge of a High Court;
(7)
trial  means any hearing before the Court at which evidence is taken; and
(8)
[ certified copy means when the books of a bank,
(a)
are maintained in written form, a copy of any entry in such  books together with a certificate written at the foot of such
copy that it is a true copy of such entry, that such entry is contained in one of the ordinary books of the bank and was
made in the usual and ordinary course of business and  that such book is still in the custody of the bank, and where the
copy was obtained by a mechanical or other process which in itself ensured the accuracy of the copy, a further
certificate to that effect, but where the book from which such copy was prepared has been destroyed in the usual course
of the  banks business after the date on which the copy had been so prepared, a further certificate to that effect, each
such certificate being dated and  subscribed by the principal accountant or manager of the bank with his name and 
official title; and
(b)
consist of printouts of data stored in a floppy, disc, tape  or any other electro-magnetic data storage device, a printout of
such entry or a copy of such printout together with such statements certified in accordance  with the provisions of
section 2-A;]
(c)
[ a printout of any entry in the books of a bank stored in a micro film, magnetic tape or in any other form of mechanical or
electronic data retrieval mechanism obtained by a mechanical or other process which in itself  ensures the accuracy of
such printout as a copy of such entry and such printout contains the certificate in accordance with the provisions of
section 2-A.]
[ Inserted by Act 55 of 2002, Section 11 (w.e.f. 6.2.2003).]
[2-A. Conditions in the printout
[ Inserted by Act
21 of 2000
, Section 93 and Sch. III (w.e.f. 17.10.2000).]
.A printout of entry or a copy of printout referred  to in sub-section (8) of section 2 shall be accompanied by the following,
 namely:
(a)
a certificate to the effect that it is a printout of such  entry or a copy of such printout by the principal accountant or branch
manager;
and
(b)
a certificate by a person in-charge of computer system containing a brief description of the computer system and the
particulars of
(A)
the safeguards adopted by the system to ensure that data is entered or any other operation performed only by
authorised persons;
(B)
the safeguards adopted to prevent and detect unauthorised  change of data;
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Bankers Books Evidence Act, 1891
(C)
the safeguards available to retrieve data that is lost due  to systemic failure or any other reasons;
(D)
the manner in which data is transferred from the system to removable media like floppies, discs, tapes or other
electro-magnetic data storage devices;
(E)
the mode of verification in order to ensure that data has been accurately transferred to such removable media;
(F)
the mode of identification of such data storage devices;
(G)
the arrangements for the storage and custody of such  storage devices;
(H)
the safeguards to prevent and detect any tampering with the  system; and
(I)
any other factor which will vouch for the integrity and  accuracy of the system.
(c)
a further certificate from the person in-charge of the  computer system to the effect that to the best of his knowledge and
belief,  such computer system operated properly at the material time, he was provided  with all the relevant data and the
printout in question represents correctly,  or is appropriately derived from, the relevant data. ]
3.
Power to extend provisions of Act
.The  [State]
[ Substituted by A.O.  1950.]
Government may, from time to time, [by notification ]
[ For notifications, see Bombay Government Gazette, 1902, Pt 1., p. 1289 and as to Madras, see Mad. R and O.,
Vol.I(List).]
in the Official Gazette, extend the provisions of this Act to the books of any partnership or individual carrying on
business of bankers within the territories under its administration, and keeping a set of not less than three ordinary
account-books, namely, a cash-book, a day-book or journal, and a ledger, and  may in like manner rescind any such
notification.
4.
Mode of  proof of entries in bankers books
.Subject to the provisions of this Act, a certified copy of any entry in a bankers book shall in all legal proceedings be
received as prima facie evidence of the existence of such entry, and shall be  admitted as evidence of the matters,
transactions and accounts therein recorded  in every case where, and to the same extent as, the original entry itself is
now by law admissible, but not further or otherwise.
5.
Case  in which officer of bank not compellable to produce books
.No officer of a bank shall in any legal proceeding  to which the bank is not a party be compellable to produce any
bankers book the contents of which can be proved under this Act, or to appear as a witness to prove the matters,
transactions and accounts therein recorded, unless by order of the Court or a Judge made for special cause.
6.
Inspection of books by order of Court or Judge
(1)
On the application of any party to a legal proceeding, the Court or a Judge may order that such party be at liberty to
inspect and take copies of any entries in a bankers book for any of the purposes of such proceeding, or may order the 
bank to prepare and produce, within a time to be specified in the order,  certified copies of all such entries, accompanied
by a further certificate that no other entries are to be found in the books of the bank relevant to the  matters in issue in
such proceeding, and such further certificate shall be  dated and subscribed in manner hereinbefore directed in
reference to certified  copies.
(2)
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Bankers Books Evidence Act, 1891
An order under this or the preceding section may be made either with or without summoning the bank and shall be
served on the bank three clear days (exclusive  of bank holidays) before the same is to be obeyed, unless the Court or
Judge  shall otherwise direct.
(3)
The  bank may at any time before the time limited for obedience to any such order as aforesaid either offer to produce
their books at the trial or give notice of  their intention to show cause against such order, and thereupon the same shall 
not be enforced without further order.
7.
Costs
(1)
The costs of any application to the Court or a Judge under or for the purposes of this Act and the costs of anything done
or to be done under an order of the Court or a Judge made under or for the  purposes of this Act shall be in the
discretion of the Court or Judge, who may further order such costs or any part thereof to be paid to any party by the 
bank if they have been incurred in consequence of any fault or improper delay on the part of the bank.
(2)
Any order made under this section for the payment of costs to or by a bank may be  enforced as if the bank were a party
to the proceeding.
(3)
Any order under this section awarding costs may, on application to any Court of  Civil Judicature designated in the order,
be executed by such Court as if the  order were a decree for money passed by itself:
Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall be  construed to derogate from any power which the Court or Judge
making the order may possess for the enforcement of its or his directions with respect to the  payment of costs.
8.
[ Order of Court to be construed to be order made by specified officer
[ Inserted by Act 1 of 1984, Section 2 (w.e.f. 15.2.1984).]
.In the application of sections 5, 6 and 7 to any investigation or inquiry referred to in sub-clause (iii) of clause (4) of
section 2, the order of a Court or a Judge  referred to in the said sections shall be construed as referring to an order
made by an officer of a rank not lower than the rank of a Superintendent of  Police as may be specified in this behalf by
the appropriate Government.
Explanation.  In this section, appropriate Government means the  Government by which the police officer or any other
person conducting the  investigation or inquiry is employed.]
[ Substituted by Act
21 of 2000
, Section 93 and SCh.III, for Clause  (8) (w.e.f. 17.10.2000).]
[Substituted by Act 1 of 1984, Section 2 (w.e.f. 15.2.1984).]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5