
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Government Buildings Act, 1899
The Government Buildings Act, 1899
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/266796/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
25
]
Union of India - Act
The Government Buildings Act, 1899
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Government Buildings Act, 1899
Act 4 of 1899
Published on 3 February 1899
Commenced on 3 February 1899
[This is the version of this document from 3 February 1899.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Government Buildings Act, 1899
Act
No. 4 of 1899
1864.
Statement of Objects and Reasons. - The provisions of the various Acts in force regarding the regulation of buildings in
municipalities rest in the main on the necessity for controlling buildings and the maintenance of buildings with due regard
to engineering and sanitary exigencies, and the powers conferred upon Municipal Committees with this object in the
several Municipal Acts arc wide and more or less absolute. It has been on several occasions represented to the
Government of India that in the case of Government buildings this necessity does not exist, as the requirements in
question are secured by departmental regulations and the advice of the experts who are employed by the State for the
proper execution and supervision of public works. Moreover as regards works relating to imperial defence, it is evident
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Government Buildings Act, 1899
that, if direct control is to he effectively exercised by Municipal Committees, the power of inspection must extend to the
examination, on demand, of plans and records, which may be of a strictly confidential character, and this examination is
inconsistent with the secrecy which, for obvious reasons, is essential in these matters. It will be generally admitted that
the Government cannot permit its designs for the improvement of its coast batteries, magazines or arsenals to become
practically public property merely because such designs have to be carried out within a municipal area in which the local
law requires their submission to the municipal authorities and admits of extraneous and, it may he, arbitrary interference
with them.
The object of this Bill is, therefore, to exempt from such regulations all buildings which are situate within municipalities
and are or are to be created upon land which is, the property or in the occupation, of the Government. The Government
of India have, however, no desire to ignore the internal arrangements and general administration of municipalities. On
the contrary, they consider it incumbent on the administration to frame its projects with full consideration for the general
plans of any municipal body concerned; and they consider it reasonable and right that municipal bodies should have
opportunities of critising such projects; but the final judgment on objections and suggestions must rest with the Local
Government which has undertaken them, and not with a Municipal Board, which is itself under the control of the Local
Government. It is proposed in the Bill, therefore, to provide that reasonable notice of any work which it is intended by the
Government to undertake, shall be given to the municipality concerned; that the Municipal Committee shall be permitted,
subject to suitable safeguards, to inspect the land and plans; that any representation such Municipal Committee may
think fit to make with reference thereto shall be received and considered by the Local Government; that the work shall
he executed in strict accordance with the orders passed by the Local Government on such a representation; and that
every order so passed shall be liable, in the last reason to revision by the Governor-General in Council.
- Gazette of India, 1896 Part V, page 256.
[3rd February, 1899.]
An Act to provide for the exemption from the operation of municipal building laws of certain buildings and lands which
are the property, or in the occupation, of the Government and situate within the limits of a municipality.
WHEREAS it is expedient to provide for the exemption from the operation of municipal building laws of certain buildings
and lands which are the property, or in the occupation, of the Government and situate within the limits of a municipality;
It is hereby enacted as follows :-
1.
Short tittle and extent.
(1)
This Act may be called the Government Buildings Act, 1899.
(2)
It extends to the whole of India [except the territories which, immediately before the 1st November, 1956, were
comprised in Part B States]
[Substituted for Part B States by 2 Adaptation of Law Order, 1956.]
[
*]
[The word "and" omitted by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1914 (10 of 1914), Section 3 and Schedule II.]
[
*]
[Sub-section (3) was omitted by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1914 (10 of 1914), Section 3 and Schedule II.]
2.
"Municipal authority" defined.
- In this Act the expression "municipal authority" includes a municipal corporation or a body of municipal commissioners
constituted by, or under the provisions of, any law or enactment for the time being in force.
3.
Exemption of certain Government buildings from municipal laws to regulate the erection, etc., of buildings within
municipalities.
- Nothing contained in any law or enactment for the time being in force to regulate the erection, re-erection, construction,
alteration or maintenance of buildings within the limits of any municipality shall apply to any building used or required for
the public service or for any public purpose, which is the property, or in the occupation, of the Government, or which is to
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Government Buildings Act, 1899
be erected on land which is the property, or in the occupation, of [the Government]
[Substituted for the word "Crown" by A.L.O., 1950.]
:
Provided that, where the erection, re-erection, construction or material structural alteration of any such building as
aforesaid (not being a building connected with [***]
[Word "Imperial" was omitted by A.C.A.O., 1948]
defence, or a building the plan or construction of which ought, in the opinion of [the Government concerned]
[Substituted for "the Government" by A.O., 1937.]
, to be treated as confidential or secret) is contemplated, reasonable notice of the proposed work shall be given to the
municipal authority before it is commenced.
4.
Objections or suggestions as to erection, etc., of certain Government buildings within municipalities how to be made and
dealt with.
(1)
In the case of any such building as is mentioned in the last preceding section (not being a building connected with [***]
[The word "Imperial" repealed by the A.O. 1948]
defence or a building the plan or construction of which ought, in the opinion of [the Government concerned]
[Substituted for "the Government" by A.O., 1937.]
, to be treated as confidential or secret), the municipal authority, or any person authorized by it in this behalf, may, with
the permission of the State Government previously obtained, but not otherwise, and subject to any restrictions or
conditions which may, by general or special order, be imposed by the State Government, inspect the land and building
and all plans connected with its erection, re-erection, construction or material structural alteration, as the case may be,
and may submit to the State Government a statement in writing of any objections or suggestions which such municipal
authority may deem fit to make with reference to such erection, re-erection, construction or material structural alteration.
(2)
Every objection or suggestion submitted as aforesaid shall be considered by the State Government, which shall, after
such investigation (if any) as it shall think advisable, pass orders thereon, and the building referred to therein shall be
erected, re-erected, constructed or altered, as the case may be, in accordance with such orders :
Provided that, if the State Government overrules or disregards any such objection or suggestion as foresaid, it shall give
its reasons for so doing in writing.
[* * *]
[Sub-section (3) was omitted by the A.O. 1937.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3