
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Indian Reserve Forces Rules, 1925
The Indian Reserve Forces Rules, 1925
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/56016623/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
Union of India - Act
The Indian Reserve Forces Rules, 1925
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Indian Reserve Forces Rules, 1925
Rule THE-INDIAN-RESERVE-FORCES-RULES-1925 of 1925
Published on 10 February 1905
Commenced on 10 February 1905
[This is the version of this document from 10 February 1905.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Indian Reserve Forces Rules, 1925
2032.
The following rules and orders have been made by the Governor-General-in-Council for the Government, discipline and
regulation of the Indian Reserve Forces  under Sec. 4 of the Indian Reserve Forces, Act, 1888;
1.
These rules and orders may be called the Indian Reserve Forces Rules, 1925.
2.
In these rules and orders, "Commanding Officer" means the officer in  command of a reserve centre or of the corps or
portion of a corps to which a reservist  is attached for training or muster:
Provided that in the case of a reservist of the Indian Hospital Corps, who is  attached for training or muster to a unit of
his corps, his Commanding Officer will be
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Indian Reserve Forces Rules, 1925
(a)
when the reservist is not called up for training or muster, the Officer-in-charge, Indian Hospital Corps Records;
(b)
when the reservist is called up for training or muster, the Commanding  Officer of the unit to which he is attached for
such training or muster.
3.
-A.
The reserve shall consist of-
(a)
Viceroy's Commissioned Officers commissioned under rules 4A and  4B;
(b)
Indian Warrant Officers appointed under rule 4B;
(c)
[ persons enrolled under the Indian Army Act, 1911,]
[See now the Army Act, 1950 (
46 of 1950
)]
and transferred to the reserve either with their own consent or in pursuance of the  conditions of their enrolment; and
(d)
persons enrolled under the said Act for service in the reserve.
3.
-B.
Every reservist other than a reservist of the Indian Supplementary Reserve,  shall be subject to military law until duly
discharged or dismissed.
3.
-C.
A reservist of the Indian Supplementary Reserve shall be subject to military  law only when called out for service or
when carrying out the annual trade test.
4.
-A.
(a)
Commissions as Risaldars or Jemadars in the Reserve of the Indian Army Service Corps may be granted to gentlemen
of influence who,  being not more than 30 years of age, are pronounced medically fit for  service.
(b)
Such Viceroy's Commissioned Officers will ordinarily be retired on  attaining 45 years of age.
(c)
When called out for army service or for training, such Viceroy's  Commissioned Officers will, for the purposes of pay,
allowances and  other concessions in cash and kind, be on the same footing as Viceroy's  Commissioned Officers of
corresponding rank serving on the active list  in A. T. units when the exception that they will not be entitled to clothing 
allowance for the period of training in peace. For the purposes of  disability and family pensions, they will be governed
by the same rules  as are applicable to the corresponding ranks mentioned above.
(d)
Viceroy's Commissioned Officers of the reserve will rank among  themselves according to the dates of their
commissions and, when  employed on army service, will rank with Viceroy's Commissioned  Officers of corresponding
rank in the Indian Army, but as Juniors of  each rank. Viceroy's Commissioned Officers commissioned under Cl.  (a) will
exercise no military command except over persons belonging or  attached to the Indian Army Service Corps.
(e)
Commissions already granted under the provisions of Military  Department Notification No. 112, dated the 10th
February, 1905, shall  be deemed to have been granted under the provisions of this rule.
4.
-B.
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Indian Reserve Forces Rules, 1925
(a)
Gentlemen possessing the requisite medical and other qualifications  maybe granted commissions as Jemadars or
higher commissioned rank,  or may be appointed as warrant officers, in the Indian Medical  Department Sub-Assistant
Surgeon Reserve.
(b)
Such Viceroy's Commissioned Officers and warrant officers will serve  for a period of five years, which may be further
extended by periods of  two years at time, until attaining the age of 55 years.
(c)
When called up for periodical training such Viceroy's Commissioned  Officers and warrant officers will receive pay at the
minimum of their  rank admissible to regular military sub-assistant surgeons, and when  called out for army service they
will receive pay at the minimum of their  rank as admissible to regular military sub-assistant surgeons, with  increments
as admissible for each year's completed army service. Pension  will be drawn in addition by pensioned military
sub-assistant surgeons.  For the purpose of disability and family pensions they will be under  the same rules as regular
military sub-assistant surgeons. A gratuity at the rate of one month's pay for each year's army service, based on the 
rate of pay drawn at the time of release, will be admissible on conclusion  of army service.
(d)
Viceroy's Commissioned Officers and warrant officers of the I.M.D.,  S.A.S. Reserve will rank with regular Viceroy's
Commissioned Officers  and warrant officers of the sub-assistant surgeon branch of the L.M.D.  as follows :
Viceroy's Commissioned Officers. - according to the date of joining the  Reserve as Viceroy's Commissioned Officers, or
from the date of  promotion to Viceroy's Commissioned Officer if promoted on a date  subsequent to joining the Reserve.
Warrant Officers. - from the date of appointment to the Reserve.
(e)
Appointment to the I.M.D. S.A.S.Reserve already made shall be deemed  to have been made under the provisions of
this rule.
5.
-A.
Every reservist other than a reservist of the Indian Medical Department Sub-Assistant Surgeon Reserve shall come up
for service, training or muster, when required  to do so by order of his Commanding Officer; or for service when required
to do so by  order of the Commander-in Chief in India or of any authority empowered by him in  this behalf, and shall for
this purpose attend at any place specified in such order.
5.
-B
. Every reservist of the Indian Medical Department Sub-Assistant Surgeon  Reserve shall come up for training when
required to do so by order of the Commanding  Officer or for service when required to do so by a notification in the
Gazette of India,  and shall for this purpose attend at any place specified in such order or notification.
Note. - A reservist in Civil Government employ will, when called up for  periodical training, receive military pay and
allowances. He will also receive the  excess, if any, of his civil pay over his military pay, provided that this concession is 
specifically sanctioned by the Department of the Government of India affected, or its  attached and subordinate officers,
or by the Local Government concerned in whose  employ the reservist is serving in his civil capacity; and provided also
that (except  where his civil pay is also met from the Army Estimate) the extra expenditure involved  does not constitute
a charge against the Army Estimates. A civil sub-assistant surgeon  belonging to the I.M.D., S.A.S.Reserve will, when
called up for periodical training,  receive civil pay in addition to military pay. Civil pay will not be admissible in  addition to
military pay for period of mobilized army service.
The periods spent in training and on the journey to and from the places of  training will be treated as duty for purposes of
civil leave, pension and increments of  civil pay.
6.
Every reservist shall inform his Commanding Officer of his address, and  shall, on any change of such address, at once
inform the said Commanding Officer of  such change.
7.
A reservist shall not leave India except with the permission of his Commanding  Officer, and in the case of Indian
Medical Department Sub-Assistant Surgeon Reserve,  with the permission of the A.G. in India. For the purpose of this
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Indian Reserve Forces Rules, 1925
rule, Nepal shall, as  regards Gurkha reservists, be deemed to be included in the term "India" except in the  case of
Gurkha reservist of the ambulance and nursing sections of the Indian Hospital  Corps.
8.
A reservist who has, for any reason, failed to attend at any place when required  to do so in pursuance of rule 5A or 5B
may be required by his Commanding Officer  to attend for medical examination at the nearest military station to his
home, if so  required, shall attend at such military station on the date appointed for such  examination.
9.
Notwithstanding anything contained in Sec. 126 of the Indian Army Act,  1911, it shall not be necessary to assemble a
Court of Inquiry under that section  merely because a reservist has failed to attend when required to do so in pursuance 
of rule 5A, 5B or 8. Such a Court of Inquiry may, however, at the discretion of the  Commanding Officer of the reservist,
be assembled in such a case.
10.
A reservist who fails to attend at any place on the date on which required to  do so in pursuance of rule 5A or 5B, shall
be liable, at the discretion of his  Commanding Officer, to forfeit all or a portion of arrears of pay and allowance due to 
him. In determining the amount of such forfeiture regard shall be had to the length of  the reservist's absence and to the
cause, whether reasonable or otherwise, to which it  is due. The absence continues until the reservist is apprehended or
satisfies his  Commanding Officer by surrender or otherwise that he is available to fulfil his  obligations as a reservist.
11.
(a)
A reservist, who is discharged at his own request at any time within  three calendar months from the date fixed for the
next training or muster,  shall forfeit all pay and allowances due to him with effect from the first  day of the third calendar
month preceeding the date of such training or  muster, provided that if a reservist discharged on obtaining permanent 
civil employment under the Central or a State Government, he shall be  eligible for pay and allowances up to the date of
discharge.
(b)
A reservist who is discharged for misconduct shall forfeit pay and  allowances due to him with effect from the date of
misconduct or the  first day of the third calendar month proceeding the date fixed for the  next training or muster,
whichever is earlier.
12.
The certificate referred to in Cl. (2) of Sec. 6 of the Indian Reserve Force Act,  1888, may be signed by the Commanding
Officer of the reservist concerned, or, in  respect of a reservist who fails to attend for medical inspection when required
to do  so in pursuance of rule 8, by the Commanding Officer of the military station at which  such reservist was required
to attend.
13.
When a person subject to the [Indian Army Act, 1911, is to be transferred to  the Reserve, his Commanding Officer shall,
previous to such transfer, explain or  cause to be explained to him the obligations and restrictions imposed by rules 5A
to  8 and the forfeiture which may be incurred under rules 10 and 11. When a person not  subject to the said Act is
enrolled thereunder for service in a reserve establishment,  the officer enrolling him shall explain the aforesaid
obligations, restrictions and  forfeiture.]
[See now the Army Act, 1950 (
46 of 1950
).]
14.
[ Prescribed authority under Sec. 7.
[Instituted by S.R.O. 228, dated the 10th August, 1959, Part 2, Section 4, page 105.]
- The authority referred to in the  proviso to sub-section (1) of Sec. 7 shall
(a)
in the presidency towns of Bombay, Calcutta and Madras be the Chief  Judge of the Court of Small Causes within the
local limits of whose jurisdiction the person claiming reinstatement was employed  immediately before he was called up
for training, muster or army service  under these rules; and
(b)
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Indian Reserve Forces Rules, 1925
elsewhere, be the District and Sessions Judge within the limits of whose  jurisdiction such person was so employed.
15.
Nature of inquiry by prescribed authority.
- Where a reference is made  by any party under the proviso to sub-section (1) of Sec. 7 to the authority referred to  in
rule 14, a copy of such reference shall be served upon the opposite party and said  authority shall decide the matter
after giving both the parties a reasonable opportunity  of being heard and after making such further inquiry, if any, as it
thinks fit.
16.
Prescribed rights under Sec. 8.
- When any reservist is called up for training,  muster or army service under these rules.
(a)
he may, at his option, continue to subscribe to any provident or  superannuation fund or other scheme for the benefit of
employees  maintained in connection with the employment which he relinquished  immediately before he was called up
for training, muster or army service,  at such rates as were applicable to him under the rules of such fund or  scheme;
(b)
the employer by whom such reservist was employed shall continue to  credit his account in the fund or scheme with the
amount subscribed  and the interest on the amount in such account in accordance with the  rules of the fund or scheme;
(c)
such reservist may, if the rules of the fund or scheme so permit and in  accordance with such rules, withdraw sums from
the amount standing  at his credit in the fund or scheme; and
(d)
for the purpose of calculating the amount of contribution or withdrawal  admissible, such reservist's salary shall be
deemed to be the salary  which he would have received had he not been so called up.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5