
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Anand Marriage Act, 1909
The Anand Marriage Act, 1909
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/125344553/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
20
]
Union of India - Act
The Anand Marriage Act, 1909
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Anand Marriage Act, 1909
Act 7 of 1909
Published in Gazette 7 on 22 October 1909
Assented to on 22 October 1909
Commenced on 22 October 1909
[This is the version of this document from 22 October 1909.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Anand Marriage Act, 1909
Act No.7 of 1909
[22nd October, 1909]
An Act to remove doubts as to the validity of the marriage ceremony common among the Sikhs called Anand.
WHEREAS it is expedient to remove any doubts as to the validity of the marriage ceremony acidity of the marriage
ceremony common among the Sikhs called Anand; It is hereby enacted as follows:--
1.
Short title and extent
(1)
This Act may be called the Anand Marriage Act, 1909; and
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Anand Marriage Act, 1909
(2)
It extends to the of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.
2.
Validity of Anand marriages
All marriages which may be or may have been duly solemnized according to the Sikh marriage ceremony called Anand
(commonly known as Anand Karaj) shall be, and shall be deemed to have been with effect from the date of the
solemnization of each respectively , good and valid in law.
3.
Exemption of certain marriages from Act
Nothing in this Act shall apply to --
(a)
any marriage between persons not professing the Sikh religion, or
(b)
any marriage which has been judicially declared to be null and void.
4.
Saving of marriages solemnized according to other ceremonies
Nothing in this Act shall affect the validity of any marriage duly solemnized according to any other marriage ceremony
customary among the Sikhs.
5.
Non?validation of marriages within prohibited degrees
Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to validate any marriage between persons who are related to each other in any
degree of consanguinity or affinity which would, according to the customary law of the Sikhs , render a marriage
between them illegal.
6.
Registration of marriages
(1)
For the purposes of facilitation of proof of marriage ceremony (commonly known as Anand Karaj) customary among the
Sikhs, the State Government shall, without prejudice to anything contained in the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (25 of 1955.)
or any other law for the time being in force, make rules providing that the parties to any such marriage whether
solemnized before or after the commencement of the Anand Marriage (Amendment) Act, 2012, may have the particulars
relating to their marriage entered, in such manner and subject to such conditions as may be provided in the said rules, in
a Marriage Register kept by such officer of the State Government or of a local authority authorised by the State
Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, in this behalf.
(2)
The Marriage Register shall, at all reasonable times, be open for inspection, and shall be admissible as evidence of the
statements contained therein and certified extracts therefrom shall, on an application, be given by the Registrar to the
parties to the marriage on payment of such fees as may be provided in the rules.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, the validity of any Anand Marriage solemnized shall in no way be
affected by the omission to make an entry in the Marriage Register.
(4)
Every rule made by the State Government under this section shall be laid before the State Legislature, as soon as may
be, after they are made.
(5)
The parties to the marriage, whose marriage has been registered under this Act, shall not be required to get their
marriage registered under any other law for the time being in force (including State Act).
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2