
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Prevention of Seditious Meetings Act, 1911
The Prevention of Seditious Meetings Act, 1911
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1211616/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
2
]
Union of India - Act
The Prevention of Seditious Meetings Act, 1911
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Prevention of Seditious Meetings Act, 1911
Act 10 of 1911
Published in Gazette 10 on 22 March 1911
Assented to on 22 March 1911
Commenced on 22 March 1911
[This is the version of this document as it was from 1 November 1956 to None.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Prevention of Seditious Meetings Act, 1911
(10 of 1911)
158.
Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Prevention of Seditious Meetings Act, 1907, which was continued by the
Continuing Act, 1910, until the thirty-first day of March, 1911, will expire on the last named date unless further continued.
It is now deemed advisable, instead of merely continuing or making permanent the existing Act, to introduce a Bill to
consolidate and amend the law relating to the prevention of public meetings likely to promote sedition or to cause
disturbance of public tranquility.
An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to the prevention of public meetings likely to promote sedition or to
cause a disturbance of public tranquillity .
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Prevention of Seditious Meetings Act, 1911
Whereas it is expedient to consolidate and amend the law relating to the prevention of public meetings likely to promote
sedition or to cause a disturbance of public tranquillity; It is hereby enacted as follows:-
1.
Short title and extent
(1)
This Act may be called The Prevention of Seditious Meetings Act , 1911.
(2)
It extends to the whole of India except [territories which, immediately before the 1st November, 1956, were comprised in
Part B States]
[Substituted by the Adaptation of Laws (No.2) Order, 1956, for "Part B States".]
, but shall have operation only in such States or parts of States as the State Government may from time to time notify in
the Official Gazette.
2.
Power of State Government to notify proclaimed areas
(1)
The Government may, [- - -]
[The words "with the previous sanction of the G.G.in C." repealed by A.O.1937.]
by notification in the Official Gazette, declare the whole or any part of a State, in which this Act is for the time being in
operation, to be a proclaimed area.
(2)
A notification made under sub-section (1) shall not remain in force for more than six months, but nothing in this
sub-section shall be deemed to prevent the State Government [- - -]
[The words "with the previous sanction of the G.G. in C." repealed by A.O.1937.]
from making any further notifications in respect of the same area from time to time as it may think fit.
3.
Definition
(1)
In this Act, the expression public meeting means a meeting which is open to the public or any class or portion of the
public.
(2)
A meeting may be a public meeting notwithstanding that it is held in a private place and notwithstanding that admission
thereto may have been restricted by ticket or otherwise.
4.
Notice to be given of public meetings
(1)
No public meeting for the furtherance or discussion of any subject likely to cause disturbance or public excitement, or for
the exhibition or distribution of any writing or printed matter relating to any such subject, shall be held in any proclaimed
area
(a)
unless written notice of the intention to hold such meeting and of the time and place of such meeting has been given to
the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police, as the case may be, at least three days previously; or
(b)
unless permission to hold such meeting has been obtained in writing from the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of
Police, as the case may be.
(2)
Power of Magistrate to cause report to be taken.The District Magistrate or any Magistrate of the first class authorised by
the District Magistrate in this behalf may, by order in writing, depute one or more police officers, not being below the
rank of head constable, or other persons, to attend any such meeting for the purpose of causing a report to be taken of
the proceedings.
(3)
Exception.Nothing in this section shall apply to any public meeting held under any statutory or other express legal
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Prevention of Seditious Meetings Act, 1911
authority, or to public meetings convened by a Sheriff, or to any public meetings or class of public meetings exempted
for that purpose by the State Government by general or special order.
[Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh].In its application to the States of Punjab and Haryana and Union territory of
Chandigarh, in sub-S. (2) of Section 4, for the words Magistrate of the first class, substitute Executive Magistrates of the
first class.[see Punjab Act 25 of 1964 and Central Act
31 of 1966
.]
5.
Power to prohibit public meetings
.The District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police, as the case may be, may at any time, by order in writing, of
which public notice shall forthwith be given, prohibit any public meeting in a proclaimed area if, in his opinion, such
meeting is likely to promote sedition or disaffection or to cause a disturbance of the public tranquillity.
6.
Penalties
(1)
Any person concerned in the promotion or conduct of a public meeting held in a proclaimed area contrary to the
provisions of section 4 shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or
with both.
(2)
Any public meeting which has been prohibited under section 5 shall be deemed to be an unlawful assembly within the
meaning of Chapter VIII of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and of Chapter IX of the [Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898 (5 of 1898)]
[Now see the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).]
.
7.
Penalty for delivery of speeches in public places
.Whoever, in a proclaimed area, in a public place or a place of public resort, otherwise than at a public meeting held in
accordance with, or exempted from the provisions of section 4 without the permission in writing of the Magistrate of the
district or of the Commissioner of Police, as the case may be, previously obtained, delivers any lecture, address or
speech on any subject likely to cause disturbance or public excitement to persons then present, may be arrested without
warrant and shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with both.
8.
Cognizance of offences
.No Court inferior to that of a Presidency Magistrate or of a Magistrate of the first class or Sub-Divisional Magistrate shall
try any offence against this Act.
[Gujarat].Same as that of Maharashtra.Gujarat A.L.O., 1960.
[Maharashtra].In its application to the State of Bombay (which expression shall stand modified), the words or
Sub-Divisional Magistrate shall be deleted.Bombay Act 23 of 1951, Section 2 and Sch.
9.
Repeals
.[Repealed by the Repealing Act, 1927 (12 of 1927), section 2 and Schedule.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3