
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Indian Medical Degrees Act, 1916
The Indian Medical Degrees Act, 1916
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1254895/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
66
]
Union of India - Act
The Indian Medical Degrees Act, 1916
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Indian Medical Degrees Act, 1916
Act 7 of 1916
Published on 16 March 1916
Commenced on 16 March 1916
[This is the version of this document from 16 March 1916.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Indian Medical Degrees Act, 1916
(7 OF 1916)
15.
/731
Statement of Objects and Reasons.-Acts of the Local Council provide in many of the larger provinces of British India for
the registration of persons duly qualified to practise western medicine or surgery, and where such Acts have been
passed, Medical Councils have been constituted with specific powers and duties.
It is now considered necessary to supplement this provincial legislation by an Imperial Act, restricting the right to issue
degrees and diplomas in these systems of medicine and surgery to duly constituted authorities, so as to ensure that
such degrees and diplomas are not issued to unqualified persons. It has been found that at present, diplomas are issued
by private institutions to untrained or insufficiently trained persons, and that many of these diplomas are colourable
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Indian Medical Degrees Act, 1916
imitations of those issued by recognised Universities and Corporations. The result is that recipients of such diplomas are
able to pose to the public as possessing qualifications in medicine and surgery which they do not possess. The present
Bill is intended to remove the public inconvenience and injury arising out of the present state of affairs. It prohibits all
persons, save certain specified authorities, from issuing or alleging that they are entitled to issue any degree or diploma
in western medicine or surgery. It also penalises persons who voluntarily and falsely assume any medical title which is
granted either by the General Council of Medical Education of the United Kingdom, or by the authorities constituted
under the Act, and further prohibits the use of any colourable imitations of such titles.
The Bill does not affect the right of any person to exercise the profession of medicine or to practise as a physician or
surgeon, provided he does not pretend to possess qualifications which he has not got; and its operation is rigidly
restricted to the western methods of Allopathic medicine and surgery, Homeopathic, Ayurvedic and Unani practitioners
being excluded from the purview of the Bill.
[16th March, 1916]
An Act to regulate the grant of title implying qualifications in western medical science and the assumption and use by
unqualified persons of such titles.
Whereas it is expedient to regulate the grant of titles implying qualifications in western medical science, and the
assumption and use by unqualified persons of such titles; it is hereby enacted as follows:--
1.
Short title .-This Act may be called the Indian Medical Degrees Act, 1916.
2.
Definitions .-In this Act "western medical science" means the western methods of Allopathic medicine, Obstetrics and
Surgery, but does not include the Homoepathic or Ayurvedic or Unani system of medicine  [and "States" means all ][the
territories which immediately before the 1st November, 1956, were comprised]
[ This Act has been extended to the new Provinces and Merged States by the Merged States (Laws) Act, 1949 (59 of
1949), Section 3 (w.e]
[within Part A States and Part C States]
[MCI-34(1)/2009-Med./25453, dated 3.8.2009, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part III, Section 4, dated
3.8.2009.]
.
3.
Right to confer degrees, etc .-The right of conferring, granting, or issuing in the [States] degrees, diplomas, licenses,
certificates or other documents stating or implying that the holder, grantee or recipient thereof is qualified to practise
western medical science, shall be exercisable only by the authorities specified in the Schedule, and by such other
authority as the [State Government]
[ Substituted by A.O. 1950, for " Provincial Government" .]
may, by notification in the [Official Gazette]
[ Substituted by A.O. 1937.]
, and subject to such conditions and restrictions as [it]
[Substituted by A.O. 1937. ]
thinks fit to impose, authorise in this behalf.
4.
Prohibition of unauthorised conferment of degrees, etc .-Save as provided by section 3, no person in the [States] shall
confer, grant, or issue, or hold himself out as entitled to confer, grant, or issue any degree, diploma, licence, certificate
or other document stating or implying that the holder, grantee or recipient is qualified to practise western medical
science.
5.
Contravention of section 4.-Whoever contravenes the provisions of section 4 shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees; and, if the person so contravening is an association, every member of such association
who knowingly and wilfully authorises or permits the contravention, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
five hundred rupees.
6.
Penalty for falsely assuming or using medical titles .-Whoever voluntarily and falsely assumes, or uses any title or
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Indian Medical Degrees Act, 1916
description or any addition to his name implying that he holds a degree, diploma, licence or certificate conferred, granted
or issued by any authority referred to in section 3, or recognised by the General Council of Medical Education of the
United Kingdom, or that he is qualified to practise western medical science, shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to two hundred and fifty rupees, or, if he subsequently commits, and is convicted of, an offence punishable under
this section, with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees:
Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to the use by any person of any title, description, or addition which, prior
to the commencement of this Act, he used in virtue of any degree, diploma, licence or certificate conferred upon, or
granted, or issued to him.
7.
Cognizance of offences .-No Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under this Act, except upon
complaint made by order of the [State Government], or upon complaint made, with the previous sanction of the [State
Government]
[ Substituted by A.O. 1950, for " Provincial Government" .]
, by a Council of Medical Registration established by any enactment for the time being in force in the [State]
[ Substituted by A.O. 1950, for " Province" .]
.
8.
Jurisdiction of Magistrates .-No Court inferior to that of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class shall try
any offence punishable under this Act.
Schedule
(See Section 3)
1. Every University established by [a Central Act.]
2. The State Medical Faculty in Bengal.
3. The colleges of Physicians and Surgeons of Bombay.
4. The Board of Examiners, Medical College, Madras.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3