
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Charitable and Religious Trusts Act, 1920
The Charitable and Religious Trusts Act, 1920
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/70224545/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
162
]
Union of India - Act
The Charitable and Religious Trusts Act, 1920
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Charitable and Religious Trusts Act, 1920
Act 14 of 1920
Published on 20 March 1920
Commenced on 20 March 1920
[This is the version of this document from 20 March 1920.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Charitable and Religious Trusts Act, 1920
(14 of 1920)
012.
Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Religious Endowments Act, 1863 (
20 of 1863
), was the result of the decision of the Government to divest its officers of all direct superintendence and control of
religious and charitable endowments in India, transferring their functions to manager or managing committees and
merely making provision for intervention by the Civil Courts on application made by any person interested in a particular
institution. This Policy, however, did not long remain unchallenged, and since 1866 there have been constant
complaints, especially in the Madras Presidency, as to the inefficacy of the Act to prevent the squandering or
misappropriation of the funds of such endowments, and suggestions for its amendments have from time to time been
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Charitable and Religious Trusts Act, 1920
made to the Government of India. Mr. Ananda Charlu in 1897, Mr. Srinivasa Rao in 1903 and Dr. (now Sir) Rash Behari
Ghosh in 1908, for example, promoted amending Bills, but none of them became law. More recently in 1911, a private
Bill was introduced in Bombay Legislative Council by the Hon'ble Sir Ibrahim Rahimtoola, to provide for the registration
of all, charitable trusts, exceeding a certain value and for the annual audit of the accounts of such trusts, by auditors
approved by Government. Endowments of a purely religious nature were not included but the contents of the Bill made it
clear that the ultimate object was to press for legislation for religious as well as secular trusts. About the same time a
private Bill was promoted by two non-official members of the Madras Legislative Council to provided for the regular
publication of the accounts of all religious endowments above a certain value and for their audit by an officer to be
appointed by the District Judge. These proposals led the Government of India to reconsider the policy in force since
1863. In March 1914, the whole subject was discussed at a mixed conference of official and non-official gentlemen
representing the Hindu, Muhammadan, Sikh and Buddhist communities. The present Bill, which is the outcome of the
deliberations of that conference, has as its objects he simplification and cheapening of the legal processes by which
persons interested can obtain information regarding the working of both religious and charitable trusts, and the exercise
of a more efficient control over the action of trustees. The Bill provides that any person interested in a trust may apply by
petition to the District Judge for an order directing the trustee to furnish him with information as to the nature and objects
of the trust and of the value, condition, management and application of the subject-matter of the trust, and of the income
belonging thereto, or as to any of these matters, and also directing that the accounts of the trust shall be examined and
audited. Failure to comply with such an order of the Court would be deemed a breach of trust. In order, however, that
such applications should not lead to protracted and contentious litigation, the Court is debarred from trying any question
of title between the petitioner and any person claiming title to the trust, or any question as to the existence or extent of
any trust. Under the Bill, it will be left to those interested to move in the matter; the initiative will not rest with
Government, nor will anything be done where no one is sufficiently interested to take action. When the Court is moved
the proceedings will be simple and expeditious; they will be held in the presence of all parties, and the order passed will
be a judicial order of the Court. Further, in order to meet the objection that recourse to section 14 of the Act of 1863 or
section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908, involves expensive litigation the Court is authorised, on the application
of the plaintiff and after the defendant is heard, to direct the defendant either to furnish security for the incurred or likely
to be incurred in bringing and maintaining the suit or to deposit in Court an amount sufficient to meet such
It will be observed that the draft Bill only embodies general principles. It is intended that such details as the institution of
some public record of the facts regarding these trusts, the publication of audited accounts, and the relaxation of some of
the conditions governing committees constituted under the Act of 1863, e.g., the tenure of the membership of such
committee should be left to Provincial Legislatures.
[20th March, 1920]
An Act to provide for more effectual  control over the administration of charitable and religious trusts.
Whereas  it is expedient to provide facilities for the obtaining of information regarding trusts created  for public purposes
of a charitable or religious nature, and to enable the  trustees of such trusts to obtain the directions of a Court on certain
matters,  and to make special provision for the payment of the expenditure incurred in certain suits against the trustees
of such trusts; It is hereby enacted as follows:
1.
Short title and extent
(1)
This Act may be called The Charitable and  Religious Trusts Act , 1920.
(2)
It extends to [the whole of India [except the State of Jammu and Kashmir]
[Substituted by A.O. 1950 for certain words.]
:
Provided that the [Government of any State]
[Substituted by A.O. 1937, for certain words.]
may, by notification in the Official Gazette,  direct that this Act, or any specified part thereof, shall not extend to [that
[State] [[
Substituted by A.O. 1937, for certain words.]] or any specified area therein] or to any specified trust or class of  trusts.
2.
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Charitable and Religious Trusts Act, 1920
Interpretation
.In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, the Court means the Court of the District Judge
[or any other Court empowered in that behalf by the [State]
[Inserted by Act 41 of 1923, Section 2.]
Government] and includes the High Court in the exercise  of its ordinary original civil jurisdiction.
3.
Power to apply to the Court in respect of trusts of a charitable or religious nature
.Save  as hereinafter provided in this Act, any person having an interest in any express or constructive trust created or
existing for a public purpose of a charitable or religious nature may apply by petition to the Court within the  local limits of
whose jurisdiction any substantial part of the subject-matter of the trust is situate to obtain an order embodying all or any
of the  following directions, namely:
(1)
directing the trustee to furnish  the petitioner through the Court with particulars as to the nature and objects of the trust,
and of the value, condition, management and application of the  subject-matter of the trust, and of the income belonging
thereto, or as to any of these matters, and
(2)
directing that the accounts of the  trust shall be examined and audited:
Provided  that no person shall apply for any such direction in respect of accounts relating to a period more than three
years prior to the date of the petition.
4.
Contents and verification of  petition
(1)
The petition shall show in what way the petitioner claims to be interested in the trust, and shall specify, as far as may be,
the particulars and the audit which he seeks to obtain.
(2)
The petition shall be in writing  and shall be signed and verified in the manner prescribed by the Code of Civil 
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), for signing and verifying plaints.
5.
Procedure on petition
(1)
If  the Court on receipt of a petition under section 3, after taking such evidence  and making such inquiry, if any, as it
may consider necessary, is of opinion that the trust to which the petition relates is a trust to which this Act applies, and
that the petitioner has an interest therein, it shall fix a date  for the hearing of the petition, and shall cause a copy
thereof, together with  notice of the date so fixed, to be served on the trustee and upon any other person to whom in its
opinion notice of the petition should be given.
(2)
On the date fixed for the hearing  of the petition, or on any subsequent date to which the hearing may be  adjourned, the
Court shall proceed to hear the petitioner and the trustee, if he appears, and any other person who has appeared in
consequence of the notice,  or who it considers ought to be heard, and shall make such further inquiries,  if any, as it
thinks fit. The trustee may and, if so required by the Court,  shall, at the time of the first hearing or within such time as
the Court may permit present a written statement of his case. If he does present a written statement, the statement shall
be signed and verified in the manner prescribed  by the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), for signing and
verifying  pleadings.
(3)
If any person appears at the  hearing of the petition and either denies the existence of the trust or denies that it is a trust
to which this Act applies, and undertakes to institute  within three months a suit for a declaration to that effect and for
any other appropriate relief, the Court shall order a stay of the proceedings and, if  such suit is so instituted, shall
continue the stay until the suit is finally decided.
(4)
If no such undertaking is given, or if after the expiry of the three months no such suit has been instituted, the  Court shall
itself decide the question.
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Charitable and Religious Trusts Act, 1920
(5)
On completion of the inquiry provided  for in sub-section (2), the Court shall either dismiss the petition or pass thereon
such other order as it thinks fit:
Provided  that, where a suit has been instituted in accordance with the provisions of  sub-section (3), no order shall be
passed by the Court which conflicts with the  final decision therein.
(6)
Save as provided in this section,  the Court shall not try or determine any question of title between the  petitioner and
any person claiming title adversely to the trust.
6.
Failure of trustee to comply with order under section 5
.If a trustee without reasonable  excuse fails to comply with an order made under sub-section (5) of section 5,  such
trustee shall, without prejudice to any other penalty or liability which  he may incur under any law for the time being in
force, be deemed to have  committed a breach of trust affording ground for a suit under the provisions of  section 92 of
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908); and any such suit may, so far as it is based on such failure, be instituted
without the previous consent of the Advocate General.
7.
Powers of trustee to apply for directions
(1)
Save as hereinafter provided in this Act, any trustee of an express or constructive trust created or existing  for public
purpose of a charitable or religious nature may apply by petition to the Court, within the local limits of whose jurisdiction
any substantial part of the subject-matter of the trust is situate, for the opinion, advice or direction of the Court on any
question affecting the management or administration of the trust property, and the Court shall give its opinion,  advice or
direction, as the case may be, thereon:
Provided  that the Court shall not be bound to give such opinion, advice or direction on any question which it considers
to be a question not proper for summary disposal.
(2)
The Court on a petition under sub-section (1), may either give its opinion, advice or direction thereon forthwith, or fix a
date for the hearing of the petition, and may direct a copy thereof, together with notice of the date so fixed, to be served
on such of the  persons interested in the trust, or to be published for information in such  manner, as it thinks fit.
(3)
On any date fixed under sub-section (2) or on any subsequent date to which the hearing may be adjourned, the Court, 
before giving any opinion, advice or direction, shall afford a reasonable  opportunity of being heard to all persons
appearing in connection with the  petition.
(4)
A trustee stating in good faith the  facts of any matter relating to the trust in a petition under sub-section (1),  and acting
upon the opinion, advice or direction of the Court given thereon,  shall be deemed, as far as his own responsibility is
concerned, to have  discharged his duty as such trustee in the matter in respect of which the  petition was made.
8.
Costs of petition under this Act
.The costs, charges and expenses of and  incidental to any petition, and all proceedings in connection therewith, under
the foregoing provisions of this Act, shall be in the discretion of the Court,  which may direct the whole or any part of any
such costs, charges and expenses to be met from the property or income of the trust in respect of which the  petition is
made, or to be borne and paid in such manner and by such persons as it thinks fit:
Provided  that no such order shall be made against any person (other than the petitioner)
who has not received notice of the petition and had a reasonable opportunity of  being heard thereon.
9.
Savings
.No petition under the foregoing provisions of this Act in relation to any trust shall be entertained in any of the following
circumstances, namely:
(a)
if  a suit instituted in accordance with the provisions of section 92 of the Code  of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), is
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Charitable and Religious Trusts Act, 1920
pending in respect of the trust in question;
(b)
if  the trust property is vested in the Treasurer of Charitable Endowments, the  Administrator-General, the Official
Trustee, or any Society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (
21 of 1860
); or
(c)
if  a scheme for the administration of the trust property has been settled or approved by any Court of competent
jurisdiction, or by any other authority acting under the provisions of any enactment.
10.
Power of Courts as to costs in certain suits against trustees of charitable and religious trusts
(1)
In any suit instituted under section 14 of the Religious Endowments Act, 1863 (20
of 1863), or under section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908),  the Court trying such suit may, if, on
application of the plaintiff and after hearing the defendant and making such inquiry as it thinks fit, it is satisfied  that such
an order is necessary in the public interest, direct the defendant either to furnish security for any expenditure incurred or
likely to be  incurred by the plaintiff in instituting and maintaining such suit, or to deposit from any money in his hands as
trustee of the trust to which the suit relates such sum as such Court considers sufficient to meet such expenditure in
whole or in part.
(2)
When any money has been deposited  in accordance with an order made under sub-section (1), the Court may make
over to the plaintiff the whole or any part of such sum for the conduct of the suit.
Before making over any sum to the plaintiff, the Court shall take security from the plaintiff for the refund of the same in
the event of such refund being  subsequently ordered by the Court.
11.
Provisions of the Code of  Civil Procedure to apply
(1)
The provisions of the  Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), relating to,
(a)
the  proof of facts by affidavit;
(b)
the  enforcing of the attendance of any person and his examination on oath;
(c)
the  enforcing of the production of documents; and
(d)
the issuing of commissions,
shall  apply to all proceedings under this Act, and the provisions relating to the  service of summonses shall apply to the
service of notices thereunder.
(2)
The provisions of the said Code  relating to the execution of decrees shall, so far as they are applicable,  apply to the
execution of orders under this Act.
12.
Barring  of appeals
.No appeal shall lie from any order passed or against any opinion, advice or direction given under this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5