
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Indian Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925
The Indian Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1914211/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
15
]
Union of India - Act
The Indian Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Indian Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925
Act 26 of 1925
Published on 21 September 1925
Commenced on 21 September 1925
[This is the version of this document from 21 September 1925.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925
Act
No. 26 of 1925
1469.
Object and Reason.- A bill of lading was originally a receipt for the goods  placed on a ship and also a document for
transferring  the title of the goods to the consignee. With the development of trade, it became recognised as a negotiable
instrument in which shippers, the carriers and the consignees or purchasers of the goods as well as hankers and  under
writers became increasingly interested. Concurrently with this it became the custom to show on the bill  of lading the
terms of the contract on which the goods  were delivered to and received by the ship, and from  time to time new
clauses were added usually in the direction of contracting the carrier out of liability for some  kind of loss or damage to
the goods. There thus arose  great diversity between the conditions on which goods  were carried by sea and
Page 1/9
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Indian Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925
considerable uncertainty about  the liabilities which still attached to the carrier.
2. There has been a demand for many years among  the different commercial interests which handle bills of  lading for
uniformity among all maritime countries in  the definition of the liabilities and risks attaching to the  carrier of goods by
sea. Some countries, e.g Canada,  Australia, and the United States of America, enacted legislation prohibiting carriers of
goods by sea from contracting themselves out of certain kinds of liability. The  matter was discussed at several
International Conferences  between shipowners, shippers and hankers if an attempt  to secure the universal adoption of
an agreed set of rules.
3. A Code of rules was drawn up in 1921 by the International Law Association at the Hague. These were  subjected to
criticism by the various interests affected  till finally agreement was reached at the International  Conferences on
Maritime Law held in Brussels in October, 1922, and again in October 1923. A Code of rules  defining the
responsibilities and liabilities to which a  carrier of goods by sea should he subject and also the  rights and immunities he
was entitled to enjoy was drawn  up, and it was unanimously recommended that every  country should give legal
sanction to these rules. The  United Kingdom has done so by the Carriage of Goods  by Sea Act (1924) (14 and 15 Geo.
V, c. 22). It is proposed to do the same in India by this Bill.
4. This Bill follows closely the English Act. The  agreed Code of rules are reproduced in the Schedule.  Clause 5 of the
Bill exempts from these rules goods carried in the coasting trade under documents other than  bills of lading whilst
Clause 6 saves the carrier from  claims for shortage of weight in certain cases of bulk  shipments where, by the custom
of the trade, the weight  entered in the bill of lading is a weight ascertained or  accepted by a third part other than the
carrier or shipper  and this fact is so stated in the bill of lading. - Gazette  of India, 1925, Part V, page 37.
Report Of Joint Committee
The following report of the Joint Committee on the  Bill to amend the law with respect to the carriage of goods  by sea
was presented to the Legislative Assembly on the  31st August 1925.
We the undersigned Members of the Joint Committee to which the Bill to amend the law with respect to  the carriage of
goods by sea was referred, have considered the Bill and the papers noted in the margin and have  now the honour to
submit this our Report, with the Bill  as amended by us annexed thereto.
We have made one change in the Bill, the substitution of new Cl. 5.
Original Cl. 5, following lines of the English Act,  exempted the whole of the coasting trade from the requirement that in
all cases a bill of lading should be issued subject to the conditions prescribed in the Rules,  that is to say, such trade
was excluded from the operation of the Rules.
It is clear from the opinions received that, contrary  to the English practice. bills of lading are almost invari ably issued by
steamship companies engaged in the Indian coasting trade, and that it is the desire of the mercantile community that the
provisions of the Bill relating to bills of lading should apply to such trade.
It is not however, the practice for sailing vessels engaged in the coasting trade or proceeding from Indian  ports to issue
bills of lading and these have been exempted accordingly.
The provision in Clause (b) is intended to cover the  case of goods carried by the South Indian Railway ferry  boat from
Dhanushkodi to Talaimanar. Bills of lading  are not issued for the short sea journey and cargo is carried subject to the
provisions of the Railways Act.
Minute Of Dissent
[By Purshotamdas Thakurdas] "I think it is necessary to draw the attention of the Indian legislature to  the opinion of Mr.
Justice J. R. Ellis Cunliffe of the  Rangoon High Court. He says that the English statute  corresponding to the Bill under
report 'was the result of  a so-called International Maritime Conference at Brussels, which has been subject to acute
criticism on the  part of high legal authorities at Home'. These authorities 'regarded the draft provisions of the Bill as
being  extremely difficult to interpret and likely to lead to much  unnecessary litigation arising out of their obscurity'. The 
learned Judge further remarks :
The construction of Article 6 under the Schedule  will be extremely difficult to decide. How the Courts are  to conic to a
satisfactory conclusion as to whether the  stipulation mentioned in the first part of the Article is or  is not contrary to
public opinion, I do not know. And further, the ordinary trader is hound to be in very great  doubt as to the difference
between the receipt mentioned  therein, which is ruled to be a non-negotiable instrument  and to be so marked and, the
ordinary bill of lading which  is, by custom largely a formally printed document.
The only reason that I know for recommending the  Indian Legislature to adopt the Rules given in the Schedule to this
Bill is to ensure uniformity in a matter which  has been under discussion between experts of the various countries for a
Page 2/9
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Indian Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925
number of years. But in this long and  protracted discussion, it must be noted that, Indian interests had no direct say or
representation. Whilst I see  no reason, so far, to oppose the Bill as amended by the  "Select Committee". I deem it my
duty to bring the opinion expressed by Justice Cunliffe to the notice of the  Legislature by a separate Minute. - Gazette
of India.  1925, Part V, page 205.
21st.
September 1925
An Act to amend the Law with respect to the carriage of goods by sea.
WHEREAS at the International Conference on Maritime Law held at Brussels in October, 1922, the delegates at the
Conference, [* * * *]
[Words "including the delegates representing His Majesty" omitted by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1964 (52 of
1964), S.3 and Sch. II (29-12-1964).]
agreed unanimously to recommend their respective Governments to adopt  as the basis of a convention a draft
convention for the unification of certain rules relating to bills of lading;
AND WHEREAS at a meeting held at Brussels in October, 1923, the rules contained in the said draft convention were
amended by the Committee appointed by the said Conference;
[AND WHEREAS the said rules were amended by the Protocol signed at Brussels on 23rd February, 1968 and by the
Protocol signed at Brussels on 21st December, 1979;]
[Inserted by Sch.Part II of The Multimodal Transportation of Goods Act, 1993  (
28 of 1993
).]
[AND WHEREAS it is expedient that the said rules as so amended and set out with modifications in the Schedule,
subject to the provisions of this Act, have the force of  law with a view to establishing the responsibilities, liabilities, rights
and immunities attaching to carriers under bills of lading; It is hereby enacted as follows]
[Para 3 substituted for original Paras 3 and 4 by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1964 (52 of 1964), S.3 and Sch. II
(29-12-1964).]
:-
Additional Information6
The Act has been extended to the new Provinces and Merged States by the Merged States (Laws) Act, 1949  (59 of
1949), S.3 (1-1-1950) and to the Union Territories of Manipur, Tripur and Vindhya Pradesh by the Union Territories
(Laws) Act, 1950 (30 of 1950), S.3 (16-4-1950).Vindhya Pradesh now forms part of State of Madhya Pradesh - See Act
37 of 1956
, S.9 (1) (e); but Manipur and Tripura are States now - See Act 81 of 1971.
It has now been extended to the Union Territories of-
(1) Goa, Daman and Diu by Reg.12 of 1962.
(2) Pondicherry by Reg.7 of 1963 (w.e.f.1-10-1963).
(3) Lakshadweep Islands by Reg.8 of 1965 & Act 34  of 1973.
1.
Short title and extent.-
(1)
This Act may be called the Indian Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925.
(2)
It extends to [the whole of India]
[Substituted by A.L.O. 1950.]
2.
Application of Rules.-
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the rules set out in the Schedule  (hereinafter referred to as "the Rules") shall have
effect in relation to and in connection with the carriage of goods by sea in ships carrying foods from any port in [the
whole of India]
[Substituted by A.L.O. 1950.]
to any other port whether in or outside [the whole of India]
[Substituted by A.L.O. 1950.]
Page 3/9
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Indian Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925
.
3.
Absolute warranty of seaworthiness not to be implied in contracts to which Rules apply.-
There shall not be implied in any contract for the carriage of goods by sea to which the Rules apply any absolute
undertaking by the carrier of the goods to provide a seaworthy ship.
4.
Statement as to application of rules to be included in bills of lading.-
Every bill of lading, or similar document of title, issued in [the whole of India]
[Substituted by A.L.O. 1950.]
which contains or is evidence of any contract to which the Rules apply, shall contain an express statement that it is to
have effect subject to the provisions of the said Rules as applied by this act.
5.
Modification of Article VI of Rules in relation to goods carried in sailing ships and by prescribed routes.-
Article VI of the Rules shall, in relation to -
(a)
the carriage of goods by sea in sailing ships carrying goods from any port in [the whole of India]
[Substituted by A.L.O. 1950.]
to any other port whether in or outside [the whole of India]
[Substituted by A.L.O. 1950.]
, and
(b)
the carriage of goods by sea in ships carrying goods from a port in [the whole of India]
[Substituted by A.L.O. 1950.]
notified in this behalf in the [Official Gazette]
[Substituted by A.L.O. 1937.]
by the [Official Gazette]
[Substituted by A.L.O. 1937.]
to a port in Ceylon  specified  in the said notification, have effect as though the said Article referred to goods of any class
instead of to particular goods and as though the proviso to the second  paragraph of the said Article were omitted.
6.
Modification of Rules 4 and 5 of Article III in relation to bulk cargoes.-
Where under the custom of any trade the weight of any bulk cargo inserted in the bill of lading is  a weight ascertained or
accepted by a thirty party other than the carrier or the shipper and the fact that the  weight is so ascertained or accepted
is stated in the bill of lading, then, notwithstanding anything in the Rules, the bill of lading  shall not be deemed to be
prima facie evidence against the carrier of the receipt of goods of the weight so inserted in the  bill of lading, and the
accuracy thereof at the  time of shipment shall not be deemed to have been guaranteed  by the  shipper.
7.
Saving and operation.-
(1)
Nothing in this Act shall affect the operation of Sections [331 and Part XA]
[Substituted for the word "sections 331 and 352" by the Multimodal Transportation of Goods Act (
28 of 1993
), s. 31, Sch., Pt. II (w.e.f. 16-10-1992)]
[of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958,  (44 of 1958),]
[Substituted for the words, figures and brackets "four hundred and forty-six to four hundred and fifty, both inclusive, five
hundred and two and five hundred and three of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894 (57 and 58 Vict., S.60), as amended by
any subsequent enactment" by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1964 (52 of 1964), S.3  and  Sch.II (28-12-1964).]
or the operation of any other enactment for the time being in force limiting the liability of the owners of sea-going
vessels.
(2)
The Rules shall not by virtue of this Act apply to any contract for the carriage of goods by sea before such day,  not
Page 4/9
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Indian Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925
being earlier than the first day of January, 1926, as the [Central Government]
[Substituted by A.L.O. 1937.]
may, by  notification in the [Official Gazette]
[Substituted by A.L.O. 1937.]
, appoint,  nor to any bill of  lading or similar document of title issued, whether before or after such day as aforesaid, in
pursuance of any such contract as aforesaid.
Schedule
RULES RELATING TO BILLS OF LADING
ARTICLE I
Definitions
In these Rules the following expressions have the meanings hereby assigned to them respectively, that is to say-
(a)
"Carrier" includes the owner or the charterer who enters into a contract of carriage with a shipper :
(b)
"Contract of carriage" applies only or contract of carriage covered by a bill of lading or any similar document of title, in so
far as such document relates to the carriage of goods by sea including any bill of lading or any similar document as
aforesaid issued under or pursuant to a charterparty from the moment at which such bill of lading or similar document of
title regulates the relations between a carrier and a holder of the same :
(c)
"Goods" includes goods, wares, merchandises, [containers, pallets or similar article of transport used to consolidate
goods if supplied by the shipper]
[Inserted by Sch.Part II of The Multimodal Transportation of Goods Act, 1993  (
28 of 1993
) w.e.f. 16th October 1992.]
and articles of every kind whatsoever, except live animals and cargo which by the contract of carriage is stated as being
carried on deck and is so carried:
(d)
"Ship" means any vessel used for the carriage of goods by sea :
(e)
"Carriage of goods" covers the period from the time when the goods are loaded on to the time when they are discharged
from the ship.
ARTICLE II
Risks
Subject to the provisions of Article VI, under every contract of carriage of goods by sea the carrier, in relation to the
loading, handling, stowage, carriage, custody, care, and discharge of such goods, shall be subject to the responsibilities
and liabilities, and entitled to the rights and immunities hereinafter set forth.
ARTICLE III
Responsibilities and Liabilities
1. The carrier shall be bound, before and at the beginning of the voyage, to exercise due diligence to -
(a)
make the ship seaworthy :
(b)
properly man,  equip, and supply the ship :
(c)
make the holds, refrigerating and cool  chambers, and all other parts of the ship in which  goods are  carried, fit  and
safe for their reception, carriage and preservation.
2. Subject to the provisions of Article IV, the carrier shall properly and carefully load, handle, stow, carry, keep, care for
and discharge the goods carried.
3. After receiving the goods into his charge, the carrier, or the master or agent of the carrier, shall, on demand of the
shipper, issue to the shipper a bill of lading showing among other things-
(a)
Page 5/9
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Indian Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925
The leading marks necessary for identification of the goods as the same are furnished in writing by the shipper before
the loading for such goods starts, provided such marks are stamped or otherwise shown clearly upon the goods if
uncovered, or on the cases or coverings in which such goods are contained, in such a manner as should ordinarily
remain legible until the end of the voyage :
(b)
Either the number of packages or pieces, or the quantity, or weight, as the case may be, as furnished in writing by the
shipper :
(c)
The apparent order and condition of the goods:
Provided that no carrier, master or agent of the carrier, shall be bound to state or show in the bill of lading any marks,
number, quantity, or weight which he has reasonable ground for suspecting not accurately to represent the goods
actually received, or which he has had no reasonable means of checking.
4. Such a bill of lading shall be prima facie evidence of the receipt by the carrier of the goods as therein  described in
accordance with paragraph 3(a), (b) and (c). [However, proof to the contrary shall not be admissible when the bill of
lading has been transferred to a third party acting in good faith;]
[Inserted by Sch. Part II of The Multimodal Transportation of Goods Act, 1993  (
28 of 1993
) w.e.f. 16th October, 1992.]
5. The shipper shall be deemed to have guaranteed to the carrier the accuracy at the time of shipment of the marks,
number, quantity and weight, as furnished by him bad the shipper shall indemnify the carrier against all loss, damages,
and expenses arising or resulting from inaccuracies in such particulars. The right of the carrier to such indemnity shall in
no way limit his responsibility and liability under the contract of carriage to any person other than the shipper.
6. Unless notice of loss or damage and the general nature of such loss or damage be given in writing to the carrier or his
agent at the port of discharge before or at the time of the removal of the goods into the custody of the person entitled to
delivery thereof under the contract of carriage, or, if the loss or damage be not apparent, within three days, such
removal shall be prima facie evidence of the delivery by the carrier of the goods as described in the bill of lading.
The notice in writing need not be given if the state of the goods has at the time of their receipt been the subject of joint
survey or inspection.
In any event the carrier and the ship shall be discharged from all liability in respect of loss or damage unless suit is
brought within one year after delivery of the goods or the date when the good should have been delivered.
In the case of any actual or apprehended loss or damage, the carrier and the receiver shall give all reasonable facilities
to each other for inspecting and tallying the goods. [This period may, however, be extended if the parties so agree after
the cause of action has arisen.
Provided that a suit may be brought after the expiry of the period of one year referred to in this sub-paragraph within a
further period of not more than three months as allowed by the court;]
[Inserted by Act
28 of 1993
.]
7. After the goods are loaded the bill of lading to be issued by the carrier, master or agent of the carrier, to the shipper
shall, if the shipper so demands, be a "shipped" bill of lading, provided that, if the shipper shall have previously taken up
any document of title to such goods, he shall surrender the same as against the issue of the "shipped" bill of lading, but
at the option of the carrier, such document of title may be noted at the port of shipment by the carrier; master, or agent
with  the name or  names of the ship or ships  upon which the goods have been shipped and the date or dates of
shipment, and when so noted   the  same shall for the purpose of this Article be deemed to constitute a "shipped" bill of
lading.
8.
Any clause, covenant or agreement in a contract of carriage relieving the carrier or the ship from liability  for  loss  or
damage to or in connection with goods arising from negligence, fault or failure in the duties and obligations provided in
this Article or lessening such liability otherwise  than as provided in these Rules, shall be null  and void and of no effect.
ARTICLE IV
Rights and Immunities.
Page 6/9
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Indian Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925
1. Neither the carrier nor the ship shall be liable for loss or damage arising or resulting from unseaworthiness unless
caused by want of due diligence on the part of the carries to make the ship seaworthy, and to secure that the ship is
properly manned, equipped and supplied, and to make the holds, refrigerating and cool chambers and all other parts of
the ship in which goods are carried fit and safe for their reception carriage and preservation in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Article III
Whenever loss or damage has resulted from unseaworthiness, the burden of proving the exercise of due diligence shall
be on the carrier or other person claiming exemption under this section.
2. Neither the carrier nor the ship shall be responsible for loss or damage arising or resulting from-
(a)
act, neglect, or default of the master, mariner, pilot, or the servant of the carrier in the navigation or in the management 
of the ship :
(b)
fire, unless caused by the actual fault or privity of the carrier :
(c)
perils, dangers and accidents of the sea or other navigable waters :
(d)
act of God :
(e)
act of war :
(f)
act of public  enemies :
(g)
arrest or restraint of princes, rulers or people, or seizure under legal process:
(h)
quarantine restriction :
(i)
act or omission of the shipper or owner of the goods,  his  agent, or representative:
(j)
strikes or lock-outs or stoppage or restraint of labour from whatever  cause, whether  partial or general :
(k)
riots and civil commotions :
(l)
Saving or attempting to save life or property at sea :
(m)
Wastage  in bulk or weight or any other loss or damage arising from inherent defect, quality, or  vice of the goods :
(n)
insufficiency of packing :
(o)
insufficiency or inadequacy of marks :
(p)
latent defects not discoverable by due diligence :
(q)
any other cause arising without the actual fault or privity of the carrier, or without the fault or neglect of the agents or
servants of the carrier; but the burden of proof shall be on the  person   claiming the benefit of this exception to  show 
that neither the actual fault or privity of the carrier nor the fault or neglect of the agents or servants of the carrier
contributed to the loss or damage.
3. The shipper shall not  be  responsible for loss or damage sustained by the carrier or the ship  arising or resulting from
any cause  without  the act, fault  or neglect of the shipper, his agents, or his servants.
4. Any deviation in saving or attempting to save lie or property at sea, or any reasonable deviation shall not be deemed
to be an infringement or breach of these Rules or of the contract of carriage, and the carrier shall not be liable for any
loss or damage resulting therefrom.
Page 7/9
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Indian Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925
5. Neither the carrier nor the ship shall in any event be or become liable for any loss or damage to or in connection with
goods in an [amount exceeding 666.67 Special Drawing Rights per package or unit or two Special Drawing Rights per
kilogram of gross weight of the goods lost or damaged, whichever is higher]
[Substituted by Sch.Part II of The Multimodal Transportation of Goods Act, 1993 (
28 of 1993
) w.e.f. 16th October 1992.]
or the equivalent of that sum in other currency, unless the nature and value of such goods have been declared by the
shipper before shipment and inserted in the bill of lading.
[Where a container, pallet or similar article of transport is used to consolidate goods, the number of packages or units
enumerated in the bill of lading and as packed in such article of transport shall be deemed to be the number of packages
or units for the purposes of this paragraph as far as these packages or units are concerned.
Neither the carrier nor the ship shall be entitled to the benefit of limitation of liability provided for in this paragraph if it is
proved that  the damage resulted from an act or omission of the carrier done with intent to cause damage, or recklessly
and with knowledge that damage would probably result.
Where the nature or value of the goods has been knowingly mis-stated by the shipper in the bill of lading, the liability of
the carrier or ship shall not exceed the value so stated.]
[Inserted by Act
28 of 1993
.]
This declaration if embodied in the bill of lading shall be prima facie evidence, but shall not be binding or conclusive on
the carrier.
By agreement between the carrier, master or agent of the carrier and the shipper another maximum amount than that
mentioned in this paragraph may be fixed, provided that such maximum shall not be less than the figure above named.
Neither the carrier nor the ship shall be responsible in any event for loss or damage to or in connection with goods if the
nature or value thereof has been knowingly misstated by the shipper in the bill of lading.
6. Goods of an inflammable, explosive or dangerous nature to the shipment whereof the carrier, master or agent of the
carrier, has not consented, with knowledge of their nature and character, may at any time before discharge be landed at
any place or destroyed or rendered innocuous by the carrier without compensation, and the shipper of such goods shall
be liable for all damage and expenses directly or indirectly arising out of or resulting from such shipment.
If any such goods shipped with such knowledge and consent shall become a danger to the ship or cargo, they may in
like manner be landed at any place or destroyed or rendered innocuous by the carrier without liability on the part of the
carrier except to general average, if any.
ARTICLE V
Surrender of Rights and Immunities and Increase of Responsibilities and Liabilities
A carrier shall be at liberty to surrender in whole or in part all or any of his rights and immunities or to increase any of his
responsibilities and liabilities under the Rules contained in any of these Articles, provided such surrender or increase
shall be embodied in the bill of lading issue to the shipper.
The provisions of these Rules shall not be applicable to charterparties, but if bills of lading are issued in the case of a
ship under a charterparty they shall comply with the terms of these Rules.Nothing in these Rules shall be held to prevent
the insertion in a bill of lading of any lawful provision regarding general average.
ARTICLE VI
Special Conditions
Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding Articles, a carrier, master or agent of the carrier, and a shipping shall in
regard to any particular goods, be at liberty to enter into any agreement in any terms as to the responsibility and liability
of the carrier for such goods, and as to the rights and immunities of the carrier in respect of such goods, or his obligation
as to seaworthiness so far as the stipulation is not contrary to public policy, or the care or diligence of his servants or
agents in regard to the loading, handling, storage, carriage, custody, care, and discharge of the goods carried by sea,
provided that in this case no bill of lading has been or shall be issued and that the terms agreed shall be embodied in a
receipt which shall be a non-negotiable document and shall be marked as such.
Any agreement so entered into shall have full legal effect :
Provided that this Article shall not apply to ordinary commercial shipments made in the ordinary course of trade, but only
Page 8/9
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Indian Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925
to other shipments where the charter or condition of the property to be carried or the circumstances, terms and
conditions under which the carriage is to be performed, are such as reasonably to justify a special agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Limitations on the Application of the Rules
Nothing herein contained shall prevent a carrier or a shipper from entering into any agreement, stipulation, condition,
reservation or exemption as to the responsibility and liability of the carrier or the ship for the loss or damage to or in
connection with the custody and care and handling of goods prior to the loading on and subsequent to the discharge
from the ship on which the goods are carried by sea.
ARTICLE VIII
Limitation of liability
The provisions of these Rules shall not affect the right and obligation of the carrier under any Statute for the time being
in force relating to the limitation of the liability of owners of sea-going vessels.
ARTICLE IX
The monetary units mentioned in these Rules are to be taken to be gold value.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 9/9