
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Safe Custody, Preservation, and Inspection Production of Board and Committee Election ...
The Safe Custody, Preservation, and Inspection Production of Board
and Committee Election Paper, Rules 1926
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/47463763/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Safe Custody, Preservation, and Inspection Production of Board and Committee Election Paper, Rules 1926
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Safe Custody, Preservation, and Inspection Production of Board and Committee Election Paper, Rules 1926
Rule
THE-SAFE-CUSTODY-PRESERVATION-AND-INSPECTION-PRODUCTION-OF-BOARD-AND-COMMITTEE-ELECTIO
N-PAPER-RULES-1926 of 1926
Published on 1 January 1926
Commenced on 1 January 1926
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1926.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Safe Custody, Preservation, and Inspection Production of Board and Committee Election Paper, Rules 1926
Published vide Punjab Government Home Department General Gurdwaras Notification No. 2776, dated the Ist
September, 1926.
1106.
1.
Electoral Rolls [of the Board or Committee constituencies prepared under the relevant rules made in this behalf]
[Substituted for the words 'prepared in form I of the forms appended to Sikh Gurdwaras Board Election Rules, 1925' by
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Safe Custody, Preservation, and Inspection Production of Board and Committee Election ...
Punjab Government Notification No. 765 Gurdwaras dated the 26th May, 1954.]
registers and files of claims and objections and applications for correction of clerical errors in Electoral [Rolls]
[Substituted for the word 'Rules' by Punjab Government Notification No. 765-Gurdwaras, dated the 26th May, 1954.]
shall be kept in the general record-rooms of districts to which they relate, until the completion of the next revision of
electoral rolls of the constituencies concerned and shall thereafter be destroyed.
2.
Copies of the final electoral rolls of the Board or Committee constituencies referred to above shall be kept in the general
record-rooms of the districts to which they relate as well as in the Punjab Civil Secretariat, and shall be destroyed after
the completion of next revision of the rolls.
3.
The nomination papers of candidates, the documents relating to the appointment of election agents, the [revocation]
[Substituted for the word 'revocation' by Punjab Government Notification No. 765-Gurdwaras, dated the 26th May,
1954.]
of such appointment and withdrawals from candidature shall be kept in the office of the Deputy Commissioner in whose
district the counting of votes for the constituency concerned took place and shall be destroyed after one year unless
their retention for a longer period is ordered by the [State]
[Substituted for the word 'Local' by Punjab Government Notification NO. 765-Gurdwaras, dated the 26th May 1954.]
Government or any officer duly authorised to order such retention
4.
Election petitions, with the proceedings of enquiries by the Enquiry Board, shall be kept in the Judicial Branch of the
Punjab Civil Secretariat, and shall be destroyed after three years unless their retention for a longer period is ordered by
the [State]
[Word 'Lahore' omitted vide Punjab Notification No. 765-Gurdwaras, dated 26th May, 1954.]
Government or any officer duly authorised to order such retention.
5.
Any person may inspect any of the documents mentioned in the above regulation and obtain copies thereof on payment
of fees on the scale for the time being prescribed for the inspection of the purchase of copies of revenue records.
6.
Copies of electoral rolls pertaining to any of the Board or Committee constituencies may be purchased at the district to
which they pertain or from the Punjab Civil Secretariat, [-]
[Word 'Lahore' omitted vide Punjab Government Notification No. 765-Gurdwaras, dated the 26th May, 1954.]
subject to the condition that 30 copies of each roll shall be retained in the Punjab Civil Secretariat.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2