
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Hindu Gains of Learning Act, 1930
The Hindu Gains of Learning Act, 1930
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1696635/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
41
]
Union of India - Act
The Hindu Gains of Learning Act, 1930
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Hindu Gains of Learning Act, 1930
Act 30 of 1930
Published on 25 July 1930
Commenced on 25 July 1930
[This is the version of this document from 25 July 1930.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Hindu Gains of Learning Act, 1930
(Act
No. 30 of 1930
)
Last Updated 26th July, 2019
[Dated 25th July, 1930]
An Act to remove doubt as to the rights of a member of a Hindu undivided family in property acquired by him by means
of his learning
Whereas it is expedient to remove doubt, and to provide a uniform rule, as to the rights of a member of a Hindu
undivided family in property acquired by him by means of his learning.
It is hereby enacted as follows :-
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Hindu Gains of Learning Act, 1930
1.
Short title and extent.
(1)
This Act may be called the Hindu Gains of Learning Act, 1930.
(2)
It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,-
(a)
"acquired" means a member of a Hindu undivided family, who acquires gains of learning;
(b)
"gains of learning" means all acquisitions of property made substantially by means of learning, whether such acquisitions
be made before or after the commencement of this Act and whether such acquisitions be the ordinary or the
extra-ordinary result of such learning; and
(c)
"teaming" means education, whether elementary, technical, scientific, special or general, and training of every kind
which usually intended to enable a person to pursue any trade, industry, profession or avocation in life.
3.
Gains of learning not to be held not be separate property of acquirer merely for certain reasons.
- Notwithstanding, any custom, rule or interpretation of the Hindu law, no gains of learning shall be held not to be the
exclusive and separate property of the acquirer merely by reason of-
(a)
his learning having been, in whole or in part, imparted to him by any member, living or deceased, of his family, or with
the aid of the joint funds of his family, or with aid of the funds of any member thereof, or
(b)
himself or his family having, while he was acquiring his learning, been maintained or supported, wholly or in part, by the
joint funds of his family, or by the funds of any member thereof.
4.
Savings.
- This Act shall not be deemed in any way to affect-
(a)
the terms or incidents of any transfer of property made or effected before the commencement of this Act,
(b)
the validity, invalidity, effect or consequences of anything already suffered or done before the commencement of this
Act,
(c)
any right or liability created under a partition, or an agreement for a partition, of joint family property made before the
commencement of this Act, or
(d)
any remedy or proceeding in respect of such right or liability; or to render invalid or in any way affect anything done
before the commencement of this Act in any proceeding pending in a Court at such commencement; and any such
remedy and any such proceeding as is herein referred to may be enforced, instituted or continued, as the case may be,
as if this Act had not been passed.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2