
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rules Framed Under Prisons Act, 1894
Rules Framed Under Prisons Act, 1894
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/9123042/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Rules Framed Under Prisons Act, 1894
UNION OF INDIA
India
Rules Framed Under Prisons Act, 1894
Rule RULES-FRAMED-UNDER-PRISONS-ACT-1894 of 1894
Published on 22 October 1931
Commenced on 22 October 1931
[This is the version of this document from 22 October 1931.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rules Framed Under Prisons Act, 1894
Published vide Home Department (Jails) Notification No. 31354. Dated 22nd October, 1931
1724.
HOME DEPARTMENT
Jails.
No. 31354. Dated 22nd October, 1931 - The following rules have been framed by the local Government, with the
previous consent of the Government-General in Council, under clause (t) of Section 60 of the Prisons Act, 1894, to
regulate the custody of persons who have accepted a tender of pardon under the provisions of Section 337, Criminal
Procedure Code, and are published for general information :-
Rules
1.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rules Framed Under Prisons Act, 1894
All persons who have accepted a tender of pardon under the provisions of Section 337,  Criminal Procedure Code, shall
be kept separate from all other classes of persons and shall be kept separate from each other, unless, the District
Magistrate shall otherwise direct.
2.
Except under the orders of the Superintendent no jail official below the rank of Deputy Superintendent, who is in charge
of prisoners of other classes, and no jail menial shall have access to any person who has accepted a tender of pardon
under the provisions of Section 337, Criminal Procedure Code.
3.
The persons who have accepted a tender of pardon under the provisions of Section 337, Criminal Procedure Code, shall
be permitted to associate with a person or persons of their own sex subject to the control and approval of the local
Government.  If it is not practicable to arrange for such association a paid warder shall be posted on duty at the ward or
cell as the case may be to keep such prisoner's company.
4.
No one shall be allowed to interview a person who has accepted a tender of pardon under the provisions of Section 337,
Criminal Procedure Code, without the written permission of the District Magistrate whose discretion in the matter shall
be absolute.
5.
Every person who has accepted a tender of pardon under the provisions of Section 337, Criminal Procedure Code, shall
be supplied with food at Government expense on such a scale suitable to his status in life as may be approved by the
District Magistrate, provided that it shall in no case be inferior to the diet supplied to ordinary unconvicted criminal
prisoners.
Such food shall not be prepared in the convict cook house or cooked and served by convict cooks, but shall either be
cooked by the prisoner himself or by such agency and in such place either within or without the jail as may be approved
by the Superintendent subject to the control of the District Magistrate.
6.
No letter, written communication of any kind, book, newspaper, packet or parcel of any description shall either be
delivered to or sent by a person who has accepted a tender of pardon under the provisions of Section 337, Criminal
Procedure Code, without the permission of the Superintendent under the control of the  District Magistrate.  The
Superintendent shall be allowed to withhold and confiscate any such letter, written communication, etc.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2