
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Petroleum Act, 1934
The Petroleum Act, 1934
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1083713/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
463
]
Union of India - Act
The Petroleum Act, 1934
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Petroleum Act, 1934
Act 30 of 1934
Published on 6 September 1934
Commenced on 6 September 1934
[This is the version of this document from 6 September 1934.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Petroleum Act, 1934
(30 OF 1934)
19.
/854
Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Indian Petroleum Act, 1899, was passed at the time when the use of
petroleum, particularly of dangerous petroleum or petrol, was limited, and with the great developments in the use of
petroleum that have taken place in the last 30 years it has become unsuitable in several ways. As early as 1903, the
attention of the Government of India was drawn to the inconvenience arising from the existence in different Provinces of
separate sets of rules to regulate the importation, possession and transport of petroleum. The present Act does not
permit the issue by the Government of India of a set of rules applicable throughout British India and the only way in
which it has been possible to secure unformity has been made by the issue by Local Governments from time to time of
Page 1/12
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Petroleum Act, 1934
similar rules with the sanction of the Central Government. Local Governments and the interests concerned were
consulted on the subject of revising the Act in 1925-26, and it was agreed by all Local Governments that the rule-making
power should be transferred to the Central Government. In addition a number of other changes have been proposed in
the light of experience.
The opportunity has been taken to rearrange the whole law. In addition to the "Preliminary" portion and the final
"Supplemental" Chapter the Bill contains three separate Chapters. Chapter I relates to the control of petroleum and
Chapter II to its testing, while Chapter III contains the necessary penal provisions and what may be described as
criminal procedure.
Amendment Act 31 of 1977-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Committee on Subordinate Legislation (Fifth Lok
Sabha) in their Fourteenth Report desired that the Government should undertake a review of all Acts to find out which of
them do not contain a provision for laying of rules framed thereunder before the Parliament and should incorporate such
a provision in those Acts. As the Petroleum Act, 1934, does not contain such a provision, the Bill seeks to include such a
provision in that Act.
2. The opportunity is availed of to change the reference to the Chief Inspector of Explosives in India and the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1898, into references to the Chief Controller of Explosives and the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973, respectively.
[6th September, 1934]
An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to the import, transport, storage, production, refining and blending of
petroleum [* * *]
[ The words " and other inflammable substances"  omitted by Act 24 of 1970, Section 2 (w.e.f. 1.8.1976).]
.
Whereas it is expedient to consolidate and amend the law relating to the import, transport, storage, production, refining
and blending of petroleum [* * *]
[ The words " and other inflammable substances"  omitted by Act 24 of 1970, Section 2 (w.e.f. 1.8.1976).]
; It is hereby enacted as follows:-
This Act was extended to Berar by the Petroleum (Berar Extension) Act 23 of 1937. All rules made and notifications
issued under this Act and in force in British India at the commencement of Act 23 of 1937 (w.e.f. 7.10.1937) were also
extended to Berar by Section 3 of the latter Act.
This Act has been extended to the new Provinces and Merged States by the Merged States (Laws) Act 59 of 1949 and
to the States of Manipur, Tripura and Vindhya Pradesh by the Union Territories (Laws) Act 30 of 1950. Manipur and
Tripura are full-fledged States now, see Act 81 of 1971. Vindhya Pradesh has merged with Madhya Pradesh State, see
Act
37 of 1956
.
It has also been extended to the State of Jammu and Kashmir by Act 62 of 1956.
It has now been extended to be the Union Territory of (1) Goa, Daman and Diu by Regulation 12 of 1962. Goa is now a
State, see Act 18 of 1987; (2) Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regulation 6 of 1963; (3) Pondicherry by Regulation 7 of 1963
and (4) Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Island by Regulation 8 of 1965. These islands are now known as
Lakshadweep, see Act 34 of 1973.
2. Brought into force on 30.3.1937.
1.
Short title, extent and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called The Petroleum Act, 1934.
(2)
[ It extends to the whole of India ][* * *]
[ The words " except the State of Jammu and Kashmir"  omitted by Act 62 of 1956, Section 2 and Schedule.]
.
(3)
It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
2.
Definitions .-In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,-
(a)
Page 2/12
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Petroleum Act, 1934
"petroleum" means any liquid hydrocarbon or mixture of hydrocarbons, and any inflammable mixture (liquid, viscous or
solid) containing any liquid hydrocarbon;
(b)
[ "petroleum Class A" means petroleum having a flash-point below twenty-three degrees Centigrade;
(bb)
"petroleum Class B" means petroleum having a flash-point of twenty-three degrees Centigrade and above but below
sixty-five degrees Centigrade;
(bbb)
"petroleum Class C" means petroleum having a flash-point of sixty-five degrees Centigrade and above but below
ninety-three degrees Centigrade;]
(c)
["flash-point"]
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1970, Section 3, for " flashing-ponit"  (w.e.f. 1.8.1976).]
of any petroleum means the lowest temperature at which it yields a vapour which will give a momentary flash when
ignited, determined in accordance with the provisions of Chapter II and the rules made thereunder;
(d)
[ "to transport petroleum" means to move petroleum from one place to another in India and includes moving from one
place to another in India across a territory which is not part of India;]
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1970, Section 3, for Clause (d) (w.e.f. 1.8.1976).]
(e)
"to import petroleum" means to bring it into [India]
[ Substituted by Act 62 of 1956, Section 2 and Schedule, for " the territories to which this Act extends" .]
by land, sea or air, otherwise than during the course of transport;
(f)
"to store petroleum" means to keep it in any one place, but does not include any detention happening during the
ordinary course of transport;
(g)
"motor conveyance" means any vehicle, vessel or aircraft for the conveyance of human beings, animals or goods, by
land, water or air, in which petroleum is used to generate the motive power;
(h)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
[* * *]
[ Clause (i) omitted by Act 3 of 1951, Section 3 and Schedule.]
Chapter I
Control Over Petroleum
3.
Import, transport and storage of petroleum .-(1) No one shall import, transport or store any petroleum save in
accordance with the rules made under section 4.
(2)
Save in accordance with the conditions of any license for the purpose which he may be required to obtain by rules made
under section 4, no one shall import [petroleum Class A], and no one shall transport or store any petroleum.
4.
Rules for the import, transport and storage of petroleum .-The [Central Government] may make [rules]
[ See the Petroleum Rules, 2002.]
-
(a)
prescribing places where petroleum may be imported and prohibiting its import elsewhere;
(b)
regulating the import of petroleum;
(c)
prescribing the periods within which licenses for the import of [pertroleum Class A]
Page 3/12
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Petroleum Act, 1934
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1970, Section 5, for " dangerous petroleum"  (w.e.f. 1.8.1976).]
shall be applied for, and providing for the disposal, by confiscation or otherwise, of any [petroleum Class A]
[Substituted by Act 24 of 1970, Section 5, for " dangerous petroleum"  (w.e.f. 1.8.1976). ]
in respect of which a license has not been applied for within the prescribed period or has been refused and which has
not been exported;
(d)
regulating the transport of petroleum;
(e)
specifying the nature and condition of all receptacles and pipe-lines in which petroleum may be transported;
(f)
regulating the places at which and prescribing the conditions subject to which petroleum may be stored;
(g)
specifying the nature, situation and condition of all receptacles in which petroleum may be stored;
(h)
prescribing the form and conditions of licenses for the import of [petroleum Class A]
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1970, Section 5, for " dangerous petroleum"  (w.e.f. 1.8.1976).]
, and for the transport or storage of any petroleum, the manner in which applications for such licenses shall be made,
the authorities which may grant such licenses and the fees which may be charged for such licenses;
(i)
determining in any class of cases whether a license for the transport of petroleum shall be obtained by the consignor,
consignee or carrier;
(j)
providing for the granting of combined licenses for the import, transport and storage of petroleum, or for any two of such
purposes;
(k)
prescribing the proportion in which any specified poisonous substance may be added to petroleum, and prohibiting the
import, transport or storage of petroleum in which the proportion of any specified poisonous substance exceeds the
prescribed proportion; and
(l)
generally, providing for any matter which in [its]
[ Substituted by A.O. 1937.]
opinion is expedient for proper control over the import, transport and storage of petroleum, [including the charging of
fees for any service rendered in connection with the import, transport and storage of petroleum]
[ Inserted by Act 24 of 1970, Section 5 (w.e.f. 1.8.1976).]
.
5.
Production, refining and blending of petroleum .-(1) No one shall produce, refine or blend petroleum save in accordance
with the rules made under sub-section (2).
(2)
The [Central Government] may make [rules]
[ See the Petroleum Rules, 2002; the Carbide of Calcium Rules, 1937; the Cinematograph Film Rules, 1948; the
Carbide of Calcium (Handling) Rules, 1957 and the Carbide of Calcium (Handling at Tuticarin) Rules, 1967.]
-
(a)
prescribing the conditions subject to which petroleum may be produced, refined or blended; and
(b)
regulating the removal of petroleum from places where it is produced, refined or blended and preventing the storage
therein and removal therefrom, except as [petroleum Class A]
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1970, for " dangerous petroleum"  (w.e.f. 1.8.1976).]
, of any petroleum, which has not satisfied the prescribed tests.
[* * *]
Page 4/12
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Petroleum Act, 1934
[ Sub-Section (3) omitted by A.O. 1937.]
6.
Receptacles of dangerous petroleum to show a warning .-All receptacles containing petroleum Class A shall have a
stamped, embossed, painted or printed warning, either on the receptacle itself or, where that is impracticable, displayed
near the receptacle, exhibiting in conspicuous characters the words "Petrol" or "Motor Spirit", or an equivalent warning of
the dangerous nature of the petroleum:
Provided that this section shall not apply to-
(a)
any securely stoppered glass, stoneware or metal receptacle of less than [ten litres] capacity containing [petroleum
Class A]
[Substituted by Act 24 of 1970, for " dangerous petroleum"  (w.e.f. 1.8.1976). ]
which is not for sale, or
(b)
a tank incorporated in a motor conveyance, or attached to an internal combustion engine, and containing petroleum
intended to be used to generate motive power for the motor conveyance or engine, or
(c)
a pipe-line for the transport of petroleum, or
(d)
any tank which is wholly underground, or
(e)
any class of receptacles which the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt from the
operation of this section.
7.
[ No license needed for transport or storage of limited quantities of petroleum Class B or petroleum Class C
.-Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, a person need not obtain a license for the transport or storage of-
(i)
petroleum Class B if the total quantity in his possession at any one place does not exceed two thousand and five
hundred litres and none of it is contained in a receptacle exceeding one thousand litres in capacity; or
(ii)
petroleum Class C if the total quantity in his possession at any one place does not exceed forty-five thousand litres and
such petroleum is transported or stored in accordance with the rules made under section 4.
8.
No license needed for import, transport or storage of small quantities of petroleum Class A .-(1) Notwithstanding
anything contained in this Chapter, a person need not obtain a license for the import, transport or storage of petroleum
Class A not intended for sale if the total quantity in his possession does not exceed thirty litres.
(2)
Petroleum Class A possessed without a license under this section shall be kept in securely stoppered receptacles of
glass, stoneware or metal which shall not, in the case of receptacles of glass or stoneware, exceed one litre in capacity
or, in the case of receptacles of metal, exceed twenty-five litres in capacity.]
9.
Exemptions for motor conveyances and stationary engines .-(1) The owner of a motor conveyance, who complies with
the requirements of the law for the time being in force relating to the registration and licensing of such conveyance and
its driver or pilot and the owner of any stationary internal combustion engine, shall not be required to obtain a license-
(a)
for the import, transport or storage of any petroleum contained in any fuel tank incorporated in the conveyance or
attached to the internal combustion engine, or
(b)
for the transport or storage of [petroleum Class A], not exceeding [one hundred litres] [[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1970,
Section 9, for " twenty gallons"  (w.e.f.
1.8.1976
).]] in quantity in addition to any quantity possessed under clause (a):
Page 5/12
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Petroleum Act, 1934
Provided the petroleum is intended to be used to generate motive power for motor conveyance or engine:
[Provided further that the total quantity of ]
[Inserted by Act 25 of 1940, Section 2. ]
[petroleum Class A]
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1970, Section 9, for " dangerous petroleum"  (w.e.f. 1.8.1976).]
[which may be stored without a license under clause (b) shall not exceed ]
[Inserted by Act 25 of 1940, Section 2. ]
[one hundred litres] [[Substituted by Act 24 of 1970, Section 9, for " twenty gallons"  (w.e.f.
1.8.1976
). ]][, notwithstanding that such owner may possess other motor conveyances or engines.]
[Inserted by Act 25 of 1940, Section 2. ]
(2)
[Petroleum Class A]
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1970, Section 9, for " dangerous petroleum"  (w.e.f. 1.8.1976).]
transported or stored without a license [under clause (b) of sub-section (1)]
[ Inserted by Act 25 of 1940, Section 2.]
shall be kept as provided in sub-section (2) of section 8, and if it exceeds [thirty litres] [[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1970,
Section 9, for " six gallons"  (w.e.f.
1.8.1976
).]] in quantity, shall be stored in an isolated place which does not communicate with any room where any person
resides or works or in any room where persons assemble.
10.
No license needed by railway administration acting as carrier .-Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, a
railway administration as defined in section 3 of the [Indian Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890)] need not obtain any license
for the import or transport of any petroleum in its possession in its capacity as carrier.
11.
[ Exemption of heavy oils
.-Nothing in this Chapter shall apply to any petroleum which has its flash-point not below ninety-three degrees
Centigrade.]
12.
General power of exemption .-The [Central Government] may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt any
petroleum specified in the notification from all or any of the provisions of this Chapter.
13.
Inspection of places .-(1) The [Central Government] may authorise any officer by name or by virtue of office to enter any
place where petroleum is being imported, stored, produced, refined or blended, or is under transport, and inspect all
receptacles, plant and appliances used in connection with petroleum in order to ascertain if they are in accordance with
the provisions of this Chapter and the rules made thereunder.
(2)
The [Central Government]
[ Substituted by A.O. 1937.]
may make rules regulating the procedure of officers authorised under this section.
Chapter II
The Testing Of Petroleum
14.
Inspection and sampling of petroleum .-(1) The [Central Government] may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
authorise any officer by name or by virtue of office to enter any place where petroleum is being imported, transported,
stored, produced, refined or blended and to inspect and take samples for testing of any petroleum found therein.
(2)
The [Central Government]
[ Substituted by A.O. 1937.]
may make [rules]
Page 6/12
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Petroleum Act, 1934
[ See the Petroleum Rules, 2002.]
-
(a)
regulating the taking of samples of petroleum for testing,
(b)
determining the cases in which payment shall be made for the value of samples taken, and the mode of payment, and
(c)
generally, regulating the procedure of officers exercising powers under this section.
15.
Standard Test Apparatus .-(1) A standard apparatus for determining the [flash-point] of petroleum shall be deposited
with an officer to be appointed in this behalf by the [Central Government]
[Substituted by A.O. 1937. ]
, by notification in the Official Gazette.
(2)
Such apparatus shall be engraved with the words "Standard Test Apparatus", and shall be verified and corrected from
time to time and replaced when necessary, in accordance with rules made under section 21.
(3)
The Standard Test Apparatus shall, on payment of the prescribed fee, be open to inspection at all reasonable times by
any person wishing to inspect it.
16.
Certification of other test apparatus .-(1) The officer appointed under section 15 shall, on payment of the prescribed fee,
if any, compare with the Standard Test Apparatus any apparatus for determining the [flash-point] of petroleum which
may be submitted to him for this purpose.
(2)
If any apparatus is found by him to agree with the Standard Test Apparatus within prescribed limits, the officer shall
engrave such apparatus with a special number and with the date of the comparison, and shall give a certificate in
respect of it in the prescribed form, certifying that on the said date the apparatus was compared with the Standard Test
Apparatus and was found to agree with it within the prescribed limits, and specifying any corrections to be made in the
results of tests carried out with the apparatus.
(3)
A certificate granted under this section shall be valid for such period as may be prescribed.
(4)
A certificate granted under this section shall, during the period for which it is valid, be proof, until the contrary is proved,
of any matter stated therein.
(5)
The officer shall keep a register in the prescribed form of all certificates granted by him under this section.
17.
Testing officers .-The [Central Government] may authorise any officer by name or by virtue of office to test petroleum of
which samples have been taken under this Act, or which may have been submitted to him for test by any person, and to
grant certificates of the results of such tests.
18.
Manner of test .-All tests of petroleum made under this Act shall be made with a test apparatus in respect of which there
is a valid certificate under section 16, shall have due regard to any correction specified in that certificate, and shall be
carried out in accordance with rules made under section 21.
19. Certificate of testing .- [(1) The testing officer after testing samples of petroleum shall make out a certificate in the
prescribed form, stating whether the petroleum is petroleum Class A or petroleum Class B or petroleum Class C, and if
the petroleum is petroleum Class B or petroleum Class C, the flash-point of the petroleum.]
(2)
The testing officer shall furnish the person concerned, at his request, with a certified copy of the certificate, on payment
of the prescribed fee, and such certified copy may be produced in any Court in proof of the contents of the original
certificate.
Page 7/12
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Petroleum Act, 1934
(3)
[ A certificate given under this section shall be admitted as evidence in any proceedings which may be taken under this
Act in respect of the petroleum from which the samples were taken, and shall, until the contrary is proved to be
conclusive proof, that the petroleum is petroleum Class A or petroleum Class B or petroleum Class C, and, if the
petroleum is petroleum Class B or petroleum Class C, of its flash-point.]
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1970, Section 13, for sub-Section (3) (w.e.f. 1.8.1976).]
20.
Right to require re-test .-(1) The owner of any petroleum, or his agent, who is dissatisfied with the result of the test of the
petroleum may, within seven days from the date on which he received intimation of the result of the test, apply to the
officer empowered under section 14 to have fresh samples of the petroleum taken and tested.
(2)
On such application and on payment of the prescribed fee, fresh samples of the petroleum shall be taken in the
presence of such owner or agent or person deputed by him, and shall be tested in the presence of such owner or agent
or person deputed by him.
(3)
If, on such re-test, it appears that the original test was erroneous, the testing officer shall cancel the original certificate
granted under section 19, shall make out a fresh certificate, and shall furnish the owner of the petroleum, or his agent,
with a certified copy thereof, free of charge.
21.
Power to make rules regarding tests .-The [Central Government] may make [rules]
[ See the Petroleum Rules,2002.]
-
(a)
for the specification, verification, correction and replacement of the Standard Test Apparatus;
(b)
prescribing fees for the inspection of the Standard Test Apparatus;
(c)
regulating the procedure in comparing a test apparatus with the Standard Test Apparatus;
(d)
prescribing the form of certificate to be given in respect of a test apparatus so compared, and the period for which such
certificates shall be valid;
(e)
prescribing the form of the register of such certificates;
(f)
prescribing fees for comparing a test apparatus with the Standard Test Apparatus;
(g)
regulating the procedure of testing officers in carrying out tests of petroleum, providing for the averaging of results where
several samples of the same petroleum are tested, and prescribing the variations from standard temperatures which
may be allowed;
(h)
prescribing the form of certificates of tests of petroleum and the fees which may be charged therefor;
(i)
providing, where the results of the testing of samples raise a doubt as to the uniformity of the quality of the petroleum in
any lot under test, for the division of the lot into sub-lots, and for the selection and testing of samples of each sub-lot and
for the averaging of results in accordance with the results of tests of those samples;
(j)
prescribing fees for re-tests under section 20 and providing for their refund where the original test was erroneous; and
(k)
generally, regulating the procedure of all officers performing duties connected with the testing of petroleum, and
providing for any matter incidental to such testing.
22.
Page 8/12
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Petroleum Act, 1934
Special rules for testing viscous or solid forms of petroleum .-The [Central Government] may also make rules2 providing
specially for the testing of any form of petroleum which is viscous or solid or contains sediment or thickening ingredients,
and such rules may modify or supplement any of the provisions of this Chapter or of the rules made under section 21 in
order to adapt them to the special needs of such tests.
Chapter III
Penalties And Procedure
23.
General penalty for offences under this Act .-(1) Whoever-
(a)
in contravention of any of the provisions of Chapter I or of any of the rules made thereunder, imports, transports, stores,
produces, refines or blends any petroleum, or
(b)
contravenes any rule made under section 4 or section 5, or
(c)
[ being the holder of a license issued under section 4 or a person for the time being placed by the holder of such license
in control or in charge of any place where petroleum is being imported or stored, or is under transport, contravenes any
condition of such license or suffers any condition of such license to be contravened, or]
(d)
being for the time being in control or in charge of any place where petroleum is being imported, stored, produced,
refined or blended or is under transport, refuses or neglects to show to any officer authorised under section 13 any
receptacle, plant or appliance used in such place in connection with petroleum, or in any way obstructs or fails to render
reasonable assistance to such officer during an inspection, or
(e)
being for the time being in control or in charge of any place where petroleum is being imported, transported, stored,
produced, refined or blended, refuses or neglects to show to any officer authorised under section 14 any petroleum in
such place, or to give him such assistance as he may require for the inspection of such petroleum, or refuses to allow
him to take samples of the petroleum, or
(f)
being required, under section 27, to give information of an accident, fails to give such information as so required by that
section, shall be punishable [with simple imprisonment which may extend to one month, or with fine which may extend to
one thousand rupees, or with both]
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1970, Section 14, for " with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees"  (w.e.f. 1.8.1976).]
.
(2)
If any person, having been convicted of an offence punishable under sub-section (1), is again guilty of any offence
punishable under that sub-section, he shall be punishable for every such subsequent offence [with simple imprisonment
which may extend to three months, or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both]
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1970, Section 14, for " with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees"  (w.e.f. 1.8.1976).]
.
24.
Confiscation of petroleum and receptacles .-(1) In any case in which an offence under clause (a) or clause (b) or clause
(c) of sub-section (1) of section 23 has been committed, the convicting Magistrate may direct that-
(a)
the petroleum in respect of which the offence has been committed, or
(b)
where the offender is convicted of importing, transporting or storing petroleum exceeding the quantity he is permitted to
import, transport or store, as the case may be, the whole of the petroleum in respect of which the offence was
committed, shall, together with the receptacles in which it is contained, be confiscated.
(2)
This power may also be exercised by the High Court in the exercise of its appellate or revisional powers.
25.
Page 9/12
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Petroleum Act, 1934
Jurisdiction .-Offences punishable under this Act shall be triable in the Presidency-towns, by a Presidency Magistrate,
and elsewhere by a Magistrate of the first class, or by a Magistrate of the second class who has been specially
empowered by the [Central Government] in this behalf.
26.
Power of entry and search .-(1) The [Central Government] may, by notification in the Official Gazette, authorise any
officer by name or by virtue of office to enter and search any place where he has reason to believe that any petroleum is
being imported, transported, stored, produced, refined or blended otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of
this Act and the rules made thereunder, and to seize, detain or remove any or all of the petroleum in respect of which in
his opinion an offence under this Act has been committed.
(2)
The provisions of the [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)]
[ Substituted by Act 31 of 1977, Section 2, for " Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898)(5 of 1898)"  (w.e.f. 12.8.1977).]
, relating to searches shall, so far as they are applicable, apply to searches by officers authorised under this section.
(3)
The [Central Government]
[Substituted by A.O. 1937. ]
may make rules regulating the procedure of authorised officers in the exercise of their powers under this section subject,
however, to the provisions of sub-section (2).
27.
[ Notice of accidents with petroleum
.-Whenever there occurs in or about, or in connection with, any place in which petroleum is refined, blended or kept, or
any carriage or vessel either conveying petroleum or on or from which petroleum is being loaded or unloaded, any
accident by explosion or by fire as a result of the ignition of petroleum or petroleum vapour attended with loss of human
life or serious injury to person or property, or of a description usually attended with such loss or injury, the occupier of
the place or the person for the time being incharge of the petroleum or the person incharge of the carriage or the master
of the vessel, as the case may be, shall, within such time and in such manner as may be prescribed, give notice thereof
and of the attendant loss of human life, or injury to person or property, if any, to the nearest Magistrate or to the
Officer-in-charge of the nearest police station and to the ][Chief Controller of Explosives]
[ Substituted by Act 31 of 1977, Section 3, for " Chief Inspector of Explosives in India"  (w.e.f. 12.8.1977).]
.
28.
Inquiries into serious accidents with petroleum .-(1) The inquiry mentioned in section 176 of the [Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)], shall, [unless section 8 of the Coroners' Act, 1871 (4 of 1871), is applicable to the
circumstances]
[ Inserted by Act 25 of 1940, Section 3.]
, be held in all cases where any person has been killed by an accident which the Magistrate has reason to believe was
the result of the ignition of petroleum or petroleum vapour.
(2)
Any Magistrate empowered to hold an inquest may also hold an inquiry under the said section into the cause of any
accident which he has reason to believe was the result of the ignition of petroleum or petroleum vapour, if such accident
was attended by serious injury to person or property, notwithstanding that no person was killed thereby.
(3)
For the purposes of [sub-section (2)]
[ Substituted by Act 25 of 1940, Section 3, for " this Section" .]
a Commissioner of Police [* * *]
[ The words " in a Presidency-town"  omitted by Act 24 of 1970, Section 16 (w.e.f. 1.8.1976).]
[* * *]
[ The words " or in Rangoon"  omitted by A.O., 1937.]
shall be deemed to be a Magistrate empowered to hold an inquest.
(4)
The result of all inquiries held in pursuance of this section  [and of any inquiry held by a coroner in a case to which
Page 10/12
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Petroleum Act, 1934
sub-section (1) refers]
[ Inserted by Act 25 of 1940, Section 3.]
shall be submitted as soon as may be to the [Central Government]
[ Substituted by A.O. 1937.]
[the ]
[Inserted by Act 25 of 1940, Section 3. ]
[Chief Controller of Explosives]
[ Substituted by Act 31 of 1977, Section 4, for " Chief Inspector of Explosives in India"  (w.e.f. 12.8.1977).]
[and the State Government.]
[Inserted by Act 25 of 1940, Section 3. ]
Chapter IV
Supplemental
29.
Provisions relating to rules .-(1) In making any rules under this Act, the [Central Government] may-
(a)
provide for any matter ancillary to such rules for which in its opinion provision is necessary to protect the public from
danger arising from the import, transport, storage, production, refining or blending of petroleum, and
(b)
make special provision for the special circumstances of any State or place.
(2)
Every power to make rules conferred by this Act is subject to the condition of previous publication.
(3)
All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Official Gazette [* * *]
[ The words " and in the Local Official Gazette"  omitted by A.O. 1937.]
.
(4)
[ Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of the Parliament,
while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive
sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule, or both Houses agree that the rule should not be
made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done
under that rule.]
[ Inserted by Act 31 of 1977, Section 5 (w.e.f. 12.8.1977).]
30.
Power to apply Act to other substances .-[ Repealed by the Inflammable Substances Act , 1952 (20  of 1952),  section
7].
31.
Power to limit powers of local authorities over petroleum .-Where any enactment confers powers upon any local
authority in respect of the transport or storage of petroleum, the [Central Government] may, by notification in the Official
Gazette,-
(a)
limit the operation of such enactment, or
(b)
restrict the exercise of such powers, in any manner [it]
[Substituted by A.O. 1937. ]
deems fit.
32.
Repeals .-[ Repealed by the Repealing Act , 1938 (1  of 1938),  section 2 and Schedule ].
THE SCHEDULE
ENACTMENT REPEALED
Page 11/12
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Petroleum Act, 1934
Repealed by the Repealing Act, 1938 (1 of 1938), Section 2 and Schedule].
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 12/12