
----- PAGE 1 -----
Decrees and Orders Validating Act, 1936
Decrees and Orders Validating Act, 1936
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1133284/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
16
]
Union of India - Act
Decrees and Orders Validating Act, 1936
UNION OF INDIA
India
Decrees and Orders Validating Act, 1936
Act 5 of 1936
Published on 26 April 1936
Commenced on 26 April 1936
[This is the version of this document from 26 April 1936.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Decrees and Orders Validating Act, 1936
Act
No. 5 of 1936
1495.
Object and Reason.-The Court of the Judicial Commissioner of he Central Provinces has recently in two judgments
passed on the 26th August and the 11th September, 1935 held that certain decrees passed or orders made by the
Bombay High Court in the exercise of the jurisdiction which that Court conceived it possessed under clause 12 of its
Letters Patent were made without jurisdiction.
Clause 12 of the Letter Patent of the Bombay High Court, which is identical in terms with clause 12 of the Letter Patent
of the Madras and Calcutta High Courts and corresponds to clause 10 of the Letters Patent of the Rangoon High Court,
has been variously interpreted by the several High Courts, and the question of amending the clause is under
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Decrees and Orders Validating Act, 1936
consideration.
This Bill is designed to obviate in the meantime the inconvience which would result if the decrees or orders of a High
Court acting in the exercise of its ordinary civil jurisdiction, as the Court itself interprets that jurisdiction, proved
infructuous in another Court which favoured a different interpretation.
[26th April, 1936.]
An Act to remove certain doubts and to establish the validity of certain proceedings in High Courts of Judicature [* * *]
[The words "in the Provinces" omitted by the A.O. 1950.]
.
WHEREAS doubts have arisen as to the validity of certain proceedings in High Courts of Judicature [* * *]
[The words "in the Provinces" omitted by the A.O. 1950.]
under the Letters Patent erecting and establishing those Courts;
AND WHEREAS it is expedient to terminate those doubts and to establish the validity of those proceedings;
It is hereby enacted as follows:-
1.
Short title and extent.-
(1)
This Act may be called the Decrees and Orders Validating Act, 1936.
(2)
[ It extends to the whole of India, except [the territories which, immediately before the 1st November, 1956, were
comprised in Part B States]
[Substituted for sub-section (2). by A.L.O., 1950 ]
.]
2.
Certain decrees and orders not be called in question.-
No decree passed or order made by the High Court of Judicature at Fort William in Bengal, the High Court of Judicature
at Madras or the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, in the exercise of its ordinary original civil jurisdiction under clause
12 of its Letters Patent, or by the High Court of Judicature at Rangoon, in the exercise of its original civil jurisdiction
under clause 10 of its Letters Patent, shall be called in question in any proceedings before any other Court on the
ground that the High Court passing the decree or making the order had no jurisdiction to pass or make the decree or
order.
3.
Restoration of proceedings.-
Where in any proceedings concluded on or after the 26th day of August, 1935, any such decree or order has been found
to be invalid on such ground by any Court, such finding shall be void and of no effect; and the Court shall,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Indian Limitation Act, 1908, 9 of 1908.or any other law for the time being
in force, on application made within six months from the Commencement of this Act by any person prejudicially affected
by such finding, restore the proceedings at and continue the proceedings from the state reached immediately before the
order embodying or based on such finding was made.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2