
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Hindu Women's Rights To Property Act, 1937
The Hindu Women's Rights To Property Act, 1937
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/80896406/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
880
]
Union of India - Act
The Hindu Women's Rights To Property Act, 1937
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Hindu Women's Rights To Property Act, 1937
Act 18 of 1937
Published on 1 January 1937
Commenced on 1 January 1937
[This is the version of this document as it was from 14 April 1937 to None.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Hindu Women's Rights To Property Act, 1937
(18 of 1937)
041.
[14th April, 1937]
An Act to amend  the Hindu law governing Hindu Womens rights to property.
Whereas  it is expedient to amend the Hindu law to give  better rights to women in respect of property, it is hereby
enacted as follows:
1.
Short title and extent
(1)
This Act may be called the Hindu Womens Rights to Property Act, 1937.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Hindu Women's Rights To Property Act, 1937
(2)
It extends to the whole of India except Part B States.
2.
Application
.Notwithstanding any rule of Hindu law or custom to the contrary, the provisions of section 3 shall apply where a Hindu
dies intestate.
3.
Devolution of property
(1)
When a Hindu governed by the Dayabhaga School of Hindu Law dies intestate leaving any property, and when a Hindu
governed by any other school of Hindu law or by customary law dies intestate leaving separate property, his widow, or if
there  is more than one widow, all his widows together, shall, subject to the  provisions of sub-section (3), be entitled in
respect of property in respect of  which he dies intestate to the same share as a son:
Provided that the widow of a predeceased son shall  inherit in like manner as a son if there is no son surviving of such 
predeceased son, and shall inherit in like manner as a sons son if there is surviving a son or sons son of such
predeceased son:
Provided further that the same provision shall apply mutatis mutandis to the widow of a predeceased son of a
predeceased son.
(2)
When a Hindu governed by any school of Hindu law other than the Dayabhaga School or by customary law dies having
at the time of his death an interest in a Hindu joint family property, his widow shall, subject to the provisions of 
sub-section (3), have in the property the same interest as he himself had.
(3)
Any interest devolving on a Hindu widow under the provisions of this section shall  be the limited interest known as a
Hindu wowans estate, provided however that she shall have the same right of claiming partition as a made owner.
(4)
The  provisions of this section shall not apply to an estate which by a customary or other rule of succession or by the
terms of the grant applicable thereto descends to a single heir or to any property to which the Indian Succession Act,
1925, applies.
4.
Saving
.Nothing in this Act shall apply to the property of  any Hindu dying intestate before the commencement of this Act.
5.
Meaning  of expression die intestate
.For the purpose of this Act a person shall be deemed to die intestate in respect of  all property of which he has not
made a testamentary disposition which is capable of taking effect.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2