
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rules Relating To Deratisation Certificate In Respect Of Coasting Vessels In Bombay Port, ...
Rules Relating To Deratisation Certificate In Respect Of Coasting
Vessels In Bombay Port, 1938
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/149170162/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Rules Relating To Deratisation Certificate In Respect Of Coasting Vessels In Bombay Port, 1938
UNION OF INDIA
India
Rules Relating To Deratisation Certificate In Respect Of Coasting Vessels In Bombay Port, 1938
Rule
RULES-RELATING-TO-DERATISATION-CERTIFICATE-IN-RESPECT-OF-COASTING-VESSELS-IN-BOMBAY-PORT-
1938 of 1938
Published on 23 July 1938
Commenced on 23 July 1938
[This is the version of this document from 23 July 1938.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rules Relating To Deratisation Certificate In Respect Of Coasting Vessels In Bombay Port, 1938
Published vide Notification in the Gazette of India, 1938, Part 1, page 1295.
1734.
No. F. 9-1/37-G, dated 23rd July, 1938. - In exercise of the powers conferred  by Cl. (p) of sub-section (1) of Sec. 6 of
the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (15 of 1908), the  Central Government is pleased to make the following rules, the same
having been  previously published as required by sub-section (2) of the said section, namely :
Rules
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rules Relating To Deratisation Certificate In Respect Of Coasting Vessels In Bombay Port, ...
1.
In these Rules "coasting vessel" means a vessel trading or otherwise plying  between ports in India only.
2.
No coasting vessel or ferry steamer plying between the Port of Bombay and  any other Indian port which, for the time
being, is within the Port of Bombay shall  leave that port unless the Master of such coasting vessel or ferry steamer is in
possession  of a Deratisation Certificate or a Deratisation Exemption Certificate issued not more  than six months prior
to the date of departure to the effect that such coasting vessel or  ferry steamer has been inspected by an accredited
Port Health Authority and that its  rat population has been reduced to or (as the case may be) maintained at a minimum:
Provided that the Port Health Officer may, in his discretion, exempt any such  vessel or steamer from the operation of
this rule for any period not extending beyond  six months after these Rules come into force.
3.
The Port Health Officer, Bombay, may, in his discretion, require any coasting  country craft or class of such craft plying
between the Port of Bombay and any other  Indian port which is, for the time being, within the limits of the Port of
Bombay or any other lighter or barge or class thereof plying within the limits of the Port of Bombay, to  be in possession
of a Deratisation Certificate or a Deratisation Exemption Certificate  dated not more than six months before the date of
such requirement to the effect that  such craft has been inspected by an accredited Port Health Authority and that its rat 
population has been reduced to or (as the case may be) maintained at a minimum.
4.
(1)
When any vessel, in respect of which a certificate is required by rule 2 or  rule 3 to be issued or renewed, calls at the
Port of Bombay, the Master or owner of such  vessel or any person authorised to act in his behalf shall, if the vessel is
not in  possession of such a certificate, or if such certificate is more than six months old,  forthwith submit to the
Preventive Officer boarding the vessel, or to the Officer in  charge of the Customs Office, a written statement to that
effect.
(2)
The statements referred to in sub-rule (1) shall, in respect of a lighter or barge  plying within the limits of the Port of
Bombay, be submitted by the owner or person in  charge of such lighter or barge direct to the Port Health Officer.
(3)
The fees chargeable for the issue and renewal of Deratisation Certificates or  Deratisation Exemption Certificates shall
be such as may be fixed by the Central  Government from time to time.
(4)
Before any vessel of the type referred to in rules 2 and 3 is given port clearance  from the Port of Bombay, the Master or
owner thereof shall produce before the Customs  Authorities the certificate prescribed by those rules; and, if such
certificate is not so  produced, port clearance shall be refused pending the receipt of instruction from the  Port Health
Officer.
5.
The foregoing rules shall not apply to any vessel driven into the Port of  Bombay by stress of weather and anchoring out
in the stream :
Provided that, if the Master of such a vessel desires to land any cargo either by  discharging into lighters, barges, or
otherwise or to enter any dock or come alongside  any wharf to land such cargo or merchandise or for any other
purpose, he shall  forthwith notify the Customs Office of his intention to do so; and thereupon the  provisions of the
foregoing rules shall apply to such vessel as if it had entered the  port in the ordinary way.
6.
The following persons shall be accredited Port Health Authorities for the  purpose of these rules, namely.
(i)
for foreign ports, the persons specified in the "List of Ports qualified to  issue certificates" issued from time to time by the
Office International  d'Hygiene Publique, and
(ii)
for Indian ports, the Health Officers of the Ports of Bombay and Calcutta.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2