
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Commercial Documents Evidence Act, 1939
The Commercial Documents Evidence Act, 1939
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/627716/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
37
]
Union of India - Act
The Commercial Documents Evidence Act, 1939
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Commercial Documents Evidence Act, 1939
Act 30 of 1939
Published on 26 September 1939
Commenced on 26 September 1939
[This is the version of this document from 26 September 1939.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Commercial Documents Evidence Act, 1939
(30 of 1939)
017.
Certain commercial documents of various kinds are by the practice of merchants accepted as evidance and taken as
prima facie correct, but in a Court of law they cannot, in the absence of consent by the parties, be admitted in evidence
without testimony as to their genuineness or the correctness of the statements made therein. Such documents are not
admissible in evidence under Section 32 or any other provision of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, without further proof.
The result is that a party desirous of delaying the proceedings can often insist on the other side getting Commissions
issued to take evidence as to facts which are for all practical purposes sufficiently established by the documents in
question. It is proposed to undertake legislation on the lines of the Bankers Books Evidence Act, 1891, so as to provide
that commercial documents which are accepted as prima facie correct in commercial circles may be admitted in
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Commercial Documents Evidence Act, 1939
evidence without formal proof. A list of such documents has been prepared in consultation with Commercial
Associations and Local Governments, and is included in the Schedule to the Bill, power being reserved to the
Government of India to add to the list from time to time and to remove items from it.
[26th September, 1939]
An Act to amend the Law of Evidence with respect to certain commercial documents.
Whereas  it is expedient to amend the Law of Evidence with respect to certain commercial documents;
It is hereby enacted as follows:
1.
Short title and extent
(1)
This Act may be called The Commercial Documents Evidence Act, 1939.
(2)
It extends to [the whole of India except [the territories which, immediately before  the 1st November, 1956, were
comprised in Part B States]
[Substituted by A.O. 1950.]
.]
2.
Statements of relevant facts in Scheduled documents to be themselves relevant facts
.Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (
1 of 1872
), statements of facts in issue or of relevant facts made in any document included in the Schedule as to matters usually
stated in such document shall be themselves relevant facts within the meaning  of that Act.
3.
Presumption as to genuineness of documents
.For the purposes of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (
1 of 1872
), and notwithstanding  anything contained therein, a Court
(a)
shall presume, within the  meaning of that Act, in relation to documents included in Part I of the Schedule, and
(b)
may presume, within the meaning  of that Act, in relation to documents included in Part II of the Schedule,
that any document purporting to be a document included in Part I or Part II of the  Schedule, as the case may be, and to
have been duly made by or under the  appropriate authority, was so made and that the statements contained therein are
accurate.
4.
Definition
.In the Schedule the expression recognised Chamber of Commerce means a Chamber of Commerce recognised by the
Government of its country as being competent to issue certificates of origin, and includes any other association similarly
recognised.
The Schedule
(See sections 2 and 3)
Part I ? Documents in relation to which the Court SHALL presume.
1. Lloyds Register of Shipping.
2. Lloyds Daily Shipping Index.
3. Llyods Loading List.
4. Lloyds Weekly Casualty Reports.
5.
Certificate  of delivery of goods to the Manchester Ship Canal Company.
6.
Official  log book, supplementary official log book and official wireless log kept by a British ship.
7.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Commercial Documents Evidence Act, 1939
Certificate of Registry, Safety Certificate, Safety Radio-Telegraphy Certificate, Exemption Certificate, Certificate of
Survey, Declaration of Survey, International Load  Line Certificate, [Indian Load Line Certificate]
[Substituted by Act 35 of 1950, Section 3 and Sch.II, for " British India Load Line Certificate"  (w.e.f. 19.4.1950).]
, Report of Survey of a ship provisionally detained as unsafe, Report of Survey to be served upon the master of a ship
declared as unsafe upon survey, Docking Certificate, Memorandum issued under Article 56 of the International
Convention for the Safety of Life at     Sea, 1929.
8.
Certificates A and B issued under the [Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (21 of 1923)]
[Now see the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958(44 of 1958).]
.
9.
The following documents relating to marine insurance, namely, insurance policy,  receipt for premium, certificate of
insurance and insurance cover note.
10.
Certificate  concerning the loss of country craft issued by the appropriate authority under Department of Commerce,
Mercantile Marine Department Circular No. 2 of 1938.
11.
Protest made before a Notary Public or other duly authorised official by a master of a ship relating to circumstances
calculated to affect the liability of the ship owner.
12.
Licence or permit for radio-telegraph apparatus carried in ships or aircraft.
13.
Certificate  of registration of an aircraft granted by the Government of the country to which the aircraft belongs.
14.
Certificate  of airworthiness of an aircraft granted or validated by, or under the authority of, the Government of the
country to which the aircraft belongs.
15.
Licences and certificates of competency of aircraft personnel granted or validated by,  or under the authority of, the
Government of the country to which the personnel  belongs.
16.
Ground  Engineers licence issued by a competent authority authorised in this behalf by Government.
17.
Consular Certificate in respect of goods shipped or shut out, consular certificates of  origin, and consular invoice.
18.
Certificate of origin of goods issued (but not merely attested) by a recognised Chamber of  Commerce, or by [an Indian
or British Consular Officer, or by an Indian or British]
[Substituted by A.O.1948.]
Trade Commissioner or Agent.
19.
Receipt for payment of customs duty issued by a Customs authority.
20.
Schedule     issued by a port, dock, harbour, wharfage or warehouse authority, or by a Railway company, showing fees,
dues, freights or other charges for the storage,  transport or other services in connection with goods.
21.
Tonnage  schedule and schedule of fees, commission or other charges for services rendered, issued by a recognised
Chamber of Commerce.
22.
The  publication known as the Indian Railway Conference Association Coaching and  Goods Tariffs.
23.
Copy, certified by the Registrar of Companies, of the memorandum or the articles of  association of a company, filed
under the [Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of  1913)]
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Commercial Documents Evidence Act, 1939
[Now see the Companies Act, 1956(1 of 1956).]
.
24.
Protest, noting and certifying the dishonour of a bill of exchange, made before a Notary Public or other duly authorised
official.
Part II ? Documents in relation to which the Court MAY presume.
1. Survey report issued by a competent authority
(i)
in respect of cargo loaded; or
(ii)
certifying  the quantity of coal loaded; or
(iii)
in respect of the security of hatches.
2. Official  log book, supplementary official log book and official wireless log kept by a foreign ship.
3. Dock certificate, dock chalan, dock receipt or warrant, port warehouse certificate  or warrant, issued by, or under the
authority of, a port, dock, harbour or wharfage authority.
4. Certificate  issued by a port, dock, harbour, wharfage or other authority having control of  acceptance of goods for
shipping, transport or delivery, relating to the date  or time of shipment of goods, arrival of goods for acceptance, arrival
of  vessels or acceptance or delivery of goods, or to the allocation of berthing     accommodation to vessels.
5. Export application issued by a port authority showing dues paid, weight and  measurement and the shutting out of a
consignment.
6. Certificate  or receipt showing the weight or measurement of a consignment issued by the  official measurer of the
Conference Lines, or by a sworn or licensed measurer,  or by a recognised Chamber of Commerce.
7. Reports and publications issued by a Port authority showing the movement of vessels,  and certificates issued by
such authority relating to such movements.
8. Certificate  of safety for flight signed by a licensed Ground Engineer.
9. Aircraft log book, journey log book and log book maintained by the owner or operator in respect of aircraft.
10. Passenger list or manifest of goods carried in public transport aircraft.
11. Passenger ticket issued by a steamship company or air transport company.
12. Air consignment note and baggage check, issued by an air transport company in respect of goods carried by air, and
the counterfoil or duplicate thereof  retained by the carrier.
13. Aircraft load sheet.
14. Storage  warrant of a warehouse recognised by a customs, excise, port, dock, harbour, or wharfage authority.
15. Acknowledgment receipt for goods granted by a port, dock, harbour, wharfage or warehouse  authority or by a
Railway or Steamship company.
16. Customs or excise pass and customs or excise permit or certificate, issued by a customs or excise authority.
17. Force     majeure certificate issued by a recognised Chamber of Commerce.
18. Receipt of a Railway or Steamship company granted to a consignor in acknowledgment of  goods entrusted to the
company for transport.
19. Receipt granted by the Posts and Telegraph Department.
20. Certificate  or survey award issued by a recognised Chamber of Commerce relating to the  quality, size, weight or
valuation, of any goods, count of yarn or percentage  of moisture in yarn and other goods.
21. Copy,  certified by the Registrar of Companies, of the balance-sheet, profit and loss account and audit report of a
company, filed with the said Registrar under the  [Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913)]
[Now see the Companies Act, 1956(1 of 1956).]
, and the rules made thereunder.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4