
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
The Coffee Act, 1942
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/106706913/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
102
]
Union of India - Act
The Coffee Act, 1942
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Coffee Act, 1942
Act 7 of 1942
Published on 2 March 1942
Commenced on 2 March 1942
[This is the version of this document from 2 March 1942.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Coffee Act, 1942
(7 OF 1942)
Statement of Objects and reasons.-After the outbreak of the present war the Indian coffee industry lost certain important
foreign markets. There was, therefore, a great slump in the prices of coffee. A Coffee Control Conference consisting of
the interests affected was held in September, 1940 to consider the steps that could be taken to save the industry from
collapse. After full consideration of the recommendations made at the Conference, the Coffee Market Expansion
Ordinance, 1940, was promulgated providing for the necessary assistance to the Indian coffee industry by regulating the
export of coffee from, and the sale of coffee in, British India, and other connected means.
2. The duration of the Ordinance was limited in order to make proposals for legislation after gaining experience and after
ascertaining the wishes of the coffee interests in the matter.
3. A second Coffee Control Conference of the coffee interests was accordingly convened on the 20th October, 1941.
Page 1/16
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
The Conference recognised that the control scheme has been greatly beneficial to the coffee industry in its present crisis
and unanimously made in the following recommendations:-
(1) that the control scheme as generally embodied in the Ordinance should by continued by legislation and that its
duration be for the period of the war and one coffee crop year thereafter, and
(2) that the control should be limited to estates with area of 10 acres or more but provision should be made whereby
control may be extended, if necessary, over estates with areas below 10 acres.
These recommendations were endorsed by the Standing Advisory Committee of, the Legislature attached to the
Commerce Department.
4. In view of the general agreement of all interests for the maintenance of the coffee control scheme it is proposed to
continue control by legislation, and the present Bill is designed to achieve this object.
Amendment Act 48 of 1985-Statement of Objects and reasons.-The present rate of the duty of customs and the duty of
excise on coffee has reached the ceiling of Rs. 11.80 per quintal each fixed under section 11 and section 12 of the
Coffee Act, 1942. These rates have been in vogue since 16-12-1977. The proceeds of the duties of customs and excise
levied under the Act form part of the Consolidated Fund of India and after being reduced by the cost of collection and
after appropriation by law by Parliament are paid to the Coffee Board for being utilised for the purposes of the Act. The
expenditure by the Board during the recent years has increased considerably due to increase in the plan and non-plan
activities of the Board. The Board has taken up a number of new schemes relating to man-power development pulping
and hulling units, warehousing/storage, etc., besides continuing the exisfirig development activities and research and
extension programmes. The proceeds of the two duties would not be sufficient and, therefore, the Central Government
had to resort to grants-in-aid to meet the expenditure of the Board during the financial year 1985-86. It is thus necessary
to strengthen the financial position of the Board. It is, therefore, proposed to amend sections 11 and 12 of the Act to
provide for a higher ceiling of levy of duty of customs and duty of excise at a rate not exceeding Rs. 5 per quintal for
each. The actual operative rates of the two duties will, however, be fixed at such levels as may be sufficient to generate
funds to meet substantial part of the budget expenditure of the Board in future.
2. The Customs Act, 1962 and the rules and regulations made thereunder contain elaborate provisions regarding the
refund of, and exemption from, the pre-payment of the duty of customs with regard to export of goods in general. In the
interest of uniformity and administrative convenience, it is proposed to make these provisions applicable also for
purposes of refund of, and exemption from, the pre-payment of the duty off customs under the Coffee Act, 1942, with
regard to export of coffee by substituting for sub-section (3) of section 13 of the Act a new sub-section.
3. Opportunity is being availed of to substitute for the provision relating to laying off rules contained in sub-section (3) of
section 48 a new provision on the lines recommended by the Committees on subordinate Legislation.
4. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.
[2nd March, 1942]
An Act to provide for the development under the control of the Union of the coffee industry.
Whereas it is expedient [to provide for the development under the control of the Union of the coffee industry]
[Substituted by Act 50 of 1954, Section 2, for certain words (w.e.f. 1.8.1955).]
;
It is hereby enacted as follows:--
{|
|-
| This Act has been extended to the new provinces and merged States by Merged (Laws) Act, 1949 (59 of 1949),
Section 3 (w.e.f. 1.1.1950) and to the Union Territories of Manipur, Tripura and Vindhya Pradesh by the Union
Territories (Laws) Act, 1950 (
30 of 1950
), Section 3 (w.e.f. 16.4.1950). Manipur and Tripura are now States, see Act 81 of 1971. Vindhya Pradesh now form part
of Madhya Pradesh, see Act
37 of 1956
, Section 9.
|-
|}
1.
Page 2/16
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
Short title, extent and duration .-
(1)
This Act may be called The [Coffee Act,] 1942.
(2)
It extends to [the whole of India [except the State of Jammu and Kashmir ]]
[Substituted by A.O. 1950, for " all the Provinces of India" .]
.
[* * *]
[Sub-Section (3) omitted by Act 4 of 1947, Section 2 (w.e.f. 11.3.1947).]
2.
[ Declaration as to expediency of Union control
.-It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the Union should take under its control the coffee
industry.]
3.
Definitions .-
In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,--
(a)
"the Board" means the [[* * *] Coffee Board] constituted under section 4;
(aa)
[ "Chairman" means the Chairman of the Board;]
[Inserted by Act 50 of 1954, Section 5 (w.e.f. 1.8.1955).]
(b)
"coffee" means the commodity derived from the fruit of the rubiaceous plant known by that name, and includes raw
coffee, cured coffee, uncured coffee, roasted coffee and prepared coffee;
(c)
[ "Commissioner" means a Commissioner of Customs as specified in clause (b) of section 3 of the Customs Act, 1962 (
52 of 1962
);]
[Substituted by Act 22 of 1995, Section 85, for Clause (c) (w.e.f. 26.5.1995).]
(d)
"curing" means the application to raw coffee of mechanical processes other than pulping for the purpose of preparing it
for marketing;
(e)
"curing establishment" means any place to which raw coffee is sent by a registered owner for curing, and includes any
estate which the Board may declare to be a curing establishment, for the purposes of this Act;
(ee)
[ "dealer" means a person carrying on the business of selling coffee, whether wholesale or by retail;]
[Inserted by Act 2 of 1944, Section 2 (w.e.f. 27.2.1944).]
(f)
"estate" means an area administered as one unit which contains land planted with coffee plants;
(ff)
[ "India" means the territory of India excluding the State of Jammu and Kashmir;]
[Inserted by Act 3 of 1951, Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1.4.1951).]
(g)
"Indian Coffee Cess Committee" means the Indian Coffee Cess Committee constituted under the Indian Coffee Cess
Act, 1935 (14 of 1935);
(h)
[ "free sale quota" means that portion, stated in terms of bulk or weight, of the whole of the coffee produced by the
estate in the year, which a registered estate is permitted under this Act to sell;]
[Substituted by Act 23 of 1994, Section 2, for Clause (h) (w.e.f. 14.1.1994).]
(i)
Page 3/16
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
[ "owner" in relation to any land planted with coffee plants, includes,--
[Substituted by Act 48 of 1961, Section 2, for Clause (i) (w.e.f. 19.4.1962).]
(1)
any agent of the owner, and
(2)
a mortgagee, lessee or other person in actual possession of the land;]
(j)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(k)
"registered estate" means an estate in respect of which an owner is registered under sub-section (1) of section 14, and
includes also any estate in respect of which an owner is required to be registered under the provisions of that
sub-section;
(l)
"registered owner" means an owner of a registered estate who has been or is required to be registered under
sub-section (1) of section 14;
[* * *]
[Clause (ll) omitted by Act 3 of 1951, Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1.4.1951).]
(m)
"surplus pool" means the stock of coffee accumulated by the Board out of the amounts delivered to the Board under
section 25;
(n)
[ "year" means the period of twelve months beginning with the first day of July and ending with the thirtieth day of June
next following.]
[Substituted by Act 48 of 1961, Section 2, for clause (n) (w.e.f. 19.4.1962).]
4.
Constitution of the Board .-
(1)
The Board constituted by the name of the Indian Coffee Market Expansion Board under section 4 of the Indian Coffee
Market Expansion Ordinance, 1940 (Ord. 13 of 1940), shall be the [Coffee Board] for the purposes of this Act.
(2)
[ The Board shall consist of--
(a)
a Chairman to be appointed by the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette;
(b)
three Members of Parliament of whom two shall be elected by the House of the People and one by the Council of
States; and
(c)
such number of other members not exceeding twenty-nine as the Central Government may think expedient to be
appointed by that Government by notification in the Official Gazette from among persons who are in its opinion capable
of representing,--
(i)
Governments of the principal coffee-growing States;
(ii)
coffee-growing industry;
(iii)
coffee trade interests;
(iv)
curing establishments;
(v)
interests of labour;
(vi)
Page 4/16
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
interests of consumers; and
(vii)
such other interests as, in the opinion of the Central Government, ought to be represented on the Board.
(2-A) The number of persons to be appointed as members from each of the categories specified in clause (c) of
sub-section (2), the term of office of the procedure to be followed in the discharge of their functions by, and the manner
of filling vacancies among, the members of the Board shall be such as may be prescribed.
(2-B) Any officer of the Central Government when deputed by that Government in this behalf shall have the right to
attend meetings of the Board and take part in the proceedings thereof but shall not be entitled to vote.]
[Substituted by Act 48 of 1961, Section 3, for sub-Ss. (2) and (2-A) (w.e.f. 19.4.1962).]
[* * *]
[Sub-Section (3) omitted by Act 48 of 1961, Section 3 (w.e.f. 19.4.1962).]
(4)
[]
[Sub-Section (2) renumbered as sub-Section (4) by Act 7 of 1943, Section 3 (w.e.f. 26.3.1943).]
No Act done by the Board shall be questioned on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in, or any defect in
the constitution of the Board.
(5)
[ It is hereby declared that the office of member of the Board shall not disqualify its holder for being chosen as, or for
being, a member of either House of Parliament.]
[Inserted by Act 50 of 1954, Section 6 (w.e.f. 1.8.1955).]
5.
Incorporation of the Board .-
The Board shall be a body corporate by the name of the [[* * *] Coffee Board] having perpetual succession and a
common seal, with power to acquire and hold property, both movable and immovable and to contract, and shall by the
said name sue and be sued.
6.
Vesting of property in the Board .-
So long as this Act remains in force all property, movable or immovable, of or belonging to the Indian Coffee Cess
Committee shall vest in the Board and all debts and liabilities of the said Committee shall be transferred to the Board,
and the officers and servants of the said Committee shall be officers and servants on the staff of the Board and the said
Committee shall be suspended.
[6-A. Consultation with the Board
.-Before taking any action touching the affairs of the Board under this Act, the Central Government shall ordinarily
consult the Board:
Provided that no action taken by the Central Government shall be invalid or called in question merely on the ground that
the action was taken without such consultation.]
7.
Committees, staff and agents .- [* * *]
(2)
The Board may appoint such committees for such purposes and may employ such staff as it thinks necessary for the
efficient discharge of its functions under this Act.
(3)
The Board may authorise agents to discharge on its behalf its functions in relation to the marketing, storing and curing of
coffee.
8.
[ Salary and allowances of Chairman
.-The Chairman shall be entitled to such salary and allowances and such conditions of service in respect of leave,
pension, provident fund and other matters as may, from time to time, be fixed by the Central Government.
8A.
Vice-Chairman .-The Board shall elect from amongst its members a Vice-Chairman who shall exercise such of the
powers and perform such of the duties of the Chairman as may be prescribed or as may be delegated to him by the
Page 5/16
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
Chairman.
9.
Chief Coffee Marketing Officer, Secretary and other staff .-
(1)
The Central Government shall appoint an officer to be called the Chief Coffee Marketing Officer and a Secretary to the
Board and may appoint a Deputy Secretary to the Board and such number of Marketing Officers as may be necessary,
to exercise such powers and to perform such duties under the direction of the Board as may be prescribed.
(2)
The officers appointed under this section shall be entitled to such salaries and allowances and such conditions of
service in respect of leave, pension, provident fund and other matters as may, from time to time, be fixed by the Central
Government.]
10.
Dissolution of the Board .-
When the Board is dissolved by reason of this Act having ceased to be in force, the unexpended balance of all money
received by the Board under the Coffee Market Expansion Ordinance, 1940 (Ord. 13 of 1940), or under this Act except
money in the pool fund, shall be disposed of in such manner as the Central Government may direct. The Central
Government shall disburse the money in the pool fund in the same manner as the Board would have done had it
continued to exist.
Duties of Customs and of Excise
11.
Duty of customs .-
A duty of customs shall be levied on all coffee produced in India and exported from [India][at such rate not exceeding
[fifty rupees]
[Substituted by Act
40 of 1960
, Section 5, for " at such rate not exceeding six rupees per hundred weight"  (w.e.f.  1.10.1960).]
per quintal as may be fixed by the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette.]
12.
[* * *]
13.
[ Payment of proceeds of duty to the Board
.-(1) The proceeds of the duty of customs levied under this Act (all of which shall form part of the Consolidated Fund of
India), reduced by the cost of collection as determined by the Central Government, shall, if Parliament by appropriation
made by law in this behalf so provides, be paid to the Board for being utilised for the purposes of this Act.
(2)
The provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 (
52 of 1962
), and the rules and regulations made thereunder, shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to--
(a)
the refund of the duty of customs where coffee is exported and subsequently imported into India; and
(b)
the export, without payment of the duty of customs, of coffee which is subsequently to be imported into India.]
Registrationp>
14.
Registration of owners of coffee estates .-
[(1) Every owner of land planted with coffee plants, whether such land is comprised in one estate or in more than one
estate and whether it is situated wholly or only partly in India, shall, before the expiration of one month from the date on
which he first became owner of such estate or estates, apply to the registering officer appointed in this behalf by the
State Government to be registered as an owner in respect of each estate owned by him; and any registration made
before the commencement of the Coffee (Amendment) Act, 1961 (48 of 1961) shall be deemed to have been made
under this sub-section.]
Page 6/16
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
[* * *]
[Sub-Section (2) omitted by Act 48 of 1961, Section 6 (w.e.f. 19.4.1962).]
(3)
A registration once made shall continue in force until it is cancelled by the registering officer.
[* * *]
[Sub-Section (4) omitted by Act 48 of 1961, Section 6 (w.e.f. 19.4.1962).]
15.
Power of State Government to make rules .-
(1)
The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules to carry into effect the provisions of
section 14.
(2)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may prescribe the form of the application for
registration and for cancellation of registration, the fee payable on such applications, the particulars to be included in
such applications, the procedure to be followed in granting and cancelling registration, the registers to be kept by
registering officers, and the supply by registering officers of information to the Board.
Control of Sale, Export and Re-import of Coffee
16.
[ Fixation of prices for sale of coffee
.-(1) The Central Government may, * * *] by notification in the Official Gazette, fix the price or prices at which coffee may
be sold wholesale or retail in the Indian market.
(2)
No registered owner or licensed curer or dealer shall sell coffee wholesale or retail in the Indian market at a price or
prices higher than the price or prices fixed under this section.]
17.
[ Sale of coffee in excess of free sale quota
.-No registered owner shall sell or contract to sell coffee from any registered estate if by such sale the free sale quota
allotted to that estate is exceeded nor shall a registered owner sell or contract to sell any coffee produced on his estate
in any year for which no free sale quota is allotted to the estate.]
18.
Sale of coffee, how made .-No registered owner shall sell coffee unless either--
(a)
it has been cured at or is delivered to the buyer through a curing establishment licensed under section 28, or
(b)
it is sold under and in accordance with the provisions of a license procured from the Board under section 24.
19.
Storage of sale of coffee on or from unregistered estate .-
[ Repealed by the Coffee (Amendment) Act, 1961 (48  of 1961),  section 8 (w.e.f. 19-4-1962).]
20.
Export of coffee .-
No coffee shall be exported from [India] otherwise than by the Board or under an authorisation granted by the Board in
the prescribed manner and in the prescribed cases, and the provisions of the [Customs Act, 1962 (
52 of 1962
), shall have effect as if the provision made by this section had been made by notification issued under section 11]
[Substituted by Act 23 of 1994, Section 6, for certain words (w.e.f. 14.1.1994).]
of that Act:
Provided that nothing herein contained shall apply to coffee--
(i)
shipped as stores on board any vessel or aircraft in such quantity as the [Commissioner] considers reasonable, having
regard to the number of the crew and passengers and the length of the voyage or journey, as the case may be, on which
the vessel or aircraft is about to proceed, or
Page 7/16
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
(ii)
[ carried as personal baggage of a passenger, not exceeding such quantities as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify, or
[Substituted by Act 48 of 1961, Section 9, for Clauses (ii), (iii) and (iv) (w.e.f. 19.4.1962).]
(iii)
exported for such purposes and in such quantities as the Central Government may specify in the like manner:]
[Provided further that the Central Government may, by order in writing, specify the quantity of coffee which shall be
permitted for export during any year and where any such order is made, no coffee shall be exported from India in excess
of the said quantity:]
[Inserted by Act 50 of 1954, Section 16 (w.e.f. 1.8.1955).]
Provided further that the Central Government may exempt from the operation of this section, either absolutely or subject
to conditions, the export of coffee from  [India]
[Substituted by Act 3 of 1951, Section 3 and Sch., for " the States " (w.e.f. 1.4.1951). ]
[to the State of Jammu and Kashmir]
[Substituted by Act 3 of 1951, Section 3 and Sch., for " to a Part B States"  (w.e.f. 1.4.1951).]
or to any foreign settlement bounded by India.
21.
Re-import of coffee exported from India .-
(1)
No coffee which has been exported from India shall be re-imported into [lndia]
[Substituted by Act 50 of 1954, Section 16, for the first proviso (w.e.f. 1.8.1955). ]
except under and in accordance with a permit granted by the Board.
(2)
The Board may in any fit case grant such a permit and no charge shall be made therefor.
22.
[ Free sale quota
.-(1) Unless with the previous sanction of the Central Government the Board decides that no free sale quotas shall be
allotted, the Board shall, as soon as may be, allot to each registered estate a free sale quota for the year.
(2)
The free sale quota shall be a fixed percentage, common to all registered estates, not exceeding fifty per cent. of the
probable total production of the estate in the year as estimated by the Board:
Provided that the Board may, with the previous sanction of the Central Government, allot such quota at a percentage
higher than fifty per cent. of the said probable total production.
(3)
The Board may at any time vary the free sale quota by varying the fixed percentage common to all registered estates, or
may express the whole or any part of the free sale quota of an estate in terms of bulk instead of in terms of weight.]
23.
Returns to be made by registered owners .-
(1)
A registered owner shall furnish to the Board at the prescribed times and in the prescribed manner such returns as may
be prescribed.
(2)
If any registered owner fails to furnish the returns required under sub--section (1) in respect of any estate, the Board
may [without prejudice to any penalty to which the said owner is liable under section 37-A], refuse to allot [a free sale
quota]
[Substituted by Act 23 of 1994, Section 8, for " an internal sale quota"  (w.e.f. 14.1.1994).]
to that estate, or, where a free sale quota has already been allotted, may cancel it.
(3)
The Board may authorise an officer to visit any estate at any time to verify the accuracy of any return made under this
section or to ascertain the productive capacity of the estate.
24.
Page 8/16
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
Licenses for sale of uncured coffee .-
The registered owner of any estate, may, subject to the prescribed conditions and so long as the [free sale quota]
allotted to the estate will not be exceeded by the proposed sale, obtain from the Board a license for the sale from that
estate of uncured coffee.
25.
Surplus coffee and surplus pool .-
(1)
All coffee produced by a registered estate in excess of the amount specified in the [free sale quota] allotted to the estate
[or when no [free sale quotas]
[Inserted by Act 7 of 1943, Section 10 (w.e.f. 26.3.1943).]
have been allotted to estates, all coffee produced by the estate], shall be delivered to the Board for inclusion in the
surplus pool by the owner of the estate or by the curing establishment receiving the coffee from the estate:
[Provided that where no [free sale quotas]
[Added by Act 50 of 1954, Section 17 (w.e.f. 1.8.1955).]
have been alloted to estates, the Chairman may allow the owner of any estate to retain with himself for purposes of
consumption by his family and for purposes of seed, such quantity of coffee as the Chairman may think reasonable:
Provided further that where the Central Government is satisfied that it is not practicable for any class of owners
producing coffee in any specified area to comply with the provisions of this sub-section on account of the small quantity
of coffee produced by them or on account of their estates being situated in a remote locality, the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt such class of owners from the provisions of this sub-section.]
(2)
Delivery shall be made to the Board in such places, [at such times]
[Substituted by Act 23 of 1994, Section 8, for " an internal sale quota"  (w.e.f. 14.1.1994).]
, and in such manner as the Board may direct, and such directions may provide for partial delivery to the surplus pool at
any time whether or not at that time the [free sale quota]
[Inserted by Act 7 of 1943, Section 10 (w.e.f. 26.3.1943). ]
has been exceeded; and the coffee delivered shall be such as to represent fairly in kind and quality the produce of the
estate. The Board may reject any consignment offered for delivery which does not satisfy this requirement, but shall not
reject any consignment merely for a defect in curing.
(3)
Coffee delivered for inclusion in the surplus pool shall upon delivery to the Board remain under the control of the Board
which shall be responsible for storage, curing where necessary, and marketing of the coffee.
(4)
The Board shall, [* * *]
[The words " with the concurrence of the Chief Coffee Marketing Officer"  omitted by Act 50 of 1954, Section 17 (w.e.f.
1.8.1955).]
[from time to time]
[Inserted by Act 7 of 1943, Section 10 (w.e.f. 26.3.1943). ]
prepare a differential scale for the valuation of coffee, and shall in accordance with that scale classify the coffee in each
consignment delivered for inclusion in the surplus pool according to its kind and quality, and shall make an assessment
of its value based on its quantity, kind and quality.
(5)
The Board may, with the consent of a registered owner, [* * *]
[The words " before an internal sale quota has been allotted to an estate"  omitted by Act 7 of 1943, Section 10 (w.e.f.
26.3.1943).]
treat as having been delivered for inclusion in the surplus pool any coffee from such estate which the registered owner
may agree to have so treated.
(6)
When coffee has been delivered or is treated as having been delivered for inclusion in the surplus pool, the registered
owner whose coffee has been so delivered or is treated as having been so delivered shall retain no rights in respect of
such coffee except his right to receive the payments referred to in section 34.
Page 9/16
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
26.
Sales of coffee by the Board .-
(1)
The Board shall take all practical measures to market the coffee included in the surplus pool, and all sales thereof shall
be conducted by or through the Board.
(2)
The Board may purchase for inclusion in the surplus pool coffee not delivered for inclusion in it.
Curing of Coffee
27.
Coffee to be cured in licensed curing establishments .-
No registered owner shall cause or allow coffee to be cured elsewhere than a licensed curing establishment, whether
the curing establishment is maintained by himself or by another person.
28.
Licensing of curing establishments .-
Every establishment for curing coffee shall obtain from the Board a license to operate as such.
29.
Information to be supplied to the Board in connection with curing .--
(1)
A registered owner when sending coffee to a curing establishment shall report to the Board, separately for each estate
from which the coffee is sent, the amount of coffee sent; and the curing establishment shall, in accordance with such
instructions as may be issued by the Board and having regard to the [free sale quota] of the estate, [where one has
been allotted]
[Inserted by Act 7 of 1943, Section 11 (w.e.f. 26.3.1943).]
, apportion each such consignment into two parts, one part consisting of coffee intended [for free sale]
[Substituted by Act 23 of 1994, Section 11, for " for internal sale"  (w.e.f. 14.1.1994).]
and one part of coffee intended to be delivered for inclusion in the surplus pool and shall report to the Board the amount
of coffee in each such part. [Where no [free sale quotas ]
[Inserted by Act 7 of 1943, Section 11 (w.e.f. 26.3.1943). ]
have been allotted to estates, the curing establishment shall report merely the whole amount of coffee sent in each such
consignment.]
(2)
A registered owner curing coffee in a curing establishment maintained by himself shall supply to the Board the
information specified in sub-section (1).
(3)
A curing establishment which buys or receives uncured coffee from any person shall ascertain the estate on which the
coffee was produced and shall report to the Board the quantity of coffee so obtained and the estate or estates from
which it came.
(4)
Every curing establishment shall maintain accounts in such forms as may be required by the Board and such accounts
shall be open to inspection at any time by the Board or by an officer authorised in this behalf by the Board.
Finance
30.
Separate funds to be maintained by the Board .-The Board shall maintain two separate funds, a general fund and a pool
fund.
31.
[ General fund
.-(1) To the general fund shall be credited--
(a)
all amounts paid to the Board by the Central Government under sub--section (1) of section 13; and
(b)
any sums transferred to the general fund under the proviso to sub--section (2) of [section 32; and]
Page 10/16
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
(c)
[ all fees levied and collected by the Board under this Act.]
[Inserted by Act 48 of 1961, Section 10 (w.e.f. 19.4.1962).]
(2)
The general fund shall be applied--
(a)
to meet the expenses of the Board;
(b)
to meet the cost of such measures as the Board may consider advisable to undertake for promoting agricultural and
technological research in the interest of the coffee industry in India;
(c)
for making such grants to coffee estates or for meeting the cost of such other assistance to coffee estates as the Board
may think necessary for the development of such estates;
(d)
to meet the cost of such measures as the Board considers advisable to undertake for promoting the sale and increasing
the consumption in India and elsewhere of coffee produced in India; and
(e)
to meet the expenses for securing better working conditions and the provision and improvement of amenities and
incentives for workers.]
32.
Pool fund .-(1) To the pool fund shall be credited all sums realised by sales by the Board of coffee from the surplus pool.
(2)
[The pool fund] shall be applied only to--
(a)
the making to registered owners of estates of payments proportionate to the value of the coffee delivered by them for
inclusion in the surplus pool;
(b)
the costs of storing, curing and marketing coffee deposited in and of administering the surplus pool;
(c)
the purchase of coffee not delivered for inclusion in the surplus pool:
[Provided that where, after the requirements of the clauses of this sub-section have been met, there remains any excess
in the pool fund, the Board may, with the previous sanction of the Central Government, transfer the whole or any part of
such excess to the credit of the general fund.]
[Added by Act 16 of 1944, Section 3 (w.e.f. 21.11.1944).]
[32-A. Power of the Board to make donation to the Gandhi National Memorial Fund
.-Notwithstanding anything contained in section 32, the Board may apply any part of the pool fund to the making of a
donation to the Fund known as the Gandhi National Memorial Fund.]
33.
Power to borrow .-
The Board may, subject to any prescribed conditions, borrow on the security of the general fund or the pool fund for any
purposes for which it is authorised to expend money from such fund, or on the security of the coffee delivered or treated
as delivered for inclusion in the surplus pool for any purposes for which it is authorised to expend money from the pool
fund.
34.
Payments to registered owners .-
(1)
The Board shall at such times as it thinks fit make to registered owners who have delivered coffee for inclusion in the
surplus pool such payments out of the pool fund as it may think proper.
(2)
The sum of all payments made under sub-section (1) to any one registered owner shall bear to the sum of the payments
made to all registered owners the same proportion as the value of the coffee delivered by him out of the year's crop to
Page 11/16
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
the surplus pool bears to the value of all coffee delivered to the surplus pool out of that year's crop:
[Provided that in calculating the sum of all payments made under sub--section (1) and the value of the coffee delivered
to the surplus pool out of the year's crop, respectively, any payment accepted by a registered owner as final payment in
immediate settlement for coffee delivered by him for inclusion in the surplus pool and the value of any such coffee shall
be excluded.]
Penalties and Procedure
35.
Failure to register .-
Any owner of a coffee estate who fails to apply for registration in accordance with section 14 shall be punishable with
fine which may extend to one thousand rupees and to a further fine which may extend to five hundred rupees for each
month after the first during which such failure continues.
36.
Contraventions of sections 16, 17 and 18.-
(1)
Any registered owner who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 16 or section 17 or section 18, any
licensed curer [or dealer] who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 16, [* * *]
[The words " and any person who contraevenes the provisions of Section 19"  omitted by Act 48 of 1961, Section 11
(w.e.f. 19.4.1962).]
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
(2)
When a registered owner is convicted under this section, the Board may thereafter deduct from any payment to be made
under section 34 to such registered owner a sum equal to the value as estimated by the Board of any coffee unlawfully
sold by him.
37.
Unlicensed curing establishment .-
If any curing establishment operates as such without a license, the owner shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees.
[37-A. Contravention of section 23(1)
.-Any registered owner who fails to furnish the return required by sub-section (1) of section 23 as required by that
sub-section shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.]
38.
False returns .-
Any person who makes in any return to be furnished under section 23 or in any report to be made under section 29 any
statement which is false and which he knows to be false or does not believe to be true shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to one thousand rupees.
[38-A. Contravention of section 25
.-Any registered owner or licensed curer who fails to deliver any coffee to the Board as required by or under
sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 25 shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, and the
Court by which such person is convicted may order the confiscation and deliver to the Board of any coffee in respect of
which the offence was committed.
38.
-B. Powers to seize coffee withheld from inclusion in surplus pool .-If the Board is satisfied that any coffee which is
required under the provisions of section 25 to be delivered for inclusion in the surplus pool is being or is likely to be
disposed of otherwise than by such delivery, the Board may order the seizure of such coffee, and may authorise an
officer of the Board to effect seizure thereof for delivery for inclusion in the surplus pool, and such authorisation shall be
sufficient warrant for such officer to take all steps necessary to secure possession of the coffee.]
39.
Obstruction .-
Whoever obstructs any member or officer of the Board or any person authorised by the Board or by the Central
Government in the discharge of any duty imposed on or entrusted to him under this Act, or who having control over or
custody of any records fails to produce such records when required to do so or refuses information lawfully asked for by
Page 12/16
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
a member or officer of the Board or by a person authorised by the Board or by the Central Government to inspect such
records or ask for such information shall be punishable with fine which may be extend to one thousand rupees.
[39-A. Offences by companies
.-(1) If the person committing any offence under this Act is a company, every person who, at the time the offence was
committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to punishment provided in this
Act if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent
the commission of such offence.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to
any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly.
Explanation .-For the purposes of this section,--
(a)
"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals; and
(b)
"director" in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm.]
40.
Cognizance of offence .-
(1)
No Court other than the Court of [a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the first class] shall take
cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act.
(2)
No Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under section 35 except on complaint made by an officer
authorised in this behalf by the [State Government]
[Substituted by A.O. 1950, for " Provincial Government" .]
[or of the offence specified in sub-section (2) of section 16 except on complaint made by an officer authorised in this
behalf either by the State Government or by the Board]
[Inserted by Act 2 of 1944, Section 4 (w.e.f. 27.2.1944).]
or of an offence punishable under any other section except on complaint made with the previous sanction of the Central
Government by an officer authorised in this behalf by the Board:
[Provided that the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that the previous sanction of the
Central Government shall not be necessary for complaints in such case or classes of cases as may be specified in the
notification.]
[Added by Act 7 of 1943, Section 15 (w.e.f. 26.3.1943).]
General
41.
Power of Board to determine amount of coffee sold by an estate .-
[ Repealed by the Coffee (Amendment) Act,  1961 (48  of 1961),  section 12 (w.e.f.19-4-1962).]
42.
Control by the Central Government .-
(1)
All acts of the Board shall be subject to the control of the Central Government which may cancel, suspend or modify as it
thinks fit any action taken by the Board.
(2)
The records of the Board shall be open to inspection at all reasonable times by any officer authorised in this behalf by
the Central Government.
Page 13/16
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
43.
Appeals to the Central Government .-
(1)
Any person aggrieved by an order of the Board refusing a license to or cancelling the license of a curing establishment
may, within sixty days of the making of the order, appeal to the Central Government.
(2)
Any person making an appeal under this section shall pay a fee of five rupees which shall be credited to Central
Revenues.
44.
Inspection of records .-
[Any person authorised in this behalf by the Central Government or by the Board or any member of the Board so
authorised by the Chairman in writing or any officer of the Board, may enter at all reasonable times] any estate or any
curing establishment [or any place where coffee is stored or exposed for sale]
[Inserted by Act 7 of 1943, Section 16 (w.e.f. 26.3.1943).]
, and may require the production for his inspection of any records kept therein or ask for any information relating to the
production, storage or sale of coffee [* * *]
[The words " by the estate"  omitted by Act 7 of 1943, Section 16 (w.e.f. 26.3.1943).]
.
45.
Accounts of the Board .-
(1)
The Board shall keep accounts in such manner as may be prescribed of all money received and expended by it.
(2)
The accounts shall be kept separately for the general fund and the pool fund.
(3)
The Board shall cause the accounts to be audited annually by auditors appointed by the Central Government, and the
auditors shall have power to disallow any item of expenditure which has, in their opinion, been incurred otherwise than in
accordance with this Act.
(4)
The Central Government may on the application of the Board allow any item of expenditure disallowed by the auditors
under sub-section (3).
46.
Inspection of records of the Board and obtaining of copies .-
Any registered owner [* * *] may, subject to the prescribed conditions, inspect the records maintained by the Board and
may on payment of the prescribed fee obtain copies of any proceedings or orders of the Board.
47.
Contracts .-
All contracts for the sale of coffee in so far as they are at variance with the provisions of this Act shall be void:
Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply to contracts to which under section 47 of the Coffee Market
Expansion Ordinance, 1940 (13 of 1940), that Ordinance did not apply.
[47-A. Bar of legal proceedings
.-No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Board or any officer of the Board for or in respect of
anything in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act.]
48.
Power of the Central Government to make rules .-
(1)
The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
[ Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, rules may be made providing for all or any of the following
matters:--
(i)
Page 14/16
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
the constitution of the Board, the number of persons to be appointed as members from each of the categories specified
in clause (c) of sub--section (2) of section 4, the term of office and other conditions of service of, the procedure to be
followed by, and the manner of filling vacancies among, the members of the Board;
(ii)
the circumstances in which, and the authority by which, members may be removed;]
(iii)
the procedure to be followed at meetings of the Board and at committees thereof for the conduct of business and the
number of members which shall form a quorum at a meeting;
(iv)
the maintenance by the Board of records of business transacted by the Board and the submission of copies thereof to
the Central Government;
(v)
the holding of a minimum number of meetings of the Board every year;
(vi)
the powers of the Board, its Chairman and committees thereof with respect to the incurring of expenditure;
(vii)
the conditions subject to which the Board may incur expenditure outside India;
(viii)
the preparation of budget estimates of receipts and expenditure of the Board and the authority by which the estimates
are to be sanctioned;
(ix)
the maintenance of the accounts of income and expenditure of the Board and the audit of such accounts;
(x)
the deposit of the funds of the Board in banks and the investment of such funds;
(xi)
the re-appropriation of the estimated savings from any budget head to any other budget head;
(xii)
the conditions subject to which the Board may borrow funds;
(xiii)
the conditions subject to which and the manner in which contracts may be entered into by or on behalf of the Board;
(xiv)
the delegation to the Committee or Chairman or Vice-Chairman or members or officers of the Board of any of the
powers and duties of the Board under this Act;
(xv)
the staff which may be employed by the Board and the pay and allowances and leave and other conditions of service of
officers (other than those appointed by the Central Government) and other employees of the Board;
(xvi)
the travelling and other allowances of members of the Board and of committees thereof;
(xvii)
the maintenance of the registers and other records of the Board and its various committees;
(xviii)
the manner in which the [free sale quota]
[Substituted by Act 23 of 1994, Section 14, for " internal sale quota"  (w.e.f. 14.1.1994).]
of coffee estates shall be determined;
(xix)
the manner in which the Board shall exercise its powers of buying and selling coffee;
(xx)
the appointment by the Board of agents;
(xxi)
the conditions to be fulfilled by a curing establishment before a license to operate as such can be issued;
(xxii)
Page 15/16
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Coffee Act, 1942
the form of, and the particulars to be contained in, any returns or reports to be made to the Board under this Act;
(xxiii)
the form of, manner of application for, fees payable for, procedure in granting and conditions governing, the licenses and
permits to be issued by the Board;
(xxiv)
the collection of any information or statistics in respect of coffee or any product of coffee;
(xxv)
any other matter (other than any matter specified in section 15) which is to be or may be prescribed under this Act.]
(3)
[ Every rule made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament,
while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive
sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should
not be made, the rule shall be thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be;
so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done under that rule.]
[Substituted by Act 48 of 1985, Section 5, for sub-Section (3) (w.e.f. 15.5.1986).]
49.
[ Repeal of Act 14 of 1935
.-The Indian Coffee Cess Act, 1935 (14 of 1935), is hereby repealed.]
50.
Repeals and savings .-[ Repealed by Repealing and Amending Act, 1947 (2  of 1948),  section 2  and Schedule (w.e.f. 
5-1-1948).]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 16/16