
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1946
The Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1946
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/62401228/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
17
]
Union of India - Act
The Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1946
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1946
Act 6 of 1946
Published on 1 January 1946
Commenced on 1 January 1946
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1946.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1946
(6 of 1946)
112.
An Ordinance to make special provision in regard to certain offences.
Whereas  an emergency has arisen which renders it necessary to make special provisions in regard to certain offences;
Now, therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 72 of the Government of India Act, as set out in the Ninth
Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935, the Governor General is pleased to make and promulgate the following
Ordinance.
1.
Short title, extent and commencement
(1)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1946
This Ordinance may be called The Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance , 1946.
(2)
It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir, and applies also to the citizens of India outside
India.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Special rules of evidence
(1)
In any trial of or inquiry by a Court into an offence specified in the Schedule, the fact that an accused person is in
possession, for which he cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known
resources of income, or that he has, at or about the time of the alleged offence, obtained an accretion to his pecuniary
resources or property for which he cannot satisfactorily account, may be proved and may be taken into consideration by
the Court as if it were a relevant fact within the meaning of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (2 of 1872).
(2)
Where in any trial of or inquiry by a Court into an offence punishable under section 161 or 165 of the Indian Penal Code
(45 of 1860) it is proved that an accused person has accepted or obtained, or has agreed to accept or attempted to
obtain, for himself or for any other person, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing from a
person or the agent of a person seeking to obtain facilities for transport or holding or seeking to obtain a contract from
His Majestys Government in the United Kingdom or in any part of His Majestys dominions, or the Central or State
Government or a department of any such Government or a local authority or from any person acting on behalf of any
such Government or department or authority, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is proved that he accepted or
obtained, or agreed to accept or attempted to obtain, that gratification or that valuable thing, as the case may be, as a
motive or reward such as is mentioned in the said section 161 or, as the case may be, without consideration or for
consideration which he knows to be inadequate.
Explanation.   For the purposes of this sub-section transport includes the carriage whether of persons or property of any
description by rail, road, air, sea or inland waters.
3.
Special provisions regarding punishment
(1)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or the [Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)]
[Now see the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).]
, relating to sentences and the powers of Courts to impose sentences, where any person is found guilty of an offence
specified in the Schedule the Court convicting him, whether or not it imposes a sentence of imprisonment, shall impose,
in addition to such sentence of fine, if any, as it would otherwise have imposed, a further sentence of fine which shall be
equivalent to the amount of money or value of other property found by the Court to have been procured by the convicted
person by means of the offence.
(2)
Except where the offence of which the person is found guilty is an offence specified in item 1 or item 5 of the Schedule,
when it appears that the offence has caused loss to more than one Government referred to in the Schedule or local
authority, the Court shall in its order of conviction record a finding indicating the amount of loss sustained by each such
Government or local authority.
(3)
When a person is found guilty at the same trial or in the same proceedings of one or more offences specified in item 1 or
item 5 of the Schedule and of one or more offences specified in any of the other items of the Schedule, the Court shall in
its order of conviction record a finding indicating separately the amounts procured by means of the two classes of
offences.
(4)
Where an additional fine is imposed under sub-section (1) for an offence, it shall, after deduction of the costs of recovery
as determined by the Court, be credited to the Government (being a Government referred to in the Schedule) or local
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1946
authority to which the offence has caused loss, or where there is more than one such Governments or local authority, be
distributed among them in proportion to the loss sustained by each:
Provided that the provisions of this sub-section shall not apply in respect of any additional fine imposed for an offence
specified in item 1 or item 5 of the Schedule, or in a case of the nature referred to in sub-section (3), in respect of such
portion of the additional fine as is equivalent to the amount found under that sub-section to have been procured by
means of offences specified in those items.
(5)
Nothing in this section shall apply to any case to which the provisions of section 12 of the Criminal Law Amendment
Ordinance, 1944 (38 of 1944) apply.
The Schedule
(See sections 2(1) and 3)
1. An offence punishable under section 161 or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), or any conspiracy to
commit or any attempt to commit or any abetment of such offence.
2. An offence punishable under section 106 or section 108 or section 409 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), where
the property in respect of which the offence is committed is property entrusted by His Majestys Government in the
United Kingdom or in any part of His Majestys dominions or the Central or a State Government or a department of any
such Government or a local authority or a person acting on behalf of any such Government or department or authority.
3. An offence punishable under section 411 or section 414 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), where the stolen
property in respect of which the offence is committed is property such as is described in the preceding item and in
respect of which an offence punishable under any of the sections mentioned in that item has been committed.
4.
An offence punishable under section 417 or section 420 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), where the person
deceived is His Majestys Government in the United Kingdom or in any part of His Majestys dominion or the Central or a
State Government or a department of any such Government or a local authority or a person acting on behalf of any such
Government or department or authority.
5.
An offence punishable under the Hoarding and Profiteering Prevention Ordinance, 1943 or under any rule made or
deemed to have been made under the Defence of India Act, 1939 or any conspiracy to commit or any attempt to commit
or any abetment of such offence.
6.
Any conspiracy to commit or any attempt to commit or any abetment of any of the offences specified in items 2, 3 and 4.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3