
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Railway Companies (Substitution Of Parties In Civil Proceedings) Act, 1946
The Railway Companies (Substitution Of Parties In Civil Proceedings)
Act, 1946
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1908921/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
3
]
Union of India - Act
The Railway Companies (Substitution Of Parties In Civil Proceedings) Act, 1946
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Railway Companies (Substitution Of Parties In Civil Proceedings) Act, 1946
Act 14 of 1946
Published on 1 January 1946
Commenced on 1 January 1946
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1946.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
An Act to provide forr the substitution of the Governor- General in Counicil for certain RAilway Companies in certain civil
proceedings.
WHEREAS under certain arrangements madeby the Central Government with the Bengal- Nagpur Railway Company,
Limited, the Bombay, Baroda and Central India Railway Company, the Bengal and North Western Railway Company,
Limited, and the Rohilkhand and Kumaon Railway Company, limited, certain rights and liabilitties of the said Companies
have been assumed by the Central Government;
AND WHEREAS it is expedient to provide for the substitution of the governor- General in Council in the place and stead
of the said Companies in all pending civil proceedings founded on any right of libility so assumed by the Central
Government:
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Railway Companies (Substitution Of Parties In Civil Proceedings) Act, 1946
It is hereby enacted as follows:-
1.
Short title.
This Act may be called the Railway Companies (Substitution of Parties in Civil Proceedings) Act,  1946 .
2.
Interpretation.
In this Act," civil proceeding" includes and appeal or execution proceeding.
3.
Substitution of Governor- General in Council in certain civil proceedings.
(1)
In every civil proceeding pending at the commencement of this Act to which the Bengal- Nagpur Railway Company,
Limited, or the Bombay, Baroda and Central India Railway Company, or the Bengal and North Western Railway
Company, Limited, or the Rohilkhand and Kumaon Railway Company, Limited, is a party, and which is founded on any
right 5 or liability assumed by the Central Government undercertain arrangements made by the Central Government with
the said Companies, the Governor- General in Council shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Code of
Civil Procedure,  1908  (5 of  1908  ), be deemed to be substituted in the place and stead of the Company; and every
such proceeding may be continued by or against the Governor- General in Concil accordingly, and the Company shall
be discharged from all liability in connection with the proceeding.
(2)
References in sub- section (1) to any Company shall be construed as including references to the liquidators of that
Company.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2