
----- PAGE 1 -----
United Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947
United Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1432853/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
65
]
Union of India - Act
United Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947
UNION OF INDIA
India
United Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947
Act 46 of 1947
Published on 20 December 1947
Commenced on 20 December 1947
[This is the version of this document from 20 December 1947.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
United Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947
(Act
No. 46 of 1947
)
Last Updated 19th July, 2019
Statement of Objects and Reasons. - Articles 104 and 105 of the Charter of the United Nations which has been ratified
by the Government of India read as follows:
Article 104. - The organization shall enjoy in the territory of each of its Members such legal capacity as may be
necessary for the exercise of its functions and the fulfilment of its purposes.
Article 105. - 1. The organisation shall enjoy in the territory of each of its members such privileges and immunities as are
necessary for the fulfilment of its purposes.
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
United Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947
2. Representatives of the Members of the United Nations and officials of the organization shall similarly enjoy such
privileges and immunities as are necessary for the independent exercise of their functions in connection with the
organisation.
3. The General Assembly may make recommendations with a view to determining the details of the application of paras
1 and 2 of this article or may propose conventions to the Members of the United Nations for this purpose."
In pursuance of para 3 of Article 105, the 'Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations' was
adopted by the General Assembly on 13th February, 1946 and all members have been asked to accede to it. The
accession will be effected by the deposit of an instrument of accession as soon as a Member country is in a position
under its own law to give effect to the terms of the convention.
The purpose of this Bill, which in a Schedule incorporates most of the convention, is to enable the provisions of the
convention to be operative in this country.
The organizations referred to in clause 3 of the Bill will be those like the United Nations Educational Scientific and
Cultural Organization and the International Civil Aviation Organization.
[Dated 20.12.1947.]
This Act has been extended to the new Provinces and Merged States by the Merged States (Laws) Act, 1949 (59 of
1949), S.3 (1.1.1950) and to the States of Manipur, Tripura and Vindhya Pradesh by the Union Territories (Laws) Act,
1950 (30 of 1950), S.3 (16.4.1950). Manipur and Tripura are fullfledged States (see Act 81 of 1971), Vindhya Pradesh is
a part of the M.P. State (see Act
37 of 1956
, S.9).
The Act has been extended to the Union territory of Himachal Pradesh by H.P. A.L.O., 1948, H.P. is now a State - See
Act 53 of 1970.
The Act has now been extended to the Union territory of Pondicherry by Act 28 of 1968, w.e.f. 1.8.1968.
The Act has been extended to and enforced on 12.1.1976 in Sikkim - See SO. 208(E) of 1975 and Gazette of India,
12.1.1976, Part II, S.3(i), Extraordinary, p.55.
An Act to give effect to the Convection on the Privileges and immunities of the United Nations.
Whereas it is expedient to give effect to the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations, and to
enable similar privileges and immunities to be enjoyed by other international organisations and their representatives and
officials;
It is hereby enacted as follows: -
1.
Short title.
- This Act may be called the United Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947.
2.
Conferment on United Nations and its representatives and officers and certain privileges and immunities.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything to the country contained in any other law, the provisions set out in the Schedule to this Act of
the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on the 13th
day of February, 1946, shall have the force of Law in India.
(2)
The Central Government may, from time to time, by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the Schedule in
conformity with any amendments, duly made and adopted, of the provisions of the said Convention set out therein.
3.
Power to confer certain privileges and immunities on other international organisations and their representatives and
officers.
- Where in pursuance of any international agreement, convention or other instrument it is necessary to accord to any
international organisation and its representatives and officers privileges and immunities in India similar to those
contained in the provisions set out in the Schedule, the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
declare that the provisions set out in the schedule shall, subject to such modification, if any it may consider necessary or
expedient for giving effect to the said agreement, convention or other instrument, apply mutatis mutandis to the
international organisation specified in the notification and its representatives and officers, and thereupon the said
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
United Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947
provisions shall apply accordingly and, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law, shall in such
application have the force of law in India.
4.
Power to make rules.
- [(1)]
[Renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 4 of 1986, s. 2 and the Schedule (w.e.f. 15-5-1986).]
The Central Government may [by notification in the Official Gazette]
[Inserted by s. 2, Act 4 of 1986 (w.e.f. 15-5-1986).]
make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
[ Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament,
while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case
may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything
previously done under that rule.]
[Inserted by s. 2, Act 4 of 1986 (w.e.f. 15-5-1986).]
The Schedule
(See sections 2 and 3)
Article I
Juridical Personality
Section 1. - The United Nations shall possess juridical personality. It shall have the capacity:
(a)
to contract;
(b)
to acquire and dispose of immovable and movable property;
(c)
to institute legal proceedings.
Article II
Property, Funds and Assets
Section 2. - The United Nations, its property and assets wherever located and by whomsoever held, shall enjoy
immunity from every form of legal process except in so far as in any particular case it has expressly waived its immunity.
It is, however, understood that no waiver of immunity shall extend to any measure of execution.
Section 3. - The premises of the United Nations shall be inviolable. The property and assets of the United Nations,
wherever located and by whomsoever held, shall be immune from search, requisition, confiscation, expropriation and
any other form of interference, whether by executive, administrative, judicial or legislative action.
Section 4. - The archives of the United Nations, and in general all documents belonging to it or held it, shall be inviolable
wherever located.
Section 5. Without being restricted by financial controls, regulations or moratoria of any kind,
(a)
the United Nations shall be free to transfer its funds, gold or currency of any kind and operate accounts in any currency;
(b)
the United Nations shall be free to transfer its funds, gold or currency from one country to another or within any country
and to convert any currency held by it into any other currency.
Section 6. - In exercising its rights under section 5 above, the United Nations shall pay due regard to any
representations made by the Government of any Member in so far as it is considered that effect can be given to such
representations without detriment to the interests of the United Nations.
Section 7. - The United Nations, its assets, income and other property shall be:
(a)
exempt from all direct taxes; it is understood, however, that the United Nations will not claim exemption from taxes which
are, in fact, no more than charges for public utility services;
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
United Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947
(b)
exempt from customs duties and prohibitions and restrictions on imports and exports in respect of articles imported or
exported by the United Nations for its official use. It is understood, however, that articles imported under such exemption
will not be sold in the country into which they were imported except under conditions agreed with the Government of that
country;
(c)
exempt from customs duties, prohibitions, and restrictions on imports and exports in respect of its publications.
Section 8. - While the United Nations will not , as a general rule, claim exemption from excise duties and from taxes on
the sale of movable and immovable property which form part of the price to be paid, nevertheless when the United
Nations is making important purchase of official for official use of property on which such duties and taxes have been
charged or are chargeable. Members will, whenever possible, make appropriate administrative arrangements for the
remission or return of the amount of duty or tax.
Article III
Facilities In Respect of Communications
Section 9. - The United Nations shall enjoy in the territory of each Member for its official communications treatment not
less than that accorded by the Government of that member to any other Government including diplomatic mission in the
matter of priorities, rates and taxes on mails, cables, telegrams, telephotos and telephone and other communications;
and press rate for information to the press and radio. No censorship shall be applied to the official correspondence and
other official communications of the United Nations.
Section 10. - The United Nations shall have the right to use codes and despatch and receive its corresponds by courier
or in bags, which shall have the same immunities and privileges as diplomatic couriers and bags.
Article IV
The Representative of Members
Section 11. - Representative of Members to the principal and subsidiary organs of the United Nations and to
conferences convened by the United Nations, shall while exercising their functions and during their journey to and from
the place of meeting, enjoy the following privileges and immunities:
(a)
immunity from personal arrest or detention and from seizure of their personal baggage, and, in respect of words spoken
or written and all acts done by them in their capacity as representatives, immunity from legal process of every kind;
(b)
inviolability for all papers and documents;
(c)
the right to use codes and to receive papers or correspondence by courier or in sealed bags;
(d)
exemption in respect of themselves and their spouses from immigration restrictions, aliens registration or national
service obligations in the state they are visiting or through which they are passing in the exercise of their functions;
(e)
the same facilities in respect of currency or exchange restrictions as are accorded to representatives of foreign
governments on temporary official missions;
(f)
the same immunities and facilities in respect of their personal baggage as are accorded to diplomatic envoys; and also
(g)
such other privileges, immunities and facilities not inconsistent with foregoing as diplomatic envoys enjoy, except that
they shall have no right to claim exemption from customs duties on goods imported (otherwise than as part of their
personal baggage) or from excise duties or sales taxes.
Section 12. - In order to secure, for the representatives of Members to the principal and subsidiary organs of the United
Nations and to conferences convened by the United Nations, complete freedom of speech and independence in the
discharge of their duties, the immunity from legal process in respect of words spoken or written and all acts done by
them in discharging their duties shall continue to be accorded, notwithstanding that the persons concerned are no longer
the representatives of Members.
Section 13. - Where the incidence of any form of taxation depends upon residence, periods during which the
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
United Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947
representatives of Members to the principal and subsidiary organs of the United Nations and to conference convened by
the United Nations are present in a State for the discharge of their duties shall not considered as period of residence.
Section 14. - Privileges and immunities are accorded to the representatives of Members not for the personal benefit of
the individuals themselves, but in order to safeguard the independent exercise of their functions in connection with the
United Nations. Consequently a Member not only has the right but is under a duty to waive the immunity of its
representative in any case where in the opinion of the Member the immunity would impede the court of justice, and it
can be waived without prejudice to the purpose for which the immunity is accorded.
Section 15. - The provisions of sections 11, 12 and 13 are not applicable as between a representative and the
authorities of the State of which he is a national or which he is or has been the representative.
Section 16. - In this article the expression "representative" shall be deemed to included all delegates, deputy delegates,
advisers, technical experts and secretaries of delegations.
Article V
Officials
Section 17. - The Secretary-General will specify the categories of officials to which the provisions of this Article and
Article VII shall apply. He shall submit these categories s to the General Assembly. Thereafter these categories shall be
communicated to the Governments of all members. The name of the officials included in these categories shall from
time to time be made Known to the Government of Members.
Section 18. - Officials of the United Nations shall;
(a)
be immune from legal process in respect of words spoken for written and all acts performed by them in their official
capacity;
(b)
be exempt from taxation on the salaries and emoluments paid of them by the United Nations;
(c)
be immune from national service obligations;
(d)
be immune, together with their spouses and relatives dependent of them, from immigration restrictions and alien
registration;
(e)
be accorded the same privileges in respect of exchange facilities as are accorded to the officials of comparable ranks
forming part of diplomatic missions to the Government concerned;
(f)
be given, together with their spouses and relatives dependent on them, the same repatriation facilities in time of
international crisis as diplomatic envoys;
(g)
have the right to import free of duty their furniture and effects at the time of first taking up their post in the country in
question.
Section 19. - In addition to the immunities and privileges specified in section 18, the secretary-general and all Assistant
Secretaries-General shall be accorded in respect of themselves, their spouses and minor children, the privileges and
immunities exemptions and facilities accorded to diplomatic envoys, in accordance with international law.
Section 20. - Privileges and immunities are granted to officials in the interests of the United Nations and not for the
personal benefit of the individuals themselves. The Secretary-General shall have the right and the duty to waive the
immunity of any official in any case where, in his opinion, the immunity would impede the course of justice and can be
waived without prejudice to the interests of the United Nations. In the case of the Secretary-General, the Security
Council shall have the right to waive immunity.
Section 21. - The United Nations shall co-operate at all times with the appropriate authorities of Members to facilitate the
proper administration of justice, secure the observance of police regulations and prevent the occurrence of any abuse in
connection with the privileges, immunities and facilities mentioned in this Article.
Article VI
Experts On Missions For The United Nations
Section 22. - Experts (other than officials coming within the scope of Article V) performing missions for the United
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
United Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947
Nations shall be accorded such privileges and immunities as are necessary for the independent exercise of their
functions during the period of their missions, including the time spent on journeys in connection with their missions. In
particular they shall be accorded:
(a)
immunity from personal arrest or detention and from seizure of their personal baggage;
(b)
in respect of words spoken or written and acts done by them in the course of the performance of their mission, immunity
from legal process of every kind. This immunity from legal process shall continue to be accorded notwithstanding that
the persons concerned are no longer employed on missions for the United Nations;
(c)
inviolability for all papers and documents;
(d)
for the purpose of their communications with the United Nations, the right to use codes and to receive papers or
correspondence by courier or in sealed bags;
(e)
the same facilities in respect of currency or exchange restrictions as are accorded to representatives of foreign
governments on temporary official missions;
(f)
the same immunities and facilities in respect of their personal baggage as are accorded to diplomatic envoys.
Section 23. - Privileges and immunities are granted to experts in the interests of the United Nations and not for the
personal benefit of the individuals themselves. The Secretary-General shall have the right and the duty to waive the
immunity of any export in any case where, in his opinion, the immunity would impede the course of justice and it can be
waived without prejudice to the interests of the United Nations.
Article VII
United Nations Laissez-Passer
Section 24. - The United Nations may issue United Nations Laissez-passer to its officials. These laissez-passer shall be
recognised and accepted as valid travel documents by the authorities of Members, taking into account the provisions of
section 25.
Section 25. - Applications for visas (where required) from the holders of United Nations Laissez-passer, when
accompanied by a certificate that they are travelling on the business of the United Nations, shall be dealt with as
speedily as possible. In addition, such persons shall be granted facilities for speedy travel.
Section 26. - Similar facilities to those specified in section 25 shall be accorded to experts and other persons who,
though not the holders of United Nations Laissez-passer, have a certificate that they are travelling on the business of the
United Nations.
Section 27. - The Secretary-General, Assistant Secretary-General and Directors travelling on United Nations
Laissez-passer on the business of the United Nations shall be granted the same facilities as are accorded to diplomatic
envoys.
Section 28. - The provisions of this article may be applied to the comparable officials of specialised agencies if the
agreements for relationship made under Article 63 of the charter so provide.
Article VIII
Settlement of Disputes
Section 29. - The United Nations shall make provisions for appropriate modes of settlement of;
(a)
disputes arising out of contracts or other disputes of a private law character to which the [United Nations]
[See S.O. 1381 of 2015 at p. 2 (No. 1092).]
is a party;
(b)
disputes involving any official of the United Nations who by reason of his official position enjoys immunity, if immunity
has not been waived by the Secretary-General.
Section 30. - All differences arising out of the interpretation or application of the present convention shall be referred to
the International Court of Justice, unless in any case it is agreed by the parties to have recourse to another mode of
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
United Nations (Privileges and Immunities) Act, 1947
settlement. If a difference arises between the United Nations on the one hand and a Member on the other hand, a
request shall be made for an advisory opinion on any legal question involved in accordance with Article 96 of the Charter
and Article 65 of the Statute of the Court. The opinion given by the Court shall be accepted as decisive by the parties.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7