
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/148945783/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
Rule THE-COCHIN-HARBOUR-CRAFT-RULES-1947 of 1947
Published on 11 August 1947
Commenced on 11 August 1947
[This is the version of this document from 11 August 1947.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, 1947, Part 2, Section 1, page 1194
2028.
No. 11-P (63)/41, dated 11th August, 1947. - In exercise of the powers  conferred by Cl. (k) of sub-section (1) of Sec. 6
of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (15 of  1908), and in supersession of all previous rules on the subject, the Central
Government  is pleased to direct that the following rules shall be made for the licensing and  regulation of Harbour Craft
and Crews thereof in the Port of Cochin, the same having  been previously published as required by sub-section (2) of
the said section, namely,
Rules
1.
Short title and application.
Page 1/12
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
(1)
These rules may be called the Cochin  Harbour Craft Rules, 1947.
(2)
They shall apply to the Port of Cochin.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject  or conetxt
(a)
"harbour craft" means any catamaran plying for hire, or any flat or  cargo, passenger or other boat plying whether for hire
or not, and  whether regularly or only occasionally in, or partly within and partly  without, the Port;
(b)
"inner habrour" means that part of Port which lies landward of the  Port Jetty near the Harbour Master's office in Fort
Cochin;
(c)
"licensed harbour craft" means any harbour craft licensed under these  Rules;
(d)
"motor boat" means any harbour craft propelled wholly or in part by  any form of electrical or mechanical power other
than steam;
(e)
"Outer-roads" means that part of the Port which lies seaward of the  Port Jetty near the Harborur Master's officer in Fort
Cochin;
(f)
"Owner" used in relation to harbour craft includes any part owner,  agent for mortgagee in possession thereof;
(g)
"Port" means the Port of Cochin comprised within the territories of the  State of Travancore-Cochin and Madras the limits
of which have been  specified in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry  of Transport No.
11-P(107)/49, dated the 8th January, 1952;
(h)
"Deputy Conservator of the Port" means the Deputy Conservator of the  Port, Cochin;
(i)
"Servant" used in relation to owner includes the tindal or any boatman;
(j)
"Steam-boat" means any harbour craft propelled wholly or in part by  steam power;
(k)
"tindal" includes any person in charge of a harbour craft.
3.
Harbour Craft to be licensed.
- No person shall use, as owner, tindal or  servants, or ply for hire, any harbour craft, whether regularly or occasionally,
for  carrying goods or passengers to or from any vessel at the Port or for regularly plying  from place to place within port
limits or partly within and partly without such limits,  unless the harbour craft has been duly licensed under these rules :
Provided that nothing in this rule shall apply to
(a)
any boat forming part of the equipment of a ship or steamer; or
(b)
any harbour craft maintained solely for purposes of pleasure; or
(c)
any mechanised fishing vessel which exceeds fifteen tons net and which  is registered under the Merchant Shipping Act,
1958:
Provided further that the Deputy Conservator may, if he thinks fit, withdraw  exemption in respect of any such boat or
harbour craft as is mentioned in clause (a) or  clause (b) of the preceding proviso.
4.
Page 2/12
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
Licensing of harbour craft.
(1)
Every application for the licensing of a  harbour craft under rule 3 shall be made to the Deputy Conservator of the Port in
 writing and shall contain the following particulars
(a)
the owner's name and address in full and if the owner is a minor the  name and address of his guardian also;
(b)
the name and address of the agent, if any, duly authorised by the owner  to act on his behalf;
(c)
the name of the tindal whom the owner proposes to place in charge of  the harbour craft; and
(d)
the nature of the licence required, i.e., whether it is required for a  passenger boat, or for a cargo boat, or for a
passenger and cargo boat.
(2)
On receiving an application for licence under sub-rule (1), the Deputy Conservator of the Port shall survey and measure
the harbour craft, or cause it to be  surveyed and measured in the presence of the owner or of any person duly
appointed  for the purpose by such owner, and grant a licence in Form A, on being satisfied that  the crat is seaworthy
and fit for service at the Port, or upon the production of a  certificate in writing from the officer who surveyed the craft
certifying
(a)
that such craft is seaworthy, properly equipped and suited for the  purpose for which the licence is required;
(b)
the number of passengers that such craft is capable of carrying under  all conditions;
(c)
the number of crew required for the safe navigation of such craft;
(d)
that the equipment of such craft is in good order and condition.
(3)
For purposes of the survey and measurement prescribed in sub-rule (2) the  owner shall cause the harbour craft to be
brought to such place as the Deputy  Conservator of the Port may appoint.
(4)
Subject to the provisions of these Rules, every licence in Form A shall be valid  up to and inclusive of the 31st
December of the year in which the licence is issued.
5.
Minor or female owners.
- If the owner of harbour craft is a minor, the licence may be obtained by the guardian of the minor. If the owner is a
woman, who,  according to the custom of the country, does not appear in public, the licence may be  obtained on her
behalf by her duly authorised agent. In such cases the guardian or  the agent shall be deemed to be the owner for the
purposes of these rules.
6.
Licence, rules, etc. to be produced when demanded.
(1)
The licence of  every harbour craft shall be kept in the possession of the tindal, who shall produce  the licence whenever
called upon to do so by the Deputy Conservator of the Port or by  any person duly authorised by the Deputy Conservator
of the Port in that behalf.
(2)
A copy of these rules and of any written directions issued by the Deputy  Conservator of the Port for carrying the same
into effect shall also be furnished by the  owner to the tindal who shall, on demand, show them to any consignor or
passenger  by such harbour craft. The owner shall be responsible for securing that the tindal  understands the said rules
and directions, for obtaining a declaration from him to  that effect and for producing such declaration whenever required
by the Deputy  Conservator of the Port.
Page 3/12
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
7.
Distinctive numbering of licensed harbour craft.
(1)
The owner of a  licensed harbour craft shall paint or cause to be painted upon a black ground in  white English figures,
not less than six inches in length, on a conspicuous part of the  bow of such harbour craft on one side, and of the quarter
on the other, the number of  the harbour craft as mentioned in the licence.
(2)
No person shall paint or cause to be painted or counterfeited upon any  harbour craft not duly licensed under,rule 4, any
such number as aforesaid or any other mark likely to induce the belief that such harbour craft has been so licensed.
8.
Change of ownership or control of licensed harbour craft.
- Where the  holder of a licence in Form A transfers the ownership of the harbour craft to another  person, the licence
shall cease to be valid on the expiry of six days from the date of  such transfer, and where such holder mortgages the
harbour craft to or places it  under the control of; another personp the licence shall cease to be valid on the expiry  of six
days from the date of such transfer unless an endorsement on the licence is  made by the Deputy Conservator of the
Port that notwithstanding the transfer, the  licence shall continue to be valid.
9.
Changes in crew or carrying capacity of licensed harbour craft to be  reported.
- Whenever the tindal of any licensed harbour craft is changed, or any  alteration in such craft is made so as to affect
any of the particulars contained in the  licence granted for it, such change or alteration shall be forthwith reported by its 
owner to the Deputy Conservator of the Port :
Provided that, if such change or alteration takes place at a time when the harbour  craft is away from the Port, it may be
reported immediately on the return of the  harbour craft to the Port. In case of change of tindal or of any alteration in the
harbour  craft not affecting its carrying capacity the harbour craft shall not ply until such  report is made, and in case of
change of tindal until the tindal has also been produced  before the Deputy Conservator of the Port. On such report or
on such report and  production, as the case may be, the Deputy Conservator of the Port shall amend the  original
licence held by the owner and in case of change of tindal, the register kept  under rule 10.
In case of any alteration in the harbour craft affecting its carrying capacity the  original licence held by the owner shall be
cancelled and a fresh licence issued by the  Deputy.Conservator of the Port after craft has been rempasured, and the
harbour craft  shall not ply until such fresh licence has been issued.
10.
Registration of tindals.
(1)
At the time of licensing of any harbour craft  under rule 3 the name of its tindal as entered in the licence and other
particulars  relating to him shall be entered in a book which shall be kept by the Deputy Conservator  of the Port in Form
B.
(2)
[***]
(3)
No person shall be employed or registered as a tindal of a licensed harbour  craft if he
(a)
is not a certificated officer qualified to be the master or engineer of such  harbour craft in accordance with rule 23;
(b)
is in the opinion of the Deputy Conservator of the Port unaccustomed to  the use of such harbour craft or otherwise
inefficient.
11.
Annual and Special inspection of licensed harbour craft and crew.
-On  or before the expiry of the licence the owner of every licensed harbour craft shall  produce it together with its
licence for inspection by the Deputy Conservator of the  Port at such place as he may appoint for the purpose. In
addition to such inspections,  special or partial inspection may be held by the Deputy Conservator of the Port or by  any
person duly authorised by him, at such times as the Deputy Conservator of the  Port may consider necessary. At all
Page 4/12
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
inspections under this rule, each harbour craft  shall have its full complement of crew and equipment.
12.
Repairs of licensed harbour craft ordered for inspection.
(1)
The owner  of every licensed harbour craft shall execute such repairs thereto as the inspecting  officer may direct in
order to render it efficient, and no owner or other person shall  use any such harbour craft or cause or permit it to be
used until such repairs have  been duly executed thereto and the Deputy Conservator of the Port has granted 
permission for its use. For the purpose of such repairs, the owner shall cause the  harbour craft to be hauled up only to
such place or places on the foreshore as the  Deputy Conservator of the Port may, from time to time, direct.
(2)
All major repairs to the boiler, machinery or hall of a licensed harbour craft shall be carried out under the supervision of
an Engineer and Ship Surveyor appointed by the Conservator of the Port. The master, owner or owners of such craft
shall, before the commencement of the repairs, pay the Deputy Conservator of the Port a sum  sufficient to cover the
fees and other expenses of such Engineer and Ship Surveyor. For  the purpose of this sub-rule the decision of the
Deputy Conservator of the Port as to  whether a particular work should be regarded as a major repair or not shall be
final.
(3)
The fees referred to in sub-rule (2) shall be calculated on the following scale,  namely
(i)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which does not exceed 10
Tons
Rs.
75.00
(ii)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 10 Tons but
does not exceed 25 Tons.
Rs.
100.00
(iii)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 25 Tons but
does not exceed 50 Tons.
Rs.
125.00
(iv)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 50 Tons but
does not exceed 75 Tons.
Rs.
150.00
(v)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 75 Tons but
does not exceed 100 Tons.
Rs.
175.00
(vi)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 100 Tons but
does not exceed 300 Tons.
Rs.
200.00
(vii)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 300 Tons but
dolls slot exceed 600 Tons.
Page 5/12
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
Rs.
250.00
(viii)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 600 Tons but
does not exceed 900 Tons.
Rs.
300.00
(ix)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 900 Tons but
does not exceed 1,200 Tons.
Rs.
350.00
(x)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds Rs. 350.00
plus 1,200 Tons.
Rs.
50.00 for every  300 Tons or part thereof in
excees
of  1,200 Tons.
(xi)
For interim survey.
Rs.
20.00 per visit.
Note. - The above fees shall be in addition to the travelling expenses and  overtime fees incurred in connection with
these surveys.
(4)
The expenses referred to in sub-rule (2) shall be determined in accordance  with the instruction of the Central
Government in this behalf.
13.
Control of working of licensed harbour craft.
(1)
The owner of every  licensed harbour craft shall provide it with such full complement of crew and with  such equipment
as may be determined by the Deputy Conservator of the Port and  entered in the licence. The tindal of the harbour craft
shall not have on board more or  less than the number of the crew prescribed in the licence for fine or rough weather 
according as the harbour craft plies in fine or rough weather and shall not carry  passengers or goods in excees of the
number or quantity entered in the licence for the  harbour craft.
(2)
Every licensed harbour craft plying within the port shall carry such number of  life buoys as may be considered
reasonable by the Deputy Conservator of the Port and of  a type approved by him. Every such harbour craft shall carry
in addition such buoyant  apparatus as may be considered necessary by the Deputy Conservator of the Port.
All buoys and buoyant apparatus carried in pursuance of this rule shall be  stowed to the satisfaction of the Deputy
Conservator of the Port and so as to be  readily accessible to the persons on board.
(3)
The Deputy Conservator of the Port shall exercise his discretion in fixing the  number of crew required in a licensed
harbour craft plying within the port and  carrying passengers.
(4)
Where the owner of a licensed harbour craft does not desire to carry the full  complement of passengers, or is not
prepared, or considers it impracticable to carry  the prescribed life saving appliances, the Deputy Conservator of the Port
may endorse  the licence to the effect and the number of passengers is limited accordingly.
14.
Obstructing Port Traffic.
Page 6/12
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
(1)
No tindal or any member of the crew serving  in any licensed harbour craft shall, without reasonable excuse, obstruct or
hinder the  loading, discharging or service of such harbour craft, or of any other licensed harbour  craft, or obstruct or
hinder any vessel working in the port.
(2)
No tindal shall permit any licensed harbour craft in his charge to obstruct the  free navigation of the port or the
approaches to wharves or jetties.
15.
Observance of the rule of the road at sea.
- All licensed harbour craft,  when under way, shall observe the rule of the road at sea.
16.
Refusal to ply without lawful excuse.
- If the owner or the tindal in charge  of a licensed harbour craft plying regularly for hire refuses to allow such harbour 
craft to ply for hire when required to do so, without reasonable excuse, of which the  Deputy Conservator of the Port
shall, subject to the appeal provided in rule 27, be the  sole judge, the licence of such harbour craft shall be liable to be
revoked.
17.
Working of the licensed harbour craft at night and in bad weather.
(a)
No  licensed harbour craft shall ply in the outer roads
(i)
between the hours of 6 P.M. and 6 A.M., without the previous permission  of the Deputy Conservator of the Port;
(ii)
when flag "S" by day or one red light by night indicating bad weather  or high sea is displayed from the Port Flagstaff.
(b)
When either of the signals referred to in clause (ii) above is hoisted at the Port Flagstaff, all harbour craft plying in the
outer road shall return to the inner harbour at once and shall not proceed again to the outer roads without the special
permission of the Deputy Conservator of the Port until the signal is hauled down.
18.
Permissible load of licensed harbour craft in fine and in rough weather.
(1)
No person shall load a licensed harbour craft with passengers or with animals or  other cargo in contravention of the
terms of its license.
(2)
No tindal of any licensed harbour craft shall permit any animal to be loaded in it, unless the harbour craft has been
provided with sand ballast or straw sufficient to form a flat floor and unless such other requirements, as may be imposed
by the Deputy Conservator of the Port in respect of the harbour craft, have been complied with.
(3)
Where animals are carried in a licensed harbour craft, no other cargo or passengers shall be carried therein.
(4)
Passengers and cargo other than animals may be carried at the same time only in a licensed harbour craft propelled by
mechanical or electrical power.
19.
Power of tindal to prevent overloading.
- Whenever the number of  passengers or the quantity of cargo in a licensed harbour craft exceeds the number or 
quantity entered in the licence, the tindal shall, before starting from the vessel or from  the shore, require any passenger
to leave the harbour craft or any consignor, consignee,  or shipping or landing agent concerned to remove from the
harbour craft the whole  or any part of the cargo.
20.
Attention to certain signals required of tindals.
- The owner of every  licensed harbour craft shall instruct the tindal of such harbour craft to pay immediate  attention to
Page 7/12
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
the harbour craft muster flag-a square blue flag with four parallel red  bars running crosswise-which will be displayed on
the Port Flagstaff when the  Deputy Conservator of the Port desires to carry out an inspection under Rule 11.
21.
Licensed harbour craft not to interfere with moorings or approaching  vessels before they anchor.
- No person in charge of or navigating any licensed  harbour craft shall attempt to make such harbour craft fast to any
mooring or mark  buoy, or take it alongside of a vessel approaching an anchorage before such vessel  has come to
anchor or been moored to a buoy.
22.
Fishing boats not to be allowed near a cargo boat or alongside a vessel.
(1)
No person in charge of or navigating a licensed cargo boat shall allow a fishing  boat to be within ten yards of her when
such cargo boat is plying between a vessel  and the shore.
(2)
No person in charge of or navigating a fishing boat shall allow it to go  alongside a vessel while discharge or shipping of
cargo is proceeding.
(3)
If any licensed harbour craft is found by the Deputy Conservator of the Port  to have constravened the provisions of
sub-rule (1) or (2), the Deputy Conservator of  the Port may.
(a)
cancel the licence issued in respect of the harbour craft;
(b)
direct that the tindal at fault shall not be employed in any capacity in  any licensed harbour craft and that his name shall
be removed from the  Register of Tindals; and if any owner employs any such tindal contrary  to the Deputy Conservator
of the Port's directions under Cl. (b) the  Deputy Conservator of the Port may cancel all or any of the licenses in  Form A
held by the owner.
22A.
Penalty for approaching vessels in the Harbour without lawful  business.
- No person in charge of, or navigating an unlicensed harbour craft shall  approach within 50 metres of the vessels
berthed in the Harbour and no person in charge  of, or navigating a licensed harbour craft shall approach a vessel
berthed in the Harbour  if he has no lawful business on board the vessel. Contravention of these provisions by  any
person shall be punishable with a fine not exceeding rupees one hundred.
23.
Landing and shipping of passengers and goods to be within the Port.
- All passengers and goods shall be landed or shipped in such places within there  limits of the port as the Deputy
Conservator of the Port may appoint and no person  shall ship or land passengers or goods outside such place unless
the sanction of the  Port and Customs Officers at the port has been previously obtained.
24.
Rates of harbour craft hire.
- No owner, tindal or any member or the crew  of a licensed harbour craft licensed to carry passengers for hire, and no
person deputed  by the owner of such harbour craft, shall demand from any passenger a rate of hire  exceeding that
sanctioned by the Central Government and no owner, tindal or member  of the crew of such harbour craft shall demand
or accept any gratuity or present from  any passenger during the course of its trip between any vessel and the shore or
from  place to place whether within or without the port.
25.
Prohibition of employment of tindals and crew contravening the rules.
- If, in the opinion of the Deputy Conservator of the Port any tindal or any member of  the crew of a licensed harbour
craft has contravened any of these rules, the owner of  the harbour craft shall, on being required so to do by the Deputy
Conservator of the  Port, dismiss or suspend for such period as the Deputy Conservator of the Port may  specify in that
behalf, such tindal or member of the crew from his employment. Any action taken by the Deputy Conservator under this
Rule shall be without  prejudice to any other action which he may take in respect of the contravention of the rule.
26.
Page 8/12
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
Revocation of licenses.
- If in the opinion of the Deputy Conservator of the  Port, the owner of any licensed harbour craft has contravened any of
these rules, the  Deputy Conservator of the Port may, without prejudice to any other action that may  be taken against
such owner in respect of the contravention, cancel all or any of the  licensed in Form A held by the owner.
27.
Appeal from Deputy Conservator of the Port's decision.
- An appeal  shall lie from any of the decisions of the Deputy Conservator of the Port under these  rules, to the
Conservator of the Port. Such appeal shall be preferred in writing within  seven days after the decision of the Deputy
Conservator of the Port has been  communicated in writing to the port or parties concerned, and the decision of the 
Conservator thereon shall be final.
28.
Fees.
- The following fees shall be payable by the owners of harbour craft licensed or liable to be licensed
(i)
For each survey and measurement
-Rupees
two
(ii)
For issue or re-issue of a licence
-Rupees
two
(iii)
For each annual inspection
-Rupees
two
(iv)
For endorsing change of tindal
-Fifty
paise
(v)
For registration of boat
-Rupees
two
Provided that-
(i)
in respect of canoes only half the above fees shall be payable;
(ii)
where the harbour craft is found unseaworthy at the time of survey or at  the time of annual inspection only half the fee
shall be payable;
(iii)
where the harbour craft is a motor boat or steam boat in respect of  which a certificate of survey under the Indian
Merchant Shipping Act,  1923, or the Inland Steam Vessels Act, 1917, is held by the owner, no fee  shall be payable for
survey and measurement, but if no such certificate  of survey is held, a fee of forty rupees shall be payable;
(iv)
the fee for the issue of a duplicate licence shall be half of the fee for the  original licence, provided the latter is proved to
the satisfaction of the  Deputy Conservator of the Port to have been lost or mislaid, or has been  rendered illegible;
Note. - A surcharge of 10 per cent. on the rates specified above shall also be  payable.
29.
Special provisions applicable to steam boats and motor boats licensed under these rules.
(1)
Every steam boat licensed under these rules shall, when in use, whether plying for hire or not, have on board the
Page 9/12
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
following certificated officers :
(i)
if she has engines of not less than 100 N.H.P.
(a)
as her master, a person possessing a first class master's certificate granted under the Inland Steam Vessels Act, 1917,
Indian  Merchant Shipping Act, 1923, or the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894. or a master's certificate granted either under
the Indian  Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 or under such regulations as the Central Government may, from time to time
prescribe, or the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, and
(b)
as her engineer a person possessing an engineer's certificate  granted under any of the aforesaid Acts or regulations.
(ii)
if she has engines of less than 100 N.H.P., but not less than 40 N.H.P.-
(a)
as her master, a person possessing a second-class master's  certificate granted under the Inland Steam-Vessels Act,
1917,  Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 or the Merchant Shipping  Act, 1894, or any such certificate as is referred to
in sub-clause (a)  of Cl. (i), and
(b)
as her engineer, a person possessing a first class engine-driver's  certificate granted under the Inland Steam-Vessels
Act. 1917,  Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923, or the Merchant Shipping  Act, 1894 or an engine driver's certificate
granted under the Indian  Merchant Shipping Act, 1923, or under such regulations as the  Central Government may,
from time to time, prescribe or any such  certificate as is referred to an sub-clause (b) of clause (i) :
Provided that a boat shall be deemed to have complied with this clause if she  has as her master and engineer a person
possessing both a certificate referred to in  sub-clause (a) and a certificate referred to in sub-clause (b); and
(iii)
if she has engines of less then 40 N.H.P.
(a)
as her master, a person possessing a serang's certificate granted under  the Inland Steam-Vessels Act, 1917, Indian
Merchant Shipping Act,  1923 or the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894 or any such certificate as is  referred to in sub-clause
(a) of clause (ii); and
(b)
as her engineer, a person possessing a second class engine-driver's  certificate granted under the Inland
Steam-Vessels Act, 1917, Indian  Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 or the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894 or  any such
certificate as is referred to in sub-clause (b) of clause (ii):
Provided that a boat shall be deemed to have complied with this clause, if she  has as her master and engineer a person
possessing both a certificate referred to in  sub-clause (a) and a certificate referred to in sub-clause (b).
(2)
Every motor boat licensed under these rules shall, when in use whether  plying for hire or not, have on board the
following certificated officers.
(i)
if she has engines of not less than 565 B.H.P.
(a)
as her engineer, a person possessing a motor engineer's certificate  granted under the Inland Steam-Vessels Act, 1917,
Indian  Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 or the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894  or a certificate as a first class or second-class
engineer of a sea going motor ship granted either under the Indian Merchant  Shipping Act, 1923 or under such
regulations as the Central  Government may, from time to time, prescribe, or the Merchant  Shipping Act, 1894;
(b)
in case the engines are used for propulsion, as her master, a person  possessing a first-class master's certificate
granted under the  Inland Steam-Vessels Act, 1917, Indian Merchant Shipping Act,  1923, or the Merchant Shipping Act,
1894 or a master's certificate granted either under the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923, or  under such regulations
as the Central Government may, from  time to time, prescribe, or the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894;
(ii)
Page 10/12
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
if she has engines of less than 565 B.H.P. but not less than 226 B.H.P.-
(a)
as her engineer, a person possessing a first class motor engine driver's certificate granted under the Inland
Steam-Vessels Act,  1917, Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923, or the Merchant  Shipping Act, 1894, or a certificate of
an engine-driver of a sea going motor ship granted under the Indian Merchant shipping  Act, 1923 or under such
regulations as the Central Government  may, from time to time, prescribe or any such certificate as is  referred to in
sub-clause (a) of clause (i); and
(b)
in case the engines, are used for propulsion, as her master a  person possessing a second class master's certificate
granted  under the Inland Steam-Vessels Act, 1917, Indian Merchant  Shipping Act, 1923 or the Merchant Shipping Act,
1894 or any  such certificate as is referred to in sub-clause (b) of clause (i); and
(iii)
if she has engines of less than 226 B.H.P.
(a)
as her engineer, a person possessing a second-class motor engine-driver's certificate granted under the Inland
Steam-Vessels Act,  1917, Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923, or the Merchant  Shipping Act, 1894 or any such
certificate as is referred to in sub-clause (a) of clause (ii); and
(b)
in case the engines are used for propulsion, as her master, a person  possessing a serang's certificate granted under
the Inland Steam-Vessels Act, 1917, Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 or the  Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, or any
such certificate as is referred  to in sub-clause (b) of Cl. (ii):
Provided that a motor boat having engines of not more than 40 B.H.P. may have  as her engineer, a person holding a
permit granted by the Central Government or by  any person duly authorised by the Central Government in this behalf:
Provided also that a motor boat having engines of not more than 20 B.H.P., the  length of which measured from the fore
part of the stem to the after part of the stern  post does not exceed 30 feet may have as her master and engineer a
person possessing  both a certificate referred to in sub-clause (a) and a certificate referred to in sub-clause (b)
Provided further that a motor boat having engines of not more than 20 B.H.P.,  the length of which measured as
aforesaid does not exceed 30 feet, which is used  exclusively for personal recreation by the owner or his family or
friends need not  carry a certificated master or engineer but may be navigated by the owner or any  other person
possessing a permit granted by the Central Government or by any person  duly authorised by the Central Government in
this behalf.
(3)
Any person who has served as master, serang, engineer, or engine-driver of a  steam boat or motor boat plying in the
port for a period of 3 years on the 31st December  1956, and is not in possession of the certificate of competency
required under sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2), as the case may be,.may be granted by an officer duly authorised by the 
Central Government in this behalf, without examination and on payment of the fees  prescribed by the Central
Government, a certificate to the effect that he is, by reason of  his having so served, competent to act as master, serang,
engineer, or engine-driver  on board such steam boat or motor boat while plying in the port.
(4)
The Central Government may in special circumstances
(a)
exempt any class of steam boats or motor boats from the requirements of  sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) as the case may
be, and
(b)
lay down the qualifications required of the officers employed on such  boats;
30.
(1)
Every motor boat licensed under these rules shall be provided with a  sand box and an approved patent fire extinguisher
or suitable capacity for  extinguishing fire, and the owner shall keep it free from oil refuse.
(2)
Noisy engines of all motor boats licensed under these rules, while plying  within the port, shall be fitted with efficient
Page 11/12
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Cochin Harbour Craft Rules, 1947
silencers.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 12/12