
----- PAGE 1 -----
Federal Court (Enlargement of Jurisdiction) Act, 1947
Federal Court (Enlargement of Jurisdiction) Act, 1947
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1663081/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
37
]
Union of India - Act
Federal Court (Enlargement of Jurisdiction) Act, 1947
UNION OF INDIA
India
Federal Court (Enlargement of Jurisdiction) Act, 1947
Act 1 of 1948
Published in Gazette of India on 5 January 1948
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 5 January 1948.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Federal Court (Enlargement of Jurisdiction) Act, 1947.
(2)
It shall come into force on the first day of February, 1948, which day is hereinafter referred to as " the appointed day".
2.
Definitions.
(1)
" High Court " means any High Court to which the provisions of Chapter II of Part IX of the Government of India Act,
1935,1 apply ; (25 and 26 Geo. 5, c.2.)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Federal Court (Enlargement of Jurisdiction) Act, 1947
(2)
" judgment to which this Act applies " means any judgment, decree or final order of a High Court in a civil case from
which a direct appeal could have been brought to His Majesty in Council, either with or without special leave, if this Act
had not been passed.
3.
Enlargement of the Federal Courts jurisdiction.
(1)
an appeal shall lie to the Federal Court from any judgment to which this Act applies-
(a)
without the special leave of the Federal Court, if an appeal could have been brought to His Majesty in Council without
special leave under the provisions of the Code (5 of 1908)of Civil Procedure, 1908, or of any other law in force
immediately before the appointed day, and
(b)
with the special leave of the Federal Court in any other case ;
(2)
in any such appeal as aforesaid it shall be competent for the Federal Court to consider any question of the nature
mentioned in sub-section (1) of section 205 of the Government of India Act, 1935; and (25 and 26 Geo. 5, c.2.) 1 Now
see Chapter V of Part VI of the Constitution of India. 92.LM10.(c) no direct appeal shall lie to His Majesty in Council,
either with or without special leave, from any such judgment.
4.
Continuance of certain proceedings in High Courts.
Continuance of certain proceedings in High Courts. All proceedings and steps taken in, and orders made and certificates
granted by, a High Court in connection with an appeal to His Majesty in Council from a judgment to which this act
applies shall, unless the records pertaining to such appeal have before the appointed day been transmitted by the High
Court concerned to His Majesty in Council, be deemed to be proceedings and steps taken, orders made, and certificates
granted, in connection with an appeal from -that judgment to the Federal Court under this Act, and shall be concluded,
or as the case may be, have effect, accordingly.
5.
Pending application for special leave to appeal.
Pending application for special leave to appeal. Every application to His Majesty in Council for special leave to appeal
from a judgment to which this Act applies remaining un disposed of immediately before the appointed day shall on that
day stand transferred to the Federal Court by virtue of this Act, and shall be disposed of by that Court as if it had been
an application duly made to that Court for special leave to appeal from the said judgment.
6.
Modification of existing laws.
Modification of existing laws. The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908,(5 of 1908) and of any other law in
force immediately before the appointed day relating to direct appeals in civil cases to His Majesty in Council shall, as
from that day, have effect in relation to any appeal from a judgment to which this Act applies as if in the said provisions,
for all references to His Majesty in Council, there had been substituted references to the Federal Court.
7.
Savings.
The preceding provisions of this Act shall not apply to any appeal-
(1)
which immediately before the appointed day is pending before His Majesty in Council, if the records pertaining to such
appeal have before that day been transmitted by the High Court concerned to His Majesty in Council; or
(2)
to the bringing of which to His Majesty in Council special leave has -been granted before the appointed day and any
such appeal may be disposed of by His Majesty in Council as if this Act had not been passed.
8.
Registrars certificate to be conclusive as to fact of transmission of records.
If any question arises under section 4 or section 7 whether the records pertaining to an appeal have before the
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Federal Court (Enlargement of Jurisdiction) Act, 1947
appointed day been transmitted by the High Court concerned to His Majesty in Council a certificate of the Registrar of
the High Court that they have been transmitted or not transmitted before the appointed day shall be conclusive evidence
on the question.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3