
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Opium And Revenue Laws (Extension Of Application) Act, 1950
The Opium And Revenue Laws (Extension Of Application) Act, 1950
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/912591/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
13
]
Union of India - Act
The Opium And Revenue Laws (Extension Of Application) Act, 1950
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Opium And Revenue Laws (Extension Of Application) Act, 1950
Act 33 of 1950
Published on 18 April 1950
Commenced on 18 April 1950
[This is the version of this document from 18 April 1950.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Opium And Revenue Laws (Extension Of Application) Act, 1950
ACT NO. 33 OF 1950
1400.
The main laws relating to income-tax and duties of customs and central excise are being extended to the rest of India
and a provision therefor has been made in the Finance Bill as the extension of these laws formed part of the Budget
proposals. The object of the Bill is to extend other ancillary law to the rest of India excluding the State of Jammu and
Kashmir." - Gazette of India., 1950, Pt. II, Section 2, page 198.
[18th April, 1950]
An Act to provide for the extension of certain opium and revenue laws to certain parts of India.
Be it enacted by Parliament as follows:-
1.
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Opium And Revenue Laws (Extension Of Application) Act, 1950
Short title.
This Act may be called the Opium and Revenue Laws (Extension of Application) Act, 1950.
2.
Extension of certain opium and revenue laws to certain parts of India.
(1)
The following Acts, namely,--
(i)
the Opium Act, 1857 (13 of 1857), (ii) the Opium Act, 1878 (1 of 1878),
(iii)
the Revenue Recovery Act, 1890 (1 of 1890),
(iv)
the Government Trading Taxation Act, 1926 (3 of 1926),
(v)
the Dangerous Drugs Act, 1930 (2 of 1930),
(vi)
the Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947 (30 of 1947), and
(vii)
the Payment of Taxes (Transfer of Property) Act, 1949 (22 of 1949), and all rules and orders made thereunder, which
are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act in certain parts of India, are hereby extended to and shall
be in force in, the rest of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.
(2)
The amendments specified in the Schedule shall be made in the aforesaid Acts.
3.
Modifications in State laws relating to income-tax investigation.
If immediately before the commencement of this Act there is in force in any Part B State other than Jammu and Kashmir
any law (hereinafter in this section referred to as "the State law") corresponding to the Taxation on Income (Investigation
Commission) Act, 1947 (30 of 1947), that law shall continue to remain in force with the following modifications, namely:--
(a)
all cases referred to or pending before the State Commission (by whatever name called) in respect of matters relating to
taxation on income other than agricultural income shall stand transferred to the Central Commission for disposal:
Provided that the Central Commission shall not, by reason merely of the transfer of any case under the provisions of this
section, be bound to recall or rehear any witness who has given evidence in the case, and may act on the evidence
already recorded by or produced before the Commission which was originally investigating into the case;
(b)
[ in the disposal of cases transferred to the Central Commission under clause (a), it shall have and exercise the same
powers as it has and exercises in the investigation of cases referred to it under the Taxation on Income (Investigation
Commission) Act, 1947 (30 of 1947), and shall be entitled to act for the same term as under sub-section (3) of section 4
of that Act;
[ Substituted by Act 44 of 1951, Section 2 (retrospectively) ]
(bb)
any decision given, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, by the Chief Revenue Authority of
Travancore or of Travancore-Cochin in the exercise or purported exercise of any powers conferred on it by any law for
the time being in force in the State shall be deemed to be a decision given by the Income-tax authority for the purposes
of sub-section (2) of section 8 of the Travancore Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1124;]
(Travancore Act XIV of 1124)
(c)
any reference in the State Law, by whatever form of words, to the State Government or the State Commission shall, in
relation to income other than agricultural income, be construed as a reference to the Central Government or the Central
Commission, as the case may be;
(d)
the report of the Central Commission shall be submitted to the Central Government, and the Central Government may,
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Opium And Revenue Laws (Extension Of Application) Act, 1950
by order in writing, direct that such proceedings as it thinks fit under the law in force in the State relating to income-tax,
super-tax or excess profits tax or any other law, shall be taken against the person to whose case the report relates in
respect of his income other than agricultural income, and upon such a direction being given, all such proceedings may
be taken and completed under the appropriate law applicable in the State, as if the direction had been given and the
proceedings had been instituted thereunder;
(e)
where under any law in force in the State the agricultural income of an assessee is to be included in his total income for
the purpose of determining the tax payable by him, the tax payable in respect of his income other than agricultural
income shall be an amount bearing to the total amount of tax which would have been payable under the appropriate law
in force in the State if a combined assessment had been made, the same proportion as such income bears to the total
income including the agricultural income:
Provided that for this purpose any reduction of tax allowed on the agricultural income by the appropriate law in force in
the State shall not be taken into account.
Explanation.--In this section, "Central Commission" means the Income-tax Investigation Commission constituted under
the Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947 (30 of 1947).
Additional Information6
Immediately before 1-11-1956 the following were Part B States, namely, Hyderabad, Jammu and Kashmir, Madhya
Bharat, Mysore, Pepsu, Rajasthan, Saurashtra and Travacore-Cochin. Of these Part B States Jammu and Kashmir,
Mysore, Rajasthan and Travancore-Cochin (Kerala) are full-fledged States now and the rest have been merged with
adjoining State or States - See States Reorganisation Act, 1956 (
37 of 1956
)(1-11-1956).
4.
Repeals and savings.
If immediately before the commencement of this Act there is in force in any Part B State, other than Jammu and
Kashmir, or in the merged territory of Cooch Behar any law corresponding to any of the Acts specified in section 2, other
than the Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947 (30 of 1947), that law shall, upon the
commencement of this Act, stand repealed:
Provided that such repeal shall not affect--
(a)
the previous operation of that law, or
(b)
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against that law, or
(c)
any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment; and any such
investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced, and any such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been passed:
Provided further that anything done or any action taken under any provision of that law shall be deemed to have been
done or taken under the corresponding provision of the Central Act as now extended to the State and shall continue in
force accordingly.
5.
Removal of difficulties.
If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of any of the Acts, rules or orders now extended to any part of
India in which they were not in force before the commencement of this Act, the Central Government may, by order
published in the Official Gazette, make such provision or give such direction as appears to it to be necessary for
removing the difficulty.
Year
No.
Short Title
Amendments
1
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Opium And Revenue Laws (Extension Of Application) Act, 1950
2
3
4
1857
XIII
The Opium Act, 1857
(1) In the preamble, omit the words "in the Presidency of Fort William in Bengal".
(2) Insert the following as section 1 namely:-"1. Short Title and extend, - (1) This Act may be called the Opium Act, 1857.
(2) It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir".
1878
I
The Opium Act, 1878
(1)   In section 1, for the words beginning with "It shall extend to" and ending with the words "directs in this behalf,
substitute the following namely :--
"It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir".
(2)   In section 3, for the definition of "import", "export",
"transport", "sale" and "sell", substitute the following, namely :--
"customs frontiers" means any of the customs frontiers of India as defined by the Central Government under section 3A
of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (VII of 1878) ;
"import"  and "export" means respectively to bring into, or take out of, a State otherwise than across any customs
frontiers ;
"transport"  means to remove from one place to another within the same State ;
"Sale"  does not include sale for export across customs frontiers, and"sell"  shall be construed accordingly'.
1890
I
The Revenue Recovery Act, 1890
(1)   In sub-section (2) of section 1 for the words and letter
"Part B States" substitute the words "the State of Jammu and Kashmir".
(2)   In sub-section (4) of section 4, for the words and letters
"a Part A State or a Part C State" substitutes the words "any State to which this Act extends".
1926
III
The Government Trading Taxation Act, 1926
(1) In the preamble, omit the words"or the Government of any Acceding State or other   Indian State".
(2) In section 2,-
(a) In sub-section (1), for the words, and letters "in part A States and Part C States" substitute the words "India".
(b)Omit sub-section (1-A);
(c) In sub-section (3), add the following words at the end, namely:-
And
"India" means the territory of India excluding the State of Jammu and Kashmir.
(3) In section 3, for the words "upon an Acceding State or other Indian "State"
substitute the words and letter "upon a Part B State".
1930
II
The Dangerous Drugs Act, 1930
(1) In sub-section (2) of section 1, for the words and letters "Part B States"
substitute the words "the State of Jammu and Kashmir".
(2) In sub-section (1) of section 39, for the words and letters"or an Act of the Legislature of a Part A State of Part C
State" substitute the words "or an Act of any State legislature."
1947
XXX
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Opium And Revenue Laws (Extension Of Application) Act, 1950
The Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947
In sub-section (2) of section 1 for the words and letter "Part B State"
substitute the words "the State of Jammu and Kashmir".
1948
XXII
The Payment of Taxes (Transfer of Property) Act, 1949
(1) In sub-section (2) of section 1, for the words and letters "Part B States"
substitute the words "the State of Jammu and Kashmir".
(2) In the Explanation to section 2, for the words and letter "Part B State"
substitute the words "State of Jammu and Kashmir".
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5