
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Army And Air Force (Disposal Of Private Property) Act, 1950
The Army And Air Force (Disposal Of Private Property) Act, 1950
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/502610/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
3
]
Union of India - Act
The Army And Air Force (Disposal Of Private Property) Act, 1950
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Army And Air Force (Disposal Of Private Property) Act, 1950
Act 40 of 1950
Published on 28 April 1950
Commenced on 28 April 1950
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
[Amended by
The Army And Air Force (Disposal Of Private Property) Amendment Act,  2000 (Act 31 of 2000)
on
1 January 2000
]
The Army And Air Force (Disposal Of Private Property) Act, 1950
(40 OF 1950)
280.
Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Army and Air Force (Disposal of Private Property) Bill is mainly based on the
existing provisions in the Army and Air Force Acts. Experience has shown that it is advantageous to have such
provisions incorporated in a separate Act and not embodied in the principal Acts as at present. Accordingly provisions
Page 1/8
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Army And Air Force (Disposal Of Private Property) Act, 1950
relating to the disposal of private property have been incorporated separately in the above mentioned Bill.
2. In preparing the new Bill opportunity has been taken to remove doubts, defects and lacunae that existed in the
present Acts and also, as far as possible and practicable, to make the provisions uniform for officers, junior
commissioned officers and other ranks as there was some discontent chiefly amongst the junior commissioned officers
owing to the differential treatment in the matter of disposal of estates under the existing law.
Amendment Act 30 of 1970-. Under section 10 of the Army Air Force (Disposal Private Property) Act, 1950, movable
property and money belonging to a person subject to the Army Act, 1950, or the Air Force Act, 1950, may be delivered
or paid by the prescribed authority to the persons appearing to such authority to be entitled to such property and money,
without requiring the production of any probate, letters of administration, succession certificate or other such conclusive
evidence of title. This provision, however, applies only where the total amount or value of the property and money does
not exceed five thousand rupees. In cases where the total amount or value exceeds five thousand rupees, the heirs of
the deceased person are required to establish their title by production of evidence as mentioned above. In the case of
persons subject to the Navy Act, 1957, section 176 of the Act makes provisions similar to those contained in section 10
of the Army and Air Force (Disposal of Private Property) Act, 1950.
2. Obtaining of a succession certificate or other evidence of title as aforesaid from a Court of law involves expensive,
troublesome and time consuming procedure. The figures of the last few years indicate that a large number of cases
where the amount or value of the property and money exceeded five thousand rupees could not be disposed of within a
reasonable time mainly due to the requirement of production of succession certificate, etc., resulting in great hardship to
the heirs of the persons belonging to the Army, Air Force or Navy. It is therefore, proposed to amend section 10 of the
Army and Air Force (Disposal of Private Property) Act, 1950, and section 176 of the Navy Act, 1957, to raise the limit
from five thousand rupees to ten thousand rupees.
Act 31 of 2000.- Under section 10 of the Army and Air Force (Disposal of Private Property) Act, 1950, movable property
and money belonging to a person subject to the Army Act, 1950 or the Air Force Act, 1950, may be delivered or paid by
the prescribed authority to  any person appearing to such authority to be entitled to  such property and money, without
requiring the production of any probate, letter of administration, succession  certificate or other such conclusive evidence
of title. This  provision, however, applies only where the total amount  of value of the property and money, does not
exceed thousand rupees. In cases where the total amount or value exceeds ten thousand rupees, the heirs of the
deceased  person arc required to establish their title by production of evidence as mentioned above.
2. Obtaining a succession certificate or other evidence of title as aforesaid from a court of law involves expensive,
troublesome and time-consuming procedure. The  figures of the last few years indicate that a large number  of cases
where the amount or value of the property and  money exceeded ten thousand rupees could not be disposed of within a
reasonable time mainly due to the requirement of production of a succession certificate, etc., resulting in great hardship
to the heirs of the person belonging to the Army and the Air Force. It is, therefore, proposed to further amend section 10
of the Army and  Air Force (Disposal of Private Property) Act, 1950 to  raise the limit from ten thousand rupees to two
lakh rupees. Sections 7 and 14 of the Act need amendments to reflect the short titles of the re-enacted Acts referred 
therein.
3. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object - S.O.R. - Gazette of India, 25-2-1999, Pt. II-Section 2, Ext. p. 3.
[28th April, 1950]
An Act to provide for the disposal of the private property of persons subject to the Army Act, 1950, or the Air Force Act,
1950, who die or desert or are ascertained to be of unsound mind or while on active service are officially reported to be
missing.
Be it enacted by Parliament as follows:--
The Act has been extended to - (i) Goa, Daman and Diu by Regulation 12 of 1962, Section 3 and Sch. (w.e.f.
22.11.1962) and enforced w.e.f. 31.1.1963. Goa is now a State, see Act 18 of 1987, Section 3 (w.e.f. 30.5.1987); (ii)
Dadra Nagar Haveli by Regulation 6 of 1963, Section 2 and Sch. I (w.e.f. 1.7.1965); (iii) Pondicherry by Regulation 7 of
1963, Section 3 and Sch. I (w.e.f. 1.10.1963).(iv) Sikkim w.e.f. 16.5.1973, see Gazette of India, Ext., Pt. II, Section 3(ii),
p. 1213 (No. 165), dated 16.5.1975 and enforced in Sikkim w.e.f. 1.4.1976, see Gazette of India, Ext., Pt. II, Section 4,
p. 66 (No. 16), dated 27.3.1976.
Brought into force on 22.7.1950.
1.
Short title, extent and commencement .-(1) This Act may be called The Army and Air Force (Disposal of Private
Page 2/8
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Army And Air Force (Disposal Of Private Property) Act, 1950
Property) Act, 1950.
(2)
It extends1 to the whole of India, and applies to citizens of India and persons subject to the Army Act, 1950, or the Air
Force Act, 1950, wherever they may be.
(3)
It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint in
this behalf.
2.
Definitions .-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--
(1)
"Committee" means the Committee of Adjustment constituted under section 4;
(2)
"Prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(3)
"regimental and other debts in camp or quarters" includes--
(i)
in relation to any person subject to the Army Act, 1950, moneys due as military debts, namely, sums due in respect of or
of any advance in respect of--
(a)
quarters;
(b)
mess, band and other regimental accounts;
(c)
military clothing, appointments and equipments, not exceeding a sum equal to three months' pay of the deceased and
having become due within eighteen months before the date of his death; and
(ii)
in relation to any person subject to the Air Force Act, 1950, moneys due as air force debts, namely, sums due in respect
of or of any advance in respect of--
(a)
quarters;
(b)
mess, band and other service accounts;
(c)
air force clothing, appointments and equipments, not exceeding a sum equal to three months' pay of the deceased and
having become due within eighteen months before the date of his death;
(4)
"representation" includes probate, letters of administration, with or without the will annexed and a succession certificate,
constituting a person executor or administrator of the estate of a deceased person or authorising him to receive or
realise the assets of a deceased person;
(5)
"representative" means any person who has taken out representation, but does not include an Administrator-General;
(6)
all words and expressions used herein and defined in the Army Act, 1950 (
46 of 1950
), or the Air Force Act, 1950 (
45 of 1950
), and not in this Act defined shall be deemed to have the meaning respectively attributed to them by those Acts.
3.
Property of deceased persons and deserters other than officers .-(1) On the death or desertion of any person, not being
an officer, subject to the Army Act, 1950 (
46 of 1950
Page 3/8
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Army And Air Force (Disposal Of Private Property) Act, 1950
), or the Air Force Act, 1950 (
45 of 1950
), as the case may be, the commanding officer of the corps, department, detachment or unit to which the deceased or
deserter belonged, shall as soon as may be and subject to any rules that may be made in this behalf--
(a)
secure all the movable property belonging to the deceased or deserter that is in camp or quarters, and cause an
inventory thereof to be made,
(b)
draw the pay and allowances due to such person,
(c)
make due provision for the payment of regimental and other debts in camp or quarters, if any, of such persons.
(2)
In the case of a deceased person, the commanding officer,--
(a)
if in any case not otherwise provided for by rules made under this Act it appears to him to be necessary to make
provision for the payment of regimental and other debts in camp or quarters, the funeral expenses of the deceased and
the expenses, if any, incurred by the commanding officer in respect of the estate of the deceased, shall, and
(b)
in any other case, may, collect all moneys left by the deceased in any banking company (including any post office
savings bank, co-operative bank or society or any other institution receiving deposits in money however named) and for
that purpose may require the agent, manager or other proper officer of such banking company, society or other
institution to pay the moneys to the commanding officer forthwith, notwithstanding anything in the rules of the banking
company, society or other institution, and such agent, manager or other officer shall be bound to comply with the
requisition.
(3)
Where any money has been paid by a banking company, society or other institution in compliance with a requisition
made under sub-section (2), no person shall have any claim against the banking company, society or other institution in
respect of such money.
(4)
Where the representative of a deceased has given security to the satisfaction of the commanding officer for the payment
of the regimental and other debts in camp or quarters, if any, and of the funeral expenses of the deceased in cases
where no provision for the payment of such expenses has been made otherwise and of the expenses, if any, incurred by
the commanding officer in respect of the estate and deceased, the commanding officer shall deliver over the property
received by him under sub-sections (1) and (2) to that representative, whereupon his responsibility for the administration
of the estate of the deceased shall cease.
(5)
In the case of a deceased whose estate has not been dealt with under sub--section (4), or under section 10, and in the
case of a deserter, the commanding officer,--
(i)
if in any case it is necessary in his opinion so to do for the purpose of securing the payment of the regimental and other
debts in camp or quarters of the deceased or deserter, the funeral expenses of the deceased, if any, and the expenses,
if any, incurred by the commanding officer in respect of the estate of the deceased or deserter, shall, and
(ii)
in any other case, may, cause the moveable property of the deceased or deserter, as the case may be, to be sold or
converted into money.
(6)
The commanding officer shall, out of the moneys received, collected or realised under sub-sections (1), (2) and (5), pay
the regimental and other debts in camp or quarters, if any, of the deceased or deserter, as the case may be, the
expenses, if any, incurred by the commanding officer in respect of the estate of the deceased or deserter, and in the
case of a deceased his funeral expenses in cases where no provision for the payment of such expenses has been made
otherwise.
Page 4/8
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Army And Air Force (Disposal Of Private Property) Act, 1950
(7)
The surplus, if any, after payment of the debts and expenses specified in sub-section (6), shall,--
(a)
in the case of a deceased, be paid to his representative, if any, or in the event of no claim to such surplus being
established within twelve months after the death, to the prescribed person; and
(b)
in the case of a deserter, be forthwith paid to the prescribed person, and shall, on the expiry of three years from the date
of desertion, be forfeited to the Central Government, unless the deserter shall have surrendered or been apprehended in
the meantime:
Provided that the prescribed person may, if the deserter has not surrendered or been apprehended in the meantime,
pay the whole or any part of the surplus received by him under clause (b) to the wife or children or any other dependent
of the deserter at any time during the said period of three years.
Explanation .-In this section and in section 4, the word "officer" with reference to persons subject to the Air Force Act,
1950 (
45 of 1950
), includes a warrant officer who has died or deserted.
4.
Property of officers who die or desert .-The provisions of section 3 shall also apply to the disposal of the property of any
officer subject to the Army Act, 1950 (
46 of 1950
), or the Air Force Act, 1950 (
45 of 1950
), who dies or deserts, but with the following modifications, namely:--
(i)
the functions of the commanding officer under section 3 shall be performed by a Committee of Adjustment constituted in
this behalf in the prescribed manner;
(ii)
the surplus, if any, after payment of the debts and expenses specified in sub-section (6) of section 3, shall in the case of
a deceased officer, be paid to the prescribed person.
5.
Decision of questions as to regimental and other debts in camp or quarters .-If in any case a doubt or difference arises
as to what are the regimental and other debts in camp or quarters of a deceased or deserter or as to the amount
payable in respect thereof, the decision of the prescribed person shall be final and shall be binding on all persons for all
purposes.
6.
Representative powers of commanding officer or Committee .-For the purpose of the exercise of his or its duties under
section 3 or section 4, the commanding officer or the Committee, as the case may be, shall, to the exclusion of all other
persons and authorities whosoever or whatsoever, have the same rights and powers as if he or it had taken out
representation to the estate of the deceased, and any receipt given by the commanding officer or the Committee, as the
case may be, shall have effect accordingly.
7.
Power of Central Government to hand over estate of deceased person to the Administrator-General .-(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in [the Administrators General Act, 1963 (
45 of 1963
)], an Administrator-General shall not interpose in any manner in relation to any property of a deceased which has been
dealt with under the provisions of section 3 or section 4, except insofar as he is expressly required or permitted to do so
by or under the provisions of this Act.
(2)
The Central Government may, at any time and in such circumstances as it thinks fit, direct that the estate of a deceased
shall be handed over by the commanding officer or the Committee, as the case may be, to the Administrator--General of
a State for administration, and thereupon the commanding officer or the Committee, as the case may be, shall make
Page 5/8
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Army And Air Force (Disposal Of Private Property) Act, 1950
over the estate to such Administrator-General.
(3)
Where under this section any estate is handed over to the Administrator--General, the Administrator-General shall
administer such estate in accordance with the provisions of the Administrator-General Act, 1963 (
45 of 1963
), or if that Act is not in force in any State of the corresponding law in force in that State:
Provided that the regimental and other debts in camp or quarters of the deceased, if any, shall be paid by the
Administrator-General in priority to any other debts due by the deceased.
(4)
The Administrator-General shall pay the surplus, if any, remaining in his hands after discharging all debts and charges,
to the heirs of the deceased, and, if no heir is traceable, shall make over the surplus in the prescribed manner to the
prescribed person.
(5)
The Administrator-General shall not charge in respect of his duties under this section any fee exceeding three per cent.
of the gross amount coming to or remaining in his hands after payment of the regimental and other debts in camp or
quarters.
8.
Disposal of surplus by prescribed persons .-On receipt of the surplus referred to in sub-section (7) of section 3 or clause
(ii) of section 4 or sub-section (4) of section 7, the prescribed person shall,--
(a)
if he knows of a representative of the deceased, pay the surplus to that representative;
(b)
if he does not know of any such representative and the surplus has not been disposed of under section 10, publish
every year a notice in the prescribed form and manner for six consecutive years and if no claim to the surplus is made
by a representative of the deceased within six months even after the publication of the last of such notices, the
prescribed person shall deposit the surplus together with any income or accumulation of income accrued therefrom, to
the credit of the Central Government:
Provided that such deposit shall not bar the claim of any person to such surplus or any part thereof, if he is otherwise
entitled to it.
9.
Disposal of effects, not money .-Where any part of the estate of a deceased person consists of effects, securities or
other property not converted into money, the provisions of sub-section (7) of section 3, clause (ii) of section 4 and
section 8, with respect to the payment of the surplus, shall, save as may be prescribed, extend to the delivery,
transmission or transfer of such effects, securities or property, and the prescribed person shall have the same power of
converting the same into moneys as a representative of the deceased.
10.
Disposal of certain property without production of probate, etc .-- Property deliverable and money payable to the
representative of a deceased under section 3 or section 4 or section 8 may, if the total amount or value thereof does not
exceed [two lakhs] rupees and if the prescribed person thinks fit, be delivered or paid to any person appearing to him to
be entitled to receive it or to administer the estate of the deceased without requiring such person to produce any
probate, letters of administration, succession certificate or other such conclusive evidence of title.
11.
Discharge of commanding officer, Committee, prescribed person and the Central Government .-Any payment or
application of money or application, delivery, sale or other disposition of any property made, or purported to be made, by
the commanding officer, the Committee or the prescribed person in good faith in pursuance of section 3, section 4,
section 8, section 9 or section 10 shall be valid and shall be a full discharge to the commanding officer, the Committee
or the prescribed person, as the case may be, and to the Central Government from all further liability in respect of that
money or property, but nothing herein contained shall affect the right of any executor or administrator or other
representative, or of any creditor of the deceased against any person to whom such payment or delivery has been
made.
12.
Page 6/8
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Army And Air Force (Disposal Of Private Property) Act, 1950
Property in the hands of commanding officer, Committee or prescribed person not to be assets where commanding
officer, Committee or prescribed person is stationed .-Any property coming into the hands of the commanding officer or
the Committee or the prescribed person under section 3, section 4 or sub-section (4) of section 7 shall not, by reason
thereof, be deemed to be assets or effects at the place in which that commanding officer or the Committee or the
prescribed person is stationed, and it shall not be necessary by reason thereof that representation be taken out in
respect of that property for that place.
13.
Saving of rights of representative .-After the commanding officer, or the Committee has paid to the prescribed person
the surplus of the property of any deceased under sub-section (7) of section 3 or clause (ii) of section 4, any
representative of the deceased or any Administrator-General, shall, as regards any property of the deceased not
collected by the commanding officer or the Committee, as the case may be, and not forming part of the aforesaid
surplus, have the same rights and duties as if sections 3 and 4 that not been enacted.
14.
Application of sections 3 to 13 to persons of unsound mind or to persons reported missing on active service .-The
provisions of sections 3 to 13 shall, so far as they can be made applicable, also apply in the case of a person subject to
the Army Act, 1950 (
46 of 1950
), or the Air Force Act, 1950 (
45 of 1950
), as the case may be, who, notwithstanding anything contained in
the Mental Health Act, 1987
, is ascertained in the prescribed manner to be of unsound mind, or who, while on active service, is officially reported
missing, as if he had died on the day on which his unsoundness of mind is so ascertained or, as the case may be, on
the day on which he is officially reported missing:
Provided that in the case of a person so reported missing, no action shall be taken under sub-sections (2) to (6) of
section 3 or section 4 or section 7 until such time as he is officially presumed to be dead.
15.
Appointment of Standing Committee of Adjustment in certain cases .--When an officer dies or deserts or is ascertained
in the prescribed manner to be of unsound mind or while on active service is officially reported missing, the references in
the foregoing provisions of this Act to the Committee shall be construed as references to the Standing Committee of
Adjustment, if any, constituted in this behalf in the prescribed manner and such Standing Committee shall alone be
entitled to perform all the functions of the Committee under this Act.
16.
Power to make rules .-(1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for the
purpose of carrying into effect the purposes of this Act.
(2)
In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may-
(a)
prescribe the manner in which any property belonging to a deceased or deserter may be secured or collected and his
regimental and other debts in camp or quarters paid;
(b)
provide for the payment of the funeral expenses of any deceased;
(c)
provide for the constitution of the Committee of Adjustment or any Standing Committee of Adjustment under this Act;
(d)
specify the person who shall be regarded as the prescribed person for the purposes of this Act;
(e)
prescribe the circumstances in which the estate of any deceased shall be handed over to the Administrator-General;
(f)
prescribe the form and manner in which a notice under section 8 shall be published;
(g)
Page 7/8
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Army And Air Force (Disposal Of Private Property) Act, 1950
prescribe the procedure by which any person may be ascertained to be of unsound mind.
(3)
[ Every rule made by the Central Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before
each House of Parliament while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification
in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.]
17.
Repeals .-[ Repealed by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1957 (36  of 1957),  section 2  and Schedule I (w.e.f.
17-9-1957).]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 8/8