
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Scheduled Areas (Assimilation of Laws) Act, 1951
The Scheduled Areas (Assimilation of Laws) Act, 1951
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/86014904/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
3
]
Union of India - Act
The Scheduled Areas (Assimilation of Laws) Act, 1951
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Scheduled Areas (Assimilation of Laws) Act, 1951
Act 37 of 1951
Published in Gazette of India on 23 June 1951
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 23 June 1951.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
An Act to assimilate certain laws in force in the scheduled areas to the laws in force in the districts of Darrang and
Lakhimpur of the State of Assam.
BE it enacted by Parliament as follows:-
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
This Act may be called the Scheduled Areas (Assimilation of Laws) Act, 1951.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date1 as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
2.
Definitions.-
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Scheduled Areas (Assimilation of Laws) Act, 1951
In this Act,-
(a)
"appointed day" means the date appointed under sub-section (2) of section 1 for the coming into force of this Act;
(b)
"law" means so much of any Act, Ordinance, Regulation, rule, order or bye-law as relates to any of the matters
enumerated in List I and III in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution;
(c)
"scheduled areas" means the areas specified in the Schedule.
3.
Assimilation of laws.-
(1)
All laws which immediately before the appointed day extend to, or are in force in, the scheduled areas shall on that day
cease to be in force in the scheduled areas except as respects things done or omitted to be done before that day, and
for the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897) shall apply
in relation to such cesser as it applies in relation to the repeal of an enactment by a Central Act.
(2)
All laws which immediately before the appointed day extend to, or are in force in, the Darrang district of the State of
Assam shall as from that day extend to, or, as the case may be, come into force in, the areas specified in paragraph 1 of
the Schedule.
(3)
All laws which immediately before the appointed day extend to, or are in force in, the Lakhimpur district of the State of
Assam shall as from that day extend to, or, as the case may be, come into force in, the areas specified in paragraphs 2
and 3 of the Schedule.
4.
Transitional provisions.-
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3, the Central Government of the State of Assam may, by order, direct
that during such period, not exceeding twelve months from the appointed day, as may be specified in the order, any law
which immediately before the appointed day was in force in the scheduled areas, shall be deemed to have continued to
be in force therein or any specified part thereof, and may further likewise direct that any law which would have extended
to, or come into force in, the scheduled areas on the appointed day, shall not be deemed to have extended thereto or
come into force therein or any specified part thereof.
5.
Savings.-
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3, all suits, cases and other legal proceedings between the parties all of
whom belong to the Scheduled Tribes specified in Item 2 of Part I-Assam, of the Schedule to the Constitution
(Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950, or such other tribe or tribes, as may be specified in this behalf, shall be tried and
continue to be tried under the 3
Assam Frontier (Administration of Justice) Regulation, 1945 (Regulation 1 of 1945) as if this Act had not been passed.
1. 1st October, 1951, vide Notification No. S. R. O. 1461, dated 15th September, 1951, see Gazette of India, Part II, s. 3.
6.
Provision for removal of difficulties.-
If any difficulty arises in relation to the transition under section 3 from one law or group of laws to another law or group of
laws, the Central Government may, by order notified in the Official Gazette, make such provisions as it considers
necessary for the removal of the difficulty.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2