
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Railway Companies (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1951
The Railway Companies (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1951
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/773809/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
6
]
Union of India - Act
The Railway Companies (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1951
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Railway Companies (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1951
Act 51 of 1951
Published on 14 September 1951
Commenced on 14 September 1951
[This is the version of this document from 14 September 1951.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Railway Companies (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1951
ACT NO. 51 OF 1951
27.
/1391
Although all the major Railways in the country are now under government management a few narrow gauge light 
Railways are still being managed by private companies, Government have statutory control over these Railways in
respect  of fares and freight rates, and may enforce safety regulations under the Indian Railways Act, 1890; but they
have no power  to ensure that the day to day administration of the Railways by the companies is in the best interests of
the public. Of late  Government have been receiving complaints regardng mismanagement by some of these companies
thereby causing a  great deal of inconvenience to the normal life of the community. It became imperative, therefore, that
Government should,  in the public interest, take powers to intervene in cases where in the opinion of Government a
Page 1/8
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Railway Companies (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1951
situation has arisen in the  affairs of a Railway Company which prejudicially affects the convenience of persons using
the Railway or causes serious  dislocation in any trade or industry using the Railway or causes serious unemployment
among the persons employed on  the Railway.
An Ordinance entitled the Railway Companies (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance 1951, was accordingly promulgated
on the 14th July 1951. The Ordinance was of a general nature and provided for the application thereof to a delinquent
Railway Company by a notified order. The result of such a notification would be that Government is enabled to  appoint
a new board of directors for the Railway Company in supersession of the existing board of directors and any  contract of
management between the Railway Company and any managing agent would be automatically terminated. The  intention
underlying these provisions is that the company should he put hack into its normal position when it would he  possible to
restore the management of the company to its old board of directors or to a new hoard of directors appointed in 
pursuance of a resolution passed by the shareholders of the company. The Ordinance contains the usual provision for 
delegation of powers so that in suitable cases power could be delegated to the State Government to administer the
affairs  of a Railway company within its jurisdiction, the management of which has to be taken over by the Government.
In the case of the Baraset Basirhat Light Railway Company which owns a narrow gauge line about 52 miles long in 
West Bengal, the Government of West Bengal caused an investigation to be made into the affairs of the company by a
high  level committee who found considerable evidence of serious mismanagement in the affairs of the company which
culminated in a labour strike and consequent suspension of railway service from the 14th April, 1951. The Ordinance
was  therefore, made applicable to this Railway Company and powers in respect of this company have been delegated
to the  Government of West Bengal under the Ordinance.
The present Bill seeks to replace the Ordinance and to validate all action taken thereunder". - Gazette of India, 1951, Pt.
II Section 2, p. 616.
[14th September, 1951]
An Act to make provision for the proper management and administration of railway companies in certain special cases.
1.
Short title, extent and application.
(1)
This Act may be called the Railway Companies (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1951.
(2)
It [extends]
[It has been extended to the Union Territory of Pondicherry by Regn. 7 of 1963, section 3 and Sch. (1-10-1963) ]
to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.
(3)
It applies to every railway company in respect of which a notified order has been issued under section 3.
2.
Definitions.
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--
(a)
"Companies Act" means the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913.);
(b)
"directors" means the directors appointed under section 3;
(c)
"notified order" means an order notified in the Official Gazette;
(d)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(e)
"railway company" means any company registered under the Companies Act or any law repealed thereby for the
purpose of making and working or making or working a railway, whether alone or in conjunction with other purposes.
3.
Power of Central Government to apply Act to any railway company and to appoint directors thereof.
(1)
Where the Central Government is of opinion that a situation has arisen in the affairs of a railway company which--
Page 2/8
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Railway Companies (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1951
(a)
has prejudicially affected the convenience of persons using the railway administered by the railway company, or
(b)
has caused serious dislocation in any trade or industry using the railway, or
(c)
has caused serious unemployment amongst a section of the community, or when, in the opinion of the Central
Government, it is necessary in the national interest the Central Government may, by notified order, apply the provisions
of this Act to the railway company and appoint as many persons as it thinks fit to be directors of the railway company for
the purpose of taking over its management and administration.
(2)
The power to appoint directors under this section includes the power to appoint any individual, firm or company to be the
managing agent of the railway company on such terms and conditions as to the Central Government may seem fit.
The Act comes into force in Pondicherry on 1.10.1963 vide Reg. 7 of 1963, Section 3 and Sch. I.
4.
Effect of notified order appointing directors or managing agents.
On the issue of a notified order under section 3,--
(a)
all persons holding office as directors of the railway company immediately before the issue of the notified order shall be
deemed to have vacated their offices as such;
(b)
any contract of management between the railway company and any managing agent thereof holding office as such
immediately before the issue of the notified order shall be deemed to have terminated;
(c)
the managing agent, if any, appointed under this Act shall be deemed to have been duly appointed in pursuance of the
Companies Act and the memorandum and articles of association of the railway company, and the provisions of the
Companies Act and of the memorandum and articles shall, subject to the other provisions contained in this Act, apply
accordingly, but no such managing agent shall be removed from office except with the previous consent of the Central
Government;
(d)
the directors shall take such steps as may be necessary to take into their custody or under their control all the property,
effects and actionable claims to which the railway company is, or appears to be, entitled, and all the property and effects
of the railway company shall be deemed to be in the custody of the directors as from the date of the notified order;
(e)
the directors shall be for all purposes the directors of the railway company duly constituted under the Companies Act,
and shall alone be entitled to exercise all the powers of the directors of the railway company, whether such powers are
derived from the Companies Act or from the memorandum or articles of association of the railway company or from any
other source.
5.
Powers and duties of directors.
(1)
Subject to the control of the Central Government, the directors shall take such steps as may be necessary for the
purpose of efficiently managing the business of the railway company and, in particular, the directors shall have power,
notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act or in the memorandum or articles of association of the railway
company,--
(a)
to choose one of their number to be the chairman, and to delegate to him or to any one or more of the directors all or
any of their powers;
(b)
with the previous approval of the Central Government and subject to such conditions as that Government may think fit to
impose, to raise funds in such manner and offer such security therefor as they think fit;
(c)
Page 3/8
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Railway Companies (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1951
to carry out such repairs as may be necessary in respect of any machinery, rolling-stock, buildings, works or other
property in their custody;
(d)
to do all acts necessary for making, maintaining, altering or repairing and using the railway of the railway company;
(e)
to employ such persons as may be necessary for enabling them to efficiently discharge their duties, and define the
conditions of service of such employees.
(2)
The directors may, with the previous sanction of the Central Government, cancel or vary, either unconditionally or
subject to such conditions as they think fit to impose, any contract or agreement entered into between the railway
company and any other person at any time before the issue of the notified order under section 3, if such contract or
agreement had been entered into in bad faith and is detrimental to the interests of the railway company.
6.
Statement of affairs to be made to directors.
(1)
On the issue of a notified order under section 3, there shall be made out and submitted to the directors a statement as to
the affairs of the railway company, verified by affidavit and containing the following particulars, namely:--
(a)
the assets of the railway company, stating separately the cash balance in hand and at the bank, if any;
(b)
the debts and liabilities;
(c)
the names, residences and occupations of the creditors, stating separately the amount of secured debts and unsecured
debts and, in the case of secured debts, the particulars of the securities, their value and the dates when they were
given;
(d)
the debts due to the railway company and the names, residences and occupations of the persons from whom they are
due and the amount likely to be realised therefrom;
(e)
such other particulars as may be prescribed.
(2)
The statement shall be submitted by one or more of the persons who was or were holding office as a director or as
directors of the railway company immediately before the issue of the notified order under section 3 or by the secretary,
manager or other chief officer of the railway company who was holding office as such before the issue of the notified
order as the directors may require in each case, and the statement shall be submitted within such time as may be so
required.
(3)
If any person, without any reasonable excuse, knowingly and wilfully makes default in complying with the requirements
of this section, he shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three months, or with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees, or with both.
7.
Statements by beneficial owners of shares of railway company.
Any person who has any interest in any share of the railway company which stands in the name of another person in the
register of shareholders of the railway company shall, within such period as may be specified by the Central
Government by notified order, make a declaration in such form as may be prescribed (which shall be countersigned by
the person in whose name the share is registered) to the railway company declaring his interest in the share, and
notwithstanding anything contained in any other law or in any contract to the contrary, a person who fails to make a
declaration as aforesaid in respect of any share shall be deemed to have no right or title whatsoever in or to that share:
Provided that nothing in this section shall affect the right of any person who has an interest in any such share to
establish in a Court his right thereto if the person in whose name the share is registered refuses to sign that declaration
as required by this section.
Page 4/8
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Railway Companies (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1951
8.
Power of directors to institute proceedings against past directors, etc., for damages.
(1)
The directors may, if they are satisfied that it is necessary in the interests of the railway company or in the public interest
so to do, institute in the name of the railway company such proceedings as they think fit for the recovery of damages for
any fraud, misfeasance or other misconduct in connection with the management of the affairs of the railway company
committed by any person before the issue of the notified order under section 3 or for the recovery of any property of the
railway company which has been misapplied or wrongfully retained by any person.
(2)
No director shall be personally liable for any costs or expenses incurred in connection with any proceedings instituted by
virtue of this section.
9.
Penalties.
If any person wilfully destroys or fails to deliver to the directors when required any books of account, registers or any
other documents in his custody relating to the business of the railway company or retains any property of the railway
company, he shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
one thousand rupees, or with both.
10.
Filling up of vacancies among directors.
(1)
Casual vacancies occurring in the body of directors, whether caused by death, resignation or otherwise, shall be filled by
nomination by the Central Government.
(2)
No act of the directors shall be called in question on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy among the
directors or any defect in the appointment of any of them.
11.
No right to compensation for termination of contract of managing agent or any other contract.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act or in any other law for the time being in force, no managing
agent shall be entitled to any compensation for the premature termination under this Act of any contract of management
entered into by him with the railway company, and no person shall be entitled to compensation in respect of the
cancellation or variation under this Act of any other contract or agreement.
(2)
Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall affect the right of any such managing agent or person to recover from the
railway company moneys recoverable otherwise than by way of such compensation.
12.
Cancellation of appointment of directors.
(1)
If at any time it appears to the Central Government that the purpose of the notified order appointing the directors has
been fulfilled or that for any other reason it is unnecessary that the notified order should remain in force, the Central
Government may, by notified order, cancel the appointment of directors made under this Act.
(2)
On the cancellation of any such appointment as is referred to in sub-section (1), the Central Government may--
(a)
direct that all the property, effects and actionable claims of the railway company shall revest in the persons in whom they
were vested before the issue of the notified order under section 3; or
(b)
reconstitute by fresh appointment a new body of persons to take charge of the management and administration of the
whole affairs of the railway company, whether as directors or managers or in any other capacity:
Provided that no such direction or fresh appointment shall be made except in pursuance of a resolution passed by the
shareholders of the railway company at a meeting called for the purpose by the directors appointed under section 3.
Page 5/8
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Railway Companies (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1951
(3)
The Central Government may, at any time before the issue of the notified order under sub-section (1), take such action
as may be necessary under clause (b) of sub-section (2) for the purpose of making any fresh appointments.
13.
Application of the Companies Act.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act or in the memorandum or articles of association of the railway
company, but subject to the other provisions contained in this Act,--
(a)
it shall not be lawful for the shareholders of the railway company or any other person to nominate or appoint any person
to be a director of the railway company;
(b)
no resolution passed at any meeting of the shareholders of the railway company shall be given effect to unless approved
by the Central Government;
(c)
no proceeding for the winding-up of the railway company or for the appointment of a receiver in respect thereof shall lie
in any Court, unless by or with the sanction of the Central Government.
(2)
Subject to the provisions contained in sub-section (1) and to the other provisions contained in this Act and subject to
such exceptions, restrictions and limitations as the Central Government may by notified order specify, the Companies
Act shall continue to apply to the railway company in the same manner as it applied thereto before the issue of the
notified order under section 3.
14.
Effect of Act on other laws.
The provisions of this Act and of any notified order made thereunder shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith in any other law for the time being in force or in the memorandum or articles of association of the
railway company or in any other instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act, but save as aforesaid
the provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other law for the time being applicable to
the railway company.
15.
Directors to be public servants.
Every director appointed under section 3 shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the
Indian Penal Code. (45 of 1860)
16.
Delegation of powers.
The Central Government may, by notified order, direct that all or any of the powers exercisable by it under this Act,
except the powers given to it under section 3 to apply the provisions of this Act to any railway company or the powers
given to it under section 12 or section 18, may be exercised by any State Government, and where any powers are so
delegated, they shall be exercised subject to such directions as the Central Government may issue from time to time.
17.
Protection of action taken under Act.
(1)
No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any director in respect of anything which is in good faith
done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act.
(2)
No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central Government or any State Government or any director for
any damage caused or likely to be caused by anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance
of this Act.
18.
Power of Central Government to acquire railway of railway company.
(1)
Page 6/8
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Railway Companies (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1951
Where under any instrument, having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act or by virtue of an agreement arrived at
between the parties, provision is made for the purchase by a person or local authority or the State Government of a
railway which is the property of a railway company on payment of the value thereof calculated in the manner and subject
to the conditions specified in the instrument, the Central Government shall also have the same right to purchase the
railway on the same terms and subject to the same conditions as the person, local authority or the State Government
has under the instrument.
(2)
If in respect of any railway the Central Government exercises its right of purchase under this section, any person, local
authority or State Government, in whom or in which a similar right is vested under the instrument, shall be deemed to
have become disentitled to exercise the same.
19.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The Central Government may by notified order, make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, any rules made under sub-section (1) may
provide for- -
(a)
the manner in which or the conditions subject to which the directors or managing agents of a railway company may
exercise their powers under this Act;
(b)
the additional particulars which a statement under section 6 should contain;
(c)
the form in which a declaration under section 7 may be made;
(d)
the appointment of a Railway Local Advisory Committee;
(e)
the manner in which books of account shall be maintained by the directors and audited;
(f)
the submission of specified or periodical returns and reports by the directors to any specified authority in connection with
the affairs of the railway company;
(g)
the conduct of business of the directors appointed by notified order and for the recruitment and employment of officers
and staff.
(3)
[ Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament,
while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the year session or the successive
sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should
not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done
under that rule.]
[Inserted by Act 4 of 1986, Section 2 and Sch. (w.e.f. 15.5.1986). ]
20.
Repeal of Ordinance 2 of 1951.
The Railway Companies (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance, 1951 (2 of 1951.) is hereby repealed:
Provided that the repeal shall not affect--
(a)
the previous operation of the said Ordinance, or
(b)
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against the said Ordinance, or
Page 7/8
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Railway Companies (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1951
(c)
any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment, and any such
investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced, and any such penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been passed:
Provided further that, subject to the preceding proviso, anything done or any action taken (including any notified order
issued, appointment made or direction given under the said Ordinance) shall be deemed to have been done or taken
under the corresponding provision of this Act and shall continue in force accordingly, unless and until superseded by
anything done or any action taken under this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 8/8