
----- PAGE 1 -----
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/172941926/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
UNION OF INDIA
India
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
Rule PRESIDENTIAL-AND-VICE-PRESIDENTIAL-ELECTIONS-RULES-1952 of 1952
Published on 20 March 1952
Commenced on 20 March 1952
[This is the version of this document from 20 March 1952.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extraordinary, 1952, Part 2, Section 3
1594.
S.R.O. 527, dated the 20th March, 1952.- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 21 of the Presidential and
Vice-Presidential Elections Act, 1952 (
31 of 1952
), the Central Government, after consulting the Election Commission, hereby makes the following rules :
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title.-
Page 1/13
----- PAGE 2 -----
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
These rules may be called the Presidential and Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952.
2.
Definitions.-
In these rules
(a)
"Form" means a Form annexed to these rules;
(b)
"section" means a section of the Act;
(c)
"the Act" means the Presidential and Vice-Presidential Elections Act, 1952.
Chapter II
Nomination Of Candidates
3.
Notice of intended election.-
On the issue of a notification under sub-section (1) of Section 4, the Returning Officer for the election shall give public
notice of the intended election in Form I, and cause it to be published in such manner, in such language or languages
and in such places as the Election Commission may direct.
4.
Presentation of nomination papers.-
(1)
On or before the date appointed under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 4, each candidate shall, either in person
or by his proposer or seconder, between the hours of eleven in the forenoon and three in the afternoon, deliver to the
Returning Officer at the place specified in this behalf in the public notice a nomination paper completed in Form 2 in the
case of a Presidential election, and in Form 3 in the case of a Vice-Presidential election, together with a certified copy of
the entry relating to the candidate in the electoral roll for the Parliamentary constituency in which he is registered.
(2)
Any nomination paper which is not received before three o'clock in the afternoon on the last date appointed under clause
(a) of sub-section (1) of Section 4 or to which the certified copy referred to in sub-rule (1) of this rule is not attached shall
be rejected.
(3)
No elector shall subscribe, whether as proposer or as seconder, more than one nomination paper at any election.
(4)
Nothing in this rule shall prevent any candidate from being nominated by more than one nomination paper for the same
election.
5.
Procedure on receipt of nomination papers.-
On the presentation of a nomination paper, the Returning Officer shall
(a)
sign thereon a certificate stating the date and time of presentation of the nomination paper and enter thereon its serial
number;
(b)
inform the person or persons presenting the nomination paper of the date, time and place fixed of the scrutiny of
nominations; and
(c)
cause to be affixed in some conspicuous place in his office a copy of the nomination paper as certified and numbered
under clause (a) of this rule.
6.
Scrutiny of nominations.-
(1)
The candidates, one proposer and one seconder of each candidate, and one other person duly authorised in writing by
each candidate, shall be entitled to be present at the time of scrutiny of nominations; and the Returning Officer shall give
Page 2/13
----- PAGE 3 -----
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
them all reasonable facilities for examining the nomination papers of all candidates which have been delivered within the
time and in the manner laid down in rule 4.
(2)
The Returning Officer shall then examine the nomination papers and decide all objections which may be made to any of
them.
(3)
The Returning Officer may, either on such objection or on his own motion, and after such summary inquiry, if any, as he
thinks necessary, reject a nomination paper on any of the following grounds, namely:
(a)
that the candidate is not eligible for election as President or Vice-President, as the case may be, under the Constitution;
or
(b)
that the proposer or seconder is not qualified to subscribe a nomination paper under sub-section (2) of Section 5; or
(c)
that the signature of the candidate,proposer or seconder is not genuine or has been obtained by fraud ; or
(d)
that the nomination paper has not been duly completed and the defect or irregularity is of a substantial character; or
(e)
that the proposer or seconder has subscribed, whether as proposer or seconder, another nomination paper received
earlier by the Returning Officer at the same election.
(4)
The Returning Officer shall hold the scrutiny on the date appointed in this behalf under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of
Section 4 and shallnot allow any adjournment of the proceedings except when such proceedings are interrupted or
obstructed by riot or open violence or by causes beyond his control:
Provided that, in case an objection is made, the candidate concerned shall, if he so requires, be allowed time to rebut it
not later than the next day but one following the date fixed for scrutiny, and the Returning Officer shall record his
decision on the date on which the proceedings have been adjourned.
(5)
The Returning Officer shall endorse on each nomination paper his decision either accepting or rejecting it and if the
nomination paper is rejected, he shall record in writing a brief statement of his reasons for rejecting it.
7.
Notice of withdrawal of candidature.-
(1)
A notice of withdrawal of candidature under sub-section (1) of Section 6 shall be in Form 4.
(2)
On receipt of such notice, the Returning Officer shall not thereon the date on which and the hour at which it was
delivered, and cause a copy thereof, together with the note, to be affixed in some conspicuous place in his office.
8.
Publication of nominations.-
In every case in which a poll is to be taken under clause (b) of Section 8, the Returning Officer shall, immediately after
the expiry of the period within which candidature may be withdrawn under sub-section (1) of Section 6,
(a)
prepare in Form 5 a list of valid nominations containing the names in alphabetical order and addresses of the validly
nominated candidates as given in the nomination papers;
(b)
cause the list to be published in the Gazette of India and in such other manner as the Election Commission may direct;
and
(c)
cause a copy of the list to be affixed in some conspicuous place in his office.
Chapter III
The Poll
Page 3/13
----- PAGE 4 -----
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
9.
Fixing place and time of polling for Presidential election.- At every Presidential election where a poll is to be taken, the
Election Commission shall
(a)
fix a place of polling in the Parliament House in New Delhi, and also in the premises in each state in which the
Legislative Assembly, if any, of the State meets for the transaction of business;
(b)
specify with reference to each such place or polling the group of electors who will be entitled to vote, and the hours
during which the poll will be taken, at such place; and
(c)
give due publicity to the places so fixed and the groups of electors and the hours so specified.
10.
[ Fixing place and time of polling for Vice-Presidential election.-
[Substituted by S.O. 796, dated 15.3.1962]
At every Vice-Presidential election where a poll is to be taken, the Election Commission shall-
(a)
fix a place of polling in the Parliament House in New Delhi;
(b)
specify the hours during which the poll will be taken; and
(c)
give due publicity to the place so fixed and the hours so specified.]
11.
Presiding and polling officers.-
(1)
The Returning Officer or such Assistant Returning Officer as may be specified in this behalf by the Election Commission
shall conduct the poll at each place of polling. Every such officer is hereinafter referred to as the presiding officer.
(2)
The presiding officer may appoint such polling officer or officers as he thinks necessary to assist him in taking the poll,
but he shall not so appoint any person who has been employed by, or on behalf of, or has been working for, a candidate
in or about the election.
12.
Ballot Papers.-
(1)
Every presiding officer shall be supplied with a sufficient number of ballot papers specially prepared for the election by
the Election Commission.
(2)
The names of the candidates shall be printed on the ballot paper in the same order as in the list of valid nominations
published under rule 8.
13.
Ballot boxes.-
Every ballot box used at the poll shall be of a design previously approved by the Election Commission.
14.
Procedure before the commencement of poll.-
(1)
The presiding officer shall, immediately before the commencement of the poll, allow inspection of the ballot box to be
used at the poll to such candidates and authorised representatives of candidates as may be present at the place of
polling.
(2)
The presiding officer shall then secure and seal the box in such manner that the slit for the insertion of ballot papers
remains open, and shall also allow such candidates and authorised representatives of candidates as may be present to
affix their own seals, if they so desire.
Page 4/13
----- PAGE 5 -----
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
15.
Admission to the place of polling.-
(1)
The presiding officer shall exclude from the place of polling all persons except
(a)
the polling officers and other public servants on duty;
(b)
the candidates and one representative authorised in writing by each candidate;
(c)
the electors ; and
(d)
such other persons as the presiding officer may from time to time admit for the purpose of assisting him in taking the
poll.
(2)
The presiding officer shall close the place of polling at the hour fixed under clause (b) of rule 9 or, as the case may be,
under [clause (b) of rule 10]
[Substituted by S.O. 769, dated 15.3.1962]
, for the close of the poll [* * * *]
[Omitted by S.O. 769, dated 15.3.1962]
and shall not admit therein any elector after that hour:
Provided that all electors present at the place before it is so closed shall be entitled to have their votes recorded.
16.
Procedure for giving ballot papers.-
The polling officer shall be furnished with an authentic list or part thereof of the electors entitled to vote at the place of
polling.
(2)
Immediately before a ballot paper is delivered to an elector, a mark shall be placed against his name in that list, and the
number of the elector as shown in that list shall be entered on the counterfoil of the ballot paper.
(3)
The elector shall sign his name in the list in token of receipt of the ballot paper, whereupon, but not earlier, the ballot
paper shall be delivered to him.
17.
Supply of fresh ballot paper in certain circumstances.-
(1)
An elector who has inadvertently dealt with his ballot paper in such a manner that it cannot be conveniently used as a
ballot paper may, on delivering it to the presiding officer and on satisfying him of the inadvertence, obtain another ballot
paper in place of the ballot paper so delivered, and the latter shall, together with its counterfoil, be marked as cancelled
by the presiding officer.
(2)
Any ballot papers so cancelled shall be kept in a separate envelope set apart for the purpose.
18.
Return of unused ballot papers by electors.-
If an elector after obtaining any ballot paper for the purpose of recording his vote decides not to use the same, he shall
return the ballot paper to the presiding officer, who shall mark it "Returned and cancelled" and keep it in a separate
envelope set apart for the purpose.
19.
Manner of recording votes.-
(1)
Every elector shall have as many preferences as there are candidates, but no ballot paper shall be considered invalid
solely on the ground that all such preferences are not marked.
(2)
Page 5/13
----- PAGE 6 -----
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
An elector in giving his vote
(a)
shall place on his ballot paper the figure I in the space opposite the name of the candidate whom the chooses for his first
preference; and
(b)
may, in addition, mark as many subsequent preferences as he wishes by placing on his ballot paper the figures 2,3,4
and so on, in the spaces opposite the names of other candidates in order of preference.
(3)
The presiding officer shall, if requested by an elector, explain to him the instructions contained on the ballot paper for the
recording of votes.
20.
Sealing up of ballot boxes and papers after the close of poll.-
(1)
As soon as practicable after the close of poll the presiding officer shall, in the presence of such candidates and
authorised representatives of candidates as may by present, close and seal up the slit as well as the ballot box.
(2)
He shall also make up into separate packets
(a)
the copy of the list of electors marked in accordance with rule 16;
(b)
the counterfoils of ballot papers;
(c)
the ballot papers cancelled under rules 17 and 18; and
(d)
the unused ballot papers,
and seal each such packet with his own seal and the seals of those candidates and authorised representatives of
candidates who may desire to affix their seal thereon.
[20-A. Transfer of ballot papers from ballot boxes in certain cases.-
[Inserted by S.R.O. 1005-C, dated 29.3.1957]
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 20, the Election Commission may, at a Presidential election, direct the
presiding officer at any place of polling other than the Parliament House in New Delhi to follow after the close of the poll
the procedure laid down in this rule instead of the procedure laid down in sub-rule (1) of rule 20.
(2)
Where a direction has been issued under sub-rule (1), the presiding officer shall, as soon as practicable after the close
of the poll, open the ballot box in the presence of such candidates and authorised representatives of candidates as may
be present and transfer all the ballot papers contained in it without examining or counting them into a separate cover
and record on such cover
(a)
the name of the place of polling, and
(b)
the date of the poll.
(3)
After such transfer he shall allow the candidates and their authorised representatives who may be present, to inspect the
ballot box and demonstrate to them that it is empty.
(4)
He shall then seal the cover with his own seal and the seals of those candidates and authorised representatives of
candidates who may desire to affix their seals thereon.
(5)
The cover so sealed shall, for the purposes of rules 21, 23,29 and 30 be deemed to be the ballot box used at that place
of polling and the provisions of those rules shall apply accordingly.]
Page 6/13
----- PAGE 7 -----
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
21.
Despatch and custody of ballot boxes and papers.-
(1)
At a Presidential election, the presiding officer at every place of polling other than the Parliament House in New Delhi
shall forthwith cause the sealed ballot box and packets and all other papers used at the poll to be sent to the Returning
Officer in accordance with such general or special instructions as may be issued in that behalf by the Election
Commission.
(2)
The Returning Officer shall make adequate arrangements for the safe custody of all sealed ballot boxes and packets
and other papers used at the poll, until the commencement of the counting of votes.
22.
Adjournment of poll in emergencies.-
(1)
If the proceedings at any place of polling are interrupted or obstructed by riot or open violence, or if it is not possible to
take the poll at any such place on account of a natural calamity or other sufficient causes, the presiding officer shall
announce an adjournment of the poll to a date to be notified later, and immediately report the circumstances to the
Election Commission and, unless he is the Returning Officer, also to the Returning Officer.
(2)
Whenever a poll is adjourned under sub-rule (1), the Election Commission shall, as soon as may be, fix the day on
which, the place at which, and the hours during which the adjourned poll shall be taken, and shall notify the said details
to all concerned in such manner as it may think fit.
(3)
On the date on which such adjourned poll is taken, the electors who have already voted at the poll before its
adjournment will not be entitled to vote, but only the remaining electors who were entitled to vote at the place of polling
before its adjournment may vote.
23.
Fresh poll in case of destruction, etc., of ballot boxes.-
(1)
If at an election, any ballot box is unlawfully taken away from the custody of the officer-in-charge thereof or is in any way
tampered with, destroyed or lost, only the poll taken at the place of polling where that ballot box was used shall be
deemed to have been vitiated; and Returning Officer shall, as soon as practicable, report the matter to the Election
Commission, which shall appoint a day for the taking of a fresh poll at that place and fix the hours during which it will be
taken.
(2)
In every such case as aforesaid, the provisions of these rules shall apply to the fresh poll as they apply to the original
poll.
24.
Voting by electors under preventive detention.-
(1)
Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions of this Chapter, an elector [* * *]
[Omitted by S.O. 796, dated 15.3.1962]
may, if he is subjected to preventive detention under any law for the time being in force, give his vote by postal ballot.
(2)
The Election Commission shall send by registered post to the officer in charge of the jail or other place where [the
elector]
[Substituted by S.O. 796, dated 15.3.1962]
is detained the appropriate ballot paper, together with a form of declaration of identity and attestation of signature and
necessary envelopes specially prepared for the purpose and a letter of instructions, so as to reach that officer in good
time before the date fixed for polling.
(3)
On the date of polling the said officer shall deliver the ballot paper and other necessary papers to the elector, allow him
Page 7/13
----- PAGE 8 -----
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
all reasonable facilities and sufficient time, not exceeding two hours, for recording his vote in accordance with the
instructions of the Election Commission, and if and when the elector has so recorded his vote, send the ballot paper and
other connected papers in a sealed cover, either by registered post or through a special messenger, to the Returning
Officer so as to reach him before the time fixed for the counting of votes under rule 25.
(4)
It shall be the duty of every Government to intimate to the Election Commission at the appropriate time the names of
electors, if any, who are subjected to preventive detention by or under the authority of that Government, together with
necessary particulars as to their places of detention.
Chapter IV
Counting Of Votes And Declaration Of Results
25.
Place and time for counting of votes.-
The counting of votes shall take place at the office of the Returning Officer in New Delhi on scuh day and at such time
as the Election Commission may appoint in this behalf; and the Election Commission shall give notice to all the
candidates of the date and time so appointed.
26.
Reading of section 22.-
Before the counting begins, the Returning Officer shall read the provisions of Section 22 to the persons present.
27.
Statement showing the number of votes of each elector at the Presidential election.-
For the purposes of every Presidential election, the Election Commission shall furnish the Returning Officer with a
statement showing the number of votes which every elector has under the provisions of clause (2) of Article 55; and
every valid ballot paper put in by an elector at that election shall be deemed to represent as many votes as that elector
is shown as having in that statement.
28.
Ballot papers when invalid.-
(1)
A ballot paper shall be invalid on which-
(a)
the figure 1 is not marked; or
(b)
the figure 1 is marked opposite the name of more than one candidate or is so marked as to render it doubtful to which
candidate it is intended to apply; or
(c)
the figure 1 and some other figure are marked opposite the name of the same candidate ; or
(d)
any mark is made by which the elector may afterwards be identified.
(2)
A ballot paper shall also be invalid if, being a postal ballot paper, the signature of the elector is not duly attested.
29.
Procedure upon opening each ballot box.-
After each ballot box, and [* * *]
[Omitted by S.O. 796, dated 15.3.1962]
also each sealed cover (if any) received under sub-rule (3) of rule 24, has been opened, the Returning Officer shall
(a)
count the number of ballot papers taken out therefrom and record it in a statement;
(b)
scrutinise the ballot papers and separate those which in his opinion are valid from those which in his opinion are invalid,
endorsing on the latter the word "rejected" and the ground of rejection; and
(c)
arrange all the valid ballot papers in parcels according to the first preferences recorded for each candidate.
Page 8/13
----- PAGE 9 -----
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
30.
Determination of result.-
After all the ballot boxes and sealed covers (if any) have been opened and the ballot papers have been scrutinised and
arranged, the Returning Officer shall proceed to determine the result of the voting in accordance with the instructions
contained in the Schedule to these Rules.
31.
Recounting.-
The Returning Officer may, either on his own initiative or at the instance of any candidate or of the authorised
representative of a candidate in the absence of that candidate, recount votes, whether once or more than once, when
the Returning Officer is not satisfied as to the accuracy of a previous count:
Provided that nothing herein contained shall make it obligatry on the Returning Officer to recount the same votes more
than once.
32.
Declaration of result.-
(1)
When the counting is complete and the result of the voting has been determined, the Returning Officer shall forthwith
(a)
announce the result to those present;
(b)
report the result to the Central Government and the Election Commission under section 12;
(c)
prepare and certify a return of the election in Form 6: and
(d)
seal up in separate packets the valid ballot papers and the rejected ballot papers and record on each such packet a
description of its contents.
(2)
The Returning Officer shall, as soon as may be thereafter, forward the certified return to the Election Commission.
Chapter V
Miscellaneous
33.
Custody of ballot boxes and election papers.-
All ballot boxes used at the election and the packets of ballot and all other papers relating to the election shall, after the
election, be kept in such custody as the Election Commission may direct.
34.
Production and inspection of election papers.-
(1)
The packets of ballot papers, whether valid or rejected, and their counterfoils and the packets containing the lists of
electors marked in accordance with rule 16 shall not be opened, nor shall their contents be inspected by, or produced
before, any person or authority, except under the order of the Supreme Court or other competent court.
(2)
All other papers relating to the election shall be opened to public inspection subject to such conditions and to the
payment of such fee, if any, as the Election Commission, may direct.
35.
Disposal of election papers.-
The packets and other papers referred to in rule 34 shall be retained for a period of two years from the date of
declaration of the result of the election, and shall thereafter be destroyed unless a direction to the contrary is given by
the Supreme Court or other competent court or by the Election Commission.
36.
Copies of return of election.-
Copies of the certified return of the election referred to in rule 32 shall be furnished by the Election Commission on
payment of a fee of one rupee per copy.
Page 9/13
----- PAGE 10 -----
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
37.
[ List of electors.-
[Substituted by S.O. 796, dated 15.3.1962]
The Election Commission shall maintain a list of members of the electoral college referred to in Article 54 and a list of
members of the electoral college referred to in Article 66, with their addresses corrected up to date for the purposes,
respectively, of Presidential elections and Vice-Presidential elections].
FORM 1
(See Rule 3)
Public Notice Of
Election To The Office Of| Presidentvice-President| Of India
Whereas a notification under sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the Presidential and Vice-presidential Elections Act, 1952,
for the holding of an election to fill the office of President/ Vice-President of India has been issued, I ............................
the Returning Officer for such election, do hereby give notice that
(i)
nomination papers may be delivered to the undersigned at his office in .............. New Delhi, or, if he is unavoidably
absent, to ............................ at the said office between 11 A.M. and 3 P.M. on any day not later than the .............
(ii)
forms of nomination paper may be obtained from the said office during office hours on any working day;
(iii)
the scrutiny of nomination papers will take place at the said office on ...............(date) at ..................(hours).
(Signature)
.....................
(Designation)
...................
NEW DELHI,
Dated the ....................
FORM 2
[See Rule 4 (1)]
Nomination Paper
Election to the office of the President of India
We hereby nominate .......................(Full name and address of candidate) as a candidate for election to the office of the
President of India.
We have verified, and do hereby declare, that the said candidate has completed the age of 35 years and is registered in
the electoral roll of the Parliamentary constituency of ............................... in the State of.................... A certified copy of
the entry in that electoral roll relating to the said candidate is attached.
We further declare that both of us are members of the electoral college referred to in Article 54 of the Constitution, the
proposer being an elected member of the House of the people/Council of States/Legislative Assembly from/of
..................... and the seconder being an elected member of the House of the people/Council of States/Legislative
Assembly............
Signature of Proposer
Date .............
Signature of Seconder
Date .............
I assent to this nomination.
Signature of candidate.
Date ..................
FORM 3
[See Rule 4(1)]
Nomination Paper
Election to the office of the Vice-President of India
We, the undersigned Members of Parliament, hereby nominate ............. (Full name and address of candidate) as a
Page 10/13
----- PAGE 11 -----
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
candidate for election to the office of the Vice-President of India.
We have verified, and do hereby declare, that the said candidate has completed the age of 35 years and is registered in
the electoral roll in the Parliamentary constituency of ................................. in the State of .................................. A
certified copy of the entry in that electoral roll relating to the said candidate is attached.
Signature of Proposer
Date ....................
Signature of Seconder
Date ....................
I assent to this nomination.
Signature of candidate
Date ...................
FORM 4
[See Rule 7 (1)]
Notice Of Wiihdrawal
To
The Returning Officer for
the Election To The Office Of| Presidentvice-President| Of India
I . .............. of .............. a candidate at the above mentioned election do hereby give notice that I withdraw my
candidature.
Place ............
Date .............
Signature of candidate.
FORM 5
[See Rule 8 (a)]
List Of Valid Nominations
Election To The Office Of| Presidentvice-President| Of India
Final list of candidates:-
1. ...............
2. ...............
3. ...............
4. ...............
Place...............
Date ...............
Returning Officer
FORM 6
[See Rule 32(1)(c)]
Return Of Election To The Office Of The President/vice-President Of India
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
Serial No.
Name of Candidate
Votes secured at first count
Page 11/13
----- PAGE 12 -----
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
Votes credited at first exclusion
Total of Column 3 and 4
Votes credited at second exclusion
Total of column 6 and 7
Votes credited at third exclusion
Total of third exclusion
Votes credited at fourth exclusion
Total of columns 9 and 10
Exhausted Votes
Total
Schedule
Rule 30
Instructions for the Determination of Result
1. In this Schedule
(1)
the expression "continuing candidate" means any candidate not elected and not excluded from the poll at any given
time;
(2)
the expression "first preference" means the figure 1 set opposite the name of any candidate, the expression "second
preference" similarly means the figure 2, the expression "third preference" the figure 3, and so on;
(3)
the expression "next available preference" means the second or subsequent preference recorded in consecutive
numerical order for a continuing candidate, preferences for candidates already excluded being ignored;
(4)
the expression "unexhausted paper" means a ballot paper on which a further preference is recorded for a continuing
candidate;
(5)
the expression "exhausted paper" means a ballot paper on which no further preference is recorded for a continuing
candidate, provided that a paper shall be deemed to be exhausted in any casein which
(a)
the names of two or more candidates whether continuing or not are marked with the same figure, and are next in order
of preference; or
(b)
the name of the candidate next in order of preference, whether continuing or not, is marked by a figure not following
consecutively after some other figure on the ballot paper or by two or more figures.
2. Every ballot paper represents at each count
(a)
in a Presidential election, the number of votes as determined under Rule 27, and
(b)
in a Vice-Presidential election, one vote.
3. Ascertain the number of first preference votes secured by each candidate and credit him with that number.
4. Add up the numbers so credited to all the candidates, divide the total by two, and add one to the quotient disregarding
any remainder; The resulting number is the quota sufficient to secure the return of a candidate at the election.
5. If at the end of the first or any subsequent count, the total number of votes credited to any candidate is equal to, or
greater than, the quota, or there is only one continuing candidate, that candidate is declared elected.
6. If at the end of any count, no candidate can be declared elected,
(a)
exclude the candidate who up to that stage has been credited with the lowest number of votes;
(b)
examine all the ballot papers in his parcel and sub-parcels, arrange the unexhausted papers in sub-parcels according to
the next available preferences recorded thereon for the continuing candidates, count the number of votes in each such
Page 12/13
----- PAGE 13 -----
Presidential And Vice-Presidential Elections Rules, 1952
sub-parcel and credit it to the candidate for whom such preference is recorded, transfer the sub-parcel to that candidate,
and make a separate sub-parcel of all the exhausted papers; and
(c)
see whether any of the continuing candidates has, after such transfer and credit, secured the quota.
If, when a candidate has to be excluded under clause (a) above, two or more candidates have been credited with the
same number of votes and stand lowest on the poll, exclude that candidate who had secured the lowest number of first
preference votes, and if that number also was the same in the case of two or more candidates, decide by lot which of
them shall be excluded.
All the sub-parcels of exhausted papers referred to in clause (b) above shall be set apart as finally dealt with and the
votes recorded thereon shall not thereafter be taken into account.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 13/13