
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/82079480/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
UNION OF INDIA
India
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Rule RULES-OF-PROCEDURE-AND-CONDUCT-OF-BUSINESS-IN-LOK-SABHA of 1952
Published on 17 April 1952
Commenced on 17 April 1952
[This is the version of this document from 17 April 1952.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Preface
The Constituent Assembly (Legislative) Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in force immediately before the
commencement of the Constitution of India were modified and adopted by the Speaker of Lok Sabha in exercise of the
powers conferred on the Speaker by article 118(2) of the Constitution and published under the title "Rules of Procedure
and Conduct of Business in the House of the People" in the Gazette of India Extraordinary dated the 17th April, 1952.
Those Rules were amended by the Speaker from time to time on the recommendations of the Rules Committee of the
House until September, 1954.
In September, 1954, Rules Committee decided that their recommendations should be approved by the House before
amendments were given effect to. Consequently, the procedure for amendment of the rules as given in rule 306 of the
Fourth Edition (rule 331 of the Present edition) came into force with effect from the 15th October, 1954.
Page 1/115
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
In December, 1956, Rules Committee recommended that the rules contained in the Fourth Edition of the Rules as
amended from time to time might be approved by the House under article 118(1) of the Constitution. The House agreed.
Accordingly, the Fifth Edition of the Rules incorporating the amendments made till 28th March, 1957, was laid on the
Table of Lok Sabha on that day.
During the Third Lok Sabha, the amendments recommended by the Rules Committee and agreed to by the House were
incorporated in the 'March, 1967 Reprint' of the Fifth Edition.
During the Fourth Lok Sabha, the amendments recommended by the Rules Committee and agreed to by the House
were incorporated in the 'March, 1971 Reprint' of the Fifth Edition.
During the Fifth Lok Sabha, certain amendments were recommended by the Rules Committee and agreed to by the
House. Those amendments were incorporated in the Sixth Edition which was brought up-to-date.
During the Sixth and Seventh Lok Sabha, no amendments were made to the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of
Business in Lok Sabha.
During the Eighth Lok Sabha, all the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha were reviewed in depth.
These Rules, which were first adopted in 1952, were never subjected to a systematic review in a comprehensive
manner thereafter. As a result in many matters the actual practice as it had developed over the years was found to be at
variance with the relevant rules as they stood in the Rule Book. In several other cases, matters were being governed
merely by precedents and practices. A comprehensive review of the Rules was, therefore, undertaken with the approval
of the Rules Committee with a view to incorporating therein the procedural changes that had come about. As a
consequence of the review, a large number of amendments/ modifications were necessitated in the rules. These
amendments were considered by the Rules Committee and their second, third and fourth Reports (1989) containing
their recommendations in this regard were laid on the Table of the House on 2 and 3 May, 1989 and 25 July, 1989
respectively. They were later on agreed to by the House. The amendments so made came into force with effect from 9
May and 1 August, 1989 and were incorporated in the Seventh Edition of the Rules brought out in December, 1989.
During the Ninth Lok Sabha, no amendments were made in the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok
Sabha.
During the Tenth Lok Sabha, a full-fledged system of Departmentally Related Standing Committees of Parliament was
created by setting up 17 Standing Committees covering under their jurisdiction all the Ministries/Departments of the
Union Government replacing the existing three Subject Committees. The rules relating to these Committees and other
amendments, as recommended by the Rules Committee and agreed to by the House, were incorporated in the Eighth
Edition of the Rules.
During the Eleventh Lok Sabha, a new Committee on the Empowerment of Women was created. The rules relating to
this Committee and other amendments as recommended by the Rules Committee and agreed to by the House, were
incorporated in the Ninth Edition of the Rules.
During the Twelfth Lok Sabha, no amendments were made in the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok
Sabha.
During the Thirteenth Lok Sabha, a new rule 374A, which was recommended by the Rules Committee and agreed to by
the House was incorporated in the Tenth Edition of the Rules.
A few changes made in the Fifth Schedule to the Rules during the years 2002 and 2004 were incorporated in the March,
2004 Eleventh Edition of the Rules.
During the Fourteenth Lok Sabha, amendments to Rule 72 (2) and 331(D) (1) and also the changes made in the Fifth
Schedule to the Rules as recommended by the Rules Committee and agreed to by the House were incorporated in the
July, 2007, Twelfth Edition of the Rules. The subsequent amendments made in the Fifth Schedule had been
incorporated in the 13th Edition of the Rules.
During the Fifteenth Lok Sabha, amendments to Rules 33, 39, 46, 48, 49, 331A and 349 as recommended by the Rules
Committee in their First Report and agreed to by the House along with changes made in the Fifth Schedule to the Rules
were incorporated in the July, 2010 Fourteenth Edition of the Rules. Thereafter, a reprint of the Fourteenth Edition was
brought out in October, 2013 wherein further amendments to the Fifth Schedule were incorporated.
Subsequently, gender neutral Rules as recommended by the Rules Committee in their Second Report and agreed to by
the House came into force with effect from 13 February, 2014. This Fifteenth Edition of the Rules incorporating the
gender neutral rules is accordingly being brought out.
Certain amendments to rules 160, 164(1), 167 and 169 relating to Petitions, as recommended by the Rules Committee
Page 2/115
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
in their Second Report and agreed to by the House in February, 2014 have also been incorporated in this Edition of the
Rules.
The Members of Lok Sabha (Disqualification on Ground of Defection) Rules, 1985, made by the Speaker, Lok Sabha, in
terms of paragraph 8 of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution which came into force with effect from 18th March, 1986,
have been incorporated as Appendix IV.
Chapter I
Short Title and Definitions
1.
Short Title.
- These rules may be called "the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha".
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Bulletin" means the Bulletin of the House containing (a) a brief record of the proceedings of the House at each of its
sittings; (b) information on any matter relating to or connected with the business of the House or other matter which in
the opinion of the Speaker may be included therein; and (c) information regarding Parliamentary Committees;
(b)
"Constitution" means the Constitution of India;
(c)
"Council" means the Council of States (Rajya Sabha);
(d)
"Finance Minister" includes any Minister;
(e)
"Gazette" means the Gazette of India;
(f)
"House" means the House of the People (Lok Sabha);
(g)
"Houses" means the Council of States (Rajya Sabha) and the House of the People (Lok Sabha);
(h)
"Leader of the House" means the Prime Minister, if Prime Minister is a member of the House, or a Minister who is a
member of the House and is nominated by the Prime Minister to function as the Leader of the House;
(i)
"Lobby" means the covered corridor immediately adjoining the Chamber and coterminous with it;
(j)
"Lok Sabha Secretariat/Secretariat" means and includes the Lok Sabha Secretariat at Delhi and any Camp Office set up
outside Delhi for the time being for, or under the authority of, the Speaker;
(k)
"member" means a member of the House of the People (Lok Sabha);
(l)
"member in charge of the Bill" means the member who has introduced the Bill and any Minister in the case of a
Government Bill;
(m)
"Minister" means a member of the Council of Ministers [and includes a member of the Cabinet]
[Inserted by L.S. Bn. (II) 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
, a Minister of State, a Deputy Minister or a Parliamentary Secretary;
[Explanation.:
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II) 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
- A Parliamentary Secretary who is not a member of the House, is not entitled to attend its sitting.]
(n)
Page 3/115
----- PAGE 4 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
"Parliamentary Committee" means a Committee which is appointed or elected by the House or nominated by the
Speaker and which works under the direction of the Speaker and presents its report to the House or to the Speaker and
the Secretariat for which is provided by the Lok Sabha Secretariat;
(o)
"precincts of the House" means and includes the Chamber, the Lobbies, the Galleries and such other places as the
Speaker may from time to time specify;
(p)
"private member" means a member other than a Minister;
(q)
"Secretary-General" means the Secretary-General to the House of the People (Lok Sabha) and includes any person for
the time being performing the duties of the Secretary- General; and
(r)
"Table" means the Table of the House.
(2)
Words and expressions used in the Constitution and also in these rules shall, unless the context otherwise requires,
have the meanings assigned to them in the Constitution.
Chapter II
Summons to Members, Seating, Oath or Affirmation and Roll of Members
3.
Summons.
- The Secretary-General shall issue a summons to each member specifying the date and place for a session of the
House:
Provided that when a session is called at short notice or emergently, summons may not be issued to each member
separately but an announcement of the date and place of the session shall be published in the Gazette and made in the
press, and members may be informed by telegram.
4.
Seating.
- The members shall sit in such order as the Speaker may determine.
5.
Oath or affirmation.
- A member who has not already made and subscribed an oath or affirmation, in pursuance of article 99 of the
Constitution, may do so at the commencement of a sitting of the House, or at any other time of the sitting of the House,
as the Speaker may direct, on any day after giving previous notice in writing to the Secretary-General.
6.
Roll of Members.
- There shall be a Roll of Members of the House which shall be signed in the presence of the Secretary- General by
every member, before taking one's own seat.
Chapter III
Election of Speaker and Deputy Speaker and Nomination of Panel of Chairpersons
7.
Election of Speaker.
(1)
The election of a Speaker shall be held on such date as the President may fix, and the Secretary- General shall send to
every member notice of this date.
(2)
At any time before noon on the day preceding the date so fixed, any member may give notice in writing, addressed to
the Secretary-General, of a motion that another member be chosen as the Speaker of the House, and the notice shall
be seconded by a third member and shall be accompanied by a statement by the member whose name is proposed in
the notice that the member proposed is willing to serve as Speaker, if elected:
Provided that a member shall not propose one's own name, or second a motion proposing the member's own name, or
propose or second more than one motion.
Page 4/115
----- PAGE 5 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
(3)
[ A member in whose name a motion stands on the list of business shall, unless makes a statement conveying
unwillingness to move the motion, move the motion when called upon to do so.]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) 9-5-1989, para 2930.]
Provided that such statement shall be confined to, conveying the unwillingness, or moving the motion for decision of the
House under sub-rule (4).
(4)
The motions which have been moved and duly seconded shall be put one by one in the order in which they have been
moved, and decided, if necessary, by division. If any motion is carried, the person presiding shall, without putting later
motions, declare that the member proposed in the motion which has been carried, has been chosen as the Speaker of
the House.
8.
Election of Deputy Speaker.
(1)
The election of a Deputy Speaker shall be held on such date as the Speaker may fix, and the Secretary-General shall
send to every member notice of this date.
(2)
At any time before noon on the day preceding the date so fixed, any member may give notice in writing, addressed to
the Secretary-General, of a motion that another member be chosen as the Deputy Speaker of the House and the notice
shall be seconded by a third member and shall be accompanied by a statement by the member whose name is
proposed in the notice that the member proposed is willing to serve as Deputy Speaker, if elected:
Provided that a member shall not propose one's own name, or second a motion proposing the member's own name, or
propose or second more than one motion.
(3)
[ A member in whose name a motion stands on the list of business shall, unless makes a statement conveying
unwillingness to move the motion, move the motion when called upon to do so. In either case the member shall confine
to making of a statement conveying the intention to move or not to move the motion.]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(4)
The motions which have been moved and duly seconded shall be put one by one in the order in which they have been
moved, and decided, if necessary, by division. If any motion is carried, the person presiding shall, without putting later
motions, declare that the member proposed in the motion which has been carried, has been chosen as the Deputy
Speaker of the House.
9.
Nomination of Panel of Chairpersons.
(1)
At the commencement of the House or from time to time, as the case may be, the Speaker shall nominate from amongst
the members a panel of not more than [ten]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 4.8.1993, para 2298.]
Chairpersons, anyone of whom may preside over the House in the absence of the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker
when so requested by the Speaker or, in the absence of the Speaker, by the Deputy Speaker.
(2)
A Chairperson nominated under sub-rule (1) shall hold office until a new panel of Chairpersons is nominated.
10.
Powers of Deputy Speaker or other member presiding.
- The Deputy Speaker or any other member competent to preside over a sitting of the House under the Constitution or
these rules shall, when so presiding, have the same powers as the Speaker when so presiding and all references to the
Speaker in these rules shall in these circumstances be deemed to be references to any such person so presiding.
Powers of Deputy Speaker or other member presiding.
Chapter IV
Sittings of the House
Page 5/115
----- PAGE 6 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
11.
Duly constituted sitting.
- A sitting of the House is duly constituted when it is presided over by the Speaker or any other member competent to
preside over a sitting of the House under the Constitution or these rules.
12.
[ Commencement and conclusion of sitting.
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
- Unless the Speaker otherwise directs, sitting of the House on any day shall ordinarily commence at 11.00 hours and
conclude at 18.00 hours with a lunch break for one hour which may ordinarily be from 13.00 hours to 14.00 hours.]
13.
Days of sittings.
- The House shall sit on such days as the Speaker, having regard to the state of business of the House, may from time
to time direct.
14.
[
*
* ***.]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
15.
Adjournment of House [and procedure for reconvening.]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(1)
The Speaker shall determine the time when a sitting of the House shall be adjourned sine die or to a particular day, or to
an hour or part of the same day:
Provided that the Speaker, if thinks fit, may call a sitting of the House before the date or time to which it has been
adjourned or at any time after the House has been adjourned sine die.
(2)
[ In case the House, after being adjourned is reconvened under proviso to sub-rule (1), the Secretary- General shall
communicate to each member the date, time, place and duration of the next part of the session.]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
Chapter V
President's Address and Messages to The House
16.
Allotment of time for discussion of the Address.
- The Speaker shall, in consultation with the Leader of the House, allot time for the discussion of the matters referred to
in the President's Address to the Houses under article 87(1) of the Constitution.
17.
Scope of discussion.
- On such day or days or part of any day, the House shall be at liberty to discuss the matters referred to in such Address
on a Motion of Thanks moved by a member and seconded by another member.
18.
Amendments.
- Amendments may be moved to such Motion of Thanks in such form as may be considered appropriate by the Speaker.
19.
Other business that may be taken up.
(1)
Notwithstanding that a day has been allotted for discussion on the President's Address, -
(a)
a motion or motions for leave to introduce a Bill or Bills may be made and a Bill or Bills may be introduced on such day;
and
(b)
Page 6/115
----- PAGE 7 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
other business of a formal character may be transacted on such day before the House commences or continues the
discussion on the Address.
(2)
The discussion on the Address may be postponed in favour of a Government Bill or other Government business on a
motion being made that the discussion on the Address be adjourned to a subsequent day to be appointed by the
Speaker. The Speaker shall forthwith put the question, no amendment or debate being allowed.
(3)
The discussion on the Address shall be interrupted in the course of a sitting by an adjournment motion under rule 61.
20.
[Right of reply.]
[Substituted By L.S. Bn. (II), Dated 9.5.1989, Para 2930.]
(1)
The Prime Minister or any other Minister shall, whether previously taken part in the discussion or not, have on behalf of
the Government a general right of explaining the position of the Government at the end of the discussion and the
Speaker may enquire how much time will be required for the speech so that the Speaker may fix the hour by which the
discussion shall conclude.
(2)
[ The mover or the seconder shall not have any right of reply after the Prime Minister or any other Minister has explained
the position of the Government at the end of the discussion.]
[Added By L.S. Bn. (II), Dated 9.5.1989, Para 2930.]
21.
Time limit for speeches.
- The Speaker, if thinks fit, may prescribe a time limit for speeches after taking the sense of the House.
22.
President's Address under art. 86(1).
- The Speaker may allot time for the discussion of the matters referred to in the President's Address under article 86(1)
of the Constitution.
23.
Messages from President.
- The Speaker shall, on receiving a message from the President for the House under clause (2) of article 86 of the
Constitution, read such message to the House and give necessary directions in regard to the procedure that shall be
followed for the consideration of matters referred to in the message. In giving these directions, the Speaker shall be
empowered to suspend or vary the rules to such extent as may be necessary.
24.
President's Address on prorogation.
- The President, on proroguing the House or Houses, may address the House or Houses, as the case may be.
Chapter VI
Arrangement of Business and List of Business
25.
Arrangement of Government business.
- On days allotted for the transaction of Government business, such business shall have precedence and the
Secretary-General, shall arrange that business in such order as the Speaker may, after consultation with the Leader of
the House, determine:
Provided that such order of business shall not be varied on the day that business is set down for disposal unless the
Speaker is satisfied that there is sufficient ground for such variation.
26.
Allotment of time for private members' business.
- The last two and a half hours of a sitting on Friday shall be allotted for the transaction of private members' business:
Provided that the Speaker may allot different Fridays for the disposal of different classes of such business and on
Fridays so allotted for any particular class of business, business of that class shall have precedence:
Provided further that the Speaker may, in consultation with the Leader of the House, allot any day other than a Friday for
Page 7/115
----- PAGE 8 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
the transaction of private members' business:
Provided further that if there is no sitting of the House on a Friday, the Speaker may direct that two and a half hours on
any other day in the week may be allotted for private members' business.
27.
Precedence of private members' Bills.
(1)
On a day allotted for the disposal of private members' Bills, such Bills shall have relative precedence in the following
order, namely: -
(a)
Bills in respect of which the motion is that leave be granted to introduce the Bill;
(b)
Bills returned by the President with a message under article 111 of the Constitution;
(c)
Bills which have been passed by the House and returned by the Council with amendments;
(d)
Bills which have been passed by the Council and transmitted to the House;
(e)
Bills in respect of which a motion has been carried that the Bill be taken into consideration;
(f)
Bills in respect of which the report of a Joint or Select Committee has been presented;
(g)
Bills which have been circulated for the purpose of eliciting opinion thereon;
(h)
Bills introduced and in respect of which no further motion has been made or carried; and
(i)
other Bills.
(2)
The relative precedence of Bills falling under the same clause of sub-rule (1) shall be determined by ballot to be held in
accordance with the orders made by the Speaker and on such day and in such manner as the Speaker may direct:
Provided that the motion in respect of Bills falling under clause (a) of sub-rule (1) shall be entered in the list of business
in the order in which notices of such motions have been received in point of time:
Provided further that Bills falling under clause (h) of sub-rule (1) which are classified by the Committee on Private
Members' Bills and Resolutions as category A shall have precedence over Bills classified as category B, and that the
relative precedence of Bills falling under each of these categories shall be determined by ballot separately:
[Provided further that where the Committee on Private Members' Bills and Resolutions has classified the Bills falling
under clause (h) of sub-rule (1) as category A and number thereof is twenty or more, ballot of category B Bills may not
be held]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
:
Provided further that where the Committee has not classified the Bills falling under clause (h) of sub-rule (1) as category
A and category B, the order in which such Bills shall be put down in the list of business shall be determined by ballot in
accordance with such directions as the Speaker may give.
(3)
The Speaker may, by special order to be announced in the House, make such variations in the relative precedences of
Bills set out in sub-rule (1) as the Speaker may consider necessary or convenient.
28.
Precedence of private members' resolutions.
- [A ballot of names of members desiring to move a resolution shall be held in accordance with orders made by the
Speaker, on such day as the Speaker may direct.]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
29.
Page 8/115
----- PAGE 9 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Private members' business outstanding at end of day.
- Private members' business set down for the day allotted for that class of business and not disposed of on that day shall
not be set down for any subsequent day, unless it has gained priority at the ballot held with reference to that day:
Provided that notwithstanding anything contained in rules 27 and 28 any such business which is under discussion at the
end of that day shall be set down for the next day allotted to business of that class, and shall have precedence over all
other business set down for that day.
30.
Resumption of adjourned debate on private members' Bill or resolution.
(1)
When on a motion being carried the debate on a private member's Bill or resolution is adjourned to the next day allotted
for private members' business in the same or next session, it shall not be set down for further discussion unless it has
gained priority at the ballot.
(2)
When the debate on a private member's Bill or resolution is adjourned sine die and if the member in  charge of the Bill or
as the case may be the mover of the resolution, wishes to proceed with such Bill or resolution on a subsequent day
allotted for private members' business, may give notice for resumption of the adjourned debate and on receipt of such
notice the relative precedence of such Bill or resolution shall be determined by ballot.
31.
List of business.
(1)
A list of business for the day shall be prepared by the Secretary-General, and a copy thereof shall be made available for
the use of every member.
(2)
Save as otherwise provided in these rules, no business not included in the list of business for the day shall be
transacted at any sitting without the permission of the Speaker.
(3)
Save as otherwise provided in these rules, no business requiring notice shall be set down for a day earlier than the day
after that on which the period of the notice necessary for that class of business expires.
(4)
Unless the Speaker otherwise directs, not more than three resolutions (in addition to any resolution which is outstanding
under the proviso to rule 29) shall be set down in the list of business for any day allotted for the disposal of private
members' resolutions.
Chapter VII
Questions
32.
Question hour.
- Unless the Speaker otherwise directs, the first hour of every sitting shall be available for the asking and answering of
questions.
33.
Period of notice.
- Unless the Speaker otherwise directs, [not less than fifteen clear days']
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 19.3.2010, para 1265.]
notice of a question shall be given.
34.
Form of notice.
(1)
Notice of a question shall be given in writing to the Secretary-General and shall specify -
(a)
[ the text of the question;]
[Inserted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(b)
Page 9/115
----- PAGE 10 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
[ the official designation of the Minister to whom the question is addressed;
[Clauses (a) and (b) relettered as (b) and (c) and clause (c) so relettered Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989,
para 2930.]
(c)
the date on which answer to the question is desired; and]
(d)
[ the order of preference, if any, for its being placed on the list of questions, where a member tables more than one
notice of questions for the same day.]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (ii) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(2)
Where a notice is signed by more than one member, it shall be deemed to have been given by the first signatory only.
35.
Notice of admitted questions to Ministers.
- Unless the Speaker otherwise directs, no question shall be placed on the list of questions for answer until five days
have expired from the day when notice of such question was given by the Secretary- General to the Minister to whom it
was addressed.
36.
Starred questions.
- A member who desires an oral answer to one's question shall distinguish it by an asterisk. If the  member does not
distinguish it by an asterisk, the question shall be placed on the list of questions for written answer.
37.
Limit of number of Starred questions.
(1)
Not more than one question distinguished by [an]
[Inserted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
asterisk by the same member and not more than twenty questions in all shall be placed on the list of questions for oral
answer on any one day:
Provided that when a question is postponed or transferred from one list of questions for oral answer to another, more
than one question may stand in the name of one member and the total number of questions may exceed by such
postponed or transferred question.
(2)
[ Unless the Speaker otherwise directs, where a member has given more than one notice of questions distinguished by
an asterisk for same day, the member's question for the list of questions for oral answer shall be selected in the order
indicated by the member and if no such order is indicated, any of these questions shall be placed on the list of questions
for oral answer in the order in which notices are received in point of time.]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
38.
Rotational allotment of days for questions.
- The time available for answering questions shall be allotted on different days in rotation for the answering of questions
relating to such Ministry or  Ministries as the Speaker may, from time to time, provide, and on each such day, unless the
Speaker with the consent of the Minister concerned otherwise directs, only questions relating to the Ministry or Ministries
for which time has been allotted on that day shall be placed on the list of questions for oral answer.
39.
Unstarred questions.
(1)
If a question is not distinguished by an asterisk or if a question placed on the list of questions for oral answer on any day
is not called for answer within the time available for answering questions on that day, [ * * * ]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 19.3.2010, para 1265.]
a written answer to such question shall be deemed to have been laid on the Table at the end of the Question Hour or as
soon as the questions for oral answer have been disposed of, as the case may be, by the Minister to whom the question
is addressed.
Page 10/115
----- PAGE 11 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
[ * * * ]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 19.3.2010, para 1265.]
(2)
[ If there is no Question Hour owing to the cancellation of a sitting or its adjournment without transacting any business,
the answers to questions included in the lists of questions for oral as well as written answer shall be deemed to have
been laid on the Table by the Ministers to whom such questions are addressed at the next sitting of the House after the
Question Hour and form part of the proceedings of that day.]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(3)
If the Question Hour on any day is dispensed with [ * * * ]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 19.3.2010, para 1265.]
for any [ * * *]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 19.3.2010, para 1265.]
reason, the answers to questions included in the lists of questions for oral as well as written answers for that day shall
be deemed to have been laid on the Table by the Ministers to whom such questions are addressed and shall form part
of the proceedings of the day:
Provided that if the House does not continue with its sitting after dispensing with [ * * * ]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 19.3.2010, para 1265.]
the Question Hour, the answers to questions included in the lists of questions for oral as well as written answer for that
day shall be deemed to have been laid on the Table after the Question Hour at the next sitting of the House and shall
form part of the proceedings of that day:
Provided further that if the Question Hour is interrupted after having taken up the list of questions for oral answer and the
list is partly disposed of and  the sitting continues, answers to remaining questions in the list of questions for oral answer
and answers to questions in the list of questions for written answer shall be deemed to have been laid on the Table after
12 O'clock and form part of the proceedings of the day.
(4)
[ If the last sitting of a session is cancelled, the questions in the lists of questions for oral as well as written answer for
that day shall lapse.]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
40.
Questions to private members.
- A question may be addressed to a private member provided the subject matter of the question relates to some Bill,
resolution or other matter connected with the business of the House for which that member is responsible; and the
procedure in regard to such questions shall, as far as may be, be the same as that followed in the case of questions
addressed to a Minister with such variations as the Speaker may consider necessary or convenient.
41.
Admissibility of questions.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (2), a question may be asked for the purpose of obtaining information on a matter of
public importance within the special cognizance of the Minister to whom it is addressed.
(2)
The right to ask a question is governed by the following conditions, namely: -
(i)
[ it shall be clearly and precisely expressed and shall not be too general incapable of any specific answer or in the
nature of a leading question;]
[Inserted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(ii)
[ it shall not bring in any name or statement not strictly necessary to make the question intelligible;
[Renumbered by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(iii)
if it contains a statement the member shall make oneself responsible for the accuracy of the statement;
Page 11/115
----- PAGE 12 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
(iv)
it shall not contain arguments, inferences, ironical expressions, imputations, epithets or defamatory statements;
(v)
it shall not ask for an expression of opinion or the solution of an abstract legal question or of a hypothetical proposition;
(vi)
it shall not ask as to the character or conduct of any person except in that person's official or public capacity;
(vii)
it shall not ordinarily exceed 150 words;
(viii)
it shall not relate to a matter which is not primarily the concern of the Government of India;
(ix)
it shall not ask about proceedings in the Committee which have not been placed before the House by a report from the
Committee.
(x)
it shall not reflect on the character or conduct of any person whose conduct can only be challenged on a substantive
motion;
(xi)
it shall not make or imply a charge of a personal character;
(xii)
it shall not raise questions of policy too large to be dealt with within the limits of an answer to a question;
(xiii)
it shall not repeat in substance questions already answered or to which an answer has been refused;
(xiv)
it shall not ask for information on trivial matters;
(xv)
it shall not ordinarily ask for information on matters of past history;
(xvi)
it shall not ask for information set forth in accessible documents or in ordinary works of reference;
(xvii)
it shall not raise matters under the control of bodies or persons not primarily responsible to the Government of India;
(xviii)
it shall not ask for information on matter which is under adjudication by a court of law having jurisdiction in any part of
India;
(xix)
it shall not relate to a matter with which a Minister is not officially [concerned];
(xx)
it shall not refer discourteously to a friendly foreign country;
(xxi)
[ it shall not seek information about matters which are in their nature secret, such as composition of Cabinet
Committees, Cabinet discussions, or advice given to the President in relation to any matter in respect of which there is a
constitutional, statutory or conventional obligation not to disclose information;]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(xxii)
it shall not ordinarily ask for information on matters which are under consideration of a Parliamentary Committee; and
(xxiii)
it shall not ordinarily ask about matters pending before any statutory tribunal or statutory authority performing any judicial
or quasi-judicial functions or any commission or court of enquiry appointed to enquire into, or investigate, any matter but
may refer to matters concerned with procedure or subject or stage of enquiry, if it is not likely to prejudice the
consideration of the matter by the tribunal or commission or court of enquiry.]
42.
Questions on matters of correspondence between Government of India and State Governments.
Page 12/115
----- PAGE 13 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
- In matters which are or have been the subject of correspondence between the Government of India and the
Government of a State, no question shall be asked except as to matters of fact, and the answer shall be confined to a
statement of fact.
43.
Speaker to decide admissibility.
(1)
The Speaker shall decide whether a question, or a part thereof, is or is not admissible under these rules and may
disallow any question, or a part thereof, when in the opinion of the Speaker, it is an abuse of the right of questioning or is
calculated to obstruct or prejudicially affect the procedure of the House or is in contravention of these rules.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of rule 38, the Speaker may direct that a question be placed on the list of questions for answer
on a date later than that specified by a member in the notice if the Speaker is of the opinion that a longer period is
necessary to decide whether the question is or is not admissible.
44.
Speaker to decide if a question is to be treated as starred or unstarred.
- If in the opinion of the Speaker any question put down for oral answer is of such a nature that a written reply would be
more appropriate, the Speaker may direct that such question be placed on the list of questions for written answer:
Provided that the Speaker, if thinks fit, may call upon the member who has given notice of a question for oral answer to
state in brief the reasons for desiring an oral answer and, after considering the same, may direct that the question be
included in the list of questions for written answer.
45.
[Limit of number of unstarred questions.
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(1)
Questions which have been admitted and not included in the list of questions for oral answer shall be included in the list
of questions for written answer, in accordance with the orders of the Speaker.
(2)
In the list of questions for written answer on any one day, not more than four questions by the same member if she or he
has one question in the list of questions for oral answer, and not more than five questions if that member has none in the
list of questions for oral answer, and not more than 230 questions in all, shall be included:
Provided that these limits may be exceeded by the number of questions transferred or postponed from one list of
questions for written answer to another:
Provided further that the overall limit of 230 questions in the list of questions for written answer on any one day may
exceed by the number of questions pertaining to a State or States under President's Rule subject to the maximum limit
of 25.]
46.
Order in which starred questions to be called.
- Questions for oral answers shall be called [ * * * ]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 19.3.2010, para 1265.]
in the order in which they stand on the list [ * * * ]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 19.3.2010, para 1265.]
:
Provided that a question not reached for oral answer may be answered after the end of the Question Hour with the
permission of the Speaker if the Minister represents to the Speaker that the question is one of special public interest to
which the Minister desired to give a reply.
47.
Withdrawal or postponement of questions.
- A member may, by notice given at any time before the sitting for which such member's question has been placed on
the list, withdraw the question, or postpone it to a later day to be specified in the notice and on such later day the
question shall, subject to the provisions of rule 38, be placed on the list after all questions which have not been so
postponed:
Page 13/115
----- PAGE 14 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Provided that a postponed question shall not be placed on the list until two clear days have expired from the day when
the notice of postponement has been received by the Secretary-General.
48.
Mode of asking questions.
(1)
When the time for asking questions arrives, the Speaker shall call successively each member in whose name a question
appears on the list of questions.
(2)
The member so called shall rise in one's own place and, unless the member expresses unwillingness to ask the
question standing in the name of such member, ask the question by reference to its number on the list of questions.
(3)
If on a question being called it is not asked [or]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 19.3.2010, para 1265.]
the member in whose name it stands is absent, the Speaker may [ * * * ]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 19.3.2010, para 1265.]
direct that the answer to it be given.
49.
[ * * * ]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 19.3.2010, para 1265.]
50.
Supplementary questions.
- [(1) The member in whose name a question is listed for oral answer or any other member, when called by the Speaker,
may ask a supplementary question for the purpose of further elucidating any matter of fact regarding which an answer
has been given.
(2)
A supplementary question, shall be held out of order by the Speaker if, in the opinion of the Speaker: -
(i)
it does not arise from the main question or its answer;
(ii)
instead of seeking information, it gives information;
(iii)
it involves more than one separate issues;
(iv)
it seeks confirmation or denial of an opinion; and
(v)
it infringes any of the rules regarding questions.
(3)
No discussion shall be permitted during the time for questions under rule 32 in respect of any question or of any answer
given to a question]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
.
51.
Answers not to refer to proceedings in Council.
- An answer to question in the House shall not refer to the answer to a question or proceedings in the Council during a
current session.
52.
Lapse of pending questions referred to members.
- Where a reference is made to a member in connection with the notice of a question and no reply is received or a reply
received from such member is too late for the consideration of the Speaker and the placing of the question, if admitted,
on the list of questions for an appropriate date, such notice shall be deemed to have lapsed.
53.
Page 14/115
----- PAGE 15 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Prohibition of advance publicity of answers.
- Answers to questions which Ministers propose to give in the House shall not be released for publication until the
answers have actually been given on the floor of the House or laid on the Table.
54.
Short notice questions.
(1)
A question relating to a matter of public importance may be asked with notice shorter than ten clear days and the
Speaker, if, is of the opinion that the question is of an urgent character, may direct that an enquiry may be made from
the Minister concerned if such Minister is in a position to reply and, if so, on what date.
(2)
If the Minister concerned agrees to reply, such question shall be answered on a day to be indicated by the Minister and
shall be called immediately after the questions which have appeared on the list of questions for oral answer have been
disposed of.
(3)
If the Minister is unable to answer the question at short notice and the Speaker is of the opinion that the question is of
sufficient public importance to be orally answered in the House, the Speaker may direct that the question be placed as
the first question on the  list of questions for the day on which it would be due for answer under rule 33:
Provided that not more than one such question shall be accorded first priority on the list of questions for any one day.
(3A)
Where a notice of a short notice question is signed by more than one member, it shall be deemed to have been given by
the first signatory only.
(4)
Where two or more members give short notice questions on the same subject and one of the questions is accepted for
answer at short notice, names of not more than four members, other than the one whose notice has been admitted, as
determined by ballot, shall be shown against the admitted question:
Provided that the Speaker may direct that all the notices be consolidated into a single notice, if in the opinion of the
Speaker, it is desirable to have a single self-contained question covering all the important points raised by members,
and the Minister shall then give reply to the consolidated question:
Provided further that in the case of consolidated question, names of not more than four members, other than the one
whose notice has been admitted, as determined by ballot, shall be shown against the question.
(5)
Where a member desires an oral answer to a question at a shorter notice, such Member shall briefly state the reasons
for asking the question with short notice. Where no reasons have been assigned in the notice of the question, the
question shall be returned to the member.
(6)
The member who has given notice of the question shall be in one's own seat to ask the question by reference to its
number on the list of questions when called by the Speaker and the Minister concerned shall give a reply immediately:
Provided that when a question is shown in the names of more than one member the Speaker shall call the name of the
first member or, in the absence of that member, any other name.
(7)
In other respects, the procedure for short notice questions shall be the same as for ordinary questions for oral answer
with such modifications as the Speaker may consider necessary or convenient.
Chapter VIII
Half-an-Hour Discussions
55.
Discussion on matter arising out of answer to question.
(1)
The Speaker may allot half an hour on three sittings in a week, for raising discussion on a matter of sufficient public
importance which has been the subject of a recent question, oral or written, and the answer to which needs elucidation
on a matter of fact.
(2)
Page 15/115
----- PAGE 16 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
A member wishing to raise a matter shall give notice in writing to the Secretary-General three days in advance of the
day on which the matter is desired to be raised, and shall shortly specify the point or points such member wishes to
raise:
Provided that the notice shall be accompanied by an explanatory note stating the reasons for raising discussion on the
matter in question:
Provided further that if a notice is signed by more than one member it shall be deemed to have been given by the first
signatory only:
Provided further that the Speaker may with the consent of the Minister concerned waive the requirement concerning the
period of notice.
(3)
The Speaker shall decide whether the matter is of sufficient public importance to be put down for discussion, and may
not admit a notice which, in the opinion of the Speaker seeks to revise the policy of Government.
(4)
If more than two notices have been received and admitted by the Speaker, the Secretary-General shall hold a ballot with
a view to draw two notices and the notices shall be put down in the order in which they were received in point of time:
Provided that if any matter put down for discussion on a particular day is not disposed of on that day it shall not be set
down for any other day, unless the member so desires, in which case it shall be included in the ballot for the next
available day. Discussion on matter arising out of answer to question.
(5)
There shall be no formal motion before the House nor voting. The member who has given notice may make a short
statement and the [members who have previously intimated to the Speaker may ask a question for the purpose of
further elucidating any matter of fact. Thereafter, the Minister shall reply shortly]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
:
Provided that not more than four members who have previously intimated to the Secretary-General may be permitted to
ask a question each for the purpose of further elucidating any matter of fact.
Explanation. - A member wishing to ask a question shall make such request in writing before the commencement of the
sitting at which the discussion is to take place. If such requests are received from more than four members, a ballot shall
be held to determine the names of first four members who may be permitted to ask a question each.
Chapter IX
Adjournment Motions
56.
Speaker's consent.
- Subject to the provisions of these rules, a motion for an adjournment of the business of the House for the purpose of
discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance may be made with the consent of the Speaker.
57.
Notice.
- [Notice of an adjournment motion shall be given by 10.00 hours on the day on which the motion is proposed to be
made to the Secretary-General and copies thereof shall be endorsed to: -
(i)
the Speaker;
(ii)
the Minister concerned;
(iii)
the Minister of Parliamentary Affairs:
Provided that notices, received after 10.00 hours shall be deemed to have been received at 10.00 hours on the next day
on which the House sits:
Provided further that no member shall give more than one such notice for any one sitting.
Explanation. - (i) Where a notice is signed by more than one member, it shall be deemed to have been given by the first
signatory only.
(ii)
Page 16/115
----- PAGE 17 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
A ballot shall be held to determine the relative priority of all notices on the same subject for the sitting for which they are
valid.]
58.
Restrictions on right to move motion.
- The right to move the adjournment of the House for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public
importance shall be subject to the following restrictions, namely: -
(i)
not more than one such motion shall be made at the same sitting;
(ii)
not more than one matter shall be discussed on the same motion;
(iii)
the motion shall be restricted to a specific matter of recent occurrence [involving responsibility of the Government of
India]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
;
(iv)
the motion shall not raise a question of privilege;
(v)
the motion shall not revive discussion on a matter which has been discussed in the same session;
(vi)
the motion shall not anticipate a matter, which has been previously appointed for consideration. In determining whether
a discussion is out of order on the ground of anticipation, regard shall be had by the Speaker to the probability of the
matter anticipated being brought before the House within a reasonable time;
(vii)
the motion shall not deal with any matter which is under adjudication by a court of law having jurisdiction in any part of
India; and
(viii)
the motion shall not raise any question which under the Constitution or these rules can only be raised on a distinct
motion by a notice given in writing to the Secretary-General.
59.
Matters before tribunals, commissions, etc.
- No motion which seeks to raise discussion on a matter pending before any statutory tribunal or statutory authority
performing any judicial or quasi judicial functions or any commission or court of enquiry appointed to enquire into, or
investigate, any matter shall ordinarily be permitted to be moved:
Provided that the Speaker may while exercising discretion allow such matter being raised in the House as is concerned
with the procedure or subject or stage of enquiry if the Speaker is satisfied that it is not likely  to prejudice the
consideration of such matter by the statutory tribunal, statutory authority, commission or court of enquiry.
60.
Leave to move adjournment motion.
(1)
The Speaker, if gives consent under rule 56 and holds that the matter proposed to be discussed is in order, shall call the
member concerned who shall rise in one's own place and ask for leave to move the adjournment of the House:
Provided that where the Speaker has refused consent under rule 56 or is of opinion that the matter proposed to be
discussed is not in order, the Speaker may, if thinks it necessary, read the notice of motion and state the reasons for
refusing consent or holding the motion as being not in order:
Provided further that where the Speaker is not in possession of full facts about the matter mentioned therein, the
Speaker may before giving or refusing consent read the notice of the motion and hear from the Minister, or members
concerned, a brief statement on facts and then give decision on the admissibility of the motion.
(2)
If objection to leave being granted is taken, the Speaker shall request those members who are in favour of leave being
granted to rise in their places, and if not less than fifty members rise accordingly, the Speaker shall intimate that leave is
Page 17/115
----- PAGE 18 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
granted. If less than fifty members rise, the Speaker shall inform that the member has not the leave of the House.
61.
Time for taking up motion.
- The motion 'that the House do now adjourn' shall be taken up at 16.00 hours or at an earlier hour if the Speaker, after
considering the state of business in the House, so directs.
62.
Closure of debate.
- The Speaker may, on being satisfied that there has been adequate debate, put the question at 18.30 hours or at such
other hour not being less than two hours and thirty minutes from the time of commencement of the debate.
63.
Time limit for speeches.
- The Speaker shall prescribe a time limit for speeches.
Chapter X
Legislation
I. Bills originating in the House
Introduction and Publication of Bills
64.
Publication of Bill in Gazette before introduction.
- The Speaker, on request being made, may order the publication of any Bill (together with the Statement of Objects and
Reasons, the memorandum regarding delegation of legislative power and the financial memorandum accompanying it)
in the Gazette, although no motion has been made for leave to introduce the Bill. In that case, it shall not be necessary
to move for leave to introduce the Bill, and, if the Bill is afterwards introduced, it shall not be necessary to publish it
again.
65.
Notice for leave to introduce private members' Bills.
(1)
Any member, other than a Minister, desiring to move for leave to introduce a Bill, shall give notice of one's intention, and
shall, together with the notice, submit a copy of the Bill and an explanatory Statement of Objects and Reasons which
shall not contain arguments:
Provided that the Speaker, if thinks fit, may revise the Statement of Objects and Reasons.
(2)
If the Bill is a Bill which under the Constitution cannot be introduced without the previous sanction or recommendation of
the President, the member shall annex to the notice such sanction or recommendation conveyed through a Minister, and
the notice shall not be valid until this requirement is complied with.
(3)
The period of notice of a motion for leave to introduce a Bill under this rule shall be one month unless the Speaker
allows the motion to be made at shorter notice.
(4)
The Speaker may disallow a notice of a Bill in case the Bill does not comply with the requirement of sub-rule (2) of this
rule, or rule 69 or 70.
66.
Bill dependent on another pending Bill.
- A Bill, which is dependent wholly or partly upon another Bill pending before the House, may be introduced in the House
in anticipation of the passing of the Bill on which it is dependent:
Provided that the second Bill shall be taken up for consideration and passing in the House only after the first Bill has
been passed by the Houses and assented to by the President.
67.
Identical Bills.
- When a Bill is pending before the House, notice of an identical Bill, whether received before or after the introduction of
the pending Bill, shall be removed from, or not entered in, the list of pending notices, as the case may be, unless the
Speaker otherwise directs.
Page 18/115
----- PAGE 19 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
68.
Communication of President's recommendation regarding Bill.
- The order of the President granting or withholding the sanction or recommendation to the introduction or consideration
of a Bill shall be communicated to the Secretary-General by the Minister concerned in writing.
69.
Financial memorandum and clauses involving expenditure.
(1)
A Bill involving expenditure shall be accompanied by a financial memorandum which shall invite particular attention to
the clauses involving expenditure and shall also give an estimate of the recurring and non-recurring expenditure
involved in case the Bill is passed into law.
(2)
Clauses or provisions in Bills involving expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India shall be printed in thick type or
in italics:
[Provided that where a clause in a Bill involving expenditure is inadvertently not printed in thick type or in italics, the
member in charge of the Bill shall, with  the permission of the Speaker, bring such clauses to the notice of the House.]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
70.
Memorandum regarding delegated legislation.
- A Bill involving proposals for the delegation of legislative power shall further be accompanied by a memorandum
explaining such proposals and drawing attention to their scope and stating also whether they are of normal or
exceptional character.
71.
Statement regarding Ordinances.
(1)
Whenever a Bill seeking to replace an Ordinance with or without modification is introduced in the House, shall be placed
before the House along with the Bill a statement explaining the circumstances which had necessitated immediate
legislation by Ordinance.
(2)
Whenever an Ordinance, which embodies wholly or partly or with modification the provisions of a Bill pending before the
House is promulgated a statement explaining the circumstances which had necessitated immediate legislation by
Ordinance shall be laid on the Table at the commencement of the session following the promulgation of the Ordinance.
72.
Procedure when introduction of Bill opposed.
(1)
If a motion for leave to introduce a Bill is opposed, the Speaker, if thinks fit, after permitting, brief statements from the
member who opposes the motion and the member who moved the motion, may, without further debate, put the
question:
Provided that where a motion is opposed on the ground that the Bill initiates legislation outside the legislative
competence of the House, the Speaker may permit a full discussion thereon:
Provided further that the Speaker shall forthwith put to vote the motion for leave to introduce a Finance Bill or an
Appropriation Bill.
(2)
[ Notice to oppose introduction of a Bill shall be addressed to the Secretary-General [specifying clearly and precisely the
objections to be raised]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
and given by 10.00 hours on the day on which the motion for leave to introduce the Bill is included in the list of
business.]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
73.
Publication of Bill in Gazette after introduction.
- As soon as may be after a Bill has been introduced, the Bill, unless it has already been published, shall be published in
Page 19/115
----- PAGE 20 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
the Gazette.
Motions After Introduction of Bills and Scope of Debate
74.
Motions after introduction of Bills.
- When a Bill is introduced or on some subsequent occasion, the member in charge may make one of the following
motions in regard to one's own Bill, namely: -
(i)
that it be taken into consideration; or
(ii)
that it be referred to a Select Committee of the House; or
(iii)
that it be referred to a Joint Committee of the Houses with the concurrence of the Council; or
(iv)
that it be circulated for the purpose of eliciting opinion thereon:
Provided that no such motion as is referred to in clause (iii) shall be made with reference to a Bill [if it contains only
provisions dealing with all or any of the matters specified in sub-clauses (a) to (g) of clause (1) of article 110 of the
Constitution]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
:
Provided further that no such motion shall be made until after copies of the Bill have been made available for the use of
members, and that any member may object to any such motion being made unless copies of the Bill have been so made
available for two days before the day on which the motion is made and such objection shall prevail, unless the Speaker
allows the motion to be made.
75.
Discussion of principle of Bill.
(1)
On a motion referred to in rule 74 being made, the principle of the Bill and its provisions may be discussed generally, but
the details of the Bill shall  not be discussed further than is necessary to explain its principles.
(2)
At this stage no amendments to the Bill may be moved, but -
(a)
if the member in charge moves that the Bill be taken into consideration any member may move as an amendment that
the Bill be referred to a Select Committee of the House, or a Joint Committee of the Houses with the concurrence of the
Council, or be circulated for the purpose of eliciting opinion thereon by a date to be specified in the motion;
(b)
if the member in charge moves that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee of the House, or a Joint Committee of the
Houses with the concurrence of the Council, any member may move as an amendment that the Bill be referred to a
Joint Committee of the Houses with the concurrence of the Council or a Select Committee, as the case may be, or that
the Bill be circulated for the purpose of eliciting opinion thereon by a date to be specified in the motion.
(3)
Where a motion that a Bill be circulated for the purpose of eliciting opinion thereon is carried, and the Bill is circulated in
accordance with that direction and opinions are received thereon, the member in charge, if so wishes to proceed with
the Bill thereafter, shall move that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee of the House or a Joint Committee of the
Houses with the concurrence of the Council, unless the Speaker allows a motion to be made that the Bill be taken into
consideration:
Provided that if an amendment or a motion for appointment of a Select Committee or a Joint Committee has been
moved under this Rule, any member may move that the House give instructions to the Select Committee or to the Joint
Committee to  which the Bill is proposed to be referred to make some particular or additional provision in the Bill and if
necessary or convenient to consider and report on amendments which may be proposed to the original Act which the Bill
seeks to amend:
Provided further that no amendment or a motion for appointment of a Joint Committee under this rule shall be moved
Page 20/115
----- PAGE 21 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
with reference to a Bill [if it contains only provisions dealing with all or any of the matters specified in sub-clauses (a) to
(g) of clause (1) of article 110 of the Constitution.]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
76.
Members entitled to move motions in respect of Bills.
- No motion that a Bill be taken into consideration or be passed shall be made by any member other than the member in
charge of the Bill and no motion that a Bill be referred to a Select Committee of the House, or a Joint Committee of the
Houses with the concurrence of the Council, or be circulated for the purpose of eliciting opinion thereon shall be made
by any member other than the member in charge except by way of amendment to a motion made by the member in
charge:
Provided that if the member in charge of a Bill is unable, for reasons which the Speaker considers adequate, to move
the next motion in regard to that Bill at any subsequent stage after introduction, the member may authorise another
member to move that particular motion with the approval of the Speaker.
Explanation. - Notwithstanding the provisions contained in the proviso the member who introduced the Bill shall continue
to be the member in charge.
Motions After Presentation of Select/joint Committee Reports and Scope of Debate
77.
Motions after presentation of Select/Joint Committee reports.
(1)
After the presentation of the final report of a Select Committee of the House or a Joint Committee of the Houses, as the
case may be, on a Bill, the member in charge may move -
(a)
that the Bill as reported by the Select Committee of the House or the Joint Committee of the Houses, as the case may
be, be taken into consideration; or
(b)
that the Bill as reported by the Select Committee of the House or the Joint Committee of the Houses, as the case may
be, be re-committed to the same Select Committee or to a new Select Committee, or to the same Joint Committee or to
a new Joint Committee with the concurrence of the Council, either -
(i)
without limitation, or
(ii)
with respect to particular clauses or amendments only, or
(iii)
with instructions to the Committee to make some particular or additional provision in the Bill, or
(c)
that the Bill as reported by the Select Committee of the House or the Joint Committee of the Houses, be circulated or
recirculated, as the case may be, for the purpose of eliciting opinion or further opinion thereon:
Provided that any member may object to any such motion being made if a copy of the report has not been made
available for the use of members for two days before the day on which the motion is made and such objection shall
prevail, unless the Speaker allows the motion to be made.
(2)
If the member in charge moves that the Bill as reported by the Select Committee of the House or the Joint Committee of
the Houses, as the case may be, be taken into consideration, any member may move  as an amendment that the Bill be
re-committed or be circulated or recirculated for the purpose of eliciting opinion or further opinion thereon.
78.
Scope of debate on Select/ Joint Committee reports.
- The debate on a motion that the Bill as reported by the Select Committee of the House or the Joint Committee of the
Houses, as the case may be, be taken into consideration shall be confined to consideration of the report of the
Committee and the matters referred to in that report or any alternative suggestions consistent with the principle of the
Bill.
Amendments to Clauses etc. and Clause by Clause Consideration of Bills
Page 21/115
----- PAGE 22 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
79.
Notice of amendments to clauses or schedules.
(1)
If notice of an amendment to a clause or schedule of the Bill has not been given one day before that day on which the
Bill is to be considered any member may object to the moving of the amendment, and such objection shall prevail,
unless the Speaker allows the amendment to be moved:
Provided that, in the case of a Government Bill, an amendment, of which notice has been received from the member in
charge, shall not lapse by reason of the fact that the member in charge has ceased to be a Minister or a member and
such amendment shall be printed in the name of the new member in charge of the Bill.
(2)
The Secretary-General shall, if time permits, make available to the members from time to time lists of amendments of
which notices have been received.
80.
Admissibility of amendments.
- The following conditions shall govern the admissibility of amendments to clauses or schedules of a Bill: -
(i)
An amendment shall be within the scope of the Bill and relevant to the subject-matter of the clause to which it relates.
(ii)
An amendment shall not be inconsistent with any previous decision of the House on the same question.
(iii)
An amendment shall not be such as to make the clause which it proposes to amend unintelligible or ungrammatical.
(iv)
If an amendment refers to, or is not intelligible without a subsequent amendment or schedule, notice of the subsequent
amendment or schedule shall be given before the first amendment is moved, so as to make the series of amendments
intelligible as a whole.
(v)
The Speaker shall determine the place at which an amendment shall be moved.
(vi)
The Speaker may refuse to propose an amendment which is, in the opinion of the Speaker, frivolous or meaningless.
(vii)
An amendment may be moved to an amendment which has already been proposed by the Speaker.
81.
President's recommendation regarding amendments.
- If any member desires to move an amendment which under the Constitution cannot be moved without the previous
sanction or recommendation of the President, that member shall annex to the notice required by these rules such
sanction or recommendation conveyed through a Minister and the notice shall not be valid until this requirement is
complied with:
Provided that no previous sanction or recommendation of the President shall be required, if an amendment seeks to -
(a)
abolish or reduce the limits of the tax proposed in the Bill or amendment, or
(b)
increase such tax upto the limits of an existing tax.
82.
Communication of President's recommendation.
- The order of the President, granting or withholding the sanction or recommendation to an amendment to a Bill, shall be
communicated to the Secretary-General by the Minister concerned in writing.
83.
Selection of new clauses or amendments.
- The Speaker shall have power to select the new clauses or amendments to be proposed, and, if thinks fit, may call
upon any member who has given notice of an amendment to give such explanation of the object of the amendment as
may enable the member to form a judgement upon it.
Page 22/115
----- PAGE 23 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
84.
Arrangement of amendments.
- Amendments of which notice has been given shall, as far as practicable, be arranged in the list of amendments, issued
from time to time, in the order in which they may be called. In arranging amendments raising the same question at the
same point of a clause, precedence may be given to an amendment [proposed]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
by the member in charge of the Bill. Subject as aforesaid, amendments may be arranged in the order in which notices
thereof are received.
85.
Order of amendments.
(1)
Amendments shall ordinarily be considered in the order of the clauses of the Bill to which they respectively relate; and in
respect of any such clause a motion shall be deemed to have been made: "That this clause do stand part of the Bill."
(2)
The Speaker, if thinks fit, may put as one question similar amendments to a clause:
Provided that if a member requests that any amendment be put separately, the Speaker shall put that amendment
separately.
86.
Moving of amendments.
- When a motion that a Bill be taken into consideration has been carried, any member may, when called upon by the
Speaker, move an amendment to the Bill of which that Member has previously given notice:
Provided that in order to save time and repetition of arguments, a single discussion may be allowed to cover a series of
inter-dependent amendments.
87.
Withdrawal of amendments.
- An amendment moved may, by leave of the House, but not otherwise be withdrawn on the request of the member
moving it. If an amendment has been  proposed to an amendment; the original amendment shall not be withdrawn until
the amendment proposed to it has been disposed of.
88.
Submission of Bill clause by clause.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the Speaker may, when a motion that a Bill be taken into
consideration has been carried, submit the Bill, or any part of the Bill to the House clause by clause. The Speaker may
call each clause separately, and, when the amendments relating to it have been dealt with, shall put the question: "That
this clause (or, that this clause as amended, as the case may be) do stand part of the Bill".
89.
Postponement of clause.
- The Speaker, if thinks fit, may postpone the consideration of a clause.
90.
Consideration of schedules.
- The consideration of the schedule or schedules, if any, shall follow the consideration of clauses. Schedules shall be put
from the Chair, and may be amended, in the same manner as clauses, and the consideration of new schedules shall
follow the consideration of the original schedules. The question shall then be put: "That this schedule (or, that this
schedule as amended, as the case may be) do stand part of the Bill":
Provided that the Speaker may allow the schedule or schedules, if any, being considered before the clauses are
disposed of or along with a clause or otherwise as the Speaker may think fit.
91.
Voting on group of clauses and schedules.
- The Speaker, if thinks fit, may put as one question clauses and or schedules, or clauses and or schedules as
amended, as the case may be, together to the vote of the House:
Provided that if a member requests that any clause or schedule, or any clause or schedule as amended, as the case
may be, be put separately, the Speaker shall put that clause or schedule, or clause or schedule as amended, as the
Page 23/115
----- PAGE 24 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
case may be, separately.
92.
Clause one, Enacting Formula, Preamble and Title.
- Clause one, the Enacting Formula, the Preamble, if any, and the Title of a Bill shall stand postponed until the other
clauses and schedules (including new clauses and new schedules) have been disposed of and the Speaker shall then
put the question: "That clause one, or the Enacting Formula, or the Preamble or the Title (or, that clause one, Enacting
Formula, Preamble or Title as amended, as the case may be) do stand part of the Bill".
Passing of Bills
93.
Motion for passing of Bill.
(1)
When a motion that a Bill be taken into consideration has been carried and no amendment of the Bill is made, the
member in charge may at once move that the Bill be passed.
(2)
Where a Bill has undergone amendments the motion that the Bill as amended be passed shall not be moved on the
same day on which the consideration of the Bill is concluded, unless the Speaker allows the motion to be made.
(3)
To such a motion no amendment may be moved which is not either formal, verbal or consequential upon an amendment
made after the Bill was taken into consideration.
94.
Scope of debate on motion for passing of Bill.
- The discussion on a motion that the Bill or as the case may be, the Bill as amended, be passed shall be confined to the
submission of arguments either in support of the Bill or for the rejection of the Bill. The member while making the speech
shall not refer to the details of the Bill further than is necessary for the purpose of arguments which shall be of a general
character.
95.
Correction of patent errors.
- Where a Bill is passed by the House, the Speaker shall have power to correct patent errors and make such other
changes in the Bill as are consequential upon the amendments accepted by the House.
96.
Transmission of Bills to Council.
(1)
When a Bill is passed by the House, it shall be transmitted to the Council for concurrence with a message to that effect.
(2)
The Secretary-General shall certify, on top of the first page of the Bill so transmitted to the Council, in the following form:
-
'This Bill has been passed by the House of the People on the ......20
Dated on 20
Secretary-General:'
Provided that if it is a Money Bill within the meaning of article 110 of the Constitution the certificate by the Speaker shall
be endorsed at the end of the Bill in the following form:
'I hereby certify that this Bill is a Money Bill within the meaning of article 110 of the Constitution of India.
Dated the 20
Speaker.'
97.
Council's message regarding Bills other than Money Bills.
- If a Bill other than a Money Bill passed by the House and transmitted to the Council is passed by the Council without
amendment, the message received from the Council to that effect shall be reported by the Secretary-General to the
House if in session or published in the Bulletin for the information of the members if the House is not in session.
Bills Other than Money Bills Returned by the Council
98.
Page 24/115
----- PAGE 25 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Bill returned with amendments.
- If a Bill other than Money Bill passed by the House and transmitted to the Council is returned to the House with
amendments, it shall on receipt be laid on the Table.
99.
Notice for consideration of amendments.
- After the amended Bill has been laid on the Table, any Minister in the case of a Government Bill, or in any other case
any member may, after giving two days' notice, or with the consent of the Speaker without notice move that the
amendments be taken into consideration.
100.
Consideration of amendments.
(1)
If a motion that the amendments be taken into consideration is carried, the Speaker shall put the amendments to the
House in such manner as the Speaker thinks most convenient for their consideration.
(2)
An amendment relevant to the subject-matter of an amendment made by the Council may be moved, but no further
amendment shall be moved to the Bill unless it is consequential upon, or an alternative to, an amendment made by the
Council.
101.
Disposal of amendments made by Council.
- The House, if it agrees to the amendment made by the Council, shall send a message to the Council to that effect, but
if it disagrees with that amendment or proposes further amendment or an alternative amendment, the House shall return
the Bill or the Bill as further amended to the Council with a message to that effect.
102.
Disagreement between Houses as to amendments.
- If the Bill is returned to the House with a message that the Council insists on an amendment or amendments to which
the House has disagreed, the Houses shall be deemed to have finally disagreed as to the amendment or amendments.
Money Bills Returned by the Council
103.
Money Bill returned without recommendation.
- If a Money Bill passed by the House and transmitted to the Council is returned to the House without recommendation,
the message to that effect shall be reported by the Secretary-General to the House if in session or published in the
Bulletin for the information of the members if the House is not in session. The Bill shall then be presented to the
President for her/his assent.
104.
Money Bill returned with recommendation.
- If a Money Bill passed by the House and transmitted to the Council is returned to the House with amendments
recommended by the Council, it shall on receipt be laid on the Table.
105.
Notice for consideration of amendments recommended by Council.
- After the Bill with amendments as recommended by the Council has been laid on the Table, any Minister in the case of
a Government Bill, or in any other case any member may, after giving two days' notice, or with the consent of the
Speaker without notice, move that the amendments recommended by the Council be taken into consideration.
106.
Consideration of amendments recommended by Council.
- If a motion that the amendments as recommended by the Council be taken into consideration is carried, the Speaker
shall put the amendments as recommended by the Council to the House in such manner as the Speaker thinks most
convenient for their consideration.
107.
Disposal of amendments recommended by Council.
- If the House accepts any amendment or amendments as recommended by the Council, the Bill shall be deemed to
have been passed by both the Houses with the amendment or amendments recommended by the Council and accepted
Page 25/115
----- PAGE 26 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
by the House and a message to that effect shall be sent to the Council.
108.
Bill deemed passed on House not accepting Council's recommendations.
- If the House does not accept any of the recommendations of the Council, the Bill shall be deemed to have been
passed by both the Houses in the form in which it was passed by the House without any of the amendments
recommended by the Council and a message to that effect shall be sent to the Council.
Adjournment of Debate, Withdrawal and Removal of Bills
109.
Adjournment of debate on Bill.
- At any stage of a Bill which is under discussion in the House, a motion that the debate on the Bill be adjourned may be
moved with the consent of the Speaker.
110.
Withdrawal of Bill.
- The member in charge of a Bill may at any stage of the Bill move for leave to withdraw the Bill on the ground that -
(a)
the legislative proposal contained in the Bill is to be dropped; or
(b)
the Bill is to be replaced subsequently by a new Bill which substantially alters the provisions contained therein; or
(c)
the Bill is to be replaced subsequently by another Bill which includes all or any of its provisions in addition to other
provisions; and if such leave is granted no further motion shall be made with reference to the Bill:
Provided that where a Bill is under consideration by a Select Committee of the House or a Joint Committee of the
Houses, as the case may be, notice of any motion for the withdrawal of the Bill shall automatically stand referred to the
Committee and after the Committee has expressed its opinion in a report to the House, the motion shall be set down in
the list of business:
Provided further that where a Bill has originated in the Council and is pending before the House, the member in charge
shall move a motion in the House recommending to the Council that the Council do agree to leave being granted by the
House to withdraw the Bill and after the motion is adopted by the House and concurred in by the Council, the member in
charge shall move for leave to withdraw the Bill.
111.
Procedure when withdrawal of Bill opposed.
- If a motion for leave to withdraw a Bill is opposed, the Speaker, if thinks fit, may permit the member who [opposes the
motion and the member who moved]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
the motion to make brief explanatory statements and may thereafter, without further debate, put the question.
112.
Removal of Bill from Register of Bills.
(1)
Where any of the following motions made by the member in charge under these rules in regard to a Bill is rejected by
the House, no further motion shall be made with reference to the Bill and such Bill shall be removed from the Register of
Bills pending in the House: -
(i)
that leave be granted to introduce the Bill;
(ii)
that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee;
(iii)
that the Bill be referred to a Joint Committee of the Houses with the concurrence of the Council;
(iv)
that the Bill, be taken into consideration;
(v)
that the Bill as reported by Select Committee of the House or Joint Committee of the Houses, as the case may be, be
Page 26/115
----- PAGE 27 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
taken into consideration; and
(vi)
that the Bill (or, that the Bill as amended, as the case may be) be passed.
(2)
A Bill pending before the House shall also be removed from the Register of Bills pending in the House in case a Bill
substantially identical is passed by the House or the Bill is withdrawn under rule 110.
Explanation. - A Bill pending before the House shall include -
(i)
a Bill introduced in the House which does not fall within the categories of Bills mentioned in this rule or rule 113;
(ii)
a Bill transmitted to the Council and returned by the Council with amendment, or recommendation, as the case may be,
and laid on the Table under rule 98 or 104;
(iii)
a Bill originating in the Council and transmitted to the House and laid on the Table under rule 114 or 122; and
(iv)
a Bill returned by the President with a message under article 111 of the Constitution.
113.
Additional provision for removal of private member's Bill from Register of Bills.
- A private member's Bill pending before the House shall also be removed from the Register of Bills pending in the
House in case -
(a)
the member in charge ceases to be a member of the House;
(b)
the member in charge is appointed a Minister.
II. Bills originating in the Council and transmitted to the House
114.
Laying of Bills on Table.
- When a Bill originating in the Council has been passed by the Council and is transmitted to the House the Bill shall, as
soon as may be, be laid on the Table.
115.
Notice for consideration.
- At any time after the Bill has been so laid on the Table, any Minister in the case of a Government Bill, or, in any other
case, any member may give notice of one's intention to move that the Bill be taken into consideration.
116.
Motion for consideration.
- On the day on which the motion for consideration is set down in the list of business which shall, unless the Speaker
otherwise directs, be not less than two days from the receipt of the notice, the member giving notice may move that the
Bill be taken into consideration.
117.
Discussion of principle of Bill.
- On the day on which such motion is made or on any subsequent day to which the discussion is postponed, the
principle of the Bill and its general provisions may be discussed, but the details of the Bill shall not be discussed further
than is necessary to explain its principle.
118.
Reference to Select Committee.
- Any member may, if the Bill has not already been referred to a Joint Committee of both the Houses, moves as an
amendment that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee and, if such motion is carried, the Bill shall be referred to a
Select Committee, and the rules regarding Select Committees on Bills originating in the House shall then apply.
119.
Consideration and passing of Bills.
- If the motion that the Bill be taken into consideration is carried, the Bill shall be taken into consideration clause by
Page 27/115
----- PAGE 28 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
clause and the provisions of the rules of the House regarding consideration of amendments to Bills and the subsequent
procedure in regard to the passing of Bills shall apply.
120.
Bill passed without amendment.
- If the Bill is passed without amendment, a message shall be sent to the Council intimating that the House has agreed
to the Bill without any amendment.
121.
Bill passed with amendments.
(1)
If the Bill is passed with amendments, the Bill shall be returned with a message asking the concurrence of the Council in
the amendments.
(2)
The Secretary-General shall certify, on top of the first page of the Bill so returned to the Council, in the following form: -
'This Bill has been passed as amended by the House of the People on the.........
Dated......20
Secretary-General'.
122.
Procedure consequent on disposal of amendments by Council.
- If the Council disagrees with the amendments made by the House or any of them, or agrees to any of the amendments
made by the House with further amendments, or proposes further amendments in place of amendments made by the
House, the Bill as further amended shall on receipt by the House be laid on the Table.
123.
Consideration of amendments made by Council.
- After the amended Bill has been laid on the Table, any Minister in the case of a Government Bill, or in any other case,
any member may, after giving two days' notice or with the consent of the Speaker without notice, move that the
amendments be taken into consideration.
124.
Procedure on consideration of amendments.
(1)
If a motion that the amendments be taken into consideration is carried, the Speaker shall put the amendments to the
House in such manner as the Speaker thinks most convenient for their consideration.
(2)
An amendment relevant to the subject-matter of an amendment made by the Council may be moved, but no further
amendment shall be moved to the Bill, unless it is consequential upon, or an alternative to, an amendment made by the
Council.
125.
Disposal of Bills and amendments.
- The House may either agree to the Bill as originally passed by the Council or as further amended by the Council, as
the case may be, or may return the Bill with a message that it insists on an amendment or amendments to which the
Council has disagreed.
126.
Disagreement between Houses as to amendments.
- If a Bill is returned with a message intimating that the House insists on amendments to which the Council is unable to
agree, the Houses shall be deemed to have finally disagreed as to the amendments.
127.
Rejection of Bill.
- When any of the following motions moved in the House with reference to a Bill originating in the Council and
transmitted to the House is negatived by the House, the Bill shall be deemed to have been rejected by the House:
(i)
that the Bill be taken into consideration;
(ii)
Page 28/115
----- PAGE 29 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee;
(iii)
that the Bill as reported by Select Committee be taken into consideration; and
(iv)
that the Bill (or, that the Bill as amended, as the case may be) be passed.
III. Authentication and Assent of Bills passed
128.
Authentication and assent.
(1)
When a Bill is passed by the Houses and is in possession of the House, the Bill shall be signed in duplicate by the
Speaker and presented to the President:
Provided that in the absence of the Speaker from New Delhi, the Secretary-General may, in case of urgency,
authenticate the Bill on behalf of the Speaker.
(2)
One copy of the Bill so assented to by the President shall be preserved for verification and record and shall not be
allowed to pass out of the custody of the House without the permission of the Speaker.
IV. Reconsideration of Bills returned by President
Bills Originating in the House
129.
Message of President.
(1)
When a Bill passed by the Houses is returned to the House by the President with a message requesting that the House
should reconsider the Bill or any specified provisions thereof or any such amendments are recommended in the
message, the Speaker shall read the message of the President in Rejection of Bill.  the House if in session, or if the
House is not in session, direct that it may be published in the Bulletin for the information of the members.
(2)
The Bill as passed by the Houses and returned by the President for reconsideration shall thereafter be laid on the Table.
130.
Notice for consideration of amendments.
- At any time after the Bill has been so laid on the Table, any Minister in the case of a Government Bill, or, in any other
case, any member may give notice of one's intention to move that the amendments recommended by the President be
taken into consideration.
131.
Motion for consideration.
- On the day on which the motion for consideration is set down in the list of business which shall, unless the Speaker
otherwise directs, be not less than two days from the receipt of the notice, the member giving notice may move that the
amendments be taken into consideration.
132.
Scope of debate.
- The debate on such a motion shall be confined to consideration of matters referred to in the message of the President
or to any suggestion relevant to the subject-matter of the amendments recommended by the President.
133.
Procedure on motion for consideration of amendments being carried.
- If the motion that the amendments recommended by the President be taken into consideration is carried, the Speaker
shall put the amendments to the House in such manner as the Speaker thinks most convenient for their consideration.
134.
Amendment to amendment.
- An amendment relevant to the subject-matter of an amendment recommended by the President may be moved, but no
further amendment shall be moved to the Bill unless it is consequential upon, incidental or alternative to, an amendment
recommended by the President.
135.
Page 29/115
----- PAGE 30 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Passing again of Bill.
- When all the amendments have been disposed of, the member giving notice of the motion under rule 130 may move
that the Bill as originally passed by the Houses be passed again, or passed again as amended, as the case may be.
136.
Procedure on motion for consideration of amendments not being carried.
- If the motion that the amendments recommended by the President be taken into consideration is not carried, the
member giving notice of the motion under rule 130 may at once move that the Bill as originally passed by the Houses be
passed again without amendment.
137.
Transmission to Council of Bill passed again.
(1)
When the Bill is passed again by the House with or without amendment, as the case may be, it shall be transmitted to
the Council for concurrence with a message to that effect.
(2)
The Secretary-General shall certify, on the top of the first page of the Bill so transmitted to the Council, in the following
form: -
'This Bill which was passed by the Houses of Parliament and returned by the President for reconsideration has been
passed again with/ without amendment by the House of the People on, the ...20
Dated the ... 20
Secretary-General'.
138.
Message from Council regarding passing again of Bill.
- If the Bill passed again by the House and transmitted to the Council is passed again by the Council without
amendment, the message received from the Council to that effect shall be reported by the Secretary-General to the
House if in session or published in the Bulletin for the information of the members if the House is not in session.
139.
Bill returned by Council with amendments.
- If the Bill passed again by the House and transmitted to the Council is returned to the House with amendments it shall
on receipt be laid on the Table.
140.
Consideration of amendments made by Council.
- After the amended Bill has been laid on the Table, any Minister in the case of a Government Bill, or, in any other case
any member may, after giving two days' notice, or with the consent of the Speaker without notice, move that the
amendments be taken into consideration.
141.
Procedure on consideration of amendments.
(1)
If a motion that the amendments be taken into consideration is carried, the Speaker shall put the amendments to the
House in such manner as the Speaker thinks most convenient for their consideration.
(2)
An amendment relevant to the subject-matter of an amendment made by the Council may be moved, but no further
amendment shall be moved to the Bill unless it is consequential upon, incidental or alternative to, an amendment made
by the Council.
142.
Disposal of amendments made by Council.
- The House, if it agrees to the amendment made by the Council, shall send a message to the Council to that effect, but
if it disagrees with that amendment or proposes further amendment or an alternative amendment, the House shall return
the Bill or the Bills as further amended to the Council with a message to that effect.
143.
Disagreement between Houses.
- If the Bill is returned to the House with a message that the Council insists on an amendment or amendments to which
Page 30/115
----- PAGE 31 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
the House has disagreed, the Houses shall be deemed to have finally disagreed as to the amendment or amendments.
Bills Originating in the Council
144.
Laying of Bill on Table.
- When a Bill passed by the Houses which has been returned by the President to the Council for reconsideration, has
been passed again with or without amendments by the Council and transmitted to the House, the Bill together with the
President's message shall, as soon as may be, be laid on the Table.
145.
Motion for consideration.
- At any time after the Bill together with the President's message has been so laid on the Table, any Minister in the case
of a Government Bill, or, in any other case, any member, may, after giving two days' notice, or with the consent of the
Speaker without notice, move that the Bill as passed again by the Council be taken into consideration.
146.
Procedure on motion for consideration being carried.
(1)
If the motion that the Bill as passed again by the Council be taken into consideration is carried, the Speaker shall put to
the House the amendments, if any, made to the Bill by the Council in such manner as the Speaker thinks most
convenient for their consideration.
(2)
An amendment relevant to the subject-matter of an amendment made by the Council may be moved, but no further
amendment shall be moved unless it is consequential upon, incidental or alternative to, an amendment made by the
Council:
Provided that if the Council has not agreed to an amendment recommended by the President any member may move an
amendment relevant to the subject-matter of the amendment recommended by the President.
147.
Bill passed again without amendment.
- If the Bill passed again by the Council is passed again by the House without amendment, a message shall be sent to
the Council to that effect.
148.
Bill passed again with amendments.
- If the Bill is passed again by the House with amendments, the Bill shall be returned to the Council with a message
asking the concurrence of the Council in such amendments.
149.
Procedure consequent on disposal of amendments by Council.
- If the Council disagrees with the amendments made by the House or any of them, or agrees to any of the amendments
made by the House with further amendments, or proposes further amendments in place of amendments made by the
House, the Bill as further amended shall on receipt by the House be laid on the Table.
150.
Consideration of amendments made by Council.
- After the amended Bill has been so laid on the Table, any Minister in the case of a Government Bill, or, in any other
case, any member may, after giving Procedure on motion for consideration being carried.  two days' notice, or with the
consent of the Speaker without notice, move that the amendments be taken into consideration.
151.
Procedure on consideration of amendments.
(1)
If a motion that the amendments be taken into consideration is carried, the Speaker shall put the amendments to the
House in such manner as the Speaker thinks most convenient for their consideration.
(2)
An amendment relevant to the subject-matter of the amendments made by the Council may be moved but no further
amendment shall be moved to the Bill, unless it is consequential upon, incidental or alternative to, an amendment made
by the Council.
Page 31/115
----- PAGE 32 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
152.
Disposal of Bill and amendments.
- The House may agree to the Bill as passed again by the Council or as further amended by the Council, as the case
may be, or may return the Bill with a message that it insists on an amendment or amendments to which the Council has
disagreed.
153.
Disagreement between Houses as to amendments.
- If the Bill is returned with a message that the House insists on an amendment or amendments to which the Council is
unable to agree, the Houses shall be deemed to have finally disagreed as to the amendment or amendments.
Authentication of bills Passed again by the Houses
154.
Authentication.
- When a Bill is passed again by the Houses and is in possession of the House, the Bill shall be signed in duplicate by
the Speaker and presented to the President in the following form:
'The above Bill has been passed again by the Houses of Parliament in pursuance of the proviso to article 111 of the
Constitution.
Dated ......20
Speaker':
Provided that in the absence of the Speaker from New Delhi, the Secretary-General may, in case of urgency,
authenticate the Bill on behalf of the Speaker. Procedure on consideration of amendments.
Chapter XI
Bills Seeking to Amend the Constitution
155.
Voting on clauses and schedules.
- Each clause or schedule or clause, or schedule as amended, as the case may be, of a Bill seeking to amend the
Constitution shall be put to the vote of the House separately and shall form part of the Bill if it is passed by a majority of
the total membership of the House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members present and voting:
Provided that the Speaker may, with concurrence of the House, put clauses and/or schedules, or clauses and/or
schedules as amended, as the case may be, together to the vote of the House in which case the result of the voting
shall be taken as applicable to each clause or schedule separately and so indicated in the proceedings:
Provided further that if a member requests that any clause or schedule, or any clause or schedule as amended, as the
case may be, be put separately, the Speaker shall put that clause or schedule, or clause or schedule as amended, as
the case may be, separately:
Provided further that the Short Title, the Enacting Formula and the Long Title may be adopted by a simple majority.
156.
Voting on amendments.
- Amendments to clauses or schedules shall be decided by a majority of members present and voting in the same
manner as in the case of any other Bill.
157.
Voting on motions.
- If the motion in respect of such Bill is that:
(i)
the Bill be taken into consideration; or
(ii)
the Bill as reported by the Select Committee of the House or the Joint Committee of the Houses, as the case may be, be
taken into consideration; or
(iii)
the Bill, or the Bill as amended, as the case may be, be passed; then the motion shall be deemed to have been carried if
it is passed by a majority of the total membership of the House and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the
members present and voting.
158.
Page 32/115
----- PAGE 33 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Voting by division.
(1)
Voting shall be by division whenever a motion has to be carried by a majority of the total membership of the House and
by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting.
(2)
If the result of the voting shows that the majority of the total membership of the House and the majority of not less than
two-thirds of the members present and voting are in favour of the motion, the Speaker shall, while announcing the result,
say that the motion is carried by a majority of the total membership of the House and by a majority of not less than
two-thirds of the members present and voting.
159.
Residuary procedure.
- In all other respects, the procedure laid down in these rules with respect to other Bills shall apply.
Explanation. - The expression "total membership" referred to in these rules means the total number of members
comprising the House irrespective of the fact whether there are vacancies or absentees on any account.
Chapter XII
Petitions
160.
Scope of petitions.
- [Petitions may be presented by a Member to the House with the consent of the Speaker on -]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 17.2.2014, para 6174.]
(i)
a Bill which has been published under rule 64 or which has been introduced in the House;
(ii)
any matter connected with the business pending before the House; and
(iii)
any matter of general public interest provided that it is not one: -
(a)
which falls within the cognizance of a court of law having jurisdiction in any part of India or a court of enquiry or a
statutory tribunal or authority or a quasi-judicial body, or a commission;
(b)
which should ordinarily be raised in a State Legislature;
(c)
which can be raised on a substantive motion or resolution; or
(d)
for which remedy is available under the law, including rules, regulations, bye-laws made by the Government of India or
an authority to whom power to make such rules, regulations, etc. is delegated.
160A.
Petitions dealing with financial matters.
- A petition, dealing with any of the matters specified in sub-clauses (a) to (f) of clause (1) of article 110 or involving
expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India, shall not be presented to the House unless recommended by the
President.
161.
General form of petition.
(1)
The general form of petition set out in the First Schedule, with such variations as the  circumstances of each case
require, may be used, and, if used, shall be sufficient.
(2)
Every petition shall be couched in respectful, decorous and temperate language.
(3)
Every petition shall be either in Hindi or in English. If any petition in any other Indian language is made, it shall be
accompanied by a translation either in Hindi or in English, and signed by the petitioner.
Page 33/115
----- PAGE 34 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
162.
Authentication of petition.
(1)
The full name and address of every signatory to a petition shall be set out therein and shall be authenticated by the
petitioner's signature, and if illiterate by the petitioner's thumb impression.
(2)
[ Where there is more than one signatory to a petition, at least one person shall sign, or affix thumb impression if such
person is illiterate, on the sheet on which the petition is inscribed. If signatures or thumb impressions are affixed to more
than one sheet, the prayer of the petition shall be repeated at the head of each sheet. Where the petition is made online
through Members' Portal, it may reflect the signature or thumb impression of the petitioner, as the case may be.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 12/1/CI/2017, dated 3.8.2017.]
163.
Documents not to be attached.
- Letters, affidavits or other documents shall not be attached to any petition.
164.
Countersignature.
- [(1) Every petition shall be countersigned by a member presenting it. If a petition is made in any Indian language other
than Hindi or English, its translation in Hindi or English shall also be countersigned by the member presenting it.
Provided that the petition submitted online through Members' Portal shall be deemed to be countersigned by the
member.
Provided further that the member may have the option to countersign the petition and upload a scanned copy thereof.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 12/1/CI/2017, dated 3.8.2017.]
(2)
A member shall not present one's own petition.
165.
Petition to be addressed to House.
- Every petition shall be addressed to the House and shall conclude with a prayer reciting the definite object of the
petitioner in regard to the matter to which it relates.
166.
Notice of presentation.
- A member shall give advance intimation to the Secretary-General of one's intention to present a petition.
167.
Presentation of petition.
- [A petition may be presented by a member to the House. No debate shall be permitted on the presentation of a
petition.]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 17.2.2014, para 6174.]
168.
Form of presentation.
- A member presenting a petition shall confine to making of a statement in the following form: - Madam/Sir, I beg to
present a petition signed by...petitioner(s) regarding... and no debate shall be permitted on this statement.
169.
Reference to Committee on Petitions.
- [Every petition shall, after presentation by a member stand referred to the Committee on Petitions.]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 17.2.2014, para 6174.]
Chapter XIII
Resolutions
170.
Notice of resolution.
- A member other than a Minister who wishes to move a resolution on a day allotted for private members' resolutions,
shall give a notice to that effect at least two days before the date of ballot. The names of all members from whom such
notices are received shall be balloted and those members who secure the first three places in the ballot for the day
Page 34/115
----- PAGE 35 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
allotted for private members' resolutions shall be eligible to give notice of one resolution each within two days after the
date of the ballot.
171.
Form of resolution.
- A resolution may be in the form of a declaration of opinion, or a recommendation; or may be in the form so as to record
either approval or disapproval by the House of an act or policy of Government, or convey a message; or commend, urge
or request an action; or call attention to a matter or situation for consideration by Government; or in such other form as
the Speaker may consider appropriate.
172.
Subject-matter of resolution.
- Subject to the provisions of these rules, a member or a Minister may move a resolution relating to a matter of general
public interest.
173.
Admissibility of resolution.
- In order that a resolution may be admissible, it shall satisfy the following conditions, namely: -
(i)
it shall be clearly and precisely expressed;
(ii)
it shall raise substantially one definite issue;
(iii)
it shall not contain arguments, inferences, ironical expressions, imputations or defamatory statements;
(iv)
it shall not refer to the conduct or character of persons except in their official or public capacity; and
(v)
it shall not relate to any matter which is under adjudication by a court of law having jurisdiction in any part of India.
174.
Speaker to decide admissibility.
- The Speaker shall decide whether resolution or a part thereof is or is not admissible under these rules and may
disallow any resolution or a part thereof when the Speaker is of the opinion that it is an abuse of the right of moving a
resolution or calculated to obstruct or pre judicially affect the procedure of the House or is in contravention of these
rules.
175.
Matters before tribunals, commissions etc.
- No resolution which seeks to raise discussion on a matter pending before any statutory tribunal or statutory authority
performing any judicial or quasi judicial functions or any commission or court of enquiry appointed to enquire into, or
investigate any matter shall ordinarily be permitted to be moved:
Provided that the Speaker may, in own discretion, allow such matter being raised in the House as if concerned with the
procedure or subject or stage of enquiry, if the Speaker is satisfied that it is not likely to prejudice the consideration of
such matter by the statutory tribunal, statutory authority, commission or court of enquiry.
176.
Moving of resolution.
(1)
A member in whose name a resolution stands on the list of business shall, except when that member wishes to withdraw
it, when called upon, move the resolution, and shall commence one's own speech by a formal motion in the terms
appearing in the list of business.
(2)
A member may, with the permission of the Speaker, authorise any other member, in whose name the same resolution
stands lower in the list of business, to move it on her or his behalf and the member so authorised may move it
accordingly.
(3)
If a member other than a Minister when called on is absent, any other member authorised by that member in writing in
Page 35/115
----- PAGE 36 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
her or his behalf may, with the permission of the Speaker, move the resolution standing in the name of such member.
177.
Amendments.
(1)
After a resolution has been moved any member may, subject to the rules relating to resolutions, move an amendment to
the resolution.
(2)
If notice of such amendment has not been given one day previous to the day on which the resolution is moved, any
member may object to the moving of the amendment, and such objection shall prevail, unless the Speaker allows the
amendment to be moved.
(3)
The Secretary-General shall, if time permits, make available to members from time to time lists of amendments of which
notices have been received.
178.
Time limit for speeches.
- No speech on a resolution shall, except with the permission of the Speaker, exceed fifteen minutes in duration:
Provided that the mover of a resolution, when moving the same and the Minister concerned when speaking for the first
time, may speak for thirty minutes or for such longer time as the Speaker may permit.
179.
Scope of discussion.
- The discussion on a resolution shall be strictly relevant to and within the scope of the resolution.
180.
Withdrawal of resolution and amendment.
(1)
A member in whose name a resolution stands on the list of business may, when called upon, withdraw the resolution,
and shall confine to making of a mere statement to the effect.
(2)
A member who has moved a resolution or amendment to a resolution shall not withdraw the same except by leave of the
House.
181.
Splitting of resolution.
- When any resolution involving several points has been discussed, the Speaker, may divide the resolution, and put
each or any point separately to the vote, as the Speaker may think fit.
182.
Repetition of resolution.
- When a resolution has been moved no resolution or amendment raising substantially the same question shall be
moved within one year from the date of the moving of the earlier resolution:
Provided that when a resolution has been withdrawn with the leave of the House, no resolution raising substantially the
same question shall be moved during the same session.
183.
Resolution passed to be sent to Minister.
- A copy of every resolution which has been passed by the House shall be forwarded to the Minister concerned.
Chapter XIV
Motions
184.
Discussion on matter of public interest.
- Save in so far as is otherwise provided in the Constitution or in these rules, no discussion of a matter of general public
interest shall take place except on a motion made with the consent of the Speaker.
185.
Notice of motion.
- Notice of a motion shall be given in writing addressed to the Secretary-General.
Page 36/115
----- PAGE 37 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
186.
Admissibility of motions.
- In order that a motion may be admissible it shall satisfy the following conditions, namely: -
(i)
it shall raise substantially one definite issue;
(ii)
it shall not contain arguments, inferences, ironical expressions, imputations or defamatory statements;
(iii)
it shall not refer to the conduct or character of persons except in their public capacity;
(iv)
it shall be restricted to a matter of recent occurrence;
(v)
it shall not raise a question of privilege;
(vi)
it shall not revive discussion of a matter which has been discussed in the same session;
(vii)
it shall not anticipate discussion of a matter which is likely to be discussed in the same session; [XXX]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(viii)
it shall not relate to any matter which is under adjudication by a court of law having jurisdiction in any part of India;
(ix)
[ if it contains a statement the member shall take the responsibility for the accuracy of the statement;
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(x)
it shall not seek discussion on a paper or document laid on the Table by a private member;
(xi)
it shall not ordinarily relate to matters which are under consideration of a Parliamentary Committee;
(xii)
it shall not ask for an expression of opinion or the solution of an abstract legal question or of a hypothetical proposition;
(xiii)
it shall not relate to a matter which is not primarily the concern of the Government of India;
(xiv)
it shall not raise matter under the control of bodies or persons not primarily responsible to the Government of India;
(xv)
it shall not relate to a matter with which a Minister is not officially concerned;
(xvi)
it shall not refer discourteously to a friendly foreign country;
(xvii)
it shall not refer to or seek disclosure of information about matters which are in their nature secret such as Cabinet
discussions or advice given to the President in relation to any matter in respect of which there is a constitutional,
statutory or conventional obligation not to disclose information; and
(xviii)
it shall not relate to a trivial matter.]
187.
Speaker to decide admissibility.
- The Speaker shall decide whether a motion or a part thereof is or is not admissible under these rules and disallow any
motion or a part thereof when  the Speaker is of the opinion that it is an abuse of the right of moving a motion or is
calculated to obstruct or pre-judicially affects the procedure of the House or is in contravention of these rules.
188.
Matters before tribunals, commissions etc.
- No motion which seeks to raise discussion on a matter pending before any statutory tribunal or statutory authority
Page 37/115
----- PAGE 38 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
performing any judicial or quasi judicial functions or any commission or court of enquiry appointed to enquire into or
investigate, any matter shall ordinarily be permitted to be moved:
Provided that the Speaker may, in own discretion, allow such matter being raised in the House as is concerned with the
procedure or subject or stage of enquiry if the Speaker is satisfied that it is not likely to prejudice the consideration of
such matter by the statutory tribunal, statutory authority, commission or court of enquiry.
189.
Publication of admitted motions.
- If the Speaker admits notice of a motion and no date is fixed for the discussion of such motion, it shall be  [***]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
notified in the Bulletin with the heading:
'No-Day-Yet-Named Motions'.
190.
Allotment of time for discussion.
- The Speaker may, after considering the state of business in the House and in consultation with the Leader of the
House [or on the recommendation of the Business Advisory Committee]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
allot a day or days or part of a day for the discussion of any such motion.
191.
Putting of question at appointed time.
- The Speaker shall, at the appointed hour on the allotted day or the last of the allotted days, as the case may be,
forthwith put every question necessary to determine the decision of the House on the original question.
192.
Time limit for speeches.
- The Speaker, if thinks fit, may prescribe a time-limit for speeches.
Chapter XV
Short Duration Discussions
193.
Notice for raising discussion.
- Any member desirous of raising discussion on a matter of urgent public importance may give notice in writing to the
Secretary-General specifying clearly and precisely the matter to be raised:
Provided that the notice shall be accompanied by an explanatory note stating reasons for raising discussion on the
matter in question:
Provided further that the notice shall be supported by the signatures of at least two other members.
194.
Speaker to decide admissibility and allotment of time.
(1)
If the Speaker is satisfied, after calling for such information from the member who has given notice and from the Minister
as the Speaker may consider necessary, that the matter is urgent and is of sufficient importance to be raised in the
House at an early date, the Speaker may admit the notice:
Provided that if an early opportunity is otherwise available for the discussion of the matter the Speaker may refuse to
admit the notice.
(2)
The Speaker may allot two sittings in a week on which such matters may be taken up for discussion and allow such time
for discussion not exceeding [two]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 30.4.1987, para 1639.]
hours at or before the end of the sitting, as the Speaker may consider appropriate in the circumstances.
195.
No formal motion.
- There shall be no formal motion before the House nor voting. The member who has given notice may make a short
statement and the Minister shall reply shortly. Any member who has previously intimated to the Speaker may be
permitted to take part in the discussion.
Page 38/115
----- PAGE 39 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
196.
Time limit for speeches.
- The Speaker, if thinks fit, may prescribe a time-limit for the speeches.
Chapter XVI
Calling Attention
197.
Procedure regarding Calling Attention.
(1)
A member may, with the previous permission of the Speaker, call the attention of a Minister to any matter of urgent
public importance and the Minister may make a brief statement or ask for time to make a statement at a later hour or
date:
Provided that no member shall give more than two such notices for any one sitting.
(2)
[ There shall be no debate on such statement at the time it is made but each member in whose name the item stands in
the list of business may, with the permission of the Speaker, ask a clarificatory question and the Minister shall reply at
the end to all such questions:
Provided that names of not more than five members shall be shown in the list of business.]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 30.4.1987, para 1639.]
Explanation. - (i) Where a notice is signed by more than one member, it shall be deemed to have been given by the first
signatory only.
(ii)
Notices for a sitting received upto 10.00 hours shall be deemed to have been received at 10.00 hours on that day and a
ballot shall be held to determine the relative priority of each such notice on the same subject. Notices received after
10.00 hours shall be deemed to have been given for the next sitting.
(iii)
[ Notices received during a week commencing from its first sitting till 10.00 hours on the last day of the week on which
the House sits, shall be valid for that week. Notices received after 10.00 hours on the last day of the week on which the
House sits, shall be valid for the following week.
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 30.4.1987, para 1639.]
(iv)
In case the number of members giving notices on a subject that is admitted by the Speaker, is [five or less], their inter-se
priority shall be determined with reference to the date and time of receipt of Notices.]
(3)
Not more than two such matters shall be raised at the same sitting:
Provided that the second matter shall not be raised by the same members who have raised the first matter and it shall
be raised at [such time]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
as the Speaker may fix.
(4)
In the event of more than one matter being presented for the same day, priority shall be given to the matter which is, in
the opinion of the Speaker, more urgent and important.
(5)
[ All the notices which have not been taken up during the week for which they have been given, shall lapse at the end of
the week unless the Speaker has admitted any of them for a subsequent sitting:
Provided that a notice referred for facts to a Minister shall not lapse till it is finally disposed of by the Speaker.]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 30.4.1987, para 1639.]
Chapter XVII
Motion of No-Confidence in Council of Ministers and statement by Minister who has Resigned
198.
Procedure regarding motion of n-confidence in Council of Ministers.
(1)
Page 39/115
----- PAGE 40 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
A motion expressing want of confidence in the Council of Ministers may be made subject to the following restrictions,
namely: -
(a)
leave to make the motion shall be asked for by the member when called by the Speaker;
(b)
the member asking for leave shall, [by 10.00 hours on]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 1.8.1989, para 3091.]
that day give to the Secretary - General a written notice of the motion which such member proposes to move.
[Provided that notices, received after 10.00 hours, shall be deemed to have been received at 10.00 hours on the next
day on which the House sits.]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 1.8.1989, para 3091.]
(2)
If the Speaker is of opinion that the motion is in order, the Speaker shall read the motion to the House and shall request
those members who are in favour of leave being granted to rise in their places, and if not less than fifty members rise
accordingly, the Speaker shall declare that leave is granted and that the motion will be taken up on such day, not being
more than ten days from the date on which the leave is asked for as the Speaker may appoint. If less than fifty members
rise, the Speaker shall inform that the member has not the leave of the House.
(3)
If leave is granted under sub-rule (2), the Speaker may, after considering the state of business in the House, allot a day
or days or part of a day for the discussion of the motion.
(4)
The Speaker shall, at the appointed hour on the allotted day or the last of the allotted days, as the case may be,
forthwith put every question necessary to determine the decision of the House on the motion.
(5)
The Speaker, if thinks fit, may prescribe a time limit for speeches.
199.
Statement by Minister who has resigned.
(1)
A member who has resigned the office of Minister may, with the consent of the Speaker, make a personal statement in
explanation of her or his resignation [on any day during the session in which the resignation has been accepted by the
President:
Provided that a member may make such a statement at the earliest opportunity on a day not being more than seven
days from the date of commencement of the session if the resignation was accepted by the President when the House
was not in session.]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(2)
A copy of the statement shall be forwarded to the Speaker and the Leader of the House [at least]
[Inserted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
one day in advance of the day on which it is made.
[
*
* ***]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(3)
There shall be no debate on such statement, but after it has been made, a Minister may make a statement pertinent
thereto.Statement by Minister who has resigned.
Chapter XVIII
Resolution for Removal of Speaker or Deputy Speaker from Office
200.
Notice of resolution for removal of Speaker or Deputy Speaker.
(1)
Page 40/115
----- PAGE 41 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
A member wishing to give notice of a resolution, under clause (c) of article 94 of the Constitution, for the removal of the
Speaker or the Deputy Speaker shall do so in writing to the Secretary - General [and shall furnish the full text of such
resolution.]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 1.8.1989, para 3091.]
(2)
On receipt of a notice under sub-rule (1) a motion for leave to move the resolution shall be entered in the list of business
in the name of the member concerned, on a day fixed by the Speaker, provided that the day so fixed shall be any day
after fourteen days from the date of the receipt of notice of the resolution.
200A.
[Admissibility of Resolution.
[Inserted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 1.8.1989, para 3091.]
- In order that such a resolution may be admissible, it shall satisfy the following conditions, namely: -
(i)
it shall be specific with respect to charges;
(ii)
it shall be clearly and precisely expressed; and
(iii)
it shall not contain arguments, inferences, ironical expressions, imputations or defamatory statements.]
201.
Leave of House to move resolution.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of article 96 of the Constitution, the Speaker or the Deputy Speaker or such other person as is
referred to in clause (2) of article 95 of the Constitution shall preside when a motion under sub-rule (2) of rule 200 is
taken up for consideration.
(2)
The member in whose name the motion stands on the list of business shall, [unless makes a statement  conveying
unwillingness to move the motion, move the motion when called upon to do so, but in either case]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
no speech shall be permitted at this stage.
(3)
The Speaker or the Deputy Speaker or the person presiding, as the case may be, shall thereupon place the motion
before the House and shall request those members who are in favour of leave being granted to rise in their places. If not
less than fifty members rise accordingly, the Speaker or the Deputy Speaker or the person presiding, as the case may
be, shall declare that leave has been granted and that the resolution will be taken up on such day, not being more than
ten days from the date on which leave is asked for, as the Speaker or the Deputy Speaker or the person presiding, as
the case may be, may appoint. If less than fifty members rise, the Speaker or the Deputy Speaker or the person
presiding, as the case may be, shall inform that the member has not the leave of the House.
202.
Inclusion of resolution in list of business.
- On the appointed day the resolution shall be included in the list of business.
202A.
[Scope of discussion.
[Inserted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 1.8.1989, para 3091.]
- The discussion on the resolution shall be strictly confined to the charges preferred in the resolution.]
203.
Time limit for speeches.
- Except with the permission of the Speaker or the person presiding, a speech on the resolution shall not exceed fifteen
minutes in duration:
Provided that the mover of the resolution when moving the same may speak for such longer time as the Speaker or the
person presiding may permit.
Chapter XIX
Page 41/115
----- PAGE 42 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Financial Business Budget
204.
Presentation of Budget.
(1)
The Annual Financial Statement or the Statement of the Estimated Receipts and Expenditure of the Government of India
in respect of each financial year (hereinafter referred to as 'the Budget') shall be presented to the House on such day as
the President may direct.
(2)
The Budget shall be presented to the House in such form as the Finance Minister may, after considering the
suggestions, if any, of the Estimates Committee, settle.
205.
No discussion on day of presentation.
- There shall be no discussion of the Budget on the day on which it is presented to the House.
Demands for Grants
206.
Demands for grants.
(1)
A separate demand shall ordinarily be made in respect of the grant proposed for each Ministry, provided that the
Finance Minister may include in one demand grants proposed for two or more Ministries or Departments or make a
demand in respect of expenditure which cannot readily be classified under particular Ministries.
(2)
Each demand shall contain first statement of the total grant proposed and then a statement of the detailed estimate
under each grant divided into items.
207.
General discussion on Budget.
(1)
On a day to be appointed by the Speaker subsequent to the day on which the Budget is presented and for such time as
the Speaker may allot for this purpose, the House shall be at liberty to discuss the Budget as a whole or any question of
principle involved therein, but no motion shall be moved nor shall the Budget be submitted to the vote of the House.
(2)
The Finance Minister shall have a general right of reply at the end of the discussion.
(3)
The Speaker, if thinks fit, may prescribe a time limit for speeches.
208.
Voting of demands for grants.
(1)
The Speaker shall, in consultation with the Leader of the House, allot so many days as may be compatible with the
public interest for the discussion and voting of demands for grants.
(2)
On the last day of the allotted days at 17.00 hours or at such other hour as the Speaker may fix in advance, the Speaker
shall forthwith put every question necessary to dispose of all the outstanding matters in connection with the demands for
grants.
(3)
Motions may be moved to reduce any demand for grant.
(4)
No amendments to motions to reduce any demand for grant shall be permissible.
(5)
When several motions relating to the same demand for grant are offered, they shall be discussed in the order in which
the heads to which they relate appear in the Budget.
209.
Cut motions.
Page 42/115
----- PAGE 43 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
- A motion may be moved to reduce the amount of a demand in any of the following ways: -
(a)
'that the amount of the demand be reduced to Re. 1/-' representing disapproval of the policy underlying the demand.
Such a motion shall be known as 'Disapproval of Policy Cut'. A member giving notice of such a motion shall indicate in
precise terms the particulars of the policy which the member proposes to discuss. The discussion shall be confined to
the specific point or points mentioned in the notice and it shall be open to members to advocate an alternative policy;
(b)
'that the amount of the demand be reduced by a specified amount' representing the economy that can be effected. Such
specified amount may be either a lump sum reduction in the demand or omission or reduction of an item in the demand.
The motion shall be known as 'Economy Cut'. The notice shall indicate briefly and precisely the particular matter on
which discussion is sought to be raised and speeches shall be confined to the discussion as to how economy can be
effected;
(c)
'that the amount of the demand be reduced by Rs. 100/-' in order to ventilate a specific grievance which is within the
sphere of the responsibility of the Government of India. Such a motion shall be known as 'Token Cut' and the discussion
thereon shall be confined to the particular grievance specified in the motion.
210.
Admissibility of cut motions.
- In order that notice of motion for reduction of the amount of demand may be admissible, it shall satisfy the following
conditions, namely: -
(i)
it shall relate to one demand only;
(ii)
it shall be clearly expressed and shall not contain arguments, inferences, ironical expressions, imputations, epithets or
defamatory statements;
(iii)
it shall be confined to one specific matter which shall be stated in precise terms;
(iv)
it shall not reflect on the character or conduct of any person whose conduct can only be challenged on a substantive
motion;
(v)
it shall not make suggestions for the amendment or repeal of existing laws;
(vi)
it shall not refer to a matter which is not primarily the concern of the Government of India;
(vii)
it shall not relate to expenditure charged on the Consolidated Fund of India;
(viii)
it shall not relate to a matter which is under adjudication by a court of law having jurisdiction in any part of India;
(ix)
it shall not raise a question of privilege;
(x)
it shall not revive discussion on a matter which has been discussed in the same session and on which a decision has
been taken;
(xi)
it shall not anticipate a matter which has been previously appointed for consideration in the same session;
(xii)
it shall not ordinarily seek to raise a discussion on a matter pending before any statutory tribunal or statutory authority
performing any judicial or quasi-judicial functions or any commission or court of enquiry appointed to enquire into, or
investigate any matter:
Provided that the Speaker may in own discretion allow such matter being raised in the House as is concerned with the
procedure or stage of enquiry, if the Speaker is satisfied that it is not likely to prejudice the consideration of such matter
Page 43/115
----- PAGE 44 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
by the statutory tribunal, statutory authority, commission or court of enquiry; and
(xiii)
it shall not relate to a trivial matter.
211.
Speaker to decide admissibility.
- The Speaker shall decide whether a cut motion is or is not admissible under these rules and may disallow any cut
motion when the Speaker is of the opinion that it is an abuse of the right of moving cut motions or is calculated to
obstruct or prejudicially affect the procedure of the House or is in contravention of these rules.
212.
Notice of cut motions.
- If notice of a motion to reduce any demand for grant has not been given one day previous to the day on which the
demand is under consideration, any member may object to the moving of the motion, and such objection shall prevail,
unless the Speaker allows the motion to be made.
213.
Presentation of Budget in parts.
- Nothing hereinbefore contained shall be deemed to prevent the presentation of the Budget to the House in two or more
parts and when such presentation takes place, each part shall be dealt with in accordance with these rules as if it were
the Budget.
214.
Vote on Account.
(1)
A motion for vote on account shall state the total sum required and the various amounts needed for each Ministry,
Department or item of expenditure which compose that sum shall be stated in a schedule appended to the motion.
(2)
Amendments may be moved for the reduction of the whole grant or for the reduction or omission of the items whereof
the grant is composed.
(3)
Discussion of a general character may be allowed on the motion or any amendments moved thereto, but the details of
the grant shall not be discussed further than is necessary to develop the general points.
(4)
In other respects, a motion for vote on account shall be dealt with in the same way as if it were a demand for grant.
215.
Supplementary etc. grants and votes of credit.
- Supplementary, additional, excess and exceptional grants and votes of credit shall be regulated by the same
procedure as is applicable in the case of demands for grants subject to such adaptations, whether by way of
modification, addition or omission, as the Speaker may deem to be necessary or expedient.
216.
Scope of debate on supplementary grants.
- The debate on the supplementary grants shall be confined to the items constituting the same and no discussion may
be raised on the original grants nor policy underlying them save in so far as it may be necessary to explain or illustrate
the particular items under discussion.
217.
Token grants.
- When funds to meet proposed expenditure on a new service can be made available by reappropriation, a demand for
the grant of a token sum may be submitted to the vote of the House and, if the House assents to the demand, funds may
be so made available.
Appropriation Bill
218.
Procedure regarding Appropriation Bill.
(1)
Subject to the provision of the Constitution, the procedure in regard to an Appropriation Bill shall be the same as for Bills
Page 44/115
----- PAGE 45 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
generally with such modifications as the Speaker may consider necessary.
(2)
[
*
* ***]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
[The debate on an Appropriation Bill shall be restricted to matters of public importance or administrative policy implied in
the grants covered by the Bill which have not already been raised while the relevant demands for grants were under
consideration.
(3)
The Speaker may, in order to avoid repetition of debate, require members desiring to take part in discussion on an
Appropriation Bill to give advance intimation of the specific points they intend to raise, and the Speaker may withhold
permission for raising such of the points, as in the opinion of the Speaker appear to be repetitions of the matters
discussed on a demand for grant or as may not be of sufficient public importance.
(4)
If an Appropriation Bill is in pursuance of a supplementary grant in respect of an existing service, the discussion shall be
confined to the items constituting the same, and no discussion shall be raised on the original grant nor the policy
underlying it save in so far as it may be necessary to explain or illustrate a particular item under discussion.]
[Renumbered by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(5)
The Speaker, if thinks fit, may prescribe a time limit for speeches. [ *** ]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
Finance Bill
219.
Procedure regarding Finance Bill.
(1)
In this rule "Finance Bill" means the Bill ordinarily introduced in each year to give effect to the financial proposals of the
Government of India for the  next following financial year and includes a Bill to give effect to supplementary financial
proposals for any period.
(2)
At any time after the introduction in the House of a Finance Bill, the Speaker may allot a day or days, jointly or severally,
for the completion of all or any of the stages involved in the passage of the Bill by the House, and when such allotment
has been made, the Speaker [may, at the specified hour]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
on the allotted day or the last of the allotted days, as the case may be, forthwith put every question necessary to dispose
of all the outstanding matters in connection with the stage or stages for which the day or days have been allotted: -
Provided that if a Minister has a right of reply to the debate on the motion which is under discussion 5[an hour before the
specified hour] and has not commenced reply at that hour, the Speaker shall inquire how much time not exceeding one
hour the Minister requires for the reply, and shall call upon any member for the time being addressing the House to
resume seat at such time as will leave available before [the specified hour]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
the amount of time which the Minister has stated to require for the reply.
(3)
Where the question or one of the questions required by sub-rule (2) to be put at [the specified hour]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
on the allotted day or the last of the allotted days is that the Bill be passed, sub-rule (2) shall have effect notwithstanding
that amendments to the Bill have been made.
(4)
Subject to the provision to sub-rule (2), the Speaker, if thinks fit, may prescribe a time-limit for speeches at all or any of
the stages for which a day or days have been allotted under that sub-rule.
(5)
Page 45/115
----- PAGE 46 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
On a motion that the Finance Bill be taken into consideration, a member may discuss matters relating to general
administration, local grievances within the sphere of the responsibility of Government of India or monetary or financial
policy of Government.
(6)
In other respects the rules applicable to Bills in Chapter X of these rules shall apply.
General Provisions Regarding Financial Business
220.
Business that can be taken up on day allotted for financial business.
- Notwithstanding that a day has been allotted for financial business under rules 207, 208, 218 or 219, a motion or
motions for leave to introduce a Bill or Bills may be made and a Bill or Bills may be introduced on such day before the
House enters on the business for which the day has been allotted.
221.
Timely completion of financial business.
- In addition to the powers exercisable under these rules, the Speaker may exercise all such powers as are necessary
for the purpose of the timely completion of all financial business including allotment of time for the disposal of various
kinds of such business, and where time is so allotted, the Speaker shall, at the appointed hour, put every question
necessary to dispose of all the outstanding matters in connection with the stage or stages for which time has been
allotted.
Explanation. - Financial business includes any business which the Speaker holds as coming within this category under
the Constitution.
Chapter XX
Privileges
Questions of Privilege
222.
Consent of Speaker.
- A member may, with the consent of the Speaker, raise a question involving a breach of privilege either of a member or
of the House or of a Committee thereof.
223.
Notice of question of privilege.
- A member wishing to raise a question of privilege shall give notice in writing to the Secretary-General [by 10.00 hours]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
on the day the question is proposed to be raised. If the question raised is based on a document, the notice shall be
accompanied by the document:
[Provided that notices received after 10.00 hours shall be deemed to have been received at 10.00 hours on the next day
on which the House sits.]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
224.
Admissibility of questions of privilege.
- The right to raise a question of privilege shall be governed by the following conditions, namely: -
(i)
not more than one question shall be raised at the same sitting;
(ii)
the question shall be restricted to a specific matter of recent occurrence; and
(iii)
the matter requires the intervention of the House.
225.
Mode of raising questions of privilege.
(1)
The Speaker, if gives consent under rule 222 and holds that the matter proposed to be discussed is in order, shall call
the member concerned, who shall rise in one's own place and, while asking for leave to raise the question of privilege,
make a short statement relevant thereto:
Page 46/115
----- PAGE 47 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Provided that where the Speaker has refused to give consent under rule 222 or is of opinion that the matter proposed to
be discussed is not in order, the Speaker, if thinks necessary, may read the notice of question of privilege and state that
the consent is refused or the notice of question of privilege is not in order:
Provided further that the Speaker may, on being satisfied about the urgency of the matter, allow a question of privilege
to be raised at any time during the course of a sitting after the disposal of questions.
(2)
If objection to leave being granted is taken, the Speaker shall request those members who are in favour of leave being
granted to rise in their places, and if not less than twenty-five members rise accordingly, the Speaker shall declare that
leave is granted. If less than twenty-five members rise, the Speaker shall inform the member that such member has not
the leave of the House.
226.
Questions of privilege to be considered by House or Committee.
- If leave under rule 225 is granted, the House may consider the question and come to a decision or refer it to a
Committee of Privileges on a motion made either by the member who has raised the question of privilege or by any
other member.
227.
Reference of questions of privilege to Committee by Speaker.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the Speaker may refer any question of privilege to the Committee of
Privileges for examination, investigation or report.
228.
Power of Speaker to give directions.
- The Speaker may issue such directions as may be necessary for regulating the procedure in connection with all
matters connected with the consideration of the question of privilege either in the Committee of Privileges or in the
House.
Intimation to Speaker Regarding Arrest, Detention etc. and Release of Member
229.
Intimation regarding arrest, detention etc. of member.
- When a member is arrested on a criminal charge or for a criminal offence or is sentenced to imprisonment by a court or
is detained under an Questions of privilege to be considered by House or Committee.  executive order, the committing
judge, magistrate or executive authority, as the case may be, shall immediately intimate such fact to the Speaker
indicating the reasons for the arrest, detention or conviction, as the case may be, as also the place of detention or
imprisonment of the member in the appropriate form set out in the Third Schedule.
230.
Intimation regarding release of member.
- When a member is arrested and after conviction released on bail pending an appeal or otherwise released, such fact
shall also be intimated to the Speaker by the authority concerned in the appropriate form set out in the Third Schedule.
231.
Treatment of communications regarding arrest, detention, release etc.
- As soon as may be, the Speaker shall, after receiving a communication referred to in rule 229 or rule 230, read it out in
the House if in session, or if the House is not in session, direct that it may be published in the Bulletin for the information
of the members:
Provided that if the intimation of the release of a member either on bail or by discharge on appeal is received before the
House has been informed of the original arrest, the fact of her or his arrest, or her or his subsequent release or
discharge may not be intimated to the House by the Speaker.
Procedure Regarding Arrest and Service of Legal Process within Precincts of the House
232.
Arrest within precincts of House.
- No arrest shall be made within the precincts of the House without obtaining the permission of the Speaker.
233.
Service of legal process.
- A legal process, civil or criminal, shall not be served within the precincts of the House without obtaining the permission
Page 47/115
----- PAGE 48 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
of Speaker.
Chapter XXI
Subordinate Legislation
234.
Laying of regulation, rule etc. on Table.
(1)
Where a regulation, rule, sub-rule, byelaw etc. framed in pursuance of the Constitution or of the legislative functions
delegated by Parliament to a subordinate authority is laid before the House, the period specified in the Constitution or
the relevant Act for which it is required to be laid shall be completed before the House is adjourned sine die and later
prorogued, unless otherwise provided in the Constitution or the relevant Act.
(2)
Where the specified period is not so completed the regulation, rule, sub-rule, bye-law etc. shall be relaid in the
succeeding session or sessions until the said period is completed in one session.
235.
Allotment of time for consideration of amendments to regulation, rule etc.
- The Speaker shall, in consultation with the Leader of the House, fix a day or days or part of a day as the Speaker may
think fit for the consideration and passing of an amendment to such regulation, rule, sub-rule, bye-law, etc., of which
notice may be given by a member:
Provided that notice of the amendment shall be in such form as the Speaker may consider appropriate and shall comply
with these rules.
236.
Transmission of amendment to Council.
- After an amendment is passed by the House, it shall be transmitted to the Council for its concurrence and on receipt of
a message from the Council agreeing to the amendment, it shall be forwarded by the Secretary-General to the Minister
concerned.
237.
Amendment returned by Council.
- If the Council disagrees with the amendment passed by the House or agrees subject to a further amendment thereof or
proposes an amendment in substitution thereof, the House may either drop the amendment or agree with the Council in
the proposed Laying of regulation, rule etc. on Table amendment or insist on the original amendment passed by the
House. A message in either case shall be sent to the Council. In case the House agrees to the amendment as further
amended by the Council, the amended amendment shall be forwarded by the Secretary-General to the Minister
concerned.
238.
Disagreement between Houses.
- If the Council agrees to the original amendment passed by the House, it shall be sent by the Secretary-General to the
Minister concerned, but if the Council disagrees or insists on an amendment to which the House has not agreed, the
Houses shall be deemed to have finally disagreed, and all further proceedings thereon shall be dropped.
239.
Laying of regulation, rule etc. as amended on Table.
- If a regulation, rule, sub-rule, bye-law etc. is modified in accordance with the amendment passed by the Houses, the
amended regulation, rule, sub-rule, bye-law etc. shall be laid on the Table.
Chapter XXII
Resignation and Vacation of Seats in the House
240.
Resignation of seats in House.
(1)
A member who desires to resign one's seat in the House shall intimate in writing under one's own hand addressed to the
Speaker, such intention to resign the seat in the following form and shall not give any reason for the resignation:
'To
The Speaker,
Page 48/115
----- PAGE 49 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Lok Sabha,
New Delhi.
Madam/Sir,
I hereby tender my resignation of my seat in the House with effect from......
Yours faithfully,
Member of the House:'
Place......... Date............
Provided that where any member gives any reason or introduces any extraneous matter the Speaker may while
exercising discretion omit such words, phrases or matter and the same shall not be read out in the House.
(1A)
If a member hands over the letter of resignation to the Speaker personally and informs that the resignation is voluntary
and genuine and the Speaker has no information or knowledge to the contrary, the Speaker may accept the resignation
immediately.
(1B)
If the Speaker receives the letter of resignation either by post or through someone else, the Speaker may make such
inquiry as is considered necessary to get satisfied that the resignation is voluntary and Resignation of seats in House.
genuine. If the Speaker, after making a summary enquiry either by oneself or through the agency of Lok Sabha
Secretariat or through such other agency, as the Speaker may deem fit, is satisfied that the resignation is not voluntary
or genuine, the Speaker shall not accept the resignation.
(1C)
A member may withdraw the letter of resignation at any time before it is accepted by the Speaker.
(2)
The Speaker shall, as soon as may be, after accepting the resignation of a member, inform the House about resignation
of seat by the member and acceptance of such resignation.
Explanation. - When the House is not in session, the Speaker shall inform the House immediately after the House
reassembles.
(3)
The Secretary-General shall, as soon as may be, after the Speaker has accepted the resignation of a member, cause
the information to be published in the Bulletin and the Gazette and forward a copy of the notification to the Election
Commission for taking steps to fill the vacancy thus caused:
Provided that where the resignation is to take effect from a future date, the information shall be published in the Bulletin
and the Gazette not earlier than the date from which it is to take effect.
241.
Vacation of seats in House.
(1)
The seat of a member shall be declared vacant under clause (4) of article 101 of the Constitution on a motion by the
Leader of the House or by such other member to whom the functions are delegated in this behalf by the Leader of the
House.
(2)
If the motion referred to in sub-rule (1) is carried, the Secretary-General shall cause the information to be published in
the Gazette and forward a copy of the notification to the Election Commission for taking steps to fill the vacancy thus
caused.
Chapter XXIII
Leave of Absence from the Sittings of the House
242.
Application for leave of absence.
(1)
A member desiring permission of the House to remain absent from the sittings thereof under clause (4) of article 101 of
the Constitution shall make an application in writing to the Speaker.
(2)
An application under sub-rule (1) shall specify the period for which leave of absence is required, indicating also the date
Page 49/115
----- PAGE 50 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
of commencement and of termination of such leave of absence and the grounds for it:
Provided that leave of absence applied for at any one time shall not exceed a period of sixty days.
243.
Reference of applications to Committee.
- All applications under rule 242 shall stand referred to the Committee on Absence of Members from the Sittings of the
House.
244.
Communication of decision of House to member.
- The Secretary-General shall, as soon as may be, after a decision has been signified by the House on the
recommendations of the Committee in respect of an application for leave of absence, communicate it to the member.
245.
Lapse of unexpired portion of leave.
- If a member who has been granted leave of absence under these rules attends the session of the House during the
period for which the leave of absence has been granted to such member, the unexpired portion of the leave from the
date on which the member resumed attendance shall lapse.
Chapter XXIV
Communications between President and the House
246.
Communications from President to House.
- Communications from the President to the House shall be made to the Speaker by written message signed by the
President or, if the President is absent from the place of sitting of the House, the message shall be conveyed to the
Speaker through a Minister.
247.
Communications from House to President.
- Communications from the House to the President shall be made -
(i)
by formal address, after motion made and carried in the House; and
(ii)
through the Speaker.
Chapter XXV
Secret Sitting of the House
248.
Secret sitting.
(1)
On a request made by the Leader of the House, the Speaker shall fix a day or part thereof for sitting of the House in
secret.
(2)
When the House sits in secret no stranger shall be permitted to be present in the Chamber, Lobby or Galleries:
Provided that members of the Council may be present in their Gallery:
Provided further that persons authorised by the Speaker may be present in the Chamber, Lobby or Galleries.
249.
Report of proceedings.
- The Speaker may cause a report of the proceedings of a secret sitting to be issued in such manner as the Speaker
thinks fit, but no other person present shall keep a note or record of any proceedings or decisions of a secret sitting,
whether in part or full, or issue any report of, or purport to describe, such proceedings.
250.
Procedure in other respects.
- The procedure in all other respects in connection with a secret sitting shall be in accordance with such directions as the
Speaker may give.
251.
Lifting of ban on publication of proceedings.
Page 50/115
----- PAGE 51 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
(1)
When it is considered that the necessity for maintaining secrecy in regard to the proceedings of a secret sitting has
ceased to exist and subject to the consent of the Speaker, the Leader of the House or any member so authorized may
move a motion that the proceedings in the House during a secret sitting be no longer treated as secret.
(2)
On adoption by the House of the motion under sub-rule (1), the Secretary-General shall cause to be prepared a report of
the proceedings of the secret  sitting, and shall, as soon as practicable, publish it in such form and manner as the
Speaker may direct.
252.
Disclosure of proceedings or decisions.
- Subject to the provisions of rule 251, disclosure of proceedings or decisions of a secret sitting by any person in any
manner shall be treated as a gross breach of privilege of the House. Disclosure of proceedings or decisions.
Chapter XXVI
Parliamentary Committees General Rules
253.
Parliamentary Committee.
- In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, 'Committee' means and includes 'Parliamentary Committee' as
defined in sub-rule (1) of rule 2.
254.
Appointment of Committee.
(1)
The members of a Committee shall be appointed or elected by the House on a motion made, or nominated by the
Speaker as the case may be.
(2)
No member shall be appointed to a Committee if unwilling to serve on it. The proposer shall ascertain whether the
member whose name is being proposed is willing to serve on the Committee.
(3)
Casual vacancies in a Committee shall be filled by appointment or election by the House on a motion made, or
nomination by the Speaker, as the case may be, and any member appointed, elected or nominated to fill such vacancy
shall hold office for the unexpired portion of the term for which the member in whose place, a member to fill the casual
vacancy is appointed, elected or nominated would have normally held office.
255.
Objection to membership of Committee.
- Where an objection is taken to the inclusion of a member in a Committee on the ground that the member has a
personal, pecuniary or direct interest of such an intimate character that it may prejudicially affect the consideration of
any matters to be considered by the Committee, the procedure shall be as follows:
(a)
The member who has taken objection shall precisely state the ground of such objection and the nature of the alleged
interest, whether personal, pecuniary or direct, of the proposed member in the matters coming up before the Committee;
(b)
After the objection has been stated, the Speaker shall give an opportunity to the member proposed on the Committee
against whom the objection has been taken to state the position;
(c)
if there is dispute on facts, the Speaker may call upon the member taking objection and the member against whose
appointment on the Committee objection has been taken, to produce documentary or other evidence in support of their
respective cases;
(d)
The Speaker, shall, after considering the evidence so tendered, give decision which shall be final;
(e)
Until the Speaker has given the decision under clause (d), the member against whose appointment on the Committee
objection has been taken shall continue to be a member thereof if elected or nominated and take part in discussion, but
Page 51/115
----- PAGE 52 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
shall not be entitled to vote; and
(f)
if the Speaker holds that the member against whose appointment objection has been taken has a personal, pecuniary or
direct interest in the matter before the Committee, that member shall cease to be a member thereof forthwith:
Provided that the proceedings of the sitting of the Committee at which such member was present shall not in any way be
affected by the decision of the Speaker.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule the interest of the member should be direct, personal or pecuniary and
separately belong to the person whose inclusion in the Committee is objected to and not in common with the public in
general or with any class or section thereof or on a matter of State policy.
256.
Term of office of Committee nominated by Speaker.
- A Committee nominated by the Speaker shall, unless otherwise specified in the rules contained in this Chapter, hold
office for the period specified by the Speaker or until a new Committee is nominated.
257.
[Resignation from Committee.
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(1)
A member may resign one's seat from a Committee by writing under own hand addressed to the Speaker, in the
following form:
'To
The Speaker,
Lok Sabha,
New Delhi.
Madam/Sir,
I hereby tender my resignation from the membership of the Committee on............... with effect from...............
Yours faithfully,
(Name of the Member).'
Place......... Date.........
(2)
The resignation shall take effect from the date of resignation specified in the letter of resignation.
(3)
If the date from which the resignation should take effect is not specified in the letter, the resignation shall take effect from
the date of the letter.
(4)
If the letter of resignation does not bear any date, the resignation shall take effect from the date of receipt of the letter in
the Lok Sabha Secretariat.]
258.
Chairperson of Committee.
(1)
The Chairperson of a Committee shall be appointed by the Speaker from amongst members of the Committee:
Provided that the Deputy Speaker, in case is a member of the Committee, shall be appointed as Chairperson of the
Committee.
(2)
If the Chairperson is for any reason unable to act, the Speaker may appoint another Chairperson in her or his place.
(3)
If the Chairperson is absent from any sitting, the Committee shall choose another member to act as Chairperson for that
sitting.
259.
Quorum in Committee.
(1)
The quorum to constitute a sitting of a Committee shall be, as near as may be, one-third of the total number of members
Page 52/115
----- PAGE 53 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
of the Committee.
(2)
If at any time fixed for any sitting of the Committee, or if at any time during any such sitting, there is no quorum, the
Chairperson of the Committee shall either suspend the sitting until there is a quorum or adjourn the sitting to some future
day.
(3)
When the Committee has been adjourned in pursuance of sub-rule (2) on two successive dates fixed for sittings of the
Committee, the Chairperson shall report the fact to the House:
Provided that where the Committee has been appointed by the Speaker, the Chairperson shall report the fact of such
adjournment to the Speaker.
260.
Discharge of members absent from sittings of Committee.
- If a member is absent from two or more consecutive sittings of a Committee without the permission of the Chairperson,
a motion may be moved in the House for the discharge of such member from the Committee:
Provided that where the members of the Committee are nominated by the Speaker such member may be discharged by
the Speaker.
261.
Decisions in Committee.
- All questions at any sitting of a Committee shall be determined by a majority of votes of the members present and
voting.
262.
Casting vote of Chairperson.
- In the case of an equality of votes on any matter, the Chairperson or the person acting as such, shall have a second or
casting vote.
263.
Power to appoint sub-Committees.
(1)
A Committee may appoint one or more sub-Committees, each having the powers of the undivided Committee, to
examine any matters that may be referred to them and the reports of such sub- Committees shall be deemed to be the
reports of the whole Committee, if they are approved at a sitting of the whole Committee.
(2)
The order of reference to a sub-Committee shall clearly state the point or points for investigation.
The report of the sub-Committee shall be considered by the whole Committee.
264.
Sittings of Committee.
- The sittings of a Committee shall be held on such days and at such hour as the Chairperson of the Committee may fix:
Provided that if the Chairperson of the Committee is not readily available, the Secretary-General may fix the date and
time of a sitting:
Provided further that in the case of Select or Joint Committee on a Bill, if the Chairperson of the Committee is not readily
available, the Secretary - General may, in consultation with the Minister concerned with the Bill, fix the date and time of
a sitting.
265.
Committee may sit whilst House sitting.
- A Committee may sit whilst the House is sitting provided that on a division being called in the House, the Chairperson
of the Committee shall suspend the proceedings in the Committee for such time as will in the opinion of the Chairperson,
enable the members to vote in a division.
266.
Sittings in private.
- The sittings of a Committee shall be held in private.
267.
Venue of Sittings.
Page 53/115
----- PAGE 54 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
- The sittings of a Committee shall be held within the precincts of the Parliament House, and if it becomes necessary to
change the place of sitting outside the Parliament House, the matter shall be referred to the Speaker whose decision
shall be final.
268.
Strangers to withdraw when Committee deliberates.
- All persons other than members of the Committee and officers of the Lok Sabha Secretariat shall withdraw whenever
the Committee is deliberating.
269.
Power to take evidence or call for documents.
(1)
A witness may be summoned by an order signed by the Secretary-General and shall produce such documents as are
required for the use of a committee
(2)
It shall be in the discretion of the Committee to treat any evidence given before it as secret or confidential.
(3)
No document submitted to the Committee shall be withdrawn or altered without the knowledge and approval of the
Committee.
270.
Power to send for persons, papers and records.
- A Committee shall have power to send for persons, papers and records:
Provided that if any question arises whether the evidence of a person or the production of a document is relevant for the
purposes of the Committee, the question shall be referred to the Speaker whose decision shall be final:
Provided further that Government may decline to produce a document on the ground that its disclosure would be
prejudicial to the safety or interest of the State.
271.
Counsel for witness.
- A Committee may, under the direction of the Speaker, permit a witness to be heard by a counsel appointed by the
witness and approved by the Committee.
272.
Evidence on oath.
(1)
A Committee may administer oath or affirmation to a witness examined before it.
(2)
The form of the oath or affirmation shall be as follows:
'I, A.B.,| swear in the name of Godsolemnly affirm| that the
evidence which I shall give in this case shall be true, that I will conceal nothing, and that no part of my evidence shall be
false.'
273.
Examination of witnesses.
- The examination of witnesses before a Committee shall be conducted as follows: -
(i)
The Committee shall, before a witness is called for examination, decide the mode of procedure and the nature of
question that may be asked of the witness.
(ii)
The Chairperson of the Committee may first ask the witness such question or questions, as is considered necessary by
the Chairperson, with reference to the subject matter under consideration or any subject connected therewith according
to the mode of procedure mentioned in clause (i) of this rule.
(iii)
The Chairperson may call other members of the Committee one by one to ask any other questions.
(iv)
A witness may be asked to place before the Committee any other relevant points that have not been covered and which
Page 54/115
----- PAGE 55 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
a witness thinks are essential to be placed before the Committee.
(v)
A verbatim record of proceedings of the Committee shall, when a witness is summoned to give evidence, be kept.
(vi)
The evidence given before the Committee may be made available to all members of the Committee.
274.
Record of decisions.
- A record of the decisions of a Committee shall be maintained and circulated to members of the Committee under the
direction of the Chairperson.
275.
Evidence, report and proceedings treated as confidential.
(1)
A Committee may direct that the whole or a part of the evidence or a summary thereof may be laid on the Table.
(2)
No part of the evidence, oral or written, report or proceedings of the Committee which has not been laid on the Table
shall be open to inspection by any one except under the authority of the Speaker.
(3)
The evidence given before a Committee shall not be published by any member of the Committee or by any other person
until it has been laid on the Table:
Provided that the Speaker may, while exercising discretion direct that such evidence be confidentially made available to
members before it is formally laid on the Table.
276.
Special Report.
- A Committee may, if it thinks fit, make a special report on any matter that arises or comes to light in the course of its
work which it may consider necessary to bring to the notice of the Speaker or the House, notwithstanding that such
matter is not directly connected with, or does not fall within or is not incidental to, its terms of reference.
277.
Report.
(1)
Where the House has not fixed any time for the presentation of a report by a Committee the report shall be presented
within one month of the date on which reference to the Committee was made:
Provided that the House may at any time, on a motion being made, direct that the time for the presentation of the report
by the Committee be extended to a date specified in the motion.
(2)
Reports may be either preliminary or final.
(3)
The report of the Committee shall be signed by the Chairperson on behalf of the Committee:
Provided that in case the Chairperson is absent or is not readily available the Committee shall choose another member
to sign the report on behalf of the Committee.
278.
Availability of report to Government before presentation.
- A Committee may, if it thinks fit, make available to Government any completed part of its report before presentation to
the House. Such reports shall be treated as confidential until presented to the House.
279.
Presentation of report.
(1)
The report of a Committee shall be presented to the House by the Chairperson or in the absence of the Chairperson by
any member of the Committee.
(2)
In presenting the report the Chairperson or, in the absence of the Chairperson, the member presenting the report shall, if
makes any remarks, confine to a brief statement of fact, but there shall be no debate on that statement at this stage.
Page 55/115
----- PAGE 56 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Report.
280.
Printing, publication or circulation of report before presentation.
- On a request being made and when the House is not in session, the Speaker may, order the printing, publication or
circulation of a report of a Committee although it has not been presented to the House. In that case the report shall be
presented to the House during its next session at the first convenient opportunity.
281.
Power to make suggestions on procedure.
- A Committee shall have power to pass resolutions on matters of procedure relating to that Committee for the
consideration of the Speaker, who may make such variations in procedure as the Speaker may consider necessary.
282.
Power to make detailed rules.
- A Committee may with the approval of the Speaker make detailed rules of procedure to supplement the provisions
contained in the rules in this Chapter.
283.
Power of Speaker to give directions.
(1)
The Speaker may from time to time issue such directions to the Chairperson of a Committee, as the Speaker considers
necessary, for regulating its procedure and the organisation of its work.
(2)
If any doubt arises on any point of procedure or otherwise, the Chairperson may if thinks fit, refer the point to the
Speaker whose decision shall be final.
284.
Business before Committee not to lapse on prorogation of House.
- Any business pending before a Committee shall not lapse by reason only of the prorogation of the House and the
Committee shall continue to function notwithstanding such prorogation.
285.
Unfinished work of Committee.
- A Committee which is unable to complete its work before the expiration of its term or before the dissolution of the
House may report to the House that the Committee has not been able to complete its work. Any preliminary report,
memorandum or note that the Committee may have prepared or any evidence that the Committee may have taken shall
be made available to the new Committee.
286.
Applicability of general rules to Committees.
- Except for matters for which special provision is made in the rules relating to any particular Committee, the general
rules in this Chapter shall apply to all Committees; and if and so far as any provision in the special rules relating to a
Committee is inconsistent with the general rules, the former rules shall prevail.
Business Advisory Committee
287.
Constitution.
- At the commencement of the House or from time to time, as the case may be, the Speaker may nominate a Committee
called the Business Advisory Committee consisting of not more than fifteen members including the Speaker who shall
be the Chairperson of the Committee.
288.
Functions.
(1)
It shall be the function of the Committee to recommend the time that should be allocated for the discussion of the stage
or stages of such Government Bills and other business as the Speaker, in consultation with the Leader of the House,
may direct for being referred to the Committee.
(2)
The Committee shall have the power to indicate in the proposed time-table the different hours at which the various
Page 56/115
----- PAGE 57 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
stages of the Bill or other business shall be completed.
(3)
The Committee shall have such other functions as may be assigned to it by the Speaker from time to time.
Explanation. - The expression other business referred to in this rule and rules 290A and 291 means business, other than
private members' Bills under rule 65 and private members' resolutions under rule 170.
289.
Report.
- The recommendations of the Committee shall be presented to the House in the form of a report.
290.
Motion in House after presentation of report.
- At any time after the report has been presented to the House a motion may be moved that the House agrees or agrees
with amendments or disagrees with the report:
Provided that an amendment may be moved that the report be referred back to the Committee either without limitation or
with reference to any particular matter:
Provided further that not more than half an hour shall be allotted for the discussion of the motion and no member shall
speak for more than five minutes on such motion.
290A.
Notification of Allocation of Time Order.
- The allocation of time in respect of Bills and other business as approved by the House shall take effect as if it were an
order of the House and shall be notified in the Bulletin.
291.
Disposal of outstanding matters at appointed hour.
- At the appointed hour, in accordance with the Allocation of Time Order for the completion of a particular stage of a Bill
or other business, the Speaker shall forthwith put every question necessary to dispose of all the outstanding matters in
connection with that stage of the Bill or other business.
292.
Variation in Allocation of Time Order.
- No variation in the Allocation of Time Order shall be made except on a motion made, with the consent of the Speaker,
and accepted by the House:
Provided that the Speaker may, after taking the sense of the House, increase the time, not exceeding one hour, without
any motion being moved.
Committee on Private Members' Bills and Resolutions
293.
Constitution.
(1)
There shall be a Committee on Private Members' Bills and Resolutions consisting of not more than fifteen members.
(2)
The Committee shall be nominated by the Speaker and shall hold office for a term not exceeding one year.
294.
Functions.
(1)
The functions of the Committee shall be -
(a)
to examine every Bill seeking to amend the Constitution notice of which has been given by a private member, before a
motion for leave to introduce the Bill is included in the list of business;
(b)
to examine all private members' Bills after they are introduced and before they are taken up for consideration in the
House and to classify them according to their nature, urgency and importance into two categories namely, category A
and category B;
(c)
to recommend the time that should be allocated for the discussion of the stage or stages of each private member's Bill
Page 57/115
----- PAGE 58 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
and also to indicate in the time-table so drawn up the different hours at which various stages of the Bill in a day shall be
completed;
(d)
to examine every private member's Bill which is opposed in the House on the ground that the Bill initiates legislation
outside the legislative competence of the House, and the Speaker considers such objection prima facie tenable;
(e)
to recommend time-limit for the discussion of private members' resolutions and other ancillary matters.
(2)
The Committee shall perform such other functions in respect of private members' Bills and resolutions as may be
assigned to it by the Speaker from time to time.
295.
Motion in House after presentation of report.
- At any time after the report has been presented to the House a motion may be moved that the House agrees or agrees
with amendments or disagrees with the report:
Provided that an amendment may be moved that the report be referred back to the Committee either without limitation or
with reference to any particular matter:
Provided further that not more than half an hour shall be allotted for discussion of the motion and no member shall
speak for more than five minutes on such motion.
296.
Classification and Allocation of Time.
- The classification of Bills and the allocation of time in respect of Bills and resolutions as approved by the House shall
take effect as if it were an order of the House.
297.
Disposal of outstanding matters at appointed hour.
- At the appointed hour, in accordance with the Allocation of Time Order, the Speaker shall forthwith put every question
necessary to dispose of all the outstanding matters in connection with the completion of a particular stage of the Bill or
the resolution.
Select Committees on Bills
298.
Constitution.
- The members of a Select Committee on a Bill shall be appointed by the House when a motion that the Bill be referred
to a Select Committee is made.
299.
Presence of other members at sittings.
- Members who are not members of the Select Committee may be present during the deliberations of the Committee but
shall not address the Committee or sit in the body of the Committee:
Provided that a Minister may with the permission of the Chairperson address the Committee of which such Minister may
not be a member.
300.
Notice of amendments and procedure generally.
(1)
If notice of a proposed amendment has not been given before the day on which the Bill is taken up by the Select
Committee, any member may object to the moving of the amendment and such objection shall prevail unless the
Chairperson allows the amendment to be moved.
(2)
In other respects, the procedure in a Select Committee shall, as far as practicable, be the same as is followed in the
House during the consideration stage of a Bill, with such adaptations, whether by way of modification, addition or
omission, as the Speaker may consider necessary or convenient.
301.
Notice of amendments by other members.
- When a Bill has been referred to a Select Committee any notice given by a member of any amendment to a clause in
Page 58/115
----- PAGE 59 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
the Bill shall stand referred to the Committee provided that where notice of amendment is received from a member who
is not a member of the Select Committee such amendment shall not be taken up by the Committee unless moved by
member of the Committee.
302.
Power to take evidence.
- A Select Committee may hear expert evidence and representatives of special interests affected by the measure before
them.
303.
Report.
(1)
As soon as may be, after a Bill has been referred to a Select Committee, the Select Committee shall meet from time to
time in accordance with rule 264 to consider the Bill and shall make a report thereon within the time fixed by the House:
Provided that where the House has not fixed any time for the presentation of the report by a Select Committee, the
report shall be presented before the expiry of three months from the date on which the House adopted the motion for the
reference of the Bill to the Select Committee:
Provided further that the House may at any time, on a motion being made, direct that the time for the presentation of the
report by the Select Committee be extended to a date specified in the motion.
(2)
The Select Committee shall in their report state whether the publication of the Bill directed by these rules has taken
place, and the date on which the publication has taken place.
(3)
Where a Bill has been altered, the Select Committee may, if they think fit, include in their report a recommendation to
the member incharge of the Bill that the next motion of such member should be a motion for circulation, or, where the
Bill has already been circulated, for recirculation.
(4)
Any member of the Select Committee may record a minute of dissent on any matter or matters connected with the Bill or
dealt with in the report.
(5)
A minute of dissent shall be couched in temperate and decorous language and shall not refer to any discussion in the
Select Committee nor cast aspersion on the Committee.
(6)
If in the opinion of the Speaker a minute of dissent contains words, phrases or expressions which are unparliamentary or
otherwise inappropriate, the Speaker may order such words, phrases or expressions to be expunged from the minute of
dissent.
304.
Presentation of report.
- The report of the Select Committee on a Bill together with the minutes of dissent, if any, shall be presented to the
House by the Chairperson or in the absence of the Chairperson, by any member of the Committee.
305.
Printing and publication of reports.
- The Secretary-General shall cause every report of a Select Committee to be printed, and a copy of the report shall be
made available for the use of every member of the House. The report, and the Bill, as reported by the Select Committee,
shall be published in the Gazette.
Committee on Papers laid on the Table
305A.
Constitution.
(1)
There shall be a Committee on Papers Laid on the Table consisting of not more than 15 members.
(2)
The Committee shall be nominated by the Speaker and shall hold office for a term not exceeding one year.
305B.
Page 59/115
----- PAGE 60 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Functions.
(1)
The functions of the Committee shall be to examine all papers laid on the Table of the House by Ministers and to report
to the House on -
(a)
whether there has been compliance of the provisions of the Constitution, Act, rule or regulation under which the paper
has been laid;
(b)
whether there has been any unreasonable delay in laying the paper;
(c)
if there has been such delay, whether a statement explaining the reasons for delay has been laid on the Table of the
House and whether those reasons are satisfactory;
(d)
whether both the Hindi and English versions of the paper have been laid on the Table; and
(e)
whether a statement explaining the reason for not laying the Hindi version has been given and whether such reasons
are satisfactory.
(2)
The Committee shall perform such other functions in respect of the papers laid on the Table as may be assigned to it by
the Speaker from time to time.
305C.
Restriction on raising matters in House about papers laid.
- A member wishing to raise any of the matters referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule 305B shall refer it to the Committee and
not raise it in the House.
Committee on Petitions
306.
Constitution.
- At the commencement of the House, or from time to time, as the case may be, the Speaker shall nominate a
Committee on Petitions consisting of not less than fifteen members:
Provided that a Minister shall not be nominated a member of the Committee, and where a member, after nomination to
the Committee is appointed a Minister, such member shall cease to be a member of the Committee from the date of
such appointment.
307.
Functions.
(1)
The Committee shall examine every petition referred to it, and if the petition complies with these rules, the Committee
may direct that it be circulated. Where circulation of the petition has not been directed, the Speaker may at any time
direct that the petition be circulated.
(2)
Circulation of the petition shall be in extension or in summary form as the Committee or the Speaker, as the case may
be, may direct.
(3)
It shall also be the duty of the Committee to report to the House on specific complaints made in the petition referred to it
after taking such evidence as it deems fit and to suggest remedial measures either in a concrete form applicable to the
case under review or to prevent such cases in future.
307A.
[ Evidence of experts, interested parties and availing of public opinion.
[Inserted by Notification No. 12/1/CI/2017, dated 3.8.2017.]
(1)
The Committee may take evidence of experts or interested parties on the petitions / representations on their own
initiative or on requests made.
Page 60/115
----- PAGE 61 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
(2)
The Committee may also avail of the public opinion to make the report on the petitions / representations.
The witnesses who express their desire to appear before the Committee shall supply sufficient number of copies of
written memoranda for circulation to the members of the Committee who may consider the same at their sitting and then
decide whether such witnesses may be called to appear before the Committee.]
Committee on Public Accounts
308.
Functions.
(1)
There shall be a Committee on Public Accounts for the examination of accounts showing the appropriation of sums
granted by the House for the expenditure of the Government of India, the annual finance accounts of the Government of
India and such other accounts laid before the House as the Committee may think fit.
(2)
In scrutinising the Appropriation Accounts of the Government of India and the report of the Comptroller and
Auditor-General thereon, it shall be the duty of the Committee to satisfy itself -
(a)
that the moneys shown in the accounts as having been disbursed were legally available for, and applicable to, the
service or purpose to which they have been applied or charged;
(b)
that the expenditure conforms to the authority which governs it; and
(c)
that every re-appropriation has been made in accordance with the provisions made in this behalf under rules framed by
competent authority.
(3)
It shall also be the duty of the Committee -
(a)
to examine the statement of accounts showing the income and expenditure of State corporations, trading and
manufacturing schemes, concerns and projects together with the balance sheets and statements of profit and loss
accounts which the President may have required to be prepared or are prepared under provisions of the statutory rules
regulating the financing of a particular corporation, trading or manufacturing scheme or concern or project and the report
of the Comptroller and Auditor-General thereon;
(b)
to examine the statement of accounts showing the income and expenditure of autonomous and semi-autonomous
bodies, Functions.  the audit of which may be conducted by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India either under
the directions of the President or by a statute of Parliament; and
(c)
to consider the report of the Comptroller and Auditor-General in cases where the President may have required the
Comptroller and Auditor-General to conduct an audit of any receipts or to examine the accounts of stores and stocks.
(4)
If any money has been spent on any service during a financial year in excess of the amount granted by the House for
that purpose, the Committee shall examine with reference to the facts of each case the circumstances leading to such
an excess and make such recommendation as it may deem fit:
Provided that the Committee shall not exercise its functions in relation to such public undertakings as are allotted to the
Committee on Public Undertakings by these rules or by the Speaker.
309.
Constitution.
(1)
The Committee shall consist of not more than [22 members comprising 15 members who shall be elected by the House
every year from amongst its members according to the principle of proportional representation by means of the single
transferable vote [and not more than 7 members of Rajya Sabha to be nominated by that House for being associated
with the Committee:]
Page 61/115
----- PAGE 62 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
[Substituted by LS Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
Provided that a Minister shall not be elected a member of the Committee, and if a member, after election to the
Committee, is appointed a Minister, such member shall cease to be a member of the Committee from the date of such
appointment.
(2)
The term of office of members of the Committee shall not exceed one year.
Committee on Estimates
310.
Functions.
- There shall be a Committee on Estimates for the examination of such of the estimates as may seem fit to the
Committee or are specifically referred to it by the House or the Speaker. The functions of the Committee shall be -
(a)
to report what economies, improvements in organisation, efficiency or administrative reform, consistent with the policy
underlying the estimates, may be effected;
(b)
to suggest alternative policies in order to bring about efficiency and economy in administration;
(c)
to examine whether the money is well laid out within the limits of the policy implied in the estimates; and
(d)
to suggest the form in which the estimates shall be presented to Parliament:
Provided that the Committee shall not exercise its functions in relation to such public undertakings as are allotted to the
Committee on Public Undertakings by these rules or by the Speaker.
311.
Constitution.
(1)
The Committee shall consist of not more than thirty members who shall be elected by the House every year from
amongst its members according to the principle of proportional representation by means of the single transferable vote:
Provided that a Minister shall not be elected a member of the Committee, and if a member, after election to the
Committee, is appointed a Minister, such member shall cease to be a member of the Committee from the date of such
appointment.
(2)
The term of office of members of the Committee shall not exceed one year.
312.
Examination of estimates.
- The Committee may continue the examination of the estimates from time to time throughout the financial year and
report to the House as its examination proceeds. It shall not be incumbent on the Committee to examine the entire
estimates of any one year. The Demands for Grants may be finally voted notwithstanding the fact that the Committee
has made no report.
Committee on Public undertakings
312A.
Functions.
- There shall be a Committee on Public Undertakings for the examination of the working of the public undertakings
specified in the Fourth Schedule. The functions of the Committee shall be -
(a)
to examine the reports and accounts of the public undertakings specified in the Fourth Schedule;
(b)
to examine the reports, if any, of the Comptroller and Auditor-General on the public undertakings;
(c)
to examine, in the context of the autonomy and efficiency of the public undertakings, whether the affairs of the public
undertakings are being managed in accordance with sound business principles and prudent commercial practices; and
(d)
Page 62/115
----- PAGE 63 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
to exercise such other functions vested in the Committee on Public Accounts and the Committee on Estimates in
relation to the public undertakings specified in the Fourth Schedule as are not covered by clauses (a), (b) and (c) above
and as may be allotted to the Committee by the Speaker from time to time:
Provided that the Committee shall not examine and investigate any of the following, namely: -
(i)
matters of major Government policy as distinct from business or commercial functions of the public undertakings;
(ii)
matters of day-to-day administration; and
(iii)
matters for the consideration of which machinery is established by any special statute under which a particular public
undertaking is established.
312B.
Constitution.
(1)
The Committee shall consist of not more than [22 members comprising 15 members]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
who shall be elected by the House every year from amongst its members according to the principle of proportional
representation by means of the single transferable vote [and not more than 7 members of Rajya Sabha to be nominated
by that House for being associated with the Committee]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
:
Provided that a Minister shall not be elected a member of the Committee, and if a member, after election to the
Committee, is appointed a Minister, such member shall cease to be a member of the Committee from the date of such
appointment.
(2)
The term of office of members of the Committee shall not exceed one year.
[
*
* ***]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
Committee of Privileges
313.
Constitution.
- At the commencement of the House or from time to time, as the case may be, the Speaker shall nominate a
Committee of Privileges consisting of not more than fifteen members.
314.
Functions.
(1)
The Committee shall examine every question referred to it and determine with reference to the facts of each case
whether a breach of privilege is involved and, if so, the nature of the breach, the circumstances leading to it and make
such recommendations as it may deem fit.
(2)
The report may also state the procedure to be followed by the House in giving effect to the recommendations made by
the Committee.
315.
Consideration of report by House.
(1)
After the report has been presented, the Chairperson or any member of the Committee or any other member may move
that the report be taken into consideration whereupon the Speaker may put the question to the House.
(2)
Before putting the question to the House, the Speaker may permit a debate on the motion, not exceeding half an hour in
Page 63/115
----- PAGE 64 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
duration, and such debate shall not refer to the details of the report further than is necessary to make out a case for the
consideration of the report by the House.
(3)
After the motion made under sub-rule (1) is agreed to, the Chairperson or any member of the Committee or any other
member, as the case may be, may move that the House agrees, or disagrees or agrees with amendments, with the
recommendations contained in the report.
316.
Priority for consideration of report by House.
- A motion that the report of the Committee be taken into consideration shall be accorded the priority assigned to a
matter of privilege under sub-rule (1) of rule 225, unless there has been undue delay in bringing it forward:
Provided that when a date has already been fixed for the consideration of the report, it shall be given priority as a matter
of privilege on the day so appointed.
Committee on Subordinate Legislation
317.
Functions.
- There shall be a Committee on Subordinate Legislation to scrutinize and report to the House whether the powers to
make regulations, rules, sub-rules, bye-laws etc., conferred by the Constitution or delegated by Parliament are being
properly exercised within such delegation.
318.
Constitution.
(1)
The Committee shall consist of not more than fifteen members who shall be nominated by the Speaker:
Provided that a Minister shall not be nominated a member of the Committee, and if a member, after nomination to the
Committee is appointed a Minister, such member shall cease to be a member of the Committee from the date of such
appointment.
(2)
The term of office of members of the Committee shall not exceed one year.
319.
Numbering and publication of Orders.
- Each regulation, rule, sub-rule, bye-law etc. framed in pursuance of the provisions of the Constitution or the legislative
functions delegated by Parliament to a subordinate authority, and which is required to be laid before the House,
hereinafter referred to as "Order", shall, subject to such rules as the Speaker may in consultation with the Leader of the
House prescribe, be numbered centrally and published in the Gazette immediately after it is promulgated.
320.
Examination of Orders.
- After each such Order referred to in rule 319 is laid before the House, the Committee shall, in particular, consider -
(i)
whether it is in accord with the general objects of the Constitution or the Act pursuant to which it is made;
(ii)
whether it contains matter which in the opinion of the Committee should more properly be dealt with in an Act of
Parliament.
(iii)
whether it contains imposition of any tax;
(iv)
whether it directly or indirectly bars the jurisdiction of the courts;
(v)
whether it gives retrospective effect to any of the provisions in respect of which the Constitution or the Act does not
expressly give any such power;
(vi)
whether it involves expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India or the public revenues;
(vii)
Page 64/115
----- PAGE 65 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
whether it appears to make some unusual or unexpected use of the powers conferred by the Constitution or the Act
pursuant to which it is made;
(viii)
whether there appears to have been unjustifiable delay in its publication or in laying it before Parliament; and
(ix)
whether for any reason its form or purport calls for any elucidation.
321.
Report.
(1)
If the Committee is of opinion that any Order should be annulled wholly or in part, or should be amended in any respect,
it shall report that opinion and the grounds thereof to the House.
(2)
If the Committee is of opinion that any other matter relating to any Orders should be brought to the notice of the House,
it may report that opinion and matter to the House.
322.
Power of Speaker to give directions.
- The Speaker may issue such directions as may be considered necessary for regulating the procedure in connection
with all matters connected with the consideration of any question of Subordinate Legislation either in the Committee or in
the House.
Committee on Government Assurances
323.
Functions.
- There shall be a Committee on Government Assurances to scrutinise the assurances, promises, undertakings, etc.,
given by Ministers, from time to time, on the floor of the House and to report on -
(a)
the extent to which such assurances, promises, undertakings, etc. have been implemented; and
(b)
where implemented whether such implementation has taken place within the minimum time necessary for the purpose.
324.
Constitution.
(1)
The Committee shall consist of not more than fifteen members who shall be nominated by the Speaker:
Provided that a Minister shall not be nominated a member of the Committee, and if a member, after nomination to the
Committee is appointed a Minister, such member shall cease to be a member of the Committee from the date of such
appointment.
(2)
The term of office of members of the Committee shall not exceed one year.
Committee on Absence of Members from the Sittings of the House
325.
Constitution.
- The Committee on Absence of Members from the sittings of the House shall consist of fifteen members nominated by
the Speaker and shall hold office for a term not exceeding one year.
326.
Functions.
(1)
The functions of the Committee shall be: -
(i)
to consider all applications from members for leave of absence from the sittings of the House; and
(ii)
to examine every case where a member has been absent for a period of sixty days or more, without permission, from
the sittings of the House and to report whether the absence should be condoned or circumstances of the case justify
Page 65/115
----- PAGE 66 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
that the House should declare the seat of the member vacant.
(2)
The Committee shall perform such other functions in respect of attendance of members in the House as may be
assigned to it by the Speaker from time to time.
327.
Pleasure of House taken where leave of absence recommended.
- Where the Committee recommends that leave of absence be granted to a member or the absence be condoned, as
the case may be, the pleasure of the House shall be taken by the Speaker in the following terms on a day as soon as
may be after the presentation of the report: -
'The Committee on Absence of Members from the Sittings of the House in its...report has recommended that leave of
absence be granted or absence be condoned (as the case may be) in respect of Smt./ Kumari/ Shri...... for the period
indicated in the report.
The member is being informed accordingly.'
328.
Motion where leave of absence not recommended.
- Where leave of absence is not recommended by the Committee in respect of any application, a motion may be moved
by any member that the House agrees or agrees with amendment or disagrees with the recommendations of the
Committee in respect of that application.
Rules Committee
329.
Functions.
- There shall be a Committee on Rules to consider matters of procedure and conduct of business in the House and to
recommend any amendments or additions to these rules that may be deemed necessary.
330.
Constitution.
- The Committee on Rules shall be nominated by the Speaker and shall consist of fifteen members including the
Chairperson of the Committee. The Speaker shall be the ex-officio Chairperson of the Committee.
331.
Laying of report on Table.
(1)
The recommendations of the Committee shall be laid on the Table and within a period of seven  days, beginning with the
day on which they are so laid, any member may give notice of any amendment to such recommendations.
(2)
Any notice given by a member of any amendment to the recommendations of the Committee shall stand referred to the
Committee who shall consider it and make such changes in their recommendations as the Committee may consider fit.
The final report of the Committee after taking into consideration the amendments suggested by the members shall be
laid on the Table. Thereafter, on the House agreeing to the report on a motion made by a member of the Committee, the
amendments to the rules as approved by the House, shall be promulgated by the Speaker in the Bulletin.
(3)
If notice of such amendment has not been given within seven days, the recommendations of the Committee shall be
deemed to have been approved by the House and on the expiry of the said period the Speaker shall promulgate in the
Bulletin the amendments to the rules as recommended by the Committee.
(4)
The amendments to the rules shall come into force on their publication in the Bulletin unless otherwise specified.
Committee on the Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
331A.
Functions.
- There shall be a Committee on the Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The functions of the
Committee shall be: -
(a)
to consider the reports submitted by the National Commission for the Scheduled Castes under article 338(5)(d) and the
Page 66/115
----- PAGE 67 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
[National Commission for the Scheduled Tribes under article 338A(5)(d)]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 19.3.2010, para 1265.]
of the Constitution and to report as to the measures that should be taken by the Union Government in respect of matters
within the purview of the Union Government including the Administrations of the Union Territories;
(b)
to report on the action taken by the Union Government and the Administrations of the Union  Territories on the
measures proposed by the Committee;
(c)
to examine the measures taken by the Union Government to secure due representation of the Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes in services and posts under its control (including appointments in the Public Sector Undertakings,
Statutory and Semi- Government Bodies and in the Union Territories) having regard to the provisions of article 335;
(d)
to report on the working of the welfare programmes for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in the Union
Territories; and
(e)
to examine such other matters as may seem fit to the Committee or are specifically referred to it by the House or the
Speaker.
331B.
Constitution.
(1)
The Committee shall consist of not more than [30 members, comprising 20 members]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
who shall be elected by the House every year from amongst its members according to the principle of proportional
representation by means of the single transferable vote [and not more than 10 members of Rajya Sabha to be
nominated by that House for being associated with the Committee]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
:
Provided that a Minister shall not be elected a member of the Committee, and if a member, after election to the
Committee, is appointed a Minister, such member shall cease to be a member of the Committee from the date of such
appointment.
(2)
The term of office of members of the Committee shall not exceed one year.
[
*
* ***]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
[Departmentally Related Standing Committees
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 29.3.1993, para 1921.]
331C.
Departmentally Related Standing Committees.
(1)
There shall be Departmentally Related Standing Committees of the Houses (to be called the Standing Committees).
(2)
The Ministries/Departments covered under the jurisdiction of each of the Standing Committees shall be as specified in
the Fifth Schedule:
Provided that the Chairperson, Rajya Sabha and the Speaker may alter the said Schedule from time to time in
consultation with each other.
331D.
Constitution.
(1)
Each of the Standing Committees constituted under Rule 331C shall consist of not more than [31 members, 21
Page 67/115
----- PAGE 68 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
members to be nominated by the Speaker from amongst the members of Lok Sabha and 10]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 20.7.2004, Para 253.]
members to be nominated by the Chairperson, Rajya Sabha, from amongst the members of Rajya Sabha.
(2)
A Minister shall not be nominated as a member of the Committee, and if a member after nomination to the Committee is
appointed a Minister, such member shall cease to be a member of the Committee from the date of such appointment.
(3)
The Chairperson of Committees as specified in Part I of Fifth Schedule shall be appointed by the Chairperson, Rajya
Sabha and Chairperson of Committees as specified in Part II of the said Schedule shall be appointed by the Speaker,
from amongst the members of the Committees.
(4)
The term of office of the members of the Committees shall not exceed one year.
331E.
Functions.
(1)
The functions of each of the Standing Committees shall be: -
(a)
to consider the Demands for Grants of the concerned Ministries/ Departments and make a report on the same to the
Houses. The report shall not suggest anything of the nature of cut motions;
(b)
to examine such Bills pertaining to the concerned Ministries/Departments as are referred to the Committee by the
Chairperson, Rajya Sabha or the Speaker, as the case may be, and make report thereon;
(c)
to consider annual reports of Ministries/ Departments and make reports thereon;
(d)
to consider national basic long term policy documents presented to the Houses, if referred to the Committee by the
Chairperson, Rajya Sabha or the Speaker, as the case may be, and make reports thereon.
(2)
The Standing Committees shall not consider the matters of day to day administration of the concerned
Ministries/Departments.
331F.
Applicability of provisions relating to functions.
- Each of the functions of these Committees as provided in clauses (a) to (d) of sub-rule (1) of rule 331E shall be
applicable to the Committees from the date as may be notified by the Chairperson, Rajya Sabha and the Speaker in
respect of applicability of particular function.
331G.
Procedure relating to Demands for Grants.
- The following procedure shall be followed by each of the Standing Committees in their consideration of the Demands
for Grants and making a report thereon to the Houses: -
(a)
after the general discussion on the Budget in the Houses is over, the Houses shall be adjourned for a fixed period;
(b)
the Committees shall consider the Demands for Grants of the concerned Ministries during the aforesaid period;
(c)
the Committees shall make their report within the period and shall not ask for more time;
(d)
the Demands for Grants shall be considered by the House in the light of the reports of the Committees; and
(e)
there shall be a separate report on the Demands for Grants of each Ministry.
331H.
Procedure relating to Bills.
Page 68/115
----- PAGE 69 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
- The following procedure shall be followed by each of the Standing Committees in examining the Bills and making
report thereon: -
(a)
the Committee shall consider the general principles and clauses of the Bills referred to them and make report thereon;
(b)
the Committee shall consider only such Bills introduced in either of the Houses as are referred to them by the
Chairperson, Rajya Sabha or the Speaker, as the case may be; and
(c)
the Committee shall make report on the Bills in the given time.
331I.
Reports of the Committees.
(1)
The Reports of the Committees shall be based on broad consensus.
(2)
A Member of a Standing Committee may give note of dissent on the report of the Committee.
(3)
The note of dissent shall be presented to the House along with the report.
331J.
Applicability of General Rules.
- Except for matters for which special provision is made in the rule relating to the Standing Committees, the general
rules applicable to other Parliamentary Committees in Rajya Sabha shall apply mutatis mutandis to the Standing
Committees specified in Part-I of the Fifth Schedule and the general rules applicable to other Parliamentary Committees
in Lok Sabha shall apply to Standing Committees as specified in Part-II of the Schedule.
331K.
Venue of sittings.
- The Standing Committees shall not work in any other place except the precincts of Parliament House, unless otherwise
specifically permitted by the Chairperson, Rajya Sabha or the Speaker, as the case may be.
331L.
Power to have expert opinion.
- The Committee may avail of the expert opinion or the public opinion to make the report.
331M.
Matters not to be considered.
- The Standing Committees shall not generally consider the matters which are considered by the other Parliamentary
Committees.
331N.
Reports to have persuasive value.
- The report of the Standing Committees shall have persuasive value and shall be treated as considered advice given by
the Committees.]
[Committee on the Empowerment of Women
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 6.3.1997, Para 1003.]
331O.
Constitution.
(1)
There shall be a Committee on the Empowerment of Women -
(2)
The Committee shall consist of not more than 30 Members, 20 Members to be nominated by the Speaker from amongst
the Members of Lok Sabha and 10 Members to be nominated by the Chairperson, Rajya Sabha, from amongst the
Members of Rajya Sabha.
(3)
A Minister shall not be a Member of the Committee, and if a Member, after nomination to the Committee is appointed as
Minister, such member shall cease to be a Member of the Committee from the date of such appointment.
Page 69/115
----- PAGE 70 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
(4)
The Chairperson of the Committee shall be appointed by the Speaker from amongst the Members of the Committee.
(5)
The term of office of Members of the Committee shall not exceed one year.
331P.
Functions.
- The functions of the Committee shall be -
(1)
to consider the reports submitted by the National Commission for Women and to report on the measures that should be
taken by the Union Government for improving the status/conditions of women in respect of matters within the purview of
the Union Government including the Administrations of the Union Territories;
(2)
to examine the measures taken by the Union Government to secure for women equality, status and dignity in all matters;
(3)
to examine the measures taken by the Union Government for comprehensive education and adequate representation of
women in Legislative bodies/services and other fields;
(4)
to report on the working of the welfare programmes for the women;
(5)
to report on the action taken by the Union Government and Administrations of the Union Territories on the measures
proposed by the Committee; and
(6)
to examine such other matters as may seem fit to the Committee or are specifically referred to it by the House or the
Speaker and the Rajya Sabha or the Chairperson, Rajya Sabha.
331Q.
Matters not to be considered by other Committees.
- The other Parliamentary Committees, including the Departmentally related Standing Committees, shall not, as far as
possible, consider the matters which are exclusively assigned to this Committee under the rules.]
Chapter XXVII
General Rules of Procedure
Notices
332.
Mode of giving notice.
(1)
Every notice required by these rules shall be given in writing addressed to the Secretary-General and signed by the
member giving notice, and shall be left at the Parliamentary Notice Office which shall be kept open for this purpose
between the hours to be notified from time to time on every day except Sunday or a public holiday.
(2)
Notices left at the Parliamentary Notice Office after the hours notified under sub-rule (1) shall be treated as given on the
next day.
333.
Contingent Notice.
(1)
A member may give notice of a motion or resolution or Bill which the member may desire to be taken up on the
conclusion of other business on which that motion is contingent and if such a notice is admitted by the Speaker it may
be included in the list of business under the heading; contingent notice of motion or resolution or Bill, as the case may
be.
(2)
A contingent notice shall be in such form as the Speaker may prescribe and shall be taken up in the House only after the
business on which the notice is contingent is disposed of.
334.
Page 70/115
----- PAGE 71 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Circulation of notices and papers to members.
(1)
The Secretary-General shall make every effort to circulate to each member a copy of every notice or other paper which
is required by these rules to be made available for the use of members.
(2)
A notice or other paper shall be deemed to have been made available for the use of every member if a copy thereof is
deposited in such manner and in such places as the Speaker may, from time to time, direct.
334A.
Prohibition of advance publicity of notices.
- A notice shall not be given publicity by any member or other person until it has been admitted by the Speaker and
circulated to member:
Provided that a notice of a question shall not be given any publicity until the day on which the question is answered in
the House.
335.
Lapse of pending notices on prorogation of House.
- On the prorogation of the House, all pending notices, other than notices of intention to move for leave to introduce a
Bill, shall lapse and fresh notices shall be given for the next session:
Provided that a fresh notice shall be necessary of intention to move for leave to introduce any Bill in respect of which
sanction or recommendation has been granted under the Constitution if the sanction or recommendation, as the case
may be, has ceased to be operative.
336.
Motion, resolution or amendment moved not to lapse.
- A motion, resolution or an amendment, which has been moved and is pending in the House, shall not lapse by reason
only of the prorogation of the House.
337.
Power of Speaker to amend notices.
- If in the opinion of the Speaker, any notice contains words, phrases or expressions which are argumentative,
unparliamentary, ironical, irrelevant, verbose, or otherwise inappropriate, the Speaker may, while exercising discretion,
amend such notice before it is circulated.
Motions
338.
Repetition of motion.
- A motion shall not raise a question substantially identical with one on which the House has given a decision in the
same session.
339.
Withdrawal of motion.
(1)
A member who has made a motion may withdraw the same by leave of the House.
(2)
The leave shall be signified not upon question but by the Speaker taking the pleasure of the House. The Speaker shall
ask: 'Is it your pleasure that the  motion be withdrawn?' If no one dissents, the Speaker shall say: The motion is by leave
withdrawn. But if any dissentient voice be heard or a member rises to continue the debate the Speaker shall forthwith
put the motion:
Provided that if an amendment has been proposed to a motion, the original motion shall not be withdrawn until the
amendment has been disposed of.
340.
Adjournment of debate on motion.
- At any time after a motion has been made, a member may move that the debate on the motion be adjourned.
341.
Motion in abuse of rules or dilatory motion.
(1)
Page 71/115
----- PAGE 72 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
If the Speaker is of opinion that a motion for the adjournment of a debate is an abuse of the rules of the House, the
Speaker may either forthwith put the question thereon or decline to propose the question.
(2)
If the Speaker is of opinion that a motion for recirculation of a Bill to elicit further opinion thereon is in the nature of a
dilatory motion in abuse of the rules of the House in as much as the original circulation was adequate or comprehensive
or that no circumstance has arisen since the previous circulation to warrant the recirculation of the Bill, the Speaker may,
forthwith put the question thereon or decline to propose the question.
(3)
If the Speaker is of opinion that a motion for recommittal of a Bill to a Select Committee of the House or a Joint
Committee of the Houses or circulation or recirculation of the Bill after the Select Committee of the House or the Joint
Committee of the Houses has reported thereon, is in the nature of a dilatory motion in abuse of the rules of the House
inasmuch as the Select Committee of the House or the Joint Committee of the Houses, as the case may be, has dealt
with the Bill in a proper manner or that no unforeseen or new circumstance has arisen since the Bill emerged from such
Committee, the Speaker may forthwith put the question thereon or decline to propose the question.
342.
Motion to consider policy, situation, statement or any other matter.
- A motion that the policy or situation or statement or any other matter be taken into consideration shall not be put to the
vote of the House, but the House shall proceed to discuss such matter immediately on conclusion of the speech of the
mover and no further question shall be put at the conclusion of the debate at the appointed hour unless a member
moves a substantive motion in appropriate terms to be approved by the Speaker and the vote of the House shall be
taken on such motion.
Anticipating Discussion
343.
Anticipating discussion.
- No member shall anticipate the discussion of any subject of which notice has been given provided that in determining
whether a discussion is out of order on the ground of anticipation, regard shall be had by the Speaker to the probability
of the matter anticipated being brought before the House within a reasonable time.
Amendments
344.
Scope of amendments.
(1)
An amendment shall be relevant to, and within the scope of, the motion to which it is proposed.
(2)
An amendment shall not be moved which has merely the effect of a negative vote.
(3)
An amendment on a question shall not be inconsistent with a previous decision on the same question.
345.
Notice of amendments.
- Notice of an amendment to a motion shall be given one day before the day on which the motion is to be considered,
unless the Speaker allows the amendment to be moved without such notice.
346.
Selection of amendments.
- The Speaker shall have power to select the amendments to be proposed in respect of any motion, and if thinks fit, may
call upon any member who has given notice of an amendment to give such explanation of the object of the amendment
as may enable the Speaker to form a judgement upon it.
347.
Putting of amendments.
- The Speaker may put amendments in such order as may be considered appropriate:
Provided that the Speaker may refuse to put an amendment which in the opinion of the Speaker is frivolous.
Communication of President's Recommendation
348.
Page 72/115
----- PAGE 73 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Mode of Communication of recommendation.
- Every sanction or recommendation by the President shall be communicated to the Secretary-General by a Minister in
the following terms: -
'The President, having been informed of the subject matter of the proposed Bill, motion, demand for grant or
amendment, accords the previous sanction to the introduction of the Bill or the moving of the amendment or,
recommends the introduction of the Bill or the moving of the motion, demand for grant or amendment in the House or
recommends to the House the consideration of the Bill.'
It shall be printed in the proceedings of the House in such manner as the Speaker may direct.
Rules to be Observed by Members
349.
Rules to be observed by members in House.
- Whilst the House is sitting, a member -
(i)
shall not read any book, newspaper or letter except in connection with the business of the House;
(ii)
shall not interrupt any member while speaking by disorderly expression or noises or in any other disorderly manner;
(iii)
shall bow to the Chair while entering or leaving the House, and also when taking or leaving one's own seat;
(iv)
shall not pass between the Chair and any member who is speaking;
(v)
shall not leave the House when the Speaker is addressing the House;
(vi)
shall always address the Chair;
(vii)
shall keep to one's own usual seat while addressing the House;
(viii)
shall maintain silence when not speaking in the House;
(ix)
shall not obstruct proceedings, hiss or interrupt and shall avoid making running commentaries when [another member is
speaking;]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(x)
shall not applaud when a stranger enters any of the Galleries, or the Special Box;
(xi)
[ shall not shout slogans in the House;
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(xii)
shall not sit or stand with back towards the Chair;
(xiii)
shall not approach the Chair personally in the House. The member may send chits to the officers at the Table, if
necessary;
(xiv)
shall not wear to display badges of any kind in the House {except the National Flag in the form of a lapel pin or a badge};
(xv)
shall not bring or display arms in the House;
(xvi)
shall not display flags, emblems or any exhibits in the House;
(xvii)
shall not leave the House immediately after delivering the speech;
(xviii)
Page 73/115
----- PAGE 74 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
shall not distribute within the precincts of Parliament House any literature, questionnaire, pamphlets, press notes,
leaflets, etc. not connected with the business of the House;
(xix)
shall not place one's hat/cap on the desk in the House, bring boards in the Chamber for keeping files or for writing
purposes, smoke or enter the House with the coat hanging on the arms;
(xx)
shall not carry walking stick into the House unless permitted by the Speaker on health grounds;
(xxi)
shall not tear off documents in the House in protest;
(xxii)
shall not bring or play cassette or tape recorder in the House; and
(xxiii)
shall avoid talking or laughing in Lobby loud enough to be heard in the House.]
350.
Only member called by Speaker entitled to speak.
- When a member rises to speak, the name of such member shall be called by the Speaker. If more members than one
rise at the same time, the member whose name is so called shall be entitled to speak.
351.
Mode of addressing House.
- A member desiring to make any observations on any matter before the House shall speak from one's own place, shall
rise when speaking and shall address the Speaker:
Provided that a member disabled by sickness or infirmity may be permitted to speak sitting.
352.
Rules to be observed while speaking.
- A member while speaking shall not -
(i)
refer to any matter of fact on which a judicial decision is pending;
(ii)
[make personal reference by way of making an allegation imputing a motive to or questioning the bona fides of any other
member of the House unless it be imperatively necessary for the purpose of the debate being itself a matter in issue or
relevant thereto;]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(iii)
use offensive expressions about the conduct or proceedings of Parliament or any State Legislature;
(iv)
reflect on any determination of the House except on a motion for rescinding it;
(v)
reflect upon the conduct of persons in high authority unless the discussion is based on a substantive motion drawn in
proper terms;
Explanations. - The words 'persons in high authority' mean persons whose conduct can only be discussed on a
substantive motion drawn in proper terms under the Constitution or such other persons whose conduct, in the opinion of
the Speaker, should be discussed on a substantive motion drawn up in terms approved by the Speaker;
(vi)
use the President's name for the purpose of influencing the debate;
(vii)
utter treasonable, seditious or defamatory words;
[ *** ]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(viii)
use the right of speech for the purpose of obstructing the business of the House;
(ix)
Page 74/115
----- PAGE 75 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
[ make any reference to the strangers in any of the galleries;
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
(x)
refer to Government officials by name; and
(xi)
read a written speech except with the previous permission of the Chair.]
353.
Procedure regarding allegation against any person.
- No allegation of a defamatory or incriminatory nature shall be made by a member against any person unless the
member has given [adequate advance notice]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
to the Speaker and also to the Minister concerned so that the Minister may be able to make an investigation into the
matter for the purpose of a reply:
Provided that the Speaker may at any time prohibit any member from making any such allegation if the Speaker is of
opinion that such allegation is derogatory to the dignity of the House or that no public interest is served by making such
allegation.
354.
Restriction on quoting speeches made in Council.
- No speech made in the Council shall be quoted in the House unless it is a definite statement of policy by a Minister:
Provided that the Speaker, on a request being made in advance, may give permission to a member to quote a speech or
make reference to the proceedings in the Council, if the Speaker thinks that such a course is necessary in order to
enable the member to develop a point of privilege or procedure.
355.
Questions to be asked through Speaker.
- When, for the purposes of explanation during discussion or for any other sufficient reason, any member has occasion
to ask a question of another member on any matter then under the consideration of the House, the member shall ask
such question through the Speaker.
356.
Irrelevance or repetition.
- The Speaker, after having called the attention of the House to the conduct of a member who persists in irrelevance or
in tedious repetition either in one's own arguments or of the arguments used by other members in debate, may direct
that member to discontinue the speech.
357.
Personal explanation.
- A member may, with the permission of the Speaker, make a personal explanation although there is no question before
the House, but in this case no debatable matter may be brought forward, and no debate shall arise.
Order of Speeches, Right of Reply and Conclusion of Debate
358.
Order of speeches and right of reply.
(1)
After the member who moves a motion has spoken, other members may speak to the motion in such order as the
Speaker may call upon them. If  any member who is so called upon does not speak, such member shall not be entitled
except with the permission of Speaker, to speak to the motion at any later stage of the debate.
(2)
Except in the exercise of right of reply or as otherwise provided by these rules, no member shall speak more than once
to any motion, except with the permission of the Speaker.
(3)
A member who has moved a motion may speak again by way of reply, and if the motion is moved by a private member,
the Minister concerned, whether previously spoken in the debate or not, may with the permission of the Speaker, speak
after the mover has replied:
Provided that nothing in this sub-rule shall be deemed to give any right of reply to the mover of an amendment to a Bill
Page 75/115
----- PAGE 76 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
or a resolution save with the permission of the Speaker.
359.
Conclusion of debate.
- Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (3) of rule 358 the reply of the mover of the original motion shall in all cases
conclude the debate.
Address by Speaker
360.
Address by Speaker.
- The Speaker may herself/himself, or on a point being raised or on a request made by a member, may address the
House at any time on a matter under consideration in the House with a view to aid members in their deliberations, and
such expression of views shall not be taken to be in the nature of a decision.
Procedure When Speaker Rises
361.
Procedure when Speaker rises.
(1)
The Speaker shall, whenever rises, be heard in silence and any member who is then speaking or offering to speak shall
immediately resume one's own seat.
(2)
No member shall leave one's own seat while the Speaker is addressing the House.
Closure and Limitation of Debate
362.
Closure.
(1)
At any time after a motion has been made, any member may move: 'That the question be now put', and unless it
appears to the Speaker that the motion is an abuse of these rules or an infringement of the right of reasonable debate,
the Speaker shall then put the motion 'That the question be now put'.
(2)
Where the motion: 'That the question be now put' has been carried, the question or questions consequent thereon shall
be put forthwith without further debate:
Provided that the Speaker may allow a member any right of reply which the member may have under these rules.
363.
Limitation of debate.
(1)
Whenever the debate on any motion in connection with a Bill or on any other motion becomes unduly protracted, the
Speaker may, after taking the sense of the House, fix a time limit for the conclusion of discussion on any stage or all
stages of the Bill or the motion, as the case may be.
(2)
At the appointed hour, in accordance with the time limit fixed for the completion of a particular stage of a Bill or a motion,
the Speaker shall, unless the debate is sooner concluded, forthwith put every question necessary to dispose of all the
outstanding matters in connection with that stage of the Bill or the motion.
Decision of House
364.
Question on motion made.
- A matter requiring the decision of the House shall be decided by means of a question put by the Speaker on a motion
made by a member.
365.
Question on motion made.
- When a motion has been made, the Speaker shall propose the question for consideration, and put it for the decision of
the House. If a motion embodies two or more separate propositions, those propositions may be proposed by the
Speaker as separate questions.
366.
Page 76/115
----- PAGE 77 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
No speech after voices collected.
- A member shall not speak on a question after the Speaker has collected the voices both of the 'Ayes' and of the 'Noes'
on that Question.
Division
367.
Procedure regarding division.
(1)
On the conclusion of a debate, the Speaker shall put the question and invite those who are in favour of the motion to say
'Aye' and those against the motion to say 'No'.
(2)
The Speaker shall then say: 'I think the Ayes (or the Noes, as the case may be) have it'. If the opinion of the Speaker as
to the decision of a question is not challenged, the Speaker shall say twice: 'The Ayes (or the Noes, as the case may be)
have it' and the question before the House shall be determined accordingly.
(3)
(a)
If the opinion of the Speaker as to the decision of a question is challenged, the Speaker shall order that the Lobby be
cleared.
(b)
After the lapse of [three minutes and thirty seconds]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
, the Speaker shall put the question a second time and declare whether in opinion of the Speaker the 'Ayes' or the 'Noes'
have it.
(c)
If the opinion so declared is again challenged, the Speaker shall direct that the votes be recorded either by operating the
automatic vote recorder or by using 'Aye' and 'No' Slips in the House or by the Members going into the Lobbies:
Provided that the Speaker may, if is of the opinion that the Division is unnecessarily claimed, ask the members who are
for 'Aye' and those for 'No' respectively to rise in their places and, on a count being taken, may declare the determination
of the House. In such a case, the names of the voters shall not be recorded.
367A.
Division by automatic vote recorder.
(1)
Where the Speaker directs under clause (c) of sub-rule (3) of rule 367 that the votes be recorded by operating the
automatic vote recorder, it shall be put into operation and the members shall cast their votes from the seats respectively
allotted to them by pressing the buttons provided for the purpose.
(2)
After the result of the voting appears on the indicator board, the result of the Division shall be announced by the Speaker
and it shall not be challenged.
(3)
A member who is not able to cast one's own vote by pressing the button provided for the purpose due to any reason
considered sufficient by the Speaker, may, with the permission of the Speaker, have the vote recorded verbally by
stating whether she or he is in favour of or against the motion, before the result of the Division is announced.
(4)
If a member finds having voted by mistake by pressing the wrong button, such member may be allowed to correct the
mistake provided it is brought to notice of the Speaker by the member before the result of the Division is announced.
367AA.
Division by distribution of `Aye' and `No' slips.
(1)
Where the Speaker directs under clause (c) of sub-rule (3) of rule 367 that the votes shall be recorded by members on
'Aye' and 'No' slips, the Division Clerks shall supply to such members at their seats, 'Aye' or 'No' slips, according to the
choice indicated by a member. A member shall record the vote on the slip by signing and indicating one's own Division
Number thereon.
Page 77/115
----- PAGE 78 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
(2)
After the members have recorded their votes, the Division Clerks shall collect the 'Aye' and 'No' slips and bring them to
the Table where the votes shall be counted by the Officers at the Table and the totals of 'Ayes' and 'Noes' presented to
the Speaker.
(3)
The result of the Division shall be announced by the Speaker and it shall not be challenged.
367B.
Division by going into Lobbies.
(1)
Where the Speaker directs under clause (c) of sub-rule (3) of rule 367 that the votes shall be recorded by the members
going into the Lobbies, the Speaker shall direct the 'Ayes' to go into the Right Lobby and the 'Noes' into the Left Lobby.
In the 'Ayes' or 'Noes' Lobby, as the case may be, each member shall state one's own Division Number and the Division 
Clerk, while marking off the number on the Division  List, shall simultaneously call out the name of the member.
(2)
After voting in the Lobbies is completed, the Division Clerks shall bring the Division Lists to the Table when the votes
shall be counted by the officers at the Table and the totals of 'Ayes' and 'Noes' presented to the Speaker.
(3)
The result of the Division shall be announced by the Speaker and it shall not be challenged.
(4)
A member who is unable to go to the Division Lobby owing to sickness or infirmity may, with the permission of the
Speaker, have the vote recorded either at the allotted seat of such member or in the Lobby before the result of the
Division is announced.
(5)
If a member finds having voted by mistake in the wrong Lobby, such Member may be allowed to correct the mistake,
provided it is brought to the notice of the Speaker by the member before the result of the Division is announced.
(6)
When the Division Clerks have brought the Division Lists to the Table, a member who has not upto that time recorded
one's own vote but who then wishes to have the vote recorded may do so with the permission of the Speaker before the
result of the Division is announced.
Papers to be Laid on the Table
368.
Papers quoted to be laid.
- If a Minister quotes in the House a despatch or other State paper which has not been presented to the House, the
Minister shall lay the relevant paper on the Table:
Provided that this rule shall not apply to any documents which are stated by the Minister to be of such a nature that their
production would be inconsistent with public interest:
Provided further that where a Minister gives in one's own words a summary or gist of such despatch or State paper it
shall not be necessary to lay the relevant papers on the Table.
369.
Authentication and treatment of papers laid.
(1)
A paper or document to be laid on the Table shall be duly authenticated by the member presenting it.
(2)
All papers and documents laid on the Table shall be considered public.
370.
Document containing advice or opinion disclosed to be laid.
- If, in answer to a question or during debate, a Minister discloses the advice or opinion given to the Minister by any
officer of the Government or by any other person or authority, the Minister shall ordinarily lay the relevant document or
parts of document containing that opinion or advice, or a summary thereof on the Table.
Objection to Vote of a Member on Grounds of Personal, Pecuniary or Direct Interest
371.
Page 78/115
----- PAGE 79 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Objection to vote of a member.
- If the vote of a member in a division in the House is challenged on the ground of personal, pecuniary or direct interest
in the matter to be decided, the Speaker, if considers necessary, may call upon the member making the challenge to
state precisely the grounds of objection and the member whose vote has been challenged to state one's own case and
shall decide whether the vote of the member should be disallowed or not and the decision of the Speaker shall be final:
Provided that the vote of a member or members is challenged immediately after the division is over and before the result
is announced by the Speaker.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this rule the interest of the member should be direct, personal or pecuniary and
separately belong to the person whose vote is questioned and not in common with the public in general or with any class
or section thereof or on a matter of State policy.
Statement by Minister
372.
Statement by Minister.
- A statement may be made by a Minister on a matter of public importance with the consent of the Speaker but no
question shall be asked at the time the statement is made.
Withdrawal and Suspension of Members
373.
Withdrawal of Member.
- The Speaker, if is of the opinion that the conduct of any member is grossly disorderly, may direct such member to
withdraw immediately from the House, and any member so ordered to withdraw shall do so forthwith and shall remain
absent during the remainder of the day's sitting.
374.
Suspension of Member.
(1)
The Speaker, may, if deems it necessary, name a member who disregards the authority of the Chair or abuses the rules
of the House by persistently and wilfully obstructing the business thereof.
(2)
If a member is so named by the Speaker, the Speaker shall, on a motion being made forthwith put the question that the
member (naming such member) be suspended from the service of the House for a period not exceeding the remainder
of the session:
Provided that the House may, at any time, on a motion being made, resolve that such suspension be terminated.
(3)
A member suspended under this rule shall forthwith withdraw from the precincts of the House.
374A.
[ Automatic Suspension of a Member.
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II), dated 5.12.2001, Para 2430.]
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in rules 373 and 374, in the event of grave disorder occasioned by a member
coming into the well of the House or abusing the Rules of the House persistently and wilfully obstructing its business by
shouting slogans or otherwise, such member shall, on being named by the Speaker, stand automatically suspended
from the service of the House for five consecutive sittings or the remainder of the session, whichever is less:
Provided that the House may, at any time, on a motion being made, resolve that such suspension be terminated.
(2)
On the Speaker announcing the suspension under this rule, the member shall forthwith withdraw from the precincts of
the House.]
Adjournment of House or Suspension of Sitting Due to Grave Disorder
375.
Power of Speaker to adjourn House or suspend sitting.
- In the case of a grave disorder arising in the House, the Speaker, may if thinks it necessary to do so, adjourn the
House or suspend any sitting for a time to be named by the Speaker.
Points of Order
Page 79/115
----- PAGE 80 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
376.
Points of order and decisions thereon.
(1)
A point of order shall relate to the interpretation or enforcement of these rules or such Articles of the Constitution as
regulate the business of the House and shall raise a question which is within the cognizance of the Speaker.
(2)
A point of order may be raised in relation to the business before the House at the moment:
Provided that the Speaker may permit a member to raise a point of order during the interval between the termination of
one item of business and the commencement of another if it relates to maintenance of order in, or arrangement of
business before, the House.
(3)
Subject to conditions referred to in sub-rules (1) and (2) a member may formulate a point of order and the Speaker shall
decide whether the point raised is a point of order and if so, the decision of the Speaker thereon, shall be final.
(4)
No debate shall be allowed on a point of order, but the Speaker, if thinks fit, may hear members before giving the
decision.
(5)
A point of order is not point of privilege.
(6)
A member shall not raise a point of order -
(a)
to ask for information; or
(b)
to explain one's own position; or
(c)
when a question on any motion is being put to the House; or
(d)
which may be hypothetical; or
(e)
that Division Bells did not ring or were not heard.
377.
[Raising a matter which is not a point of order.
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
- A member who wishes to bring to the notice of the House a matter which is not a point of order, shall give notice in
writing to the Secretary-General specifying clearly and precisely the text of the matter to be raised. The member shall be
permitted to raise it only after the Speaker has given the consent and at such time and date as the Speaker may fix.]
377A.
[Conditions of admissibility.
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
- In order that a notice may be admissible it shall satisfy the following conditions: -
(i)
it shall not refer to a matter which is not primarily the concern of the Government of India;
(ii)
it shall not relate to a matter which has been discussed in the same session or which is substantially identical to the
matter already raised by a member under this rule during the session;
(iii)
it shall not exceed 250 words;
(iv)
it shall not raise more than one issue;
(v)
it shall not contain arguments, inferences, ironical expressions, imputations, epithets or defamatory statements; and
Page 80/115
----- PAGE 81 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
(vi)
it shall not refer to proceedings of a parliamentary/consultative committee.
377B.
Time for tabling notices and their validity.
(1)
Notices received during a week commencing from its first sitting till 10.00 hours on the last day of the week on which the
House sits shall be valid for that week.
(2)
Notices received after 10.00 hours on the last day of the week on which the House sits shall be valid for the next week.
Notices received after 10.00 hours and upto 10.30 hours on that day shall be deemed to have been received at the
same point of time and these shall be ballotted to determine the inter-se priority of members. Notices received
subsequently shall be arranged in accordance with the date and time of their receipt.
(3)
Notices not selected during the week for which they have been tabled, shall lapse at the end of the week:
Provided that a notice referred for facts under order of the Speaker shall not lapse till it is finally disposed of.
377C.
Restrictions on raising matters.
(1)
No member shall raise more than one matter during a week.
(2)
Only the text approved by the Speaker shall go on record.]
Maintenance of Order
378.
Speaker to preserve order and enforce decisions.
- The Speaker shall preserve order and shall have all powers necessary for the purpose of enforcing own decisions.
Proceedings of the House, Parliamentary Papers and Custody of Papers
379.
Preparation and publication of proceedings.
- The Secretary-General shall cause to be prepared a full report of the proceedings of the House at each of its sittings
and shall, as soon as practicable, publish it in such form and manner as the Speaker may, from time to time, direct.
380.
Expunction.
- If the Speaker is of opinion that words have been used in debate which are defamatory or indecent or unparliamentary
or undignified, the Speaker may, while exercising discretion order that such words be expunged from the proceedings of
the House.
381.
Indication in proceedings regarding expunction.
- The portion of the proceedings of the House so expunged shall be marked by asterisks and an explanatory footnote
shall be inserted in the proceedings as follows:
'Expunged as ordered by the Chair'
382.
Printing and publication of Parliamentary papers.
(1)
The Speaker may authorise printing, publication, distribution or sale of any paper, document or report in connection with
the business of the House or any paper, document or report laid on the table or presented to the House or a Committee
thereof.
(2)
A paper, document or report printed, published, distributed or sold in pursuance of sub-rule (1) shall be deemed to have
been printed, published, distributed or sold under the authority of the House within the meaning of clause (2) of article
105 of the Constitution.
(3)
Page 81/115
----- PAGE 82 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
If a question arises whether a paper, document or report is in connection with the business of the House or not, the
question shall be referred to the Speaker whose decision shall be final.
383.
Custody of papers.
- The Secretary-General shall have custody of all records, documents and papers belonging to the House or any of its
Committees or Lok Sabha Secretariat and the Secretary-General shall not permit any such records, documents or
papers to be taken from the Parliament House without the permission of the Speaker.
Chamber of the House
384.
Restriction on use of Chamber of House.
- The Chamber of the House shall not be used for any purpose other than the sittings of the House.
Admission of Officers of the Council
385.
Admission of officers of Council to House.
- Any officer of the Secretarial staff of the Council shall be entitled to admission to the House during any sitting of the
House.
Admission, Withdrawal and Removal of Strangers
386.
Admission of strangers.
- The admission of strangers during the sittings of the House to those portions of the House which are not reserved for
the exclusive use of members shall be regulated in accordance with orders made by the Speaker.
387.
Withdrawal of strangers.
- The Speaker, whenever thinks fit, may order the withdrawal of strangers from any part of the House.
387A.
Removal and taking into custody of strangers.
- An officer of the Secretariat authorised in this behalf by the Speaker shall remove from the precincts of the House or
take into custody, any stranger seen therein or who may be reported to such  officer to be, in any portion of the precincts
of the House which is reserved for the exclusive use of members, and also any stranger who, having been admitted into
any portion of the precincts of the House, misconducts or wilfully infringes the regulations made by the Speaker under
rule 386 or does not withdraw when the strangers are directed to withdraw under rule 387 while the House is sitting.
Business Pertaining to state under President's Rule
387B.
Application of rules to business pertaining to State under President's rule.
- These rules shall, with such variations or modifications, as the Speaker may from time to time make, apply to the
business pertaining to a State, the powers of whose Legislature are, by virtue of a Proclamation issued by the President
under article 356 of the Constitution exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament.
Suspension of Rules
388.
Suspension of rules.
- Any member may, with the consent of the Speaker, move that any rule may be suspended in its application to a
particular motion before the House and if the motion is carried the rule in question shall be suspended for the time being.
Residuary Powers
389.
Residuary powers.
- All matters not specifically provided for in these rules and all questions relating to the detailed working of these rules
shall be regulated in such manner as the Speaker may, from time to time, direct.
First Schedule
(See rule 161)
Form of Petition
To
Page 82/115
----- PAGE 83 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Lok Sabha
The humble petition of
(Here insert name and designation or description of petitioner(s) in concise form, e.g., "A.B. and others" or "the
inhabitants of ......" or "the municipality of ...etc.").
sheweth
(Here insert concise statement of case)
and accordingly your petitioner(s) pray that
(here insert "that the Bill be or be not proceeded with" or "that special provision be made in the Bill to meet the case of
your petitioner(s)" or any other appropriate prayer regarding the Bill or matter before the House or a matter of general
public interest).
and your petitioner(s) as in duty bound will ever pray.
Name of Petitioner
Address
Signature or thumb impression
Counter signature of member presenting.
Second Schedule
[
*
* ***]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 17.02.2014, para 6174.]
Third Schedule
(See rules 229 and 230)
Form of communication regarding arrest, detention, conviction or release, as the case may be, of a member
Place .....................
Date ......................
To
The Speaker,
Lok Sabha,
New Delhi.
Dear Madam/Mr. Speaker,
A
I have the honour to inform you that I have found it my duty, in the exercise of my powers under Section
................................. of the ................................................... (Act), to direct that
Shrimati/Kumari/Shri............................................................
Members of the Lok Sabha, be  =| arresteddetained| for ................................................................................................
(reasons for the arrest or detention, as the case may be).
Shrimati/Kumari/Shri.........................................., M.P., was| accordingly arrestedtaken into custody| at ...... (time)
on........................(date) and is at present lodged in the ........................ jail,
..................... (Place).
B
I have the honour to inform you that Shrimati/Kumari/Shri ..........................., Member of the Lok Sabha, was tried at the
..................... Court before me on a charge (or charges) of ..................... (reasons for the conviction).
On .......................................... (date) after a trial lasting for ............... days, I found Shrimati/Kumari/
Shri .....................guilty of ......... and sentenced her/him to imprisonment for ............ (period).
(Her/his application for leave to appeal to* ..................... is pending consideration).
*Name of the Court.
C
I have the honour to inform you that Shrimati/Kumari/ Shri ............, Member of the Lok Sabha, who was arrested/
detained/convicted on ..................................................... (date), for ..................... (reasons for
arrest/detention/conviction), was released on ................................. (date) on .....................
(grounds for release).
Page 83/115
----- PAGE 84 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Yours faithfully,
(Judge, Magistrate or executive authority)
Fourth Schedule
(See rule 312A)
List of Public Undertakings
Part I ? (Public Undertakings established by Central Acts)
1. The Damodar Valley Corporation.
2. The Industrial Finance Corporation [of India]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
.
3. The Indian Airlines [***]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
.
4. The Air India [***]
[Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
.
5. The Life Insurance Corporation [of India]
[Added by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
.
6. The Central Warehousing Corporation.
7. Oil and Natural Gas Commission.
8. The Food Corporation of India.
9. The International Airports Authority of India.
10. The Industrial Development Bank of India [
*
*]
[Entry 11 Omitted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
.
11. The Delhi Transport Corporation.
Part II ? (Public Undertakings which are Government Companies formed under the Companies Act)
Every Government Company whose annual report is placed before the Houses of Parliament under sub-section (1) of
Section 619A of the Companies Act, 1956.
Part III ? 1. Hindustan [Aeronautics]
[Entry 12 renumbered as 11 by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
Ltd., Bangalore.
2. Bharat Electronics Ltd., Bangalore.
3. Mazagon Docks Ltd., Bombay.
4. Garden Reach [Ship Builders and Engineers]
[Substituted by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 9.5.1989, para 2930.]
Ltd., Calcutta.
[Fifth Schedule]
[Extant Schedule of 17 Committees substituted by revised Schedule of 24 Committees by L.S. Bn. (II) dated 20.7.2004
(Para 253) and adapted vide Bn. (II) dated 5.5.2006 (Para 2367), dated 10.4.2007 (Para 3493), 10.9.2008 (Para No.
6008) and 10.11.2009 (Para No. 675), 1.11.2011 (Para 3223).]
(See rule 331C)
Ministries/Departments under the Jurisdiction of the Standing Committees
Sl. No.
Names of the Committees
Ministries/Departments
Part I
1.
Page 84/115
----- PAGE 85 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Committee on Commerce
Commerce and Industry
2.
Committee on Home Affairs
(1)
Home Affairs
(2)
Development of North-Eastern Region
3.
Committee on HumanResource Development
(1)
Human Resource Development
(2)
Youth Affairs and Sports
(3)
Women and Child Development
4.
Committee on Industry
(1)
Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises
(2)
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
5.
Committee on Science & Technology, Environment &
Forests
(1)
Science and Technology
(2)
Space
(3)
Earth Sciences
(4)
Atomic Energy
(5)
Environment and Forests
6.
Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture
(1)
Civil Aviation
(2)
Road Transport and Highways
(3)
Shipping
(4)
Culture
(5)
Tourism
7.
Committee on Health and Family Welfare
Health and Family Welfare
8.
Page 85/115
----- PAGE 86 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice
(1)
Law and Justice
(2)
Personnel, Public Grievances and and Justice Pensions
Part
9.
Committee on Agriculture
(1)
Agriculture
(2)
Food Processing Industries
10.
Committee on Information Technology
(1)
Communications and Information Technology
(2)
Information and Broadcasting
11.
Committee on Defence Defence
12.
Committee on Energy
(1)
New and Renewable Energy
(2)
Power
13.
Committee on External Affairs
(1)
External Affairs
(2)
Overseas Indian Affairs
14.
Committee on Finance
(1)
Finance
(2)
Corporate Affairs
(3)
Planning
(4)
Statistics and Programme Implementation
15.
Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs, Food and Public
Distribution
Consumer Affairs food and Public Distribution
16.
Committee on Labour
(1)
Labour and Employment
(2)
Page 86/115
----- PAGE 87 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Textiles
17.
Committee on Petroleum and Natural Gas
Petroleum and Natural Gas
18.
Committee on Railways
Railways
19.
Committee on Urban Development
(1)
Urban Development
(2)
Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation
20.
Committee on Water Resources
Water Resources
21.
Committee on Chemicals and Fertilizers
Chemicals and Fertilizers
22.
Committee on Rural Development
(1)
Rural Development
(2)
Drinking Water and Sanitation
(3)
Panchayati Raj
23.
Committee on Coal and Steel
(1)
Coal
(2)
Mines
(3)
Steel
24.
Committee on Social Justice and Empowerment
(1)
Social Justice and Empowerment
(2)
Tribal Affairs
(3)
Minority Affairs
Appendix I
The Houses of Parliament (Joint Sittings and Communications) Rules*
* Rules made by the President, after consultation with the Chairman of the Council of States and the Speaker of the
House of the People, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (3) of article 118 of the Constitution of India.
[Department of Parly. Affairs Notification No. 5(1) PA-52, dated 16.5.1952; Gazette Ex. (I-1), 20.5.1952].
Chapter I
Preliminary
1. Short Title. - These Rules may be called the Houses of Parliament (Joint Sittings and Communications) Rules.
Page 87/115
----- PAGE 88 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
2. Definitions. - In these Rules unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Council" means the Council of States;
(b)
"House" means the House of the People;
(c)
"Houses" means the Council of States and the House of the People;
(d)
"Joint Sitting" means a joint sitting of the Houses;
(e)
"Member" means a member of the Council or of the House;
(f)
"Secretary-General" means the Secretary - General of the House and includes any person for the time being performing
the duties of the Secretary-General of the House;
(g)
"Speaker" means the Speaker of the House.
Chapter II
Joint Sittings of Houses
3. Summons to members. - The Secretary-General shall issue a summon to each member specifying the time and place
for a joint sitting.
4. Time of sittings. - The hour upon which a joint sitting shall adjourn and the day and hour or the part of the same day to
which it shall be adjourned shall be determined by the Speaker.
5. Presiding Officers. - During the absence of the Speaker from any joint sitting, the Deputy Speaker of the House or, if
he is also absent, the Deputy Chairman of the Council or, if he is also absent such other person as may be determined
by the members present at the sitting, shall preside.
6. Quorum. - The quorum to constitute a joint sitting shall be one tenth of the total number of members of the Houses.
7. Procedure. - At any joint sitting the procedure of the House shall apply with such modifications and variations as the
Speaker may consider necessary or appropriate.
8. Report of proceedings of joint sittings. - The Secretary-General shall cause to be prepared a full report of the
proceedings of every joint sitting, and shall, as soon as practicable, publish it in such form and manner as the Speaker
may, from time to time, direct.
Chapter III
Communications between Houses
9. Communication by messages. - Communications between the Houses shall be by messages.
10. Mode of sending messages. - Every message from the House to the Council or from the Council to the House shall
be in writing or in print or partly in writing and partly in print and shall be signed by the Secretary-General of the House
or the Council and conveyed to the Secretary-General of the Council or the House, as the case may be.
11. Communication of messages to members. - (1) If any such message is received by the Secretary-General of the
House or the Council when it is in session, he shall report the message to the House or the Council, as the case may
be, at the first convenient opportunity after its receipt.
(2)
Whenever the House or the Council to which a message is sent is not in session, a copy of the message shall, as soon
as it is received by the Secretary-General of the House or the Council, be forwarded by him to every member of the
House or the Council, as the case may be.
12. Procedure to deal with the subject matter of the message. - The subject matter of the message shall be dealt with by
the House or the Council, as the case may be, to which the message is sent according to the rules regulating its
procedure and the conduct of its business.
Appendix II
Rules Relating to Committees not Mentioned in the Rules of Procedure*
*Rules made by the Speaker.
General Purposes Committee
Page 88/115
----- PAGE 89 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
1. Constitution. - There shall be a General Purposes Committee consisting of the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker,
members of the Panel of Chairpersons, Chairmen of all Standing Parliamentary Committees of Lok Sabha, Leaders of
recognised parties and groups in Lok Sabha and such other members as may be nominated by the Speaker. The
Speaker shall be the ex-officio Chairperson of the Committee.
2. Functions. - The functions of the Committee shall be to consider and advise on such matters concerning the affairs of
the House as may be referred to it by the Speaker from time to time.
3. Provisions applicable in other respects. - In other respects, the general rules applicable to Parliamentary Committees
given in Chapter XXVI of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha (Fifteenth Edition) shall apply
with such adaptations, whether by way of modification, addition or omission, as the Speaker may consider necessary or
convenient.
House Committee
1. Constitution. - (1) There shall be a House Committee consisting of not more than twelve members including the
Chairperson.
(2)
The Committee shall be nominated by the Speaker and shall hold office for a term not exceeding one year. A member
may be re-nominated by the Speaker to the new House Committee.
2. Quorum. - The quorum to constitute a sitting of the Committee shall be five.
3.
(1)
The functions of the House Committee shall be -
(i)
to deal with all questions relating to residential accommodation for members of Lok Sabha; and
(ii)
to exercise supervision over facilities for accommodation, food, medical aid and other amenities accorded to members in
members' residences and hostels in Delhi.
(2)
The functions of the Committee shall be advisory.
4. Accommodation Sub-Committee. - (1) There shall also be an Accommodation sub-Committee consisting of not more
than four members including the Chairperson of the House Committee who shall be the ex-officio Chairperson of the
sub-Committee.
(2)
The members of the sub-Committee shall be nominated by the Chairperson of the House Committee from amongst the
members of the House Committee.
(3)
The quorum to constitute a sitting of the sub-Committee shall be two.
(4)
The function of the sub-Committee shall be to advise on the allotment of residential accommodation to members.
5. Power to Appoint Sub-Committees. - (1) The Committee may appoint one or more sub-Committees each having the
powers of the undivided Committee, to examine any special points relating to residential accommodation, food, medical
aid and other amenities in members' residences and the report of such sub-Committees shall be deemed to be the
reports of the whole Committee, if they are approved at a sitting of the whole Committee.
(2)
The order of reference to a sub-Committee shall clearly state the point or points for investigation. The report of the
sub-Committee shall be considered by the whole Committee.
6. Secretariat for Committee. - The Secretariat for the House Committee or its sub-Committees shall be provided by the
Lok Sabha Secretariat. An Officer of the Lok Sabha Secretariat nominated in this behalf by the Secretary-General of the
Lok Sabha shall be the Secretary to the House Committee and the Accommodation sub-Committee.
7. Record of proceedings and minutes of Committee. - (1) A record of the proceedings of the sittings of the House
Committee and the Accommodation sub- Committee shall be maintained.
(2)
The draft minutes shall be prepared by the Secretary to the Committee and approved by the Chairperson.
Page 89/115
----- PAGE 90 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
(3)
The minutes of each sitting shall be circulated to members of the Committee or the sub-Committee, as the case may be.
Relevant extracts therefrom may be forwarded to appropriate authorities for necessary action.
8. Appeal. - An appeal against the decision of the House Committee or Accommodation sub-Committee shall lie to the
Speaker whose decision shall be final.
9. Provisions applicable in other respects. - In other respects, the general rules applicable to Parliamentary Committees
given in Chapter XXVI of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha (Fifteenth Edition) shall apply
with such adaptations, whether by way of modification, addition or omission, as the Speaker may consider necessary or
convenient.
Library Committee
1. Constitution. - (1) There shall be a Library Committee consisting of -
(a)
the Deputy Speaker and five other members from the Lok Sabha nominated by the Speaker; and
(b)
three members from the Rajya Sabha nominated by the Chairperson of the Rajya Sabha.
(2)
The Committee shall hold office for a term not exceeding one year.
(3)
The Deputy Speaker shall be the ex-officio Chairperson of the Committee.
(4)
Casual vacancies in the Committee shall be filled by nomination by the Speaker in respect of members from the Lok
Sabha and by the Chairperson of the Rajya Sabha in respect of members from the Rajya Sabha.
2. Functions. - The functions of the Committee shall be -
(a)
to consider and advise on such matters concerning the Library as may be referred to it by the Speaker from time to time;
(b)
to consider suggestions for the improvement of the Library; and
(c)
to assist members of Parliament in fully utilising the services provided by the Library.
3. Resignation from Committee. - A member may resign one's seat from the Committee by writing under one's own hand
addressed to the Chairperson of the Committee.
4. Discharge of members absent from sittings of Committee. - The Speaker of the Lok Sabha or the Chairperson of the
Rajya Sabha, as the case may be, may discharge a member from the Committee, if such member is absent from two or
more consecutive sittings thereof without the permission of the Chairperson of the Committee.
5. Committee may sit whilst Houses sitting. - The Committee may sit whilst the Lok Sabha or the Rajya Sabha is sitting
provided that on a division being called in either House, the Chairperson of the Committee shall suspend the
proceedings in the Committee for such time as will, in the opinion of the Chairperson, enable the members to vote in a
division.
6. Provisions applicable in other respects. - In other respects, the general rules applicable to Parliamentary Committees
given in Chapter XXVI of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in  Lok Sabha (Fifteenth Edition) shall apply
with such adaptations, whether by way of modification, addition or omission, as the Speaker may consider necessary or
convenient.
Appendix III
Provisions Relating to the Joint Committee on Salaries and Allowances of Members of Parliament Extract of section 9 of
the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament Act, 1954: -
9. Power to make rules. - (1) For the purpose of making rules under this section, there shall be constituted a Joint
Committee of both Houses of Parliament consisting of five members from the Council of States nominated by the
Chairman and ten members from the House of the People nominated by the Speaker.
(2)
The Joint Committee constituted under subsection (1) shall elect its Chairman and shall have power to regulate its
procedure.
Page 90/115
----- PAGE 91 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
(2A)
[ a member of the Joint Committee shall hold office as such member for one year from the date of his nomination and
any casual vacancy in the Joint Committee may be filled by nomination by the Chairman of the Council of States, or the
Speaker of the House of the People, as the case may be.
Explanation. - In the case of a member of a Joint Committee holding office as such immediately before the
commencement of the Salaries and Allowances of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Act, 1958, the period of one
year shall be computed from the date of such commencement.]
[Inserted by Act 55 of 1958 effective from 30.12.1958.]
(3)
The Joint Committee constituted under subsection (1) may [after consultation with the Central  Government]
[Inserted by Act 55 of 1958 effective from 30.12.1958.]
make rules to provide for all or any of the following matters, namely: -
(a)
the routes for performance of any journey;
(aa)
[ the person who may be specified as dependent under sub-clause (g) of clause (aa) of section 2;]
[Inserted by Act 9 of 2004 effective from 9.1.2004.]
(b)
the manner in which fractions of a day shall be dealt with for the purpose of determining the daily allowance admissible
for that day;
(c)
the travelling allowance admissible where a member is provided with free transit for the whole or any part of a journey
[and the reduction of the daily allowance where a member is provided with free board or lodging at the expenses of the
Government or a local authority;]
[Inserted by Act 55 of 1958 effective from 30.12.1958.]
(cc)
[ the rate at which road mileage shall be paid under sub-clause (ii) of clause (c) of subsection (1) of section 4;]
[Inserted by Act 61 of 1982 effective from 6.11.1982.]
(ccc)
[ the transit accommodation and the period for which such accommodation may be provided under section 5A;]
[Inserted by Act 9 of 2004 effective from 9.1.2004.]
(d)
the travelling allowance admissible where the place from which a member commences his journey or to which he
returns is not his usual place of residence;
(dd)
[ the travelling allowance admissible in respect of journeys performed by any vessel where there is no regular steamer
service;
[Substituted by Act 55 of 1958 effective from 30.12.1958.]
(ddd)
the travelling and daily allowances admissible for journeys performed by a member in the course of a tour outside India
undertaken in connection with his duties as such member;]
(e)
the form in which certificates, if any, shall be furnished by a member for the purpose of claiming any allowance under
this Act.
(ee)
[ the form in which certificates, if any, shall be furnished by any person for the purpose of claiming any pension under
this Act;]
[Inserted by Act 105 of 1976 effective from 9.9.1976.]
(f)
[ the constituency allowance and medical and other facilities mentioned in section 8 and the amount to be paid in cash in
lieu of such facilities;
Page 91/115
----- PAGE 92 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
[Substituted by Act 48 of 1975 effective from 16.8.1975.]
(ff)
the amount which may be paid by way of repayable advance for the purchase of conveyance; the rate of interest
thereon and the mode of recovery of such amount and interest thereon;]
(fff)
[ to provide for carry forward of unutilised free telephone calls pertaining to any year beginning on or after the 1st day of
April, 2002 to any subsequent year]
[Inserted by Act 9 of 2004 effective from 9.1.2004.]
; and
(g)
generally for regulating payment of the daily and travelling allowances and pension under this Act.
(4)
Any rules made under sub-section (3) shall not take effect until they are approved and confirmed by the Chairman of the
Council of States and the Speaker of the House of the People and are published in the Official Gazette, and such
publication of the rules shall be conclusive proof that they have been duly made.
Appendix IV
The Members of Lok Sabha (Disqualification on Ground of Defection) Rules, 1985
In exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph 8 of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution of India, the Speaker, Lok
Sabha, hereby makes the following rules, namely: -
1. Short title. - These rules may be called the Members of Lok Sabha (Disqualification on Ground of Defection) Rules,
1985.
2. Definitions. - In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires: -
(a)
'Bulletin' means the Bulletin of the House of the People (Lok Sabha);
(b)
'Committee' means the Committee of Privileges of the House of the People (Lok Sabha);
(c)
'Form' means a form appended to these rules;
(d)
'date of commencement', in relation to these rules means the date on which these rules take effect under sub-paragraph
(2) of paragraph 8 of the Tenth Schedule;
(e)
'House' means the House of the People (Lok Sabha);
(f)
'leader' in relation to a legislature party, means a member of the party chosen by it as its leader and includes any other
member of the party authorised by the party to act, in the absence of the leader as, or discharge the functions of, the
leader of the party for the purposes of these rules;
(g)
'member' means a member of the House of the People (Lok Sabha);
(h)
'Tenth Schedule' means the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution of India;
(i)
'Secretary-General' means the Secretary - General to the House of the People (Lok Sabha) and includes any person for
the time being performing the duties of the Secretary-General.
3. Information to be furnished by leader of a legislature party. - (1) The leader of each legislature party (other than
legislature party consisting of only one member) shall, within thirty days after the first sitting of the House, or, where
such legislature party is formed after the first sitting, within thirty days after its formation, or, in either case within such
further period as the Speaker may for sufficient cause allow, furnish the following to the Speaker, namely: -
(a)
a statement (in writing) containing the names of members of such legislature party together with other particulars
regarding such members as in Form I and the names and designations of the members of such party who have been
Page 92/115
----- PAGE 93 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
authorised by it for communicating with the Speaker for purposes of these rules;
(b)
a copy of the rules and regulations (whether known as such or as constitution or by any other name) of the political party
concerned; and
(c)
where such legislature party has any separate set of rules and regulations (whether known as such or as constitution or
by any other name), also a copy of such rules and regulations.
(2)
Where a legislature party consists of only one member, such member shall furnish a copy of the rules and regulations
mentioned in clause (b) of sub-rule (1) to the Speaker, within thirty days after the first sitting of the House or, where one
has become a member of the House after the first sitting, within thirty days after taking one's seat in the House, or, in
either case within such further period as the Speaker may for sufficient cause allow.
(3)
In the event of any increase in the strength of a legislature party consisting of only one member, the provisions of
sub-rule (1) shall apply in relation to such legislature party as if such legislature party had been formed on the first date
on which its strength increased.
(4)
Whenever any change takes place in the information furnished by the leader of a legislature party under sub-rule (1) or
by a member under sub-rule (2), the member concerned, within thirty days thereafter, or, within such further period as
the Speaker may for sufficient cause allow, furnish in writing information to the Speaker with respect to such change.
(5)
In the case of the House in existence on the date of commencement of these rules, the reference in sub-rules (1) and
(2) to the date of the first sitting of the House shall be construed as a reference to the date of commencement of these
rules.
(6)
Where a member belonging to any political party votes or abstains from voting in the House contrary to any direction
issued by such political party or by any person or authority authorised by it in this behalf, without obtaining, in either
case, the prior permission of such political party, person or authority, the leader of the legislature party concerned or
where such member is the leader, or as the case may be, the sole member of such legislature party, such member,
shall, as soon as may be after the expiry of fifteen days from the date of such voting or abstention, and in any case
within thirty days from the date of such voting or abstention, inform the Speaker as in Form II whether such voting or
abstention has or has not been condoned by such political party, person or authority.
Explanation. - A member may be regarded as having abstained from voting only when such member, being entitled to
vote, voluntarily refrained from voting.
4. Information etc to be furnished by members. - (1) Every member who has taken seat in the House before the date of
commencement of these rules shall furnish to the Secretary-General, within thirty days from such date or within such
further period as the Speaker may for sufficient cause allow, a statement of particulars and declaration as in Form III.
(2)
Every member who takes seat in the House after the commencement of these rules shall, before making and
subscribing an oath or affirmation under article 99 of the Constitution and taking seat in the House, deposit with the
Secretary-General, the election certificate or, as the case may be, a certified copy of the notification of being nominated
as a member and also furnish to the Secretary-General a statement of particulars and declaration as in Form III.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-rule, "Election Certificate" means the certificate of election issued under the
Representation of the People Act, 1951 (
43 of 1951
) and the rules made thereunder.
(3)
A summary of the information furnished by the members under this rule shall be published in the Bulletin and if any
discrepancy therein is pointed out to the satisfaction of the Speaker, necessary corrigendum shall be published in the
Bulletin.
5. Register of information as to members. - (1) The Secretary-General shall maintain, as in Form IV, a register based on
Page 93/115
----- PAGE 94 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
the information furnished under rules 3 and 4 in relation to the members.
(2)
The information in relation to each member shall be recorded on a separate page in the Register.
6. References to be by petitions. - (1) No reference of any question as to whether a member has become subject to
disqualification under the Tenth Schedule shall be made except by a petition in relation to such member made in
accordance with the provisions of this rule.
(2)
A petition in relation to a member may be made in writing to the Speaker by any other member:
Provided that a petition in relation to the Speaker shall be addressed to the Secretary-General.
(3)
The Secretary-General shall, -
(a)
as soon as may be after the receipt of a petition under the proviso to sub-rule (2) make a report in respect thereof to the
House; and
(b)
as soon as may be after the House has elected a member in pursuance of the proviso to sub-paragraph (1) of
paragraph 6 of the Tenth Schedule place the petition before such member.
(4)
Before making any petition in relation to any member, the petitioner shall satisfy onself that there are reasonable
grounds for believing that a question has arisen as to whether such member has become subject to disqualification
under the Tenth Schedule.
(5)
Every petition, -
(a)
shall contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies; and
(b)
shall be accompanied by copies of the documentary evidence, if any, on which the petitioner relies and where the
petitioner relies on any information furnished by any person, a statement containing the names and addresses of such
persons and the gist of such information as furnished by each such person.
(6)
Every petition shall be signed by a petitioner and verified in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(5 of 1908), for the verification of pleadings.
(7)
Every annexure to the petition shall also be signed by the petitioner and verified in the same manner as the petition.
7. Procedure. - (1) On receipt of a petition under rule 6, the Speaker shall consider whether the petition complies with
the requirements of that rule.
(2)
If the petition does not comply with the requirements of rule 6, the Speaker shall dismiss the petition and intimate the
petitioner accordingly.
(3)
If the petition complies with the requirements of rule 6, the Speaker shall cause copies of the petition and of the
annexures thereto to be forwarded, -
(a)
to the member in relation to whom the petition has been made; and
(b)
where such member belongs to any legislature party and such petition has not been made by the leader thereof, also to
such leader, and such member or leader shall, within seven days of the receipt of such copies, or within such further
period as the Speaker may for sufficient cause allow, forward comments in writing thereon to the Speaker.
(4)
After considering the comments, if any, in relation to the petition, received under sub-rule (3) within the period allowed
(whether originally or on extension under that sub-rule), the Speaker may either proceed to determine the question or, if
Page 94/115
----- PAGE 95 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
the Speaker is satisfied, having regard to the nature, and circumstances of the case that it is necessary or expedient so
to do, refer the petition to the Committee for making a preliminary inquiry and submitting a report to the Speaker.
(5)
The Speaker shall, as soon as may be after referring a petition to the Committee under sub-rule (4), intimate the
petitioner accordingly and make an announcement with respect to such reference in the House or, if the House is not
then in session, cause the information as to the reference to be published in the Bulletin.
(6)
Where the Speaker makes a reference under sub-rule (4) to the Committee, the Speaker shall  proceed to determine the
question as soon as may be after receipt of the report from the Committee.
(7)
The procedure which shall be followed by the Speaker for determining any question and the procedure which shall be
followed by the Committee for the purpose of making a preliminary inquiry under sub-rule (4) shall be, so far as may be,
the same as the procedure for inquiry and determination by the Committee of any question as to breach of privilege of
the House by a member, and neither the Speaker nor the Committee shall come to any finding that a member has
become subject to disqualification under the Tenth Schedule without affording a reasonable opportunity to such member
to represent his case and to be heard in person.
(8)
The provisions of sub-rules (1) to (7) shall apply with respect to a petition in relation to the Speaker as they apply with
respect to a petition in relation to any other member and for this purpose, reference to the Speaker in these sub-rules
shall be construed as including references to the member elected by the House under the proviso to sub-paragraph (1)
of paragraph 6 of the Tenth Schedule.
8. Decision on petitions. - (1) At the conclusion of the consideration of the petition, the Speaker or, as the case may be,
the member elected under the proviso to sub-paragraph
(1)
of paragraph 6 of the Tenth Schedule shall by order in writing, -
(a)
dismiss the petition, or
(b)
declare that the member in relation to whom the petition has been made has become subject to disqualification under
the Tenth Schedule, and cause copies of the order to be delivered or forwarded to the petitioner, the member in relation
to whom the petition has been made and to the leader of the legislature party, if any, concerned.
(2)
Every decision declaring a member to have become subject to disqualification under the Tenth Schedule shall be
reported to the House forthwith if the House is in session, and if the House is not in session, immediately after the
House reassembles.
(3)
Every decision referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be published in the Bulletin and notified in the Official Gazette and copies
of such decision forwarded by the Secretary-General to the Election Commission of India and the Central Government.
9. Directions as to detailed working of these rules. - The Speaker may, from time to time, issue such directions as the
Speaker may consider necessary in regard to the detailed working of these rules.
Form I
[See Rule 3(1)(a)]
Name of the Legislature Party:
Name of the corresponding political party:
Sl.No.
Name of the Member (in block letters)
Father's/husband's name
Permanent Address
Name of the State from which elected
Name which from which elected
(1)
Page 95/115
----- PAGE 96 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Date:
Signature of the leader of the legislature party
Form II
[See Rule 3(6)]
To
The Speaker,
Lok Sabha
Madam/Sir,
At the sitting of the House held on .................................... (date) during voting on ..................... (subject-matter)
...............
?Shrimati/Kumar/Shri ...... ....M.P.
(Division No. ...............) member of .................. (name
of political party) and member of ............ (name of
legislature party) had voted/abstained from voting,
?|, ............... (name of the member)
M.P., (Division No. ............) member of ......... (name of
the political party) and leader of/sole member of
..................... (name of legislature party) voted/abstained
from voting,
contrary to the direction issued by ... *(†person/authority/party) without obtaining the prior permission of the said
*person/authority/ party.
2. On (date) ........................ the aforesaid matter was considered by .............................. *(†person/authority/party) and
the said †voting/abstention was †condoned/was not condoned by †him/it.
Date:
Yours faithfully,
(Signature)
.
†Strike out inappropriate words/portions.
*(here mention the name of the person/authority/party, as the case may be, who had issued the direction).
Form III
(See Rule 4)
1. Name of the member (in block letters):
2. Father's/husband's name:
3. Permanent Address:
4. Delhi Address:
5. Date of election/nomination:
6. Party affiliation as on -
(i)
Date of election/nomination:
(ii)
The *28th February, 1985:
(iii)
Date of signing this form:
Declaration
............... hereby declare that the information given above is true and correct.
In the event of any change in the information given above, I undertake to intimate the Speaker immediately.
Page 96/115
----- PAGE 97 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Date:
Signature/thumb
impression of member
*To be filled in only by member elected or nominated before the 1st March, 1985, being the date of commencement of
the Constitution (52nd Amendment) Act, 1985.
Form IV
[See Rule 5 (1)]
Name of the member (in block letter)
Father's/husband's name
Permanent address
Delhi address
Name of the State from which elected
Date of election/nomination
Name of the political party to which the
member belongs
Name of the legislature party to which the
member belongs
Remarks
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Index
A
Absence of Members:
Committee on, from Sittings of the House, See Committees.
From sittings of the House, [R. 242-244], p. 92
Communications of decision of House to Member, [R. 244], p. 92
applications for leave of, [R. 242], p. 92
reference of applications to Committee on, [R. 243], p. 92
From sittings of the Parliamentary Committees, [R. 260], p. 99
Additional Grants:
See Budget.
Address:
By Speaker, [R. 360], p.136
Address by President to the Houses:
Allotment of time for discussion of, [R. 16], p.9
Motion of Thanks on, [R. 17-18], p. 9
amendments to, [R. 18], p. 9
Right of reply to the debate, [R. 20], p. 10
scope of discussion on, [R. 17], p. 9
time-limit for speeches, [R. 21], p. 10
Other business that may be taken up on a day allotted for discussion on, [R. 19], p. 9
Under article 86(1) of Constitution, [R. 22], p. 10
Adjournment:
Of debate on a Bill, [R. 109], p. 46
Page 97/115
----- PAGE 98 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Of debate on a motion, [R. 340], p. 129
Of the House, and procedure for reconvening, [R. 15], p. 8
Adjournment Motions:
Closure of debate on, [R. 62], p. 31
Leave to move, [R. 60], p. 31
Notice of, [R. 57], p. 29
Restrictions on moving, [R. 58-59], pp. 29-31
Speaker's consent, [R. 56], p. 29
Time for taking up, [R. 61], p. 31
Time limit for speeches on, [R. 63], p. 31
Admission:
Of officers of Council to House, [R. 385], p. 146
Of strangers, [R. 386], p. 146
Affirmation:
By members, [R. 5], p. 4
Allegation Against Persons In Debates:
Procedure re: [R. 353], pp. 134-135
Amendment(S):
Moved and pending in the House do not lapse on prorogation, [R. 336], p. 128
Notice of, in Select Committee on Bills, [R. 300(1)], p. 108
Notice of, in Select Committee on Bills by other members, [R. 301], p. 108
Notice of, to a motion, [R. 345], p. 130
Order of, putting of, [R. 347], p. 131
Scope of, [R. 344], p. 130
Selection of, [R. 346], p. 130
To Amendment, [R. 134], p. 52
To Bills, See under BILL(S)
To Bills at the stage of discussion of principle of Bills, [R. 75(2)], p. 36
To Business Advisory Committee report, [R. 290], p. 105
Anticipating Discussion:
Prohibition of, [R. 343], p.130
Appropriation Bills:
See under Bills
Arrest of a Member:
Intimation to Speaker of, [R. 229], pp. 86-87
Release from, [R. 230], p. 87
Treatment of communication of, [R. 231], p. 87
Within the precincts of the House, prohibited, [R. 232], p. 87
Authentication:
Of Bills, as passed by Speaker or Secretary-General, [R. 128], p. 51
of papers laid, [R. 369(1)], p. 141
B
Ballot
Determination of precedence of Private Member's Bills by, [R. 27(2)], p. 12
Bill(S):
Adjournment of debate on, [R. 109], p. 46
Amendments to -
admissibility of, [R. 80], pp. 39-40
arrangement and order of consideration of, [R. 84-85], p. 41
communication of President's recommendation, [R. 82], p. 40
disagreement between Houses in respect of, [R. 126, 153], pp. 51, 56
Page 98/115
----- PAGE 99 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
effect of, on a motion to pass a Bill, [R. 93], p. 43
moving of, [R. 86], p.41
Notice of, to clause or Schedules, [R. 79], p. 39
precedence given to by the member in charge, [R. 84], p. 41
President's recommendation re., [R. 81], p. 40
restriction on, when motion to pass, is made, [R. 93(3)], p. 43
selection on power of Speaker, [R. 83], p. 41
to amendment, [R. 134], p. 52
withdrawal of, [R. 87], p. 41
See also Amendments
Appropriation Bills -Procedure re., [R. 218], p. 82
Authentication and assent of, [R. 128], p. 51
Certificate on Bills passed by House with amendment [R. 121], pp. 49-50
Clause one, enacting formula, preamble and title of, [R. 92], pp. 42-43
Consideration clause by clause of, [R. 119], p. 49
Dilatory motions regarding See MOTIONS:
Finance Bill, -Procedure re., [R. 219], pp. 82-83
Financial memorandum and clauses involving expenditure, [R. 69], pp. 33-34
Identical Bills, [R. 67], p. 33
Introduction of:
dependent on another pending Bill, [R. 66], p. 33
on a day allotted for financial business, [R. 220], p. 84
period of notice for, [R. 65(3)], p. 32
previous sanction or recommendation of President, [R. 68], p. 33
procedure when, opposed, [R. 72], pp. 34-35
members entitled to move motion in respect of, [R. 76], p. 37
Messages on, See Messages.
Money Bills -
cannot be referred to Joint Committee, [R. 74], p. 35
certificate to be endorsed at the end of, passed by House, [R. 96(2)], p. 43
consideration of amendments as recommended by Council, [R. 106], p. 46
deemed passed on House not accepting Council's recommendation, [R. 108], p. 46
disposal of amendments recommended by Council to, [R. 107], p. 46
notice for consideration of amendments to, [R. 105], p. 45
returned by Council with recommendation, [R. 104], p. 45
returned by Council without recommendation, [R. 103], p. 45
Speaker to endorse money Bills, [R. 96(2)], p. 43
Memorandum re. delegated legislation, [R. 70], p. 34
Motion after circulation of, [R. 75(3)], p. 36
Motions after introduction of, [R. 74], p. 35
Motion for circulation of, [R. 74(iv)], p. 35
Motions after presentation of Select/Joint Committee Reports, [R. 77], p. 38
Notice of motion for leave to introduce, does not lapse on prorogation of House, [R. 335], p. 128
Originating in the Council and transmitted to the House, procedure of, [R. 114-127], pp. 48-51
Other than Money Bills, originating in the House returned by the
Council with amendment, procedure of, [R. 98-102], pp. 44-45
Passed with amendments, [R. 121(1)], p. 49
Passing of, [R. 93], p. 43
Pending before the House, defined, [R. 112(2)], p. 48
Petition on, See under Petitions Postponement of clauses, [R. 89], p. 42
Power of Speaker to correct patent errors and make consequential changes in, as passed, [R. 95], p. 43
Page 99/115
----- PAGE 100 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Preamble of [R. 92], p. 43
Previous sanction or recommendation to introduction of, [R. 65(2)], p. 32
to be communicated to Secretary-General by Minister, [R. 63], p. 31
Principle of, discussion of, [R. 75], p. 35
Private Members' see Private Members' Bills:
Procedure when withdrawal of Bill opposed, [R. 111], p. 47
Publication of, in Gazette -after introduction, [R. 78], p. 39
as reported by Select Committee, [R. 305], p. 110
before introduction, [R. 64], p. 32
Rejection of motions on, [R. 112, 127], pp. 47, 51
Removal of, from the Register of pending Bills, [R. 112], p. 47
Returned by the President:
Authentication of, [R. 154], p. 56
Originating in the Council, [R. 144-153], pp. 54-56
Laying of Bill on Table, [R. 144], p. 54
Bill passed again with amendments, [R. 148], p. 55
Bill passed again without amendments, [R. 147], p. 55
disagreement between Houses as to amendments to, [R. 153], p. 56
disposal of Bill and amendments, [R. 152], p. 56
motion for consideration, [R.145], p. 54
consideration of amendments made by Council, [R. 150], p. 55
procedure consequent on disposal of amendments by Council, [R. 149], p. 55
procedure on motion for consideration being carried, [R. 146], p. 55
procedure on consideration of amendments, [R. 151], p. 56
originating in the House, [R. 129-143], pp. 51-54
appointment of time for consideration of amendments, [R. 140], p. 53
Bill returned by Council with amendments, [R. 139], p. 53
consideration of amendments, [R. 133], p. 52
disagreement between Houses as to amendments to, [R. 143], p. 54
disagreement of House with message, [R. 136], p. 53
disposal of amendment, [R. 142], p. 54
message from Council re. passing again of Bill, [R. 138], p. 53
message of President, [R. 129], p. 51
motion for consideration, [R. 131], p. 52
notice for consideration of amendments, [R. 130], p. 52
passing again of Bill, [R. 135], p. 52
procedure on consideration of amendments, [R. 141], p. 54 [R. 134], p. 52
scope of debate, [R. 132], p. 52
transmission to Council of Bill passed again, [R. 137], p. 53
to, [R. 90], p. 42
Scope of debate during the third reading of, [R. 94], p. 43
Scope of debate on, Select/Joint Committee Report, [R. 78], p. 39
Seeking to amend the Constitution, [R. 155-159], pp. 57-58
Select Committee on:
constitution of, [R. 298], p. 108
expert evidence, [R. 302], p. 109
moving of amendments in, [R. 300-301], p. 108
moving of amendments by other members, [R. 301], p. 108
Presence of other members at a sitting of, [R. 299], p. 108
Presentation of report of, [R. 304], p. 110
printing and publication of reports of, [R. 305], p. 110
Page 100/115
----- PAGE 101 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
procedure in, [R. 300(2)], p. 108
report of, [R. 303], p. 109
See also Parliamentary Committees
Statement regarding ordinances, when replaced by, [R. 71], p. 34
Statement of objects and reasons to, [R. 65(1)], p. 32
Submission of clause by clause, [R. 88], p. 42
Title or, [R. 92], p. 43
Transmission of, to Council, [R. 96], p. 43
Voting of, group of clauses or schedules, [R. 91], p. 42
Withdrawal of, [R. 110], p. 46
Budget:
Allotment of days for discussion of Demands for Grants, [R. 208(1)], p. 78
Cut Motions:
admissibility of, [R. 210-211], p. 79-80
different kinds of, [R. 209], p. 78
notice of, [R. 212], p. 80
Demands for Grants, [R. 206], p. 77
Discussion on, prohibited on day of presentation, [R. 205], p. 77
Financial Business time-limit for disposal of, [R. 221], p. 84
General discussion on, [R. 207], p. 77
Motion to reduce Demands for Grants permissible, [R. 208], p. 78
Other business on day allotted for Financial Business, [R. 220], p. 84
Presentation of, [R. 204], p. 77
Presentation of, in parts, [R. 213], p. 81
Right of reply of Finance Minister on [R. 207(2)], p. 78
Scope of debate on Supplementary Grants, [R. 216], p. 8
Supplementary Grants, [R. 215], p. 81
Timely completion of all Financial business, [R. 221], p. 84
Token Grant, [R. 217], p. 81
Vote of Credit, [R. 215], p. 81
Vote on Account, [R. 214], p. 81
Voting of Demands for Grants, [R. 208], p. 78
Bulletin:
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 1
Promulgation of amendments of rules in, [R. 331(3)], p. 122
Publication of communication regarding arrest of members in, [R. 231], p. 87
Publication of Motions in, [R. 189], p. 68
Business:
Arrangement of Government, [R. 25], p. 11
Financial business, see under Budget
List of, [R. 31], p. 14
Private Members:
allotment of time for, [R. 26], p. 11
outstanding at the end of day, [R. 29], p. 13
precedence of, [R. 27], p. 11
resumption of adjourned debate on, [R. 30], p. 13
Business Advisory Committee:
Allocation of time order, notification of, [R. 290A], p. 106
disposal of outstanding matter, [R. 291], p. 106
variation in, [R. 292], p. 106
Constitution of, [R. 287], p. 105
Page 101/115
----- PAGE 102 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Functions of [R. 288], p. 105
Report of, [R. 289], p. 105
Amendment to, [R. 290], p. 105-106
See also Parliamentary Committees
C
Calling Attention -Procedure Regarding, [R. 197], P. 71
Casting Vote:
Of Chairpersons of Parliamentary Committees, [R. 262], p. 99
Chairpersons:
Panel of, -Nomination of, [R. 9], p. 6
Chamber Of The House:
Use of, [R. 384], p. 146
Circulation:
Of Bills for eliciting opinion, [R. 74(iv)], p. 35
Closure:
Debate on, not permitted, [R. 362], p. 137
Limitation of debate in case of Bills, [R. 363], p. 137
Motion for, how made and put, [R. 362], p. 137
Of debate on adjournment motions, [R. 62], p. 31
Committee(S):
Business Advisory, See Business Advisory Committee Departmentally Related Standing, See Departmentally Related
Standing Committees
General Purposes, See General Purposes Committee. House, See House Committee Library, See Library Committee
Meaning of, [R. 253], p. 96
Of Privileges:
consideration of report by House, [R. 315-316], p. 117
constitution of, [R. 313], p. 116
functions of, [R. 314], p. 116
See also Privileges, Questions of
On Absence of Members from the Sittings of the House:
constitution of, [R. 325], p. 120
functions of, [R. 326], p. 119-120
lapsing of, leave granted, [R. 245], p. 92
Motion where leave not recommended, [R. 328], p. 120
pleasure of House taken where leave is recommended, [R. 327], p. 120
On Empowerment of Women:
constitution of, [R. 331O], p. 125-126
functions of, [R. 331P], p. 126
matters not to be considered by other Committees, [R. 331Q], p. 126
On Estimates:
constitution of, [R. 311], p. 114
examination of the estimates by, [R. 312], p. 115
functions of, [R. 310], p. 114
On Government Assurances:
constitution of, [R. 324], p. 119
functions of, [R. 323], p. 119
On Papers Laid on the Table:
constitution of, [R. 305A], p. 110
functions of, [R. 305B], pp. 110-111
On Petitions:
constitution of, [R. 306], p. 111
Page 102/115
----- PAGE 103 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
functions of, [R. 307], p. 111
On Private Members' Bills and Resolutions:
allocation of time order:
disposal of outstanding matters, [R. 297], p. 108
notification of, in the Bulletin, [R. 296], p. 107
classification of, Bills, [R. 296], p. 107
constitution of, [R. 293], p. 106
functions of, [R. 294], pp. 106-107
report of, [R. 295], p. 107
On Public Accounts:
constitution of, [R. 309], p. 113
functions of, [R. 308], pp. 112-113
On Public Undertakings:
constitution of, [R. 312B], p. 116
functions of, [R. 312A], p. 115-116
On Rules:
constitution of, [R. 330], p. 120
functions of, [R. 329], p. 120
laying of Report on Table, [R. 331], p. 120-121
On Salaries and Allowances of Members of Parliament:
Provisions relating to, [Appendix III], pp. 171-173
On the Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes:
constitution of, [R. 331B], p. 122
functions of, [R. 331A], p. 121-122
On Subordinate Legislation:
constitution of, [R. 318], p. 117
examination of orders as, [R. 320], p. 118-119
functions of, [R. 317], p. 117
numbering and publication of Orders, [R. 319], p. 118
power of the Speaker to give Directions to, [R. 332], p. 127
report of, [R. 321], p. 118-119
See also Parliamentary Committees Communications:
from the House to President, [R. 247], p. 93
from President to House, [R. 246], p. 93
Comptroller and Auditor-General:
Report of, examination by Public Accounts Committee, [R. 308(2)], p. 112
Constitution Of India:
Bill seeking to amend, [R. 155-159], pp. 57-58
residuary procedure, [R. 159], p. 58
voting by division, [R. 158], p. 58
voting on amendments, [R. 156], p. 57
voting on clauses and schedules, [R. 155], p. 57
voting on motions [R. 157], pp. 57-58
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 1
Council of States:
Admission of officers of, to House, [R. 385], p. 146
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 1
disagreement of, with the House on Bills, [R. 102, 126], pp. 45, 51
Disagreement of, with the House on statutory Regulations, Rules etc., [R. 238], p. 89
Restriction on quoting speeches made in, [R. 354], p. 135
Rules relating to communications between Houses, [Appendix I], pp. 163-165
Page 103/115
----- PAGE 104 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Rules relating to joint sittings of Houses, [Appendix I], pp. 163-165
Counsel:
Witness can appoint, to appear before Parliamentary Committees, [R. 271], p. 101
Cut Motions:
See Budget
D
Debates:
Adjournment of, on a Bill, [R. 109], p. 49
Adjournment of, on a motion, [R. 340], p. 129
Allegation against persons in, [R. 353], pp. 134-135
Closure of, [R. 62], p. 31 [R. 362], p. 137
Conclusion of, [R. 359], p. 136
Expunction, [R. 380-381], p. 145
Irrelevance or repetition in, [R. 356], p. 135
Limitation of, [R. 363], p. 137
Preparation and publication of proceedings, [R. 379], p. 145
President's name, used in, [R. 352 (vi)], p. 134
Reflection on conduct of persons of high authority in, [R. 352(v)], p. 134
Restriction on quoting speeches made in Council in, [R. 354], p. 135
Delegated Legislation:
Explanatory memorandum to Bills, [R. 70], p. 34
See also Subordinate Legislation Demands For Grants:
See Budget.
Departmentally Related Standing Committees:
Departmentally Related Standing Committees, [R. 331C], pp. 122-123
Constitution of, [R. 331D], p. 123
Functions of, [R. 331E], p. 123
Applicability of a particular function, [R. 331F], p. 124
Procedure relating to Demands for Grants, [R. 331G], p. 124
Procedure relating to Bills, [R. 331H], p. 124
Reports of, [R. 331I], p. 125
Applicability of general rules, [R. 331J], p. 125
Venue of sittings of, [R. 331K], p. 125
Power to have expert opinion, [R. 331L], p. 125
Matters not to be considered, [R. 331M], p. 125
Reports to have persuasive value, [R. 331M], p. 125
Deputy Speaker:
Election of, [R. 8], p. 5-6
Powers of, [R. 10], p. 7
Removal from Office, [R. 200-203], pp. 75-76 Dilatory Motion(S):
See Motion(S) Dissolution of the House:
Election:
of Deputy Speaker, [R. 8], p. 5-6
of Speaker, [R. 7], p. 5
Election Commission:
Resignation of members intimated to, [R. 240(3)], p. 91
Vacation of seats by members intimated to, [R. 241(2)], p. 91
Empowerment Of Women Committee:
See under "Committees"
Estimates Committee:
See under "Committees"
Page 104/115
----- PAGE 105 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Evidence:
Before Parliamentary Committees,
See under "Parliamentary Committees"
Before Select Committee on Bills, [R. 302], p. 109
Exceptional Grants:
See Budget.
Excess Grants:
See Budget.
Expunging of Words:
See under Debates.
F
Finance Bill:
See under Bills.
Finance Minister:
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 1
Financial Business:
See under Budget:
G
Gazette:
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 1
General Purposes Committee:
Rules relating to, [Appendix II], p. 166
See also Parliamentary Committees
Government Assurances:
Committee on, see under Committees.
Government Business:
See Business.
H
Half-An-Hour Discussion:
Admissibility of, [R. 55(3)], p. 27
Allotment of time for, [R. 55(1)], p. 27
No Formal motion or voting on, [R. 55(5)], p. 28
Notice of, [R. 55(2)], p. 27
Relative precedence of, [R. 55(4)], p. 27
House Committee:
Rules relating to, [Appendix II], pp. 166-168
See also Parliamentary Committees.
House of the People:
Adjournment of, [R. 15], p. 8
Admission of officers of the Council to, [R. 385], p. 146
Admission of strangers to, [R. 386], p. 146
Arrest within precincts of, prohibited, [R. 232], p. 87
Chambers of, [R. 384], p. 146
Commencement of sittings of, [R. 12], p. 8
Communications between President and, [R. 246-247], p. 93
Days of sittings of, [R. 13], p. 8
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 1
Maintenance of order at the sittings of, [R. 378], p. 145
Prorogation of, [R. 24], p. 10
Question on motion made.
Report of proceedings of, see under Debates
Page 105/115
----- PAGE 106 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Rules relating to communications between Houses, [Appendix I], pp. 163-165
Rules relating to joint sittings of Houses, [Appendix I], pp. 163-165
Service of legal process within the precincts of, prohibited, [R. 233], p. 87
Sittings of Joint Committees of, and Council, [R. 74], p. 35, [R. 75(2)], p. 36
Sittings on Fridays of, [R. 26], p. 11
Suspension of members from sittings of, [R. 374], p. 142
Suspension of sittings of, by the Speaker, [R. 375], p. 143
Withdrawal of members from sittings of, [R. 373], p. 142
Houses:
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 1
Houses of Parliament (Joint Sittings and Communications) Rules:
[Appendix I], pp. 163-165
J
Joint Committees:
Money Bills not referred to, [R. 74, 75(2)], p. 35, 36
Reference of a Bill to, [R. 74, 75(2)], p. 35, 36
On Salaries and Allowances of Members of Parliament:
Provisions relating to, [Appendix III], pp. 171-173
L
Leader of the House:
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 1
Library Committee:
Rules relating to, [Appendix II], pp. 168-170
See also Parliamentary Committees
Limitations on Debates, [R. 363], p. 137
List of Business, [R. 31], p. 14
Lobby:
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 1
Lok Sabha Secretariat, Definition of, [R. 2], p. 1-2
M
Matters of Public Importance:
Statement by Minister on, [R. 372], p. 142
Matters of Public Interest:
See under Motions
Matter Under Rule 377, pp. 144-145
Procedure for bringing to notice of the House, [R. 377], p. 144
Conditions of admissibility of, [R. 377A], p. 144
Time for Tabling notices of, [R. 377B], pp. 144-145
Restriction on raising, [R. 377C], p. 145
Matters of Urgent Public Importance:
Admissibility of, [R. 194], p. 69
Discussion on, for short duration, [R. 193-196], pp. 69-70
No formal motion or voting on, for short duration, [R. 195], p. 69
Notice of raising discussion on, for short duration, [R. 193], p. 69
Procedure re., [R. 197], pp. 71-72
Time limit for speeches on, for short duration, [R. 196], p. 70
Member(S):
Absence from sittings of the House, [R. 242], p. 92
Allegation against other persons by; prohibited, [R. 353], pp. 134-135
Arrest, detention and release of, intimations regarding, [R. 299], pp. 86-87
Contingent notices given by, [R. 333], p. 127
Page 106/115
----- PAGE 107 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 2
Discharge of, absent, from sittings of the Parliamentary
Committees, [R. 260], p. 99
Irrelevance or repetition by, prohibited, [R. 356], p. 135
Mode of addressing the House by, [R. 351], p. 133
Not to leave seat when Speaker addresses, [R. 361(2)], p. 136
Notices given by, [R. 332], p. 127
Oath or Affirmation by, [R. 5], p. 4
Objection to vote of a, [R. 371], p. 141
Order of speeches and right of reply by, [R. 358], pp. 135-136
Pecuniary Interest of, See Personal, Pecuniary or Direct Interest
Personal Explanation of, [R. 357], p. 135
Resignation by, of seats in the House, see under Resignation(S)
Resignation of, from Parliamentary Committees, [R. 257], pp. 97-98
Roll of, [R. 6], p. 4
Rules to be observed by, in House, [R. 349], pp. 131-133
Rules to be observed by, while speaking, [R. 352], pp. 133-134
Summons to, [R. 3], p. 4
Suspension of, [R. 374], p. 142
To sit down when Speaker rises, [R. 361], p. 136
To speak when called by Speaker, [R. 350], p. 133
Vacation on seats by, in the House, [R. 241], p. 91
Withdrawal of, [R. 373], p. 142
Member In-Charge of The Bill:
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 2
Members of Lok Sabha:
(Disqualification on Ground of Defection) Rules, 1985 [Appendix IV], pp. 174-185
Message(S):
From President under Article 86(2), [R. 23], p. 10
From the Council to the House, [R. 97], 44. [R. 236], p. 88
From the House to the Council, [R. 103], p. 45 [R. 108], p. 46 [R. 153], p. 56 [R. 237] pp. 88-89
Minister(S):
Argument of, to reply to short notice questions, [R. 54(2)], p. 24
Cannot be appointed as a member of the Committee on Public accounts, [R. 309(1)], p. 113
Cannot be appointed as a member of the Committee on Public Undertakings, [R. 312B(1)], p. 116
Cannot be appointed as a member of the Estimates Committee, [R. 311(1)], p. 114
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 2
Document containing advice or opinion disclosed to be laid by, [R. 370], p. 141
Papers quoted by, to be laid on the Table, [R. 368], p. 140
Procedure re. motion of no confidence in, [R. 198], pp. 73-74
Right of, to address a Select Committee, [R. 299], p. 108
Statement by, on a matter of public importance, [R. 372], p. 142
Statement by, who has resigned, [R. 199], p. 74
Minutes of Dissent:
To Reports of Select Committees on Bills, [R. 303(4)-(6)], pp. 109-110
Money Bills:
See under BILLS
Motion(S):
Adjournment of debate on, [R. 340], p. 129
Amendments to, [R. 345], p. 130
Anticipatory, [R. 343], p. 130
Page 107/115
----- PAGE 108 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Closure, [R. 362], p. 137
Cut motions, see under Budget
For adjournment of debate, see Adjournment Motions
For policy, situation or statement etc. being taken into consideration, [R. 342], p. 130
In abuse of rules of House or dilatory, [R. 341], p. 129
Moved and pending the House do not lapse on prorogation [R. 336], p. 128
Of no-confidence in council -Procedure re., [R. 198], pp. 73-74
Of Thanks on the President's Address, see Address by President to the Houses
On matters of public interest:
admissibility of, [R. 184], p. 66 [R. 186], pp. 66-67 [R. 187-188], pp. 67-68
allotment of time for discussion of, [R. 190], p. 68
notice of, [R. 185], p. 66
publication of admitted, [R. 189], p. 68
putting of question on, [R. 191], p. 68
time limit for speeches, [R. 192], p. 68
Order of speeches on, [R. 353], pp. 134-135
Repetition of, prohibited, [R. 338], p. 128
Withdrawal of, [R. 339], pp. 128-129
N
No-Confidence Motion:
In council, [R. 198], pp. 73-74
In Speaker and Deputy Speaker, [R. 200-203], pp. 75-76
Notice(S):
Circulation of, [R. 334], p. 127
Contingent, [R. 333], p. 127
Lapse of pending, on prorogation of House, [R. 335], p. 128
Mode of giving, [R. 332], p. 127
Of intention to move for leave to introduce a Bill do not lapse on prorogation of House, [R. 335], p. 128
Prohibition on advance publicity of, [R. 334A], p. 128
Should be left at Notice Office, [R. 332], p. 127
Should be signed by members giving, [R. 332], p. 127
Speaker's power to amend, [R. 337], p. 128
To be left at Parliamentary Notice Office during Office hours, [R. 332], p. 127
Notice Office:
See Parliamentary Notice Office
O
Oath or Affirmation:
By Members, [R. 5], p. 4
By witnesses, [R. 272], p. 101
Ordinance(S):
Statement regarding, [R. 71], p. 34
P
Panel of Chairpersons Nomination of, [R. 9], Pp. 6-7 Papers:
Authentication and treatment of, laid on Table, [R. 369(1)], p. 141
Committee on, see under Committees.
Circulation of, [R. 334], p. 127
Laid on Table treated as public, [R. 369(2)], p. 141
Not laid on the Table on grounds of public interest, [R. 368], p. 140
Quoted to be laid on Table, [R. 368], p. 140
Restriction on raising matters in the House about, laid, [R. 305C], p.111
See also Parliamentary Papers.
Page 108/115
----- PAGE 109 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Parliamentary Committee(S):
Applicability of general rules to, [R. 286], p. 105
Appointment of, [R. 254], p. 96
Business before, not to lapse on the prorogation of the House, [R. 284], p. 104
Casual vacancies in, [R. 254(3)], p. 96
Chairperson of, [R. 258], p. 98
Decisions in, [R. 261], p. 99
Decisions of recording of, [R. 274], p. 102
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 2
Discharge of members absent from sitting of, [R. 260], p. 99
Evidence, [R. 269-273, 275], pp. 100-102, 102
confidential nature of, [R. 275], p. 102
Counsel for witness, [R. 271], p. 101
examination of witnesses, Procedure for -, [R. 273], pp. 101-102
Government may not produce papers on grounds of interest of State, [R. 270], p. 101
oath, [R. 272], p. 101
power to call for papers, persons etc. by, [R. 270], p. 101
summoning of witnesses, [R. 269], pp. 100-101
verbatim record of, [R. 273(v)], p. 102
Personal, pecuniary or direct interest of members of, [R. 255], pp. 96-97
Power of, to make suggestions on procedure, [R. 281-282], p. 104
Quorum in, [R. 259], pp. 98-99
Report of,
confidential nature of, [R. 275], p. 102, [R. 278], p. 103
presentation of, [R. 277-279], pp. 103
printing, publication or circulation of, before presentation, [R. 280], p. 104
Special, [R. 276], p. 103
Resignation of members from, [R. 257], pp. 97-98
Sittings of,
days of, [R. 264], p. 100
in private, [R. 266], p. 100
venue of, [R. 267], p. 100
whilst House sitting, [R. 265], p. 100
Speaker may give directions to, [R. 283], p. 104
Strangers prohibited from attending sittings of, [R. 268], p. 100
Sub-Committees of, [R. 263], p. 99
Term of office of nominated by the Speaker, [R. 256], p. 97
Unfinished work of, [R. 285], p. 104
Parliamentary Notice Office:
Notices by members to be left at, [R. 332], p. 127
Parliamentary Papers:
Custody of, [R. 383], p. 146
Power of Speaker for printing and publication of, [R. 382], pp. 145-146
Personal Explanation:
Of members, [R. 357], p. 135
Personal, Pecuniary Or Direct Interest:
Objection to vote of a member on grounds of, [R. 371], p. 141
Procedure when objection is raised for inclusion of a member in Committees on grounds of, [R. 255], pp. 96-97
Petitions:
Authentication of, [R. 162], p. 60
Committee on, see under Committees Documents not to be attached to, [R. 163], p. 60
Page 109/115
----- PAGE 110 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Form of presentation of, [R. 168], p. 61
General form of, [R. 161], pp. 59-60
Member presenting, to countersign, [R. 164], p. 60
Notice of presentation of, [R. 166], p. 60
Dealing with financial matters, [R. 160A], p. 59
On Bills, [R. 160(i)], p. 59
Presentation of, [R. 167], p. 61
Reference to Committee on, [R. 169], p. 61
Scope of, [R. 160], p. 59
To be addressed to House, [R. 165], p. 60
Points of Order:
Procedure for raising, [R. 376], pp. 143-44
Precincts of the House:
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 2
President:
Address by, See Address by President to the House.
Bills returned by, for reconsideration See under Bills
Communications from, House to, [R. 247], p. 93
Communications from, to House, [R. 246], p. 93
Messages from, [R. 23], p. 10
Mode of communication of, recommendation of, [R. 348], p. 131
Name of, not to be used for purpose of influencing debate, [R. 352(vi)], p. 134
Previous sanction of, for introduction of Bills, [R. 65(2)68], pp. 32, 33
Previous Sanction or Recommendation of the President:
For amendments to Bills, [R. 81], p. 40
For introduction of Bills, [R. 65(2)], p. 32
Mode of communications of, [R. 348], p. 131
To be communicated to Secretary-General, [R. 82], p. 40
See also President
Private Member:
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 2
Private Members' Bills:
Allotment of time for, [R. 26], p. 11
Ballot of, [R. 27(2)], p. 12
Categories of, [R. 294(1)(b)], p. 107
Committee on, See under Committees Examination of which are opposed in the House, [R. 294 (1)(d)], p. 107
Notice for leave to introduce, [R. 65], pp. 32-33
Precedence of, [R. 27], pp. 11-13
Previous sanction or recommendation of the President to, [R. 65(2)], p. 32
Removal of, from pending Bills, Register, [R. 113], p. 48
Resumption of adjourned debate on, [R. 30], pp. 13-14
Seeking to amend the Constitution, [R. 294 (1) (a)], p. 106
Private Members' Business:
Allotment of time for, [R. 26], p. 11
Outstanding at the end of day, [R. 29], p. 13
Private Members' Resolutions:
See Resolutions.
Privilege, Questions Of:
Admissibility of, [R. 224], p. 85
Consent of, [R. 222], p. 85
Mode of raising, [R. 225], pp. 85-86
Page 110/115
----- PAGE 111 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Notice of, [R. 223], p. 85
Power of Speaker to give directions on, [R. 228], p. 86
Reference of, to Committee of Privileges by Speaker, [R. 227], p. 86
To be considered by House or Committee, [R. 284], p. 86
See also under Committees
Prorogation of the House:
Business before Committee not to lapse on, [R. 284], p. 104
Effect of, on motion, resolution or amendment already moved, [R. 336], p. 128
Effect of, on pending notices, [R. 335], p. 128
President's Address on, [R. 24], p. 10
Public Accounts Committee:
see Committees
Public Undertakings:
Committee on, See Committees
Publication:
of Bills in Gazette, after introduction, [R. 73], p. 35
of Bills in Gazette, before introduction, [R. 64], p. 32
of Select Committee Report on Bills, [R. 305], p. 110
Putting of the Question:
See Question For Decision
Q
Question(S):
Admissibility of, [R. 41], pp. 18-20; [R. 43], p. 21
Answers to, not refer to answers or proceedings in the Council, [R. 51], p. 24
Documents containing advice or opinion disclosed in answer to, to be laid, [R. 370], p. 141
Form of, notice of, [R. 34], p. 15
Half-an-hour discussion on answers to, [R. 55], pp. 27-28
Lapse of, [R. 52], p. 24
Limit of number of unstarred questions, [R. 45], pp. 21-22
Mode of asking, [R. 48], p. 23
Notice of, [R. 33], p. 15
Notice to Ministers of admitted, [R. 35], p. 15
On matters of correspondence between the Government of India and State Governments, [R. 42], p. 21
Order in which starred questions to be called, [R. 46], p. 22
Period of notice of, [R. 33], p. 15
Prohibition on advance publicity of answers to, [R. 53], p. 24
Question Hour -first hour of sitting, [R. 32], p. 15
Rotational allotment of days to Ministries for answer to, [R. 38], p. 16
Short notice, [R. 54], pp. 24-26
Starred and unstarred, [R. 36-39], pp. 15-18; [R. 4] p. 4
Supplementary, [R. 50], pp. 23-24
To be asked through the Speaker, [R. 365], p. 137
To private members, [R. 40], p. 18
Unstarred, [R. 39], pp. 16-18
Withdrawal or postponement of, [R. 47], p. 22
Question For Decision:
Decision of House obtained by, [R. 364], p. 137
Putting the question, [R. 365], p. 137
Quorum:
Of Parliamentary Committees, [R. 259], pp. 98-99
R
Page 111/115
----- PAGE 112 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Repetition:
Of Motions, [R. 186 (iv)], p. 66
Of Speeches, [R. 356], p. 135
Residuary Powers:
Speaker to regulate, [R. 389], p. 147
Resignation:
Of members from Parliamentary Committee, [R. 257], pp. 97-98
Of Ministers, [R. 199], p. 74
Of seats in House by members, [R. 240], pp. 90-91
Intimation by Speaker to the House regarding, [R. 240(2)], p. 91
Intimation of Election Commission of, [R. 240(3)], p. 91; [R. 241(2)], p. 91
Publication in the Gazette of, [R. 240(3)], p. 91; [R. 241(2)], p. 91
Resolution(S):
Admissibility of, [R. 173], pp. 62-63
Conditions of, [R. 175], p. 63
Speaker to decide, [R. 174], p. 63
Amendments to, list of, [R. 177(3)], p. 64
Notice of, [R. 180], p. 64
To be sent to Minister concerned, when passed, [R. 183], p. 65
For removal of Speaker or Deputy Speaker, Admissibility of, notice of, scope of discussion, [R. 200-203], pp. 75-76
Form of, [R. 171], p. 62
List of business regarding, [R. 31(4)], p. 14
Moved and pending in the House do not lapse on prorogation, [R. 336], p. 128
Moving of, [R. 176(1)], p. 63
Notice of, [R. 170], p. 62
Of absent members, [R. 176(3)], p. 63
Precedence of private members, [R. 28], p. 13
Removal of Speaker or Deputy Speaker:
Inclusion of, list of business, [R. 202], p. 76
Leave of House to move, [R. 201], pp. 75-76
Notice of, [R. 200], p. 75
Time limit for speeches on, [R. 203], p. 76
Repetition of, Prohibited, [R. 182], pp. 64-65
Resumption of adjourned debate on private members, [R. 30], pp. 13-14
Scope of discussion on, [R. 179], p. 64
Splitting of, by Speaker, [R. 181], p. 64
Subject matter of, [R. 172], p. 62
Time limit for speeches on, [R. 178], p. 64
Withdrawal of, [R. 180], p. 64
Roll of Members, [R. 6], p. 4
Rules of Procedure:
Amendments to, [R. 331], pp. 121-122
Suspension of, [R. 388], p. 147
See also Committees.
S
to Bills, [R. 90], p. 42
Seating of Members, [R. 4], p. 4
Secret Sittings of the House:
Procedure regarding, [R. 48-252], pp. 94-95
Secretariat, [R. 2], p. 1
Secretary-General to the House of the People:
Page 112/115
----- PAGE 113 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Authentication of Bills as passed, in the absence of Speaker by, [R. 128], p. 51
Certification of Bills transmitted to the Council by, [R. 96(2)], pp. 43-44
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 2
Members to sign roll in presence of, [R. 6], p. 4
Parliamentary papers in the custody of, [R. 383], p. 146
Petitions may be reported by, [R. 167], p. 61
Preparation of list of business by, [R. 31(1)], p. 14
Publication of debates by, [R. 379], p. 145
Summons to members to be issued by, [R. 3], p. 4
Select Committee on Bills:
See under Bills
Service of Legal Process:
Within the precincts of the House, prohibited, [R. 233], p. 87
Short Notice Questions:
See Questions
Sittings of the House:
Adjournment of, [R. 15], p. 8
Adjournment or suspension of, by Speaker, [R. 375], p. 143
Commencement and conclusion of, [R. 12], p. 8
In secret, [R. 248], p. 94
When duly constituted, [R. 11], p. 8
Speaker:
Address by, [R. 360], p. 136
Authentication of Bills by, [R. 128], p. 51
Directions by, on questions of privilege, [R. 228], p. 86
Election of, [R. 7], p. 5
Members not to leave seats when, rise, [R. 361], p. 136
Members to speak when called by, [R. 350], p. 133
Power of:
for timely completion of financial business, [R. 221], p. 84
to adjourn or suspend sittings, of the House, [R. 375], p. 142
to amend notices of questions and motions etc., [R. 337], p. 128
to correct patent errors and make consequential change in Bills, [R. 95], p. 43
to endorse Money Bills, [R. 96], p. 43-44
to maintain order, [R. 378], p. 145
Procedure when rises, [R. 31], p. 136
Reference of questions of privilege to Committee of Privileges by, [R. 227], p. 86
Release of a member, intimation to, [R. 230], p. 87
Removal from office, [R. 200-203], pp. 75-76
Residuary powers vested in, [R. 389], p. 147
Speeches:
After collection of voices, prohibited, [R. 366], p. 137
Irrelevance or repetition of, [R. 356], p. 135
Only member called by Speaker entitled to speak, [R. 350], p. 133
Mover's reply to conclude debate, [R. 359], p. 136
Not permitted after voices have been collected by Speaker, [R. 366], p. 137
Of allegation, defamatory etc., prohibited, [R. 353], pp. 134-135
Order of, and right of reply, [R. 358], pp. 135-136
Reflection in, on conduct of persons of authority prohibited, [R. 352], pp. 133-134
Restriction on quoting in Council, [R. 354], p. 135
Rules to be observed while speaking, [R. 352], pp. 133-134
Page 113/115
----- PAGE 114 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
Time limit for, on adjournment motions, [R. 63], p. 31
To be addressed to the Chair, [R. 351], p. 133
Statement(S):
By a Minister who has resigned, [R. 199], p. 74
On a matter of public importance by Minister, [R. 372], p. 142
Statutory Regulations:
See Subordinate Legislation
Strangers:
Admission of, to the House, [R. 386], p. 146
Removal and taking into custody of, [R. 387A], pp. 146-147
Withdrawal of, [R. 387], p. 146
Subordinate Legislation:
Committee on, See Committees
Memorandum to Bills delegating legislative powers, [R. 70], p. 34
Procedure regarding, [R. 234-239], pp. 88-89
Allotment of time for consideration of amendments, [R. 235], p. 88
Amendment returned by Council, [R. 237], pp. 88-89
Disagreement between Houses, [R. 238], p. 89
Laying of regulation, rule etc., on Table, [R. 234], p. 88
Laying of regulation, rule etc., as amended to Table, [R. 239], p. 89
Transmission of amendment to Council, [R. 236], p. 88
Summons, [R. 3], p. 4
Supplementary Grants:
See Budget
Supplementary Questions:
See Questions
Suspension:
Of members, [R. 374-374A], p. 142
Of rules, [R. 388], p. 147
Of sittings of the House by the Speaker, [R. 375], p. 142
T
Table:
Definition of, [R. 2], p. 2
Documents containing advice or opinion disclosed to be laid on, [R. 370], p. 141
Laying of record of evidence before Select Committees on Bills, [R. 275(1)  (3)], p. 102
Laying of regulations, rules etc., on, [R. 234], p. 88
Papers laid on, considered public, [R. 369 (2)], p. 141
Papers laid on, to be authenticated, [R. 369(1)], p. 141
Papers laid on, treatment of, [R. 369 (1)], p. 141
Papers not to be laid on grounds of public interest, [R. 368], p. 140
Papers quoted by Ministers to be laid on the, [R. 368], p. 140
Report of Rules Committee to be laid on the, [R. 331], pp. 121-122
Statutory regulations, rules etc., to be laid on the, [R. 234-239], pp. 88-89
Time Limit For Conclusion Of Discussion: [R. 363], p. 137
Time Limit For Speeches:
Conclusion of debates, [R. 363], p. 137
Discussion on matters of urgent public importance for short duration, [R. 196], p. 70
On No-Day-Yet-Named Motions, [R. 192], p. 68
On resolutions, [R. 178], p. 64
Resolution for removal of Speaker or Deputy Speaker, [R. 203], p. 76
Token Grant, [R. 217], P. 81
Page 114/115
----- PAGE 115 -----
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha
U
Urgent Public Importance:
Calling attention to matters of, Procedure re., [R. 197], pp. 71-72
Discussion on matters, of, for short duration, [R. 193-196], pp. 69-70
V
Vacation of Seats in House:
By Members, [R. 241], p. 91
Vote of Credit:
See Budget
Vote on Account:
See Budget
W
Withdrawal:
Of a Bill, See Bills
Of a member from the House, [R. 373], p. 142
Of motions, [R. 339], pp. 128-129
Of questions, [R. 47], p. 22
Of resolutions, [R. 180], p. 64
Of strangers from any part of the House, [R. 387], p. 146
Witnesses:
Confidential nature of evidence of, [R. 275], p. 102
Counsel for, [R. 271], p. 101
Examination of, before Parliamentary Committees, [R. 273], pp. 101-102
Oath or affirmation by, [R. 272], p. 101
Summoning of, before Parliamentary Committees, [R. 269], pp. 100-101
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 115/115