
----- PAGE 1 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/178364179/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
UNION OF INDIA
India
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
Rule RESERVE-AND-AUXILIARY-AIR-FORCES-ACT-RULES-1953 of 1953
Published on 25 April 1953
Commenced on 25 April 1953
[This is the version of this document from 25 April 1953.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extra, Part 2, Section 4, p. 187.
1574.
S.R.O. 175, dated 25.4.1953.- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 34 of the Reserve and Auxiliary Air Forces
Act, 1952 (
62 of 1952
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules:-
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title and extent.-
Page 1/20
----- PAGE 2 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
These Rules may be called the Reserve and Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules 1953.
2.
Definitions.-
In these Rules unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"Act" means the Reserve and Auxiliary Air Forces Act, 1952;
(b)
"form" means a form set out in Schedule I;
(c)
"State Government", in relation to a Union Territory, means the Administrator appointed in respect thereof, under article
239 of the Constitution;
(d)
"member" means an officer or airman of the regular Air Force Reserve, the Air Defence Reserve or the Auxiliary Air
force, as the case may be;
(e)
"rank" unless otherwise expressly provided, means substantive rank;
(f)
"Section" means a Section of the Act.
Chapter II
Regular Air Force Reserve
3.
Transfer from Air Defence Reserve and Auxiliary Air Force to Regular Air Force Reserve.-
A member of the Air Defence Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force may, by special order of the competent authority in
Form I be appointed to the Regular Air force Reserve subject to the following conditions namely:-
(a)
that he has completed the period of training.
(b)
that he has passed the medical and selection tests provided that the competent authority may in any special case, for
reasons to be recorded in writing, waive or relax any of the aforesaid conditions.
4.
Cessation of Service.-
Every member of the Regular Air Force Reserve shall cease to be a member of that Reserve on completion of the
period of his service as laid down in section 7 of the Act or on attaining the age specified below, whichever is earlier:
Rank
General Duties Officers
Ground Duties Officers
Airmen
Squadron Leader and below
48
54
-
Group Captain
52
57
-
Group Captain
55
60
-
Air Commodore
57
Page 2/20
----- PAGE 3 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
60
-
Air Vice Marshal
60
-
-
Master Warrant Officer and Airmen
-
-
55
5.
Transfer between Classes.-
Officers and Airmen transferred or appointed to the Regular Air Force Reserve under sub-sections (1) and (2) of section
5 of the Act may be retransferred from one class to another mentioned in section 6 of the Act according to their physical
fitness professional aptitude and suitability.
6.
Rank of airmen on Transfer to the Reserve.-
An airman transferred to the Regular Air Force Reserve under sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Act shall retain the
same rank or classification as was held by him in the Air force immediately before such transfer.
Chapter III
Air Defence Reserve
7.
Ineligibility.-
The following persons shall not be eligible for appointment to the Air Defence Reserve:-
(a)
Persons in receipt of a pension in respect of a disability arising from service in the Regular Air Force unless for reasons
to be recorded in writing the competent authority decides that notwithstanding such disability the person concerned is fit
for such appointment;
(b)
Members of the Armed Forces whose services have been terminated for misconduct;
(c)
Persons who have been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude;
(d)
Persons who have been dismissed from the service of the Central or a State Government for misconduct involving moral
turpitude.
[Form of application.-
[Substituted by S.R.O. 6-E, dated 18.12.1954, Pt. II, Section 4, Extraordinary,p. 13]
(a) Every person possessing any of the qualifications mentioned in sub-section (1) of Section 11 shall furnish to the
comptent authority through his employer, if any, the particulars of any such qualifications in Form II within such period as
may be specified in a notification in the Official Gazette issued in this behalf by the Central Government.
(b)
Every person required by an order in writing issued by the competent authority under sub-section (2) of sec. 11 to
furnish particulars shall do so in Form II within such time as may be specified in the order.
8.
-A. Registration of persons considered fit for enrolment.-
(a)
The name and address of the applicant together with other particulars furnished by him under rule 8 or in pursuance of
any direction by the competent authority shall be entered in a register maintained in the form provided in sub-rule (b).
(b)
The register referred to in sub-rule (a) shall be called the "Air Defence Reserve Register" and shall be maintained in
Form VI, and be kept in the custody of the competent authority or any other authority empowered by it in this behalf.]
Page 3/20
----- PAGE 4 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
[8-B. Obligation to register.-
The following persons who are or were employed at any time in connection with any aerodrome or in connection with the
control and movement of aircraft, in any of the capacities specified below shall be liable to register their names under
clause (h) of subsection (1) of section 11 :-
(i)
All technicians who are working or have worked on aircraft or its associated equipment for a period of not less than two
years.
(ii)
All technicians who are working or have worked on aircraft or airborne armament for a period of not less than two years.
(iii)
All persons who are engaged or have been at any time engaged in air traffic control and other allied services for the
control and safety of aircraft in the air and on ground.
(iv)
All persons who are employed or have been at any time employed for providing Meteorological services for the planning
and execution of aircraft operations or for ensuring the safety of aircraft in the air and on ground.
(v)
All persons who are engaged or have been at any time engaged in the provisioning, custody and distribution, including
transportation of aviation stores.]
9.
Verification of particulars.-
Where any person has furnished particulars of his qualification under rule 8, the competent authority or such other
person as may be authorised by him in this behalf, shall verify the correctness of those particulars. The said authority or
the person authorised by him may make such further enquiries as may be necessary regarding the suitability of the
applicant for service in the Air Defence Reserve.
10.
Selection Tests.-
Where the particulars furnished under rule 8 in respect of any person have been found to be correct and he is otherwise
deemed to be suitable for appointment in the Air Defence Reserve, the competent authority may require such person to
undergo such medical and other tests (including flying tests at the risk of such person) as the competent authority may
deem fit.
11.
Transfer between Classes.-
Officers and airmen appointed to the Air Defence Reserve may be transferred from one class to another mentioned in
Section 10 of the Act according to the physical fitness, professional aptitude and suitability.
12.
Rank of officers.-
A person selected as an officer in the Air Defence Reserve shall be appointed in the rank of a Pilot officer:
Provided that-
(a)
a person who in the opinion of the competent authority, possesses special qualifications and experience, which would
entitle him to the grant of a higher rank may be granted such higher rank;
(b)
a person, who was an officer in the Armed Forces may be appointed to the same substantive rank which he held during
his service in the Armed Forces, unless a higher rank is granted to him under clause (a).
13.
Attestation.-
Every person shall be attested by his Commanding Officer at the time of [enrolment]
[Substitued by S.R.O. 6-E, dated 18.12.1954, Pt. II, Section 4, Extraordinary, p. 13]
. Attestation shall be an oath of affirmation specified in Form V.
14.
Rank of Airmen.-
Page 4/20
----- PAGE 5 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
A person selected as an airman in the Auxiliary Air Force shall be entered as Aircraftsman, 2nd  class unless by virtue of
his merit, qualifications and experience he is considered suitable by the competent authority for the grant of a higher
rank.
Chapter IV
Auxiliary Air Force
15.
Composition.-
The Central Government may by notification in the Official Gazette notify the location area and other particulars of any
Squadron of the Auxiliary Air Force.
16.
Formation of Squadrons and Units of Auxiliary Air Force.-
A Squadron or Unit of the Auxiliary Air Force may be formed either alone or jointly with any other part of the Regular Air
Force.
17.
Permanent Staff.-
The permanent staff for the squadron and units of the Auxiliary Air Force and the Regular Air Force and the Regular Air
Force Reserve and the Auxiliary Air Force. The tenure or appointment of the members of the Auxiliary Air Force will be 3
years as extendable upto 5 years except when otherwise ordered by Air HQ.
18.
Ineligibility.-
The following persons shall not be eligible for appointment of enrolment in the Auxiliary Air Force namely:-
(a)
(i)
Persons in receipt of a pension in r/o a disability arising from service in the Regular Air Force unless for reasons to be
recorded in writing the competent authority decides that notwithstanding such disability the person concerned is fit for
such appointment.
(ii)
Members of the Armed Forces whose services have been terminated for misconduct.
(b)
Persons who have been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude.
(c)
Persons who have been dismissed from the service of the Central or a state Government for misconduct involving moral
turpitude.
19.
Age Limits.-
A person shall not be qualified to be member of the Auxiliary Air Force unless he satisfied the following age limits:-
Minimum
Maximum
(a) General Duties Officers
18
28
(b) Ground Duties Officers
18
45
(c) Airmen
18
45
Provided that the competent authority may, in any special case and having due regard to the qualifications and
experience of any person, relax the above age limits in his case.
20.
Applications for Commission.-
Page 5/20
----- PAGE 6 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
A person desirous of being appointed to a commission shall apply in Form III to any of the officers mentioned in rule 23.
21.
Selection and Medical Boards.-
Candidates for appointment to the Auxiliary Air Force in the commissioned ranks shall not be appointed unless found
physically fit for the appropriate class applied for. They may be required to appear before any selection or Medical Board
be laid down from time to time.
22.
Rank of officers.-
A person selected as an officer in the Auxiliary Air Force shall be appointed in the rank of a Pilot officer:
Provided that-
(a)
a person who in the opinion of the competent authority, possesses special qualifications and experience which would
entitle him to the grant of a higher rank may be granted such higher rank;
(b)
a person who was an officer in the Armed Forces may be appointed to the same substantive rank which he held during
his service in the Armed Forces, unless a higher rank is granted to him under clause (a).
23.
Application for Enrolment.-
A person desirous of being enrolled in the Auxiliary Air Force shall apply to the Officer Commanding. Squadron or Unit in
which he desires to serve, or to an Officer who is a Recruiting Officer for the purpose of enrolment of persons under the
Air Force Act, 1950 or to such other officer as may be appointed by the Central government in this behalf.
24.
Verification of Particulars.-
All applications, shall be duly scruitinsed by the officer referred to in rule 23 and he may make such further enquires as
he finds necessary regarding the suitability of the applicant for service in the Auxiliary Air Force as officer or airman.
25.
Medical and other Tests.-
(a)
when the officer referred to in rule 23 is satisfied that the application is in order and that the applicant fulfils all the
conditions of service in the Auxiliary Air Force and is suitable for enrolment in the Squadron or Unit in which he desires
to be enrolled and that a vacancy exists in that Squadron or Unit, he shall notify the applicant requiring him to present
himself for medical and other tests at a time and place to be specified in the notice. the applicant shall normally be
directed to report himself at a place nearest to his place of residence or business.
(b)
A candidate for enrolment in the Auxiliary Air Force shall be physically fit for the appropriate class for which he applied.
26.
Rejection.-
If the officer referred to in rule 23 is satisfied after verification that the application is not in order or that the applicant is
medically unfit or that he is not otherwise suitable for the Auxiliary Air Force, he shall reject the application and inform
the applicant accordingly.
27.
Enrolment.-
(a)
if the application is accepted for enrolment the applicant shall sign a declaration in part II of Form IV.
(b)
If the officer referred to in rule 23 is satisfied that the applicant understands the questions put to him and that he
consents to the conditions of service shall sign a certificate to that effect in Part III of Form IV and the applicant shall
thereupon be deemed to have been enrolled from the date so specified.
28.
Mustering to a group/Trade in a Squadron or Unit.-
Every enrolled person shall without undue delay be mustered to a Trade in a Squadron or Unit of the Auxiliary Air Force
Page 6/20
----- PAGE 7 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
and on receipt of an order so appointing him, he shall report himself for the purpose of joining such a Squadron or Unit
at such time and place as may be specified in the order.
29.
Attestation.-
Every person enrolled shall be attested by his Commanding Officer. Attestation shall be on oath of affirmation specified
in Form V.
30.
Rank of Airmen.-
A person selected as an airman in the Auxiliary Air Force shall be entered as Aircraftsman, 2nd  class unless by virtue of
his merit qualifications and experience is considered suitable by the competent authority for the grant of a higher rank.
31.
Termination of Services.-
The service of any member of the Auxiliary Air Force may at any time before the completion of his period of services, be
terminated by the Central Govt, provided that, in case of an airman such service may also be terminated by such
authority as the Central Govt may from time to time specify.
32.
Transfer between Classes.-
Officers and airmen appointed to the Auxiliary Air Force may be transferred from one class to another mentioned in
Section 19 of the Act according to the physical fitness, professional aptitude and suitability.
33.
Retirement.-
A member of the Auxiliary Air Force shall cease to serve therein after he attains such age as the Central Govt may from
time to time specify.
34.
Postings and Attachment.-
Subject to the provisions of Section 25 of the Act-
(a)
no member of the Auxiliary Air Force may be posted or attached without his consent to any Squadron or Unit other than
that to which he was posted on appointment or enrolment.
(b)
no member of the Auxiliary Air Force may be posted or attached without the consent to any Squadron or Unit of the
Regular Air Force.
Provided that when any such member belonging to a Squadron or Unit ceases to reside in the area where such
Squadron or Unit is located he may be posted by the competent authority or such other authority as the competent
authority may appoint in this behalf to a Squadron or Unit located in the area in which such member for the time being
resides.
35.
A member of the Auxiliary Air Force who desires to be posted to another squadron or unit may submit his application to
that effect in writing to his Commanding Officer and he shall state in such application the reasons for desiring the posting
to the Squadron or Unit to which he desires to be posted or attached. The Commanding Officer shall forward the
application to the competent authority for such action as it may think fit.
Chapter IV
A
Advisory Committees
35.
-A. Constitution and procedure of Advisory Committee.-
(1)
The Central Government shall, by notification in the official Gazette, constitute the following advisory committees,
namely:-
(a)
a Central Advisory Committee for the whole of India.
Page 7/20
----- PAGE 8 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
(b)
a State Advisory Committee for each state and
(c)
a Unit Advisory Committee for every unit of the Auxiliary Air Force.
(2)
The Central Advisory Committee shall consist of twenty three members to be appointed by the Central Government of
whom one shall be the Minister of Defence who shall be the Chairman and another shall be an officer of the Air Force
who shall be the Secretary of the Committee.
Provided that the Chief of the Air Staff shall always be a member of the committee.
(3)
The State Advisory Committee for every State shall consist of nine members and for every union territory shall consist of
five members' to be appointed by the Central Govt of whom one shall be an officer of the Air Force who shall be
Secretary of the Committee, and the Central Govt shall nominate any one of the other members to be the Chairman of
the Committee.
Provided that in the sate advisory committee for any State or Union territory having a council of ministers' a minister of
that state shall be appointed a member thereof and where so appointed he shall be the Chairman of that committee.
(4)
Every Unit Advisory Committee shall consist of the following members namely:-
(a)
the collector of the district in which the Unit is constituted, who shall be the Chairman.
(b)
one person representing the local authority or authorities established for the district in r/o which the Unit is constituted to
be appointed by the State Govt.
(c)
three non-official members to be appointed by the State Govt of whom one shall be a member of the Legislature of the
State.
(d)
the secretary of the District Soldiers, Sailors and Airmen's Board and
(e)
the Officers Commanding the auxiliary air force concerned who shall be the Secretary.
(5)
Every Advisory Committee shall have power to associate with itself in such manner and for such purpose as may be
approved by the Chairman of the Committee any person whose association or advice it may desire in carrying out any of
the provisions of the act and these rules, and any person so associated with it for any purpose shall have a right to take
part in the discussions of the Committee relevant to that purpose, but shall not have a right to vote at a meeting of the
committee.
(6)
Every Advisory Committee may appoint one or more sub-committees consisting of such number of persons as it thinks
fit for the purpose of assisting the Advisory Committee in the efficient discharge of the functions, and it may delegate
with or without any conditions or restrictions, as it may think fit, any of its powers and duties to any subcommittee so
appointed.
(7)
Every Advisory Committee may, by general or special order in writing, delegate to its Chairman or any of its officers,
subject to such conditions and limitations as may be specified in the order such of its powers and duties conferred and
imposed on it by or under the Act and these Rules as it may deem necessary for the efficient performance of its
functions.
(8)
Subject to the provisions of these rules, every Advisory Committee may regulate its proceedings in such manner as it
thinks fit.
(9)
All questions at a meeting of an Advisory Committee or Sub-Committees thereof shall be decided by a majority of votes
Page 8/20
----- PAGE 9 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
of the members present, and in the case of equality of votes, the chairman, or in his absence, any other person
presiding, shall have a second or casting vote.
(10)
The quorum of the Central Advisory Committee or a Sub-Committee thereof, shall be as nearly as may be one-fourth of
the total strength of the committee or Sub Committee as the case may be, but subject thereto each of the Committees or
sub-committees may act notwithstanding any vacancy in its number.
(11)
A minute if the proceedings of each of the Advisory Committee or of Sub Committees thereof shall be maintained.
(12)
A member of any Advisory Committee may resign his office by giving notice in writing to the Central Government
through the Advisory Committee or which he is such member but the resignation shall not take effect unless and until it
is accepted by the Central Govt and notified in the Official Gazette.
(13)
If a vacancy is caused by the reason of death, resignation, or otherwise in the Office of any member of an Advisory
Committee, the vacancy so caused shall be filled by nomination of a person by the Central Govt and any person so
nominated to fill such vacancy shall hold office so long only as the member in whose place he is nominated would have
held office, but the member shall be eligible for re-nomination.
35.
-B. Powers and duties of Advisory Committees.-
(1)
It shall be the duty of the Central Advisory Committee to aid and advise the Central Government, in addition to the
matters mentioned in the sub-section (2) of section 24, on all questions or matters of policy relating to the recruitment,
training discipline, development and expansion of the Auxiliary Air Force and the co-ordination of its functions with those
of the State Advisory Committees and on all such other matters connected with the Auxiliary Air Force as may be
referred to it by the Central Government.
(2)
The functions of the State Advisory Committee shall be-
(i)
to encourage the recruitment of suitable persons in the Auxiliary Air Force;
(ii)
to study any local problem regarding recruitment, training, discipline, development and expansion of the squadrons or
units of the Auxiliary Air Force in the State and to report the result of such study to the Central Government and Central
Advisory Committee.
(iii)
to co-ordinate the activities of the various units of the Advisory Committees constituted in a state; and
(iv)
to advise on any other matter which may be referred to it by the Central Government or by the Central Advisory
Committee as the case may be.
(3)
A Unit Advisory Committee, shall aid and advise the Commanding Officer of the squadron or unit of the Auxiliary Air
Force for which it is constituted on one or more of the following matters namely:-
(i)
any local problem which may arise in regard to recruitment, training, discipline and promotion of squadrons or units of
the Auxiliary Air Force;
(ii)
general welfare of members of the squadrons or units of the Auxiliary Air Force;
(iii)
any other matter which may be referred to it by the Central or State Advisory Committee or the competent authority.
Chapter IV
B
Reinstatement In Civil Employ Of Persons Registered Under The Act After Discharge
Page 9/20
----- PAGE 10 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
[35-C. Reinstatement in civil employ of persons required to perform service under the Act.-
[Substituted by S.R.O. 224, dated 11.6.1955, Pt. II, Section 4, p. 150]
For the purposes of the proviso to sub-section (1) of sec. 27 and sub-section (3) of sec. 29, the District Judge within the
local limits of whose ordinary original civil jurisdiction the employer resides or, in presidenct towns where there is no
Court of the District Judge, the Chief Judge of the Small Cause Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction such
employer resides, shall be the prescribed authority.]
35.
-D. Nature of the inquiry by the prescribed Authority.-
where a reference is made by any party under the proviso to sub-section (i) of section 27 to the authority specified in
rule 35C, a copy of such reference shall be served upon the opposite party and the said authority shall pass any of the
orders specified in the aforesaid of proviso after giving both parties a reasonable opportunity of being heard and after
making such further inquiries, if any, as it thinks fit.
35.
-E. Prescribed rights under Section 28.
When any person is called up for service under section 25, such person may-
(a)
at his option, continue to subscribe to any provident or superannuation fund or other scheme for the benefit of
employees maintained or managed by the employer in connection with the employment he relinquished immediately
before he was called up at a rate applicable to him under the rules regulating the administration of such fund or scheme,
as a case may be, and the said employer shall continue to paid it such person's account in the fund or scheme with
interest on the amount in such account in accordance with the rules of the fund or scheme.
(b)
if the rules regulating the administration of such fund or scheme so permit, withdraw, subject always to the provisions of
such rules, sums from the amount standing at his credit in the fund or scheme.
Explanation.- For the purposes of calculating the amount of any contribution or withdrawal admissible, the pay of such
person shall be deemed to be the pay which he would have received had he not been called up.
35.
-F. Recovery of the difference of pay and allowances.-
Where an application is made by any member under the provision of sub-section (3) of section 29 to the authority
specified in rule 35C, the said authority after giving both parties a reasonable opportunity of being heard and after
making such further inquiry, if any, in the matter as it thinks fit may, if it is satisfied that the employer has refused or
failed to pay the difference in pay and allowances as provided in sub-section (2) of the said section, determine the
amount to which such member is entitled and the amount so determined shall be realized from the employer as if it were
a money decree passed by a competent civil court against the employer.
Chapter V
Miscellaneous
36.
Precedence.-
Members of any Air Force Reserve and Auxiliary Air Force will take precedence among themselves according to the
dates of appointment in their respective ranks in any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force as the case may be:-
Provided that in determining the precedence inter se of any such members who before their appointment were officers in
the Air Force, their seniority in the relevant rank in the Air Force shall be taken into consideration.
37.
Resignation of Officers.-
(a)
An Officer may at any time be called upon to resign his commission in any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force if
in the opinion of the Central Government he is guilty of any misconduct or is otherwise unsuitable for retention in
service. If such officer fails to submit a formal application to resign, his commission, his commission will be terminated
compulsorily.
(b)
Any officer may apply for permission to resign his commission. Such application shall be supported by a full statement of
Page 10/20
----- PAGE 11 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
the circumstances relevant to the case.
38.
Discharge of Airmen.
(a)
Any airman may by order of the competent authority be discharged at any time on any of the following grounds.
(i)
medical unfitness,
(ii)
unsatisfactory conduct,
(iii)
inefficiency,
(iv)
if his services are no longer required.
(b)
The competent authority may on application of an airman in any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force discharge
such airman. Such application shall be supported by a full statement of the circumstances relevant to the case.
39.
Dismissal and Removal.-
The Central Govt may dismiss or remove from service any officer or airman of any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air
Force before the completion of his period of service should the circumstances in its opinion justify such dismissal or
removal.
40.
Discharge Certificate.-
Any airman who is removed or discharged from any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force shall be furnished with
a certificate setting forth:-
(a)
the authority terminating his services;
(b)
the cause for such termination;
(c)
the full period of his service in the Air Force Reserve or Auxiliary Air Force; and
(d)
his character and trade proficiency.
41.
Liability to be summoned for Court Martial Court of Inquiry etc.-
Members of any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force shall be liable to be summoned to attend as members of or
witnesses at a Court Martial Court of Inquiry or a similar body constituted by the Indian Air Force, provided that, no such
member shall be liable to be summoned as a member of a Court Martial unless he is subject to the Air Force Act
45 of 1950
.
42.
Service with Foreign State.-
A member of any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force shall not during the period of his service in such Reserve
or Force or at any time thereafter serve without the written permission of the Central Govt in any foreign state.
43.
Change of Address.-
A member of any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force shall inform the competent authority or such other
authority as may be specified by him of any change in his address within 15 days of such change.
44.
Change of next-of-kin.-
A member of any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force shall report any change which takes place in the name,
Page 11/20
----- PAGE 12 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
address or relationship of his next-of-kin. If the person to whom a member wishes notification of any causality which may
occur to him to be sent is not his next-of-kin, he should report any change in that person's name and address also.
45.
Inventions.-
Members of any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force who invent any new pattern of Army Navy or Air Force
equipment or any modification thereof shall before applying for patents in respect thereof shall report such invention or
modification to the competent authority or such other authority as may be specified by him from time to time.
46.
Visits abroad.-
A member of any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force proceeding to a foreign country shall travel as a private
individual. He shall notify to the competent authority at least four weeks before he leaves India, his intended date of
departure, period of absence and his address abroad.
47.
Disclosure of Official information.-
A member of any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force shall not publish in any form or communicate either
directly or indirectly to the Press any service information or his views on any subject or publish book or articles whether
purporting to be fact or fiction which, in any way, deals with any subject with the Armed Forces without the previous
permission, in writing from the competent authority.
Explanation- Any statement made by any such member to any relative or a friend which may subsequently be published
in any newspaper or otherwise which contains any communication of the nature referred to above shall for the purpose
of this rule be deemed to have been made by the member himself.
48.
Association with subversive organisations .-
A member of any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force shall not take part in, or associate himself in any manner
with, any subversive organisation.
49.
Political activities.-
When called up for service under Section 25 of the Act, a member of any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force
shall not:-
(a)
take any active part in the affairs of any political organization or party either by acting for or as a member of the
candidates election committee, or by speaking in public or publishing or distributing literature in furtherance of the
political purposes of such organization or party or in any other manner.
(b)
issue an address to any electorate or any other manner publicity announce himself or allow himself to be announced as
a candidate or a prospective candidate for election from any constituency to Parliament or other legislature in India.
50.
Witness in private law suits.-
A member of any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force when served with a notice to give evidence in any private
law suit shall, if matters connected with Service duties are involved, at once inform the competent authority or having
received such notice. The competent authority shall immediately issue instructions to the member concerned whether
any privilege should be claimed in respect of such evidence under section 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence Act,
1872, and the member shall act in accordance with such instructions.
51.
[ Training.-
[Substituted by S.R.O.  6-E, dated 18.12.1954, Pt. II, Section 4, Extraordinary, p.13]
(1)
Every member of Air Defence Reserve shall undergo training for a period of 4 weeks every year at such times and
places in India as may from time to time be determined by the competent authority or any other authority specified by it
in this behalf. Such member is liable to carry out the following minimum training every year, that is to say-
(i)
Page 12/20
----- PAGE 13 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
Officers (Aircrew)- 20 hours flying and 80 hours of ground training;
(ii)
Officers (Ground Branches)- 80 hours ground training;
(iii)
Airmen (Aircrew)- 20 hours flying and 80 hours of ground training
(iv)
Airmen (Ground Trades)- 80 hours of ground instructions.
Provided, however, that the competent authority may exempt any member wholly or partly from such training or may
extend the period of such training.
(2)
Every, member of the Auxiliary Air Force shall undergo such training as may be laid down by the competent authority
from time to time and such training shall be carried out at such times and places as may be determined by the
competent authority or any other authority specified by it in this behalf.
(3)
Where training is not held continuously, one day shall consist of 4 hours of actual training and in cases where training of
less than 4 hours is completed during any one day, one day may be made of fractions of a day not more than four in
number.]
52.
Call-up.-
(1)
Call-up order shall be signed by the competent authority or such other authority as may be specified by him.
(2)
The call up order shall be served on members of any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force in the following
manner:-
(a)
by effecting personal service; or
(b)
by issue of the order through registered post; or
(c)
by service on any adult male member of the family, or
(d)
if the order cannot be served in any of the above modes affixing a copy of the order at his last known place of residence.
53.
Wrongful disposal of service property.-
Any member of the Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force making away with, selling, pawning, wrongfully or
negligently destroying, damaging or losing anything issued to him as a member of such Reserve or Auxiliary Air Force or
willfully refusing or neglecting to deliver it on demand anything issued to him as a member of such Reserve or Auxiliary
Force, shall be liable to make good the value thereof.
54.
Penalty.-
A member of any Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force failing to comply with the provisions of any of these rules
without reasonable excuse shall be liable to be punished with fine which may extend to Rupees Fifty.
55.
Conditions governing the grant of exemption from any obligation or liability under the Act.-
(1)
A person (hereinafter referred to as the applicant) subject to any obligation or liability under the Act may apply to
competent authority nearest to the applicant's usual place of residence or business for exemption from any obligations
or liability under the Act or any provision thereof on the ground that exceptional hardship would be caused to him if he
were called up for service under the Act and such application shall be forwarded to the Central Govt by the competent
authority with its recommendations.
(2)
Page 13/20
----- PAGE 14 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
The Central Govt may, if satisfied that the applicant would undergo exceptional hardship if called up for service under
the Act, grant exemption from only obligation or liability under the Act or any provision thereof to the applicant either
absolutely or subject to such conditions, restrictions or reservations as the Central Govt may deem fit to impose;
Provided that the Central Govt may at any time cancel the exemption or modify the conditions, restrictions or
reservations, if any subject to which the exemption was granted.
(3)
The exemption granted under this rule shall be effective only from such date as may be specified in the order granting
the exemption and if no date is specified, from the date of the order.
I
FORM I
Special Order of appointment to the Regular Air Force Reserve under sub-section 2 of section 5 of Reserve & Auxiliary
Air Force Act.
I am directed to inform you that the Govt of India have considered you fit for service with the Regular Air Force Reserve
and are pleased to appoint you hereby to the Regular Air Force Reserve with effect from..............
2. You will cease to be a member of the Air Defence Reserve/Auxiliary Air Force wef the date above mentioned.
3. On being appointed to the Regular Air Force Reserve you will cease your rights and obligations to the Air Defence
Reserve/Auxiliary Air Force and will be governed by the terms, conditions, liabilities and privileges of the Regular Air
Force Reserve as laid down in the Reserve and the Auxiliary Air Forces Act and Rules and many other regulations and
orders made from time to time.
Date..............
Place.............
Signature of the Competent Authority
To
...............
...............
FORM II
Application Form
(Candidates are to fill section 'A' and 'C')
SECTION 'A'
1. Name in Full (Block Capitals) In the order in which you wish your name to be shown for official purpose, Underline the
SURNAME ..........
2. Permanent Home Address.
3. Postal Address (in full). Any change of address should be communicated at once to Air Headquarters, New Delhi.
4. I hereby apply for a Commission/enrolment in the Air Defence Reserve.
Place.............
Date.............
Applicant's Signature.
SECTION `B'
(Endorsement to be signed by the employer under whom the individual is employed)
I concur in this application of ........... and I agree to his admission in the Air Defence Reserve.
Place ...............
Date ..................
Signature................
Designation......................
Section `C'
1. Date of Birth................
2. Place of Birth.................
3. Religion.................
4. (a) State...................
(b)
District or Division...................
Page 14/20
----- PAGE 15 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
5. Married or single, if married state maiden name of wife, place and date of marriage.
6. If married, the number of children their dates of birth and sex.
7. Name, address and occupation of next-of-kin showing relationship (if married individual's next-of-kin is his wife)
8. Are you a citizen of India?
9. If so whether by birth or descent or registration or naturalization or otherwise?
10. (a) Name of father (in full and in BLOCK LETTERS).
(b)
What is or was his permanent address? What is his present address, if alive?
(c)
His country of birth
(d)
Nationality
(e)
What is or was your father's occupation?
(f)
Did your father ever change his nationality?
11. (a) Mother's country of birth
(b)
Nationality
12. Has your father or any near relative served in the armed forces of the Indian Union, If so,  give brief particulars and
attach copies of any documents in support of your statement.
13. Give particulars of all examinations you have passed and the class, division or other distinction obtained.
Examination or Degree
Result and Division with Distinction.
School/College where educated
Dates from to
University
Subject taken
14. Professional and/or Technical qualification (i.e. state if in possession of any Ground Engineers Licences or a
member of any Chartered Institutions or Associations).
(a) For pilots only:-
Hours flown
(i) Type of Air -craft flown
Solo Day
Solo Night
Dual Day
Dual Night
Total
GRAND TOTAL
(ii) Any other particulars
(b) (i) For other Air crew:-
Hours flown
Day
Night
Total
Navigator
Flt Gunner
Flt Engineer
Flt Signaller
| | | | | |
(ii)
Page 15/20
----- PAGE 16 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
Any other particulars:-
15. State any language qualifications (oriental and European) and give degree of proficiency in each.
16. (a) Are you in possession of any civilian flying licence? If so, attach any documentary evidence in support of your
statements.
(b)
State any other relevant information concerning flying experience, if any.
17. (a) What games do you play or have played?
(b)
Name any position of authority (e.g., school monitor) or distinction in games or athletics you have achieved, mentioning
dates.
18. EMPLOYMENT. Give full particulars of your present employment and all employments you have carried out. This
should include service in a Government Department with ranks held and relative dates.
N.B.- Individual must state to whom he was directly responsible.
Name of employer
Date of joining
Date of leaving
Reason for leaving
Nature of employment
Salary per month
Place and address of employer
19. Have you ever served in any of the Armed Forces in India, the Reserve of any of the three Services, the Auxiliary Air
Force, the Territorial Army or any of the forces of a foreign country. If so, state Service, Units, etc.
(a)
For what period (give dates)
(b)
Number, Rank held on leaving
(c)
Cause of leaving.
20. (a) Have you ever been arrested, prosecuted, convicted, bound over, interned, externed, or otherwise dealt with
under any Criminal Law in force?
(b)
Are you/have you ever been, a member of a party or organisation of a political, cultural nature? If so, state the name of
the party or organisation with the period/periods of your membership thereof
(c)
Have you ever been dismissed from any of the Armed Forces in India, the Reserve of any of the three services the
Territorial Army, Auxiliary Air Force, National Cadet Corps, Government or Civil employment?
21. "I do hereby declare that I have never at any time deserted or been dismissed or discharged from any combatant or
non-combatant capacity in the Armed Forces of any State or Country, and that I have never been sentenced to
imprisonment by any Court of Law."
Signature..............
Note:- It is emphasized that legal action will be taken against an individual who is discovered to have made any false
declaration(s) which can be verified from exiting records.
22. I do hereby declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the above information is correct.
FORM III
Application Form
(Candidates are to fill Sections (`A' and `C')
For.................Commission in the Auxiliary Air Force
SECTION `A'
1. Name in Full (Block Capitals) in the order in which you wish your name to be shown for official purposes. Underline
the SURNAME.
2. Permanent Home Address.
Page 16/20
----- PAGE 17 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
3. Postal Address (in full). Any change of address should be communicated at once to Air Headquarters. New Delhi.
4. I hereby apply for a Commission in the Auxiliary Air Force.
Place ................
Date ................
SECTION `B'
(Certificate to be signed by the employer under whom the applicant is employed) I concur in this application of ...............
and I agree to his admission in the Auxiliary Air Force.
Place................
Date...............
SECTION `C'
1. Date of Birth
2. Place of Birth
3. Religion
4. (a) State
(b)
District of Division
5. Married or Single; if married state maiden name of wife, place and date of marriage.
6. If married, the number of children, their dates of birth and sex.
7. Name, address and occupation of next-of-kin showing relationship. (If married, an applicant's next-of-kin is his wife).
8. Are you a national of the Indian Union by birth and/or by domicile?
9. If you are employed by the Central or State Government, have you been given permission to submit this application?
Attach relevant authority.
10. If you are vegetarian, have you any objection to messing with non-vegetarians, or eating food prepared in a
non-vegetarian cookhouse?
11. (a) Name of father (in full and in BLOCK LETTERS).
(b)
What is or was his permanent address? What is his present address, if alive?
(c)
His country of Birth
(d)
Nationality
(e)
What is or was your father's occupation?
(f)
Did your father ever change his nationality?
12. (a) Mother's country of Birth
(b)
Nationality
13. Has your father or any near relative served in the Armed Forces of the Indian Union? If so,  give brief particulars and
attach copies of any documents in support of your statements.
14. Give particulars of all examinations you have passed and the class, division or other distinction obtained.
Examination or Degree
Result and Division with Distinction.
School/College where educated
Dates from to
University
Subject taken
15. State any language qualifications (Oriental and European) and give degree of proficiency in each.
16. (a) Are you in possession of any civilian flying licence? If so, attach any documentary evidence in support of your
statements.
(b)
Page 17/20
----- PAGE 18 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
State any other relevant information concerning flying experience, if any.
17. (a) What games do you play or have played?
(b)
Name any position of authority (e.g. School monitor) or distinction in game or athletics you have achieved, mentioning
dates.
18. Employment. Give full particulars of your present employment and all employments you have carried out. This
should include service in a Government Department with rank held and relative dates.
N.B.- Applicant must state to whom he was directly responsible and for what personnel, if any.
Name of employer
Date of joining
Date of leaving
Reason of leaving
Nature of employment
Salary per month
Place and address of employer
19. Have you served in the Navy, Army or Air Force, Indian Territorial Army, N.C.C. or Auxiliary Air Force?
If so, state formation, unit etc.
(a)
For what period (Give dates)
(b)
Number, Rank held on leaving
20. (a) Have you ever been arrested, prosecuted, convicted, bound over, interned, externed or otherwise dealt with
under the Criminal Law Amendment Act or under any Criminal Law in force?
(b)
Are you/have you ever been a member of a party or organisation of a political, communal nature? If so, state the name
of the party or organisation with the period/periods of your membership thereof?
(c)
Have you been dismissed from the Territorial Army, Auxiliary Air Force, N.C.C., Indian Fleet Reserve, or Civil
Employment?
21. "I do hereby declare that I have never at any time deserted or been dismissed or discharged from any combatant or
non-combatant capacity in the Armed Forces of any State or Country and that I have never been sentenced to
imprisonment by any Court of Law".
Signature................
22. NOTE- It is emphasized that legal and disciplinary action will be taken against an applicant who is discovered to
have made any false declarations(s) which can be verified from existing records. The extent of the disciplinary action will
be that the candidate's application will be rejected and that if he is undergoing training such training will be cancelled.
The extent of legal action is laid down in Section 182 of the Indian Penal Code.
Certificate "C"
23. I do hereby declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the above information is correct.
And if I am granted a commission, I further declare that I will serve the constitutionally established Government of India
for so long as my services may be required or until my resignation is accepted and that I am prepared to serve in any
Branch or Department of the service to which I may be appointed or subsequently transferred and in any part of the
world.
.................
(Signature of witness)
(A.F.R.O. or other Gazetted or Commissioned Officer)
Place ...............
Date ...............
....................
(Signature of applicant)
FORM IV
Page 18/20
----- PAGE 19 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
Auxiliary Air Force
Form of Enrolment
Enrolment of No. ............ Name ............. in the .............Sqdn Unit.
Part I
Questions to be put before enrolment
1. What is your name?
2. What is your father's name and address?
3. Are you a citizen of India?
4. What is your village, Thanna/Police Station, Taluk, Tehsil and Province/State?
5. What is your Post Office?
6. What is your Railway Station?
7. What is your present trade?
8. What is your religion, caste or tribe?
9. Where are you employed?
10. What are your educational qualifications?
11. What is your age?
12. Have you ever been convicted by a Criminal Court, and if so, in what circumstances, and what was the sentence?
13. Do you now belong to the regular forces or the Reserve?
14. Have you ever served in the regular forces or the Reserve? If so, state the period of service and the cause of
discharge.
15. Are you willing to be enrolled under the Reserve and Auxiliary Air Forces Act, 1952?
16. In which unit do you desire to be enrolled?
17. Are you willing to undergo Air Force Training and to perform Air Force Service as specified in the Act and to allow no
caste usages to interfere with your Air Force Duty.
NOTE.- Non-interference with caste usages will be observed exactly as in the case of the regular forces.
18. Are you willing to serve until discharged as provided in the Act?
19. Have you ever previously applied for enrolment under the Act and if so, with what result?
20. Have you been dismissed from the Territorial Army, Auxiliary Air Force or National Cadet Corps, Indian Fleet
Reserve or Civil Employment?
21. Are you willing to be vaccinated or revaccinated?
22. Are you in receipt of any allowance from Government? If so, on what account?
Part II
Declaration on Acceptance for Enrolment
I solemnly declare that the answers I have given to the questions in this form are true and that no part of them is false,
and that I am willing to fulfil the engagement made.
Signature or thumb impression..................
Part III
Certified that the applicant understands and agrees to the conditions of enrolment.
Signature of enrolling officer ...............
Date of enrolment .............
FORM V
Form of Oath
I,................ Swear in the name of God that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by laws
established and that I will, as in duty bound honestly and faithfully serve in the Air Defence Reserve/Auxiliary Air Force
of the Union of India and go wherever ordered by air land or sea and that I will obey all commands of the President of
the Union of India and the commands of any officer set over me, even to the peril of my life.
Form of Affirmation
I,................... Solemnly affirm that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established
and that I will, as in duty bound, honestly and faithfully serve in the Air Defence Reserve/Auxiliary Air Force of the Union
of India and go wherever ordered by air, land and sea and that I will obey all commands of the President of the Union of
India and the commands of any officer set over me, even to the peril of my life.
Page 19/20
----- PAGE 20 -----
Reserve And Auxiliary Air Forces Act Rules, 1953
Signature ............
Sworn/duly affirmed before me at............this.............day of...........20.
I
FORM VI
Air Defence Reserve Register
Serial No.
Name in full
Permanent home address
Date of Birth
Married or single
Name and address of next-of-kin
Father's name and address
Educational qualifications
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Professional and/or technical qualifications
Particulars of present employment
Result of medical examination
Result of Enquiry and Selection Board
Date of Commission/Enrolment
Date of Termination of Commission/engagement
Date of Transfer to the Regular Air Force Reserve
Remarks
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 20/20