
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Port Of Kandla (Handling And Storage Of Compressed Gas Cylinders) Rules, 1955
The Port Of Kandla (Handling And Storage Of Compressed Gas
Cylinders) Rules, 1955
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/190189172/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Port Of Kandla (Handling And Storage Of Compressed Gas Cylinders) Rules, 1955
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Port Of Kandla (Handling And Storage Of Compressed Gas Cylinders) Rules, 1955
Rule THE-PORT-OF-KANDLA-HANDLING-AND-STORAGE-OF-COMPRESSED-GAS-CYLINDERS-RULES-1955 of
1955
Published on 10 June 1955
Commenced on 10 June 1955
[This is the version of this document from 10 June 1955.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Port Of Kandla (Handling And Storage Of Compressed Gas Cylinders) Rules, 1955
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, 1955, Part 2, Section 3, page 1065.
1852.
S.R.O. 1292, dated 10th June, 1955. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Sec. 6 of the Indian
Ports Act, 1908 (15 of 1908) the Central Government hereby makes the following rules for the handling and storage of
compressed Gas Cylinders in the Port of Kandla, the same having been previously published as required by sub-section
(2) of the said section, namely :
1.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Port Of Kandla (Handling And Storage Of Compressed Gas Cylinders) Rules, 1955
These rules may be called the Port of Kandla (Handling and Storage of Compressed Gas Cylinders) Rules, 1955, and
shall apply to the Port of Kandla.
2.
Packages consisting of cylinders containing gases and liquid shall not be stored at the cargo jetties or at old port or in
cargo boats nor discharged from or shipped into, vessels or cargo boats at the cargo jetties or at old port, unless they
comply in every respect as to construction, marking and other requirements with the Gas Cylinders Rules, 1940, or
under such conditions as have been permitted by an order in writing by the Chief Inspector of Explosives, under rule 17
of the said Rules and all working precautions prescribed in the Rules shall be carefully observed. Cylinders containing
dissolved acetylene shall comply with clause 4 of the Schedule of the notification of the Government of India in the late
Department of Labour No. M. 1262 (1), dated 9th January, 1939.
Note. - Empty dissolved acetylene cylinders normally contain a small amount of acetylene dissolved in acetene and
absorbed in perus mass. They shall be treated as full for purposes of this rule.
3.
Vessels having on board cylinders containing gases or liquids under pressure shall not enter the port except in
accordance with the terms of a permit in writing granted [by the Conservator of the Port or an officer authorised by him in
this behalf.]
[Substitued by S.R.O. 2492, dated 22nd October, 1956]
4.
In cases where such cylinders are for discharge at any of the cargo jetties moorings or at the old port, a written
permission of the Traffic Manager shall be obtained by the Steamer Agents well in advance of the time when they are
required to be so discharged.
5.
The Steamer Agents shall make adequate arrangements to see that the goods are cleared by consignees immediately
after landing at any of the cargo jetties or at the old port.
6.
Discharge or loading of cylinders containing gases or liquid under pressure shall not be permitted between sunset and
sunrise.
7.
Cylinders containing gases or liquids under pressure shall be brought for shipment at the cargo jetty or the old port only
after obtaining the prior permission of the Traffic Manager. They shall not be allowed to remain anywhere on the quay or
place other than the assigned jetty but shall be shipped immediately for shipment in stream the prior permission of the
Traffic Manager shall be obtained and they may be brought along side steamers in cargo boats or other non-propelled
craft under tow only.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2