
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/198591887/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
Rule THE-KANDLA-HARBOUR-CRAFT-RULES-1955 of 1955
Published on 1 October 1955
Commenced on 1 October 1955
[This is the version of this document from 1 October 1955.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, 1955, Part 2, Section 3, page 1950.
2012.
S.R.O. 2143, dated 1st October, 1955. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Cl. (r) of sub-rules (2) of Sec. 6 of the
Indian Port Act, 1908 (15 of 1908), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, the same having been
previously published as required by sub-section (2) of the said section, namely :
1.
Short title and application.
- (i) These rules maybe called the Kandla Harbour  Craft Rules, 1955.
(ii)
They shall apply to the Port of Kandla.
Page 1/14
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
2.
Savings.
- Nothing in these rules shall apply to any craft coming from any system of inland navigation into the Port of Kandla.
3.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires
(a)
"harbour craft" means any flat or cargo, passenger or other boat whether propelled by oars or mechanical power plying
for hire or not and whether regularly or only occasionally;
(b)
"port" means the port of Kandla, as defined under the provisions of Sec. 4 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (15 of 1908);
(c)
"registering officer" and "licensing officer" mean the Deputy Conservator of the Port of Kandla;
(d)
"tindal" includes any person in charge of a harbour craft;
(e)
"licensed harbour craft" means any harbour craft licensed under these rules; and
(f)
"owner" when used in relation to a harbour craft includes any part owner, agent or mortgagee in possession thereof.
4.
Harbour craft to be licensed.
- No person shall, whether as owner, tindal, or servant, use any harbour craft to carry goods or passengers to or from
any vessel at the port or from place to place, or operate within the port for whatever purpose unless  the harbour craft
has been duly licensed under these rules. A harbour craft licensed  to ply between a vessel and the shore may also ply
from place to place within the port  without a separate licence :
Provided that nothing in this rule shall apply to,
(i)
boats forming part of the equipment of a ship or steamer; or
(ii)
floating crafts belonging to the said Port;
(iii)
any harbour craft maintained solely for purposes of pleasure :
Provided further that the registering officer may, if he so thinks fit, by order in  writing direct that the provision of the first
proviso shall not apply to any boat or craft  or shall apply to such boat or craft subject to such conditions and restrictions
as may  be specified in the order.
5.
Licensing of harbour craft.
- (i) Every application for the licensing of a  harbour craft under rule 4 shall be made to the licensing officer in writing and
shall  furnish the following particulars namely :
(a)
the owner's name and address in full and if the owner is a minor, the  name and address of his guardian also;
(b)
the name and address of the agent, if any, duly authorised by the owner  to act on his behalf;
(c)
the name of the tindal whom the owner proposes to place incharge of  the harbour craft; and
(d)
the nature of the licence required applied for, that is to say, whether the  licence is required for a passenger boat or for a
cargo boat or for any  other purpose.
(ii)
On receipt of an application for licence, under sub-rule (i) the licensing  officer shall, on payment of fees prescribed in
rule 30 survey and measure the harbour  craft, or cause it to be surveyed and measured in the presence of the owner or
Page 2/14
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
of any  person duly authorised for the purpose by such owner, and grant a licence in Form  Won being satisfied that the
craft is seaworthy and fit for service at the port, or upon  the production of a certificate in writing from the officer who
surveyed the craft  certifying
(a)
that such craft is seaworthy, properly equipped and suited for the  purpose for which the licence is required;
(b)
the number of passengers that such craft is capable of carrying under  all conditions;
(c)
the number of crew required for safe navigation of such craft; and
(d)
that the equipment of such craft is in good order and condition.
(iii)
Harbour craft possessing fishing licence issued by the Chief Commissioner  for Kutch shall also apply for a licence
under the rules before commencing fishing  operations. Such crafts shall observe the following special precautions in
addition to  the other rules prescribed for other craft, namely :
(a)
the fish shall be brought and landed only at the appointed places;
(b)
wharfage charges at the rate specified in the Schedule of rates in force  shall be paid on landing;
(c)
the licensee shall abide by the rules and regulations of the port in respect  of plying the craft and using the landing
places;
(d)
the licensee shall observe all formalities required by the Customs  Authority and the Government of Kutch for carrying
out the operation  of fishing and removal of the fish to the town for either consumption  locally or for onward railing into
the Hinterland;
(e)
the licence shall be cancelled or withdrawn at the discretion of the  licensing officer without assigning any reason
whatsoever and at any  time by giving an intimation in writing to the licensee.
(f)
the licensee shall be liable for any damage, loss, etc., if any caused to the  Government property in the course of his
fishing operation within the Port  Limits, and
(g)
no fishing shall be permitted in the whole of Kandla Creek and in such  parts of the approaches to the Creek as may be
laid down from time to  time by the licensing officer when necessary for navigational purposes.
(vi)
For purposes of the survey and measurement prescribed in sub-rule (ii), the  owner shall cause the harbour craft to be
brought to such place as the licensing  officer may direct.
5.
-A. Duration of Licences.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of these rules, a licence  issued under these rules shall be in Form 'A' and shall be in force for
a period of one  year from the date of issue or until the 31st day of December, whichever is earlier.
(2)
An application for the renewal of a licence issued under these rules shall be  made within fifteen days from the date of
expiry of the period of its validity and the  provisions of these rules shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the
renewal of a  licence as they apply in relation to the issue of a licence.
(3)
If any application for the renewal of a licence is made after the expiry of the  period of fifteen days referred to in sub-rule
(2), the owner of the harbour craft shall be  liable to pay a late fee of Rs. 2 for every month or part thereof for the period
intervening  between the date of expiry of the licence and the date of application for its renewal.
Page 3/14
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
6.
Minor or female owners.
- If the owner of a harbour craft is a minor, the  licence may be obtained by the guardian of the minor. If the owner is a
woman, who  according to the custom of the country does not appear in public, the licence may be  obtained on her
behalf by her duly authorised agent. In such cases the guardian or  the agent shall be deemed to be owner for the
purposes of these rules.
7.
Licence to be produced on demand.
- The owner of every registered harbour  craft shall keep the licence in the possession of the tindal who shall produce it 
whenever called upon to do so by the registering officer or by any person duly  authorised by him in that behalf.
A printed copy of these rules and any written directions issued by the registering  officer for carrying the same into effect
shall also be furnished by the owner to the  tindal who shall, on demand, show it to any consignor or passenger by such
harbour  craft. The owner shall be responsible for securing that the tindal understands the  said rules and direction, shall
obtain a declaration from him to that effect and shall  produce such declaration, whenever required by the registering
officer.
8.
Distinctive numbering of licensed harbour craft.
(1)
The owner of a  licensed craft shall paint or cause to be printed upon a black background, in white  English figures not
less than 152.4 MM in length, on a conspicuous part of the bow of  such harbour craft on one side, and on the quarter of
the other, the number of the  harbour craft as mentioned in the licence.
(2)
No person shall paint or cause to be painted or counterfeited upon any  harbour craft not duly licensed under rule 5, any
such number as aforesaid or any  other mark likely to induce the belief that such harbour craft has been so licensed.
9.
Change of ownership of control of licensed harbour craft.
- Where the  holder of a licence in Form 'A' transfers the ownership of the harbour craft to another  person, the licence
shall cease to be valid on the expiry of six days from the date of such transfer, and where such holder mortgages the
harbour craft to, or places it  under the control of, another person, the licence shall cease to be valid on the expiry  of six
days from the date of such transfer unless an endorsement on the licence is  made by the licensing officer that,
notwithstanding the transfer, the licence shall  continue to be valid.
10.
Changes in crew or carrying capacity of licensed harbour craft to be  reported.
(1)
Whenever the tindal of any licensed harbour craft is changed, or any  alteration in such craft is made so as to affect any
of the particulars contained in the  licence granted in respect of it, such change or alteration shall be forthwith reported 
by the owner thereof to the licensing officer :
Provided that, if such change or alteration takes place at a time when the harbour  craft is away from the port, it may be
reported immediately on the return of the  harbour craft to the port.
(2)
In case of change of tindal or of any alteration in the harbour craft not affecting  its carrying capacity, the harbour craft
shall not ply until such report is made, and in  case of change of tindal until the new tindal has also been produced
before the  licensing offices On such report or on such report and production, as the case may  be, the licensing officer
shall amend the original licence held by the owner and in  case of change of tindal, the register kept under rule 11.
(3)
In case of any alteration in the harbour craft affecting its carrying capacity  the original licence held by the owner shall be
cancelled and a fresh licence issued by  the licensing officer after the craft has been re-measured, and the harbour craft
shall  not ply until such fresh licence has been issued.
11.
Registration of tindals.
(1)
Page 4/14
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
At the time of licensing of any harbour craft  under rule 5, the name of its tindal as entered into the licence and other
particulars  relating to him shall be entered into a book which shall be kept by the licensing officer  in Form 'B'.
(2)
No person shall be employed or registered as a tindal of a licensed harbour  craft if he
(a)
is not a certified officer qualified to be the master or engineer of such  harbour craft in accordance with rule 31; and
(b)
is, in the opinion of licensing officer, unaccustomed to use such harbour  craft or otherwise inefficient.
12.
Annual and special inspection of licensed harbour craft and crew.
-On  or before the expiry of the licence the owner of every licensed harbour craft shall  produce it together with its
licence for inspection by the licensing officer at such  place as he may appoint for the purpose. In addition to such
inspection, special or  partial inspections may be held by the licensing officer or by any person duly  authorised by him,
at such times as the licensing officer may consider necessary. At  all inspections under this rule, each harbour craft shall
have its full complement of crew and equipment.
13.
Repairs of licensed harbour ordered for inspection.
(1)
The owner of  every licensed harbour craft shall execute such repairs thereto as the inspecting  officer may direct in
order to render it efficient, and no owner or other person shall  use any such harbour craft or cause or permit it to be
used until such repairs have  been duly executed thereto and the licensing officer has granted permission for its  use.
For the purpose of such repairs, the owner shall cause the harbour craft to be  hauled up only to such place or places on
the foreshore as the licensing officer may  from time to time direct.
(2)
All major repairs to the boiler, machinery or hull of a licensed harbour craft  shall be carried out under the supervision of
an Engineer, and Ship Surveyor of the  Mercantile Marine Department, Government of India, or an officer appointed by
the  Conservator of the Port. The Master, owner or owners of such craft shall, before the  commencement of the repairs,
pay to the licensing officer a sum sufficient to cover the  fees and other expenses of such Engineer and Ship Surveyor
and any other officer  appointed by the licensing officer. For the purpose of this sub-rule, the decision of the  licensing
officer as to whether a particular work should be regarded as a major repair  or not shall be final.
(3)
The fees referred to in sub-rule (2) shall be calculated on the following scale,  namely :
Rs.
(i)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which does not exceed 25
tons.
60.00
(ii)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 25 tons but
does not exceed 50 tons.
75.00
(iii)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 50 tons but
does not exceed 75 tons.
90.00
(iv)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 75 tons but
does not exceed 100 tons
105.00
(v)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 100 tons but
Page 5/14
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
does not exceed 300 tons
120.00
(vi)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 300 tons but
does not exceed 600 tons
135.00
(vii)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 600 tons but
does not exceed 900 tons
150.00
(viii)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 900 tons but
does not exceed 1,200 tons
180.00
(ix)
For every vessel the gross tonnage of which exceeds 1,200 tons
180.00
plus
Rs. 30 for every 300 tons or part thereof
in
excess of 1,200 tons.
(4)
The expenses referred to in sub-rule (2) shall be determined in accordance  with the instruction of the Central
Government in this behalf.
14.
Control of working of licensed harbour craft.
(1)
The owner of every  licensed harbour craft shall provide it with such full complement of crew and with  such equipment
as may be determined by the licensing officer and entered into the  licence. The tindal of the harbour craft shall not have
on board more or less than the  number of the crew prescribed in the licence for fair or foul weather according as the 
harbour craft plies in fair or foul weather, and shall not carry passengers or goods in  excess of the number or quantity
entered into the licence for the harbour craft.
(2)
Every licensed harbour craft plying within the port shall carry such number  of lifebuoys as may be considered
reasonable by the licensing officer and of a type  approved by him. Every such harbour craft shall carry, in addition, such
buoyant  apparatus as may be considered necessary by the licensing officer.
All buoys and buoyant apparatus carried in pursuance of this rule shall be  stowed to the satisfaction of the licensing
officer and so as to be readily accessible to  the persons on board.
(3)
The licensing officer shall exercise his discretion in fixing the number of crew  required in a licensed harbour craft plying
within the port and carrying passengers.
(4)
Where the owner of a licensed harbour craft does not desire to carry the full complement of passengers, or is not
prepared, or considers it impracticable to carry  the prescribed life-saving appliances, the licensing officer may endorse
the licence to  the effect that the number of passengers is limited accordingly.
15.
Harbour craft to render all possible services if required by Port for  general safety.
- If at any time, the licensing officer or the Harbour master or an  officer of the port detained by any of the above said two
officers, in the event of an  emergency, require the services of any harbour craft for the general safety of the port  or
shipping in the harbour, the master or the tindal shall immediately proceed with  his craft to such place as he may be
directed by word of mouth or in writing and take  whatever action may be possible under the circumstances subject to
Page 6/14
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
the safety of his  own craft.
16.
Obstructing Port Traffic.
(1)
No tindal or any member of the crew serving  in any licensed harbour craft shall, without reasonable excuse, obstruct or
hinder the  loading, discharging or service of such harbour craft, or of any other licensed harbour  craft, or obstruct or
hinder any vessel working in the port.
(2)
No tindal shall permit any licensed harbour craft in his charge to obstruct the  free navigation of the port or the
approaches to wharves or jetties.
17.
Observance of the rule of the road at sea.
- All licensed harbour craft,  when under way, shall observe the rule of the road at sea.
18.
Refusal to ply without lawful excuse.
If the owner or the tindal incharge  of a licensed harbour craft plying regularly for hire refuses to allow such harbour  craft
to ply for hire when required to do so, without reasonable excuse, of which the  licensing officer shall, subject to the
appeal provided in rule 29 be the sole judge, the  licence of such harbour craft shall be liable to be cancelled.
19.
Permissible load of licensed harbour craft in fine and foul weather.
(1)
No person shall load a licensed harbour craft with passengers or with animals or  other cargo in contravention of the
terms of its licence.
(2)
No tindal of any licensed harbour craft shall permit any animal to be loaded  in it, unless the harbour craft has been
provided with sand ballast or straw sufficient  to form a flat floor and unless such other requirements as may be imposed
by the  licensing officer in respect of the harbour craft have been complied with.
(3)
Where animals are carried in a licensed harbour craft, no other cargo or  passengers shall be carried therein.
(4)
Passengers and cargo other than animals may be carried at the same time  only in a licensed harbour craft propelled by
mechanical or electrical power.
(5)
Harbour craft licensed for the carriage of passengers shall be so fitted that  sufficient seating space is available for each
passenger; awning and weather cloths  shall also be provided, where necessary, to give protection to passengers from
sun  and weather respectively.
20.
Power of tindal to prevent overloading.
- Whenever the number of  passengers or the quantity of cargo in a licensed harbour craft exceeds the number or 
quantity entered into the license the tindal shall, before starting from the vessel or  from the shore, require any
passenger to leave the harbour craft or any consignor,  consignee, or shipping or landing agent concerned to remove
from the harbour craft  the whole or any part of the cargo.
21.
Attention to certain signals required of tindals.
- The owner of every  licensed harbour craft shall instruct the tindal of such harbour craft to pay immediate  attention to
the harbour craft muster flag-a square blue flag, with four horizontal  red strips-which will be displayed on the Port
Flagstaff when the licensing officer  desires to carry out an inspection under Rule 12.
22.
Licensed harbour craft not to interfere with moorings or approaching  vessels before they anchor.
- No person in charge of or navigating any licensed  harbour craft shall attempt to make such harbour craft fast to any
mooring or mark  buoy, or go alongside of a vessel approaching an achorage before such vessel has  anchored or has
Page 7/14
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
moored to a buoy.
23.
Fishing boats not to be allowed near a cargo boat or alongside a vessel.
(1)
No person in charge of or navigating a licensed cargo boat shall, when such cargo  boat is plying between a vessel and
the shore, allow a fishing or any other boat to  approach within 10 metres of such cargo boat.
(2)
No person incharge of or navigating a fishing boat shall allow it to go  alongside a vessel at any time.
Note. - In this sub-rule, the expression "alongside a vessel" shall mean a radial  distance of 100 metres from any part of
such vessel.
(3)
If any licensed harbour craft is found by the licensing officer to have  contravened the provision of sub-rule (1) or (2), he
may
(a)
cancel the licence issued in respect of the harbour craft; and
(b)
direct that the tindal at fault shall not be employed in any capacity in  any licensed harbour craft and that his name shall
be removed from the  Register of Tindals, and if any owner employs any such tindal contrary  to the Licensing Officer's
directions under Cl. (b), the Licensing Officer  may cancel all or any of the licences in Form `A' held by the owner.
(4)
If a licensed harbour craft is engaged or is about to be engaged by any owner or person in charge of such harbour craft
or any other person for smuggling or for any  activity, other than those for which such harbour craft is licensed, the
licence issued  in respect of such harbour craft shall, without prejudice to any other action that may  be taken against
such owner or other person be forfeited;
and, for a period of three years from the date on which the licence is forfeited, no  licence shall be issued under these
rules for any harbour craft belonging to such  owner or other person, or belonging to a Hindu undivided family in which
such  owner or other person is the karta:
Provided that before refusing to issue a licence under this sub-rule, the Licensing  Officer shall give an opportunity of
being heard to the person concerned.
24.
Landing and shipping of passengers and goods to be within the port.
- All passengers and goods shall be landed or shipped in such places within the limits  of the port as the Licensing
Officer may appoint and no person shall ship or land  passengers or goods outside such place unless the sanction of the
Port and Customs  Officers at the Port have been previously obtained.
25.
Rates of harbour craft hire.
-No owner, tindal or any member of the crew  of a licensed harbour craft licensed to carry passengers or goods for hire,
and no  person deputed by the owner of such harbour craft, shall demand a rate of hire  exceeding that sanctioned by
the Central Government; and no owner, tindal or  member of the crew of such harbour craft shall demand or accept any
gratuity or  present from any passenger during the course of its trip between any vessel and the  shore or from place to
place whether within or without the port.
26.
Prohibition of employment of tindals and crew contravening the rules.
- If, in the opinion of the Licensing Officer, any tindal or any member of the crew of a  licensed harbour craft has
contravened any of these rules, the owner of the harbour  craft shall on being required so to do by the Licensing Officer,
dismiss or suspend for  such period as the Licensing Officer may specify in that behalf, such tindal or member  of the
crew from his employment.
Any action taken by the Licensing Officer under this rule shall be without prejudice  to any other action which he may
take in respect of the contravention of the rule.
27.
(1)
Page 8/14
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
The Licensing Officer may, where he is satisfied that it is so expedient to do, refuse to grant a licence to any harbour
craft.
(2)
No licence shall be granted to any harbour craft which has failed to comply  with any order requiring it to render such
service to the Port as the Port may reasonably  expect of it.
28.
Revocation of licences.
- If, in the opinion of the Licensing Officer the  owner of any licensed harbour craft has contravened any of these rules,
the Licensing  Officer may, without prejudice to any other action that may be taken against such  owner in respect of the
contravention, cancel all or any of the licences in Form 'A'  held by the owner.
29.
Appeal from Licensing Officer's order.
- An appeal shall lie from any  order of the Licensing Officer passed under these rules, to the Conservator of the Port. 
Such appeal shall be preferred in writing within seven days after the order of the  Licensing Officer has been
communicated in writing to the party or parties concerned,  and the decision of the Conservator thereon shall be final.
30.
Fees.
- The following fees shall be payable by the owner of a harbour craft  applying for a licence under these rules, namely :
(i)
for the survey and measurements of each harbour craft 0.25 paise
for  registered or gross ton/or part  thereof.
Rs.
(ii)
for issue or renewal of a licence
2.00
(iii)
for endorsing change of tindal
2.00
(iv)
for registration of tindal
2.00
(v)
for registration of boat
2.00
Provided that-
(a)
in respect of canoes or rowing boats, only half the above fees shall be  payable;
(b)
where the harbour craft is found unseaworthy at the time of survey or  at the time of annual inspection, only half the fee
shall be payable;
(c)
where the harbour craft is a motor boat or steam boat in respect of which a certificate of survey under the Indian
Merchant Shipping Act,  1923, or the Inland Steam-vessels Act, 1917, is held by the owner, no fee  shall be payable for
survey and measurement, but if no such certificate  of survey is held, a fee of Rs. 32 shall be payable; and
(d)
the fee for the issue of a duplicate licence shall be half of the fee for the  original licence, provided the latter is proved, to
the satisfaction of the  Licensing Officer, to have been lost or mislaid, or has been rendered  illegible.
31.
Special provision applicable to steam boats and motor boats licensed  under these rules.
(1)
Every steam boat licensed under these rules shall, when in  use, whether plying for hire or not, have on board the
Page 9/14
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
following certificated officers.
(i)
if she has engines of not less than 100 N.H.P.
(a)
as her master, a person possessing a first class master's certificate  granted under the Inland Steam-vessels Act, 1917,
or any such  certificate granted either under the Indian Merchant Shipping  Act, 1923, or the Merchant Shipping Act,
1894, or under such  regulations as the Central Government may, from time to time,  prescribe, and
(b)
as her engineer, a person possessing an engineer's certificate  granted under any of the aforesaid Acts or regulations.
(ii)
if she has engines of less than 100 N.H.P., but not less than 40 N.H.P.-
(a)
as her master, a person possessing a second-class master's  certificate granted under the Inland Steam-vessels
Act,1917,•or  any such certificate as is referred to in sub-clause (a) of Cl. (i), and
(b)
as her engineer or engine-driver, a person possessing a first-class  engine-driver's certificate granted under the Inland
Steam-vessels  Act, 1917, or an engine-driver's certificate granted under the  Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923, or
under such regulations  as the Central Government may, from time to time, prescribe or  any such certificate as is
referred to in sub-clause (b) of Cl. (i):
Provided that a steam boat shall be deemed to have complied with this  clause if she has, as her master and engineer or
engine-driver a  person possessing both a certificate referred to in sub-clause (a)  and a certificate referred to in
sub-clause (b); and
(iii)
if she has engines of less than 40 N.H.P.
(a)
as her master, a person possessing a serang's certificate granted  under the Inland Steam-vessels Act, 1917, Indian
Merchant  Shipping Act, 1923 or the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894 or any  such certificate as is referred to in sub-clause
(a) of Cl. (ii); and
(b)
as her engineer or engine-driver, a person possessing a second-class engine-driver's certificate granted under the
Inland Steam - vessels Act, 1917, or any such certificate as is referred to in sub-clause (b) of Cl. (ii);
Provided that a steam boast shall be deemed to have complied this  clause, if she has, as her master and engineer or
engine-driver a  person possessing both a certificate referred to in sub-clause (a)  and a certificate referred to in
sub-clause (b).
(2)
Every motor boat licensed under these rules shall, when in whether plying  for hire or not, have on board the following
certificate officers,
(i)
if she has engines of not less than 565 B.H.P.
(a)
as her engineer, a person possessing a motor engineer's certificate  granted under the Inland Steam-vessels Act, 1917,
Indian  Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 or the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, or a certificate as a first-class or second-class
engineer of sea-going motorship granted either under the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923, or the Merchant Shipping
Act, 1894, or under  such regulations as the Central Government may, from time to time, prescribe;
(b)
in case the engines are used for propulsion as her master, person  possessing a first-class master's certificate granted
under the  Inland Steam-vessels Act, 1917, or a master, certificate granted  either under the Indian Merchant Shipping
Act, 1984, or the  Merchant Shipping Act, 1894 or under such regulation as the  Central Government may, from time to
time, prescribe.
(ii)
if she has engines of less than 565 B.H.P., but not less than 226 B.H.P.-
Page 10/14
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
(a)
as her engineer or engine-driver, a person possessing a first-class  motor engine-driver's certificate granted under the
Inland Steam vessels Act, 1917, Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 or the  Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, or a
certificate of an engine-driver  of a sea-going motorship granted under the Indian Merchant  Shipping Act, 1923 or under
such regulations as the Central  Government may, from time to time, prescribe or any such  certificate as is referred to in
sub-clause (a) of Cl. (i); and
(b)
in case the engines are used for propulsion, as her master, a person  possessing a second-class master's certificate
granted under the  Inland Steam-vessels Act 1917 or Indian Merchant Shipping Act,  1923 or the Merchant Shipping Act,
1894, or any such certificate  as is referred to in sub-clause (b) of Cl. (i); and
(iii)
if she has engines of less than 226 B.H.P.
(a)
as her engineer or engine-driver a person possessing a second-class motor engine-driver's certificate granted under the
Inland  Steam-vessels Act, 1917 or Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923  or the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, or any
such certificate as is  referred to in sub-clause (a) of Cl. (ii); and
(b)
in case the engines are used for propulsion, as her master, a person  possessing a serang's certificate granted under
the Inland Steam-vessels Act, 1917 or Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 or the  Merchant Shipping Act, 1894 or any
such certificate as is referred  to in sub-clause (b) of Cl. (ii).
Provided that a motor boat having engines of not more than 40 B.H.P.  may have as her engineer or engine driver, a
person holding a  permit granted by the Central Government or by any person duly  authorised by the Central
Government in this behalf.
Provided also that a motor boat having engines of not more than 20  B.H.P., the length of which measures from the fore
part of the  stern to the after  part of the stern post does not exceed 9.14 metres  may have as her master and engineer
or engine-driver, a person  possessing both a certificate referred to in sub-clause (a) and a  certificate referred to in
sub-clause (b);
Provided further that a motor boat having engines of not more than 20  B.H.P., the length of which measured as
aforesaid does not exceed  9.14 metres, which is used exclusively for personal recreation by  the owner or his family or
friends need not carry a certificated  master or engineer but may be navigated by the owner or any  other person
possessing a permit granted by the Central  Government or by any person duly authorised by the Central  Government
in this behalf.
(3)
Any person who has served as master, serang, engineer, or engine-driver of a  steam boat or motor boat plying in the
port for a period of 3 years on the 1st October,  1954, and is not in possession of the certificate of competency required
under sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2), as the case maybe, may be granted by an officer duly authorised  by the Central
Government in this behalf, without examination and on payment of  the fees prescribed by the Central Government, a
certificate to the effect that he is, by  reason of his having so served, competent to act as a master, serang, engineer, or 
engine-driver on board such steam boat or motor boat while plying in the port.
(4)
The Central Government may in special circumstances
(a)
exempt any class of steam boats or motor boats from the requirements  of sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2), as the case may
be; and
(b)
lay down the qualifications required of the officers employed on such  boats.
32.
(1)
Every motor boat licensed under these rules shall be provided with a  sand box and an approved patent fire extinguisher
of suitable capacity for  extinguishing fire, and the owner shall keep it free from oil refuse.
(2)
Page 11/14
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
Noisy engines of all motor boats, licensed under these rules while plying  within the port, shall be fitted with efficient
silencers.
Form 'A'
[(See rule 5 (ii)]
Licence granted to ................owner of harbour craft measuring................metres long.................metres broad
and..................metres deep. Registered tons.
To carry cargo (other than animals) and/or passengers, or animals to the extent specified below under the restrictions
and subject to the penalties laid down in the Harbour Craft Rules for the Port of Kandla, 1955.
Date
of Registry
Name
number and description of harbour craft
Rig
and equipment
When
built and where
When
repaired last and in what condition
Cargo
without passengers
Names
of name
Occupation
Place
or Places of residence
Name
Place
of residence
Period
for which the licence is to be in force
Remarks
Number of animals
and presumed weight
Weight of cargo
other than animals
Number of
passengers without cargo
Number of crew
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
Page 12/14
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
14
15
16
Fair weather
Foul weather
Fair weather
Foul weather
Fair weather
Foul weather
Tindal
Lascars
In
fair weather
In foul weather
In
fair weather
In foul weather
In
fair weather
In foul weather
Tindal
Lascars
Note.- Two
children under 12 years of age will be deemed as one adult.
Dated
...................................19
Extended
to ........................19
Extended
to ........................19
Extended
to ........................19
LICENSING
OFFICER
Form 'B'
[See rule 11 (1)]
Register showing the names, ages, places of residence and thumb impression of tindals employed in the Port of Kandla,
for the year 197.
Date
of registry
Number
of harbour craft
Names
Age
Places
of residence
Thumb
impressions
Remarks
Years.
Months
Page 13/14
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Kandla Harbour Craft Rules, 1955
Days
LICENSING OFFICER
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 14/14