
----- PAGE 1 -----
The St. John Ambulance Association (India) Transfer Of Funds Act,   1956
The St. John Ambulance Association (India) Transfer Of Funds Act,  
1956
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/967311/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
Union of India - Act
The St. John Ambulance Association (India) Transfer Of Funds Act,   1956
UNION OF INDIA
India
The St. John Ambulance Association (India) Transfer Of Funds Act,   1956
Act 21 of 1956
Published on 1 January 1956
Commenced on 1 January 1956
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1956.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
An Act to provide for the transfer of a portion of the funds of the St. John Ambulance Association (India) to the St. John
Ambulance Association (Pakistan).
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title
This Act may be called the St. John Ambulance Association (India) Transfer of Funds Act,  1956 .
2.
(1)
Transfer of a portion of the funds of the St. John Ambulance Association (India).
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The St. John Ambulance Association (India) Transfer Of Funds Act,   1956
The body known as the St. John Ambulance Association (India) or any person authorised on its behalf may, from out of
the funds of the Association, transfer to the St. John Ambulance Association (Pakistan) the amounts specified in the
Schedule as being the share of the St. John Ambulance Association (Pakistan) which that Association has agreed to
receive for being applied to the purposes for which they were held by the St. John Ambulance Association (India).
(2)
Upon the transfer of such amounts under sub- section (1), the St. John Ambulance Association (India) shall be freed and
discharged from all obligations imposed upon it under any trust or other document in respect of anything to be done in
Pakistan or in any part thereof.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2