
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/87872535/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
Rule THE-INDIAN-PORT-HEALTH-RULES-1955 of 1955
Published on 27 February 1956
Commenced on 27 February 1956
[This is the version of this document from 27 February 1956.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, 1956, Part 2, Section 3, page 302.
2013.
S.R.O. 587, dated 27th February, 1956. - In exercise of the powers conferred  by Cl. (p) of sub-section (1) of Sec. 6 of
the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (
15 of 1908
) and in  supersession of the "Indian Ports Health Rules (1938)" the Central Government  hereby makes the following
rules, the same having been previously published as  required by Section 6 (2) of the said Act, namely :
Part I ? Introductory
1.
These Rules maybe called the Indian Port Health Rules, 1955.
Page 1/30
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
2.
In these Rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context.-
(1)
"arrival" means arrival at a port;
(2)
"baggage" means the personal effects of a traveller or of a member of  the crew;
(3)
"crew" means the personnel of a ship employed for duties on board;
(4)
"day" means an interval of twenty-four hours;
(5)
"Health Officer" means any person appointed
(a)
in the case of major ports, by the Central Government, and
(b)
in the case of other ports, by the State Government concerned to  whom the functions of the Central Government under
sub-section  (1) of Sec. 17 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (
15 of 1908
), to appoint  a Health Officer have been entrusted,
either by name or by virtue of his office, to be the Health Officer of a port, and includes  an Additional, Deputy, or
Assistant Health Officer, and any officer appointed by the  Central Government or the State Government, concerned, as
the case maybe, either by  name or by virtue of his office, to perform any of the duties of a Health Officer of a port.
(6)
"infected area" in relation to a quarantinable or an infectious disease  means any area or port outside India, declared by
the Central  Government by notification in the Official Gazette to be infected with  such a disease;
(7)
"infected person" means a person who is suffering from a  quarantinable or an infectious disease, or who is believed to
be infected  with such a disease;
(8)
"infectious disease" means disease, other than quarantinable diseases,  declared by the Central Government by
notification in the Official  Gazette to be an infectious disease;
(9)
"international voyage" means
(a)
in the case of a ship, a voyage between ports in the territories of  more than one State, or a voyage between ports in the
territory or  territories of the same State if the ship has relations with the territory of any other State on its voyage but
only as regards those  relations.
(b)
in the case of a person, a voyage involving entry into the territory  of a State other than the territory of the State in which
that person  commences his voyage.
(10)
"isolation", when applied to a person or group of persons, means the  separation of that person or group of persons from
other persons, except  the health staff on duty, in such a manner as to prevent the spread of  infection;
(10-A) "mainland" means the territory of India excluding the Andaman and  Nicobar Islands;
(11)
"medical examination" includes visit to and inspection of a ship, and  the preliminary examination of persons on board,
but does not include  the periodical inspection of a ship to ascertain the need for deratting;
(12)
"port" means a seaport or an inland navigation port which is normally frequented by ship;
(13)
"period of incubation" means
Page 2/30
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
(a)
in respect of a quarantinable disease mentioned below, the period specified against it.
Plague .........................6 days
Cholera ............................5 days
Yellow fever ....................6 days
Smallpox ...........................14 days
Typhus ............................14 days
Relapsing fever ................8 days, and
(b)
in respect of an infectious disease such period as maybe declared  by the Central Government by notification in the
Official Gazette  to be the period of incubation of that disease;
(14)
"quarantinable diseases" means plague, cholera, yellow fever, smallpox,  typhus and relapsing fever;
(15)
"relapsing fever" means louse-borne relapsing fever;
(16)
"ship" means a sea-going or an inland navigation vessel making an  international voyage; and also includes a vessel
plying between any  port on the mainland and any port on the Andaman and Nicobar Islands;
(17)
"ship's surgeon" means a properly qualified and registered medical  practitioner with experience of maritime health
conditions employed  for medical service on a ship or, if there are two or more such medical  practitioners so employed,
the senior of them;
(18)
"suspect" means a person who is considered by the Health Officer as  having been exposed to infection by a
quarantinable or an infectious disease and is considered capable of spreading that disease;
(19)
"typhus" means louse-borne typhus;
(20)
"valid certificate", when applied to vaccination, means a certificate  which
(i)
conforms to the requirements and the model laid down in  appendices 2,3 and 4 to these rules;
(ii)
is issued only to individuals and in such form that it cannot, in  any circumstances, be used collectively.
(iii)
is issued in the case of children separately and is not incorporated  in the mother's certificate.
(iv)
is completed in English or in French;
(v)
is signed in the case of an international certificate by the parent  or guardian of a child who is unable to sign or which
bears, in  the case of an illiterate persory the mark of such illiterate person  duly attested by another person to whom
such illiterate person is  personally known.
(vi)
is signed, in the case of an international certificate issued in India,  in his own hand by a qualified medical practitioner
whose name  is enrolled in the Indian Medical Register maintained under  Sec. 21 of the Indian Medical Council Act,
1956 (
102 of 1956
). In the case of certificates of vaccination against cholera and smallpox issued in  India, the approved stamp to be
affixed thereon shall be such as has been approved  by the Central Government and the stamp shall be affixed on the
certificates by only  those persons who are authorised, either by designation or by name, for this purpose  by the Central
Government. In the case of certificates of vaccination against yellow  fever issued in India, the vaccinating centres shall
be approved by the Central  Government.
Page 3/30
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
(21)
"cattle" means a horse, camel, sheep, cow, bull, buffalo-bull, buffalo-cow and all other ruminating animals and also
swine;
(22)
"vessel" includes anything made for the conveyance mainly by water  of human beings or of property.
Part II ? Ships Arriving
General Provisions
3.
The master of every ship arriving at any port shall show, until the ship has  received pratique under these Rules,
whichever of the following signals is  appropriate.
(a)
by day, during the whole of the time between sunrise and sunset, when  the ship is within three miles of the coast
(i)
the Flag Signal Q: meaning-"my ship is healthy and I request  free pratique.
(ii)
the Two Flag Signal QQ: meaning-"my ship is suspected" (vide  rules 20, 24, 29, 41 and 45), or
(iii)
the Two Flag Signal QL : meaning -"my ship is infected" (vide  rules 20,24,29,35,41 and 45), the signal being shown also
when  a person suffering from typhus or relapsing fever is on board.
(b)
by night, during the whole of the time between sunset and sunrise but  only when the ship is within three miles of the
coast, a signal which  shall be shown at the peak or other conspicuous place where it can best  be seen, comprising a
red light over a white light the lights being not  more than six feet apart, and meaning "have not free pratique":
Provided that the authorities at a port may, with the previous approval of the  Central Government, notify alternative
signals, not conflicting with the International  Code, for use by ships visiting the port frequently.
4.
(1)
The master of any ship fitted with a suitable wireless transmitting apparatus  shall, when not more than twelve horse and
not less than four hours out from any  port to which he is proceeding, send to the Health Officer of the port, either
directly or  through an agent approved by the Health Officer, a wireless message, embodying all  items of information of
Pratique Messages in Plain Language set out in the Note  below and all such of the items of information set out in the
Standard Quarantine  Messages of the International Code of Signals as are applicable, and cases of sickness  or death
occurring subsequent to transmission of such message shall be  communicated by wireless in like manner before the
arrival of the ship in the port :
Provided that the Port Trust or like authority administering a port may, with the  previous approval of the Central
Government, notify alternative signals not conflicting  with the International Code, for use by ships visiting the port
frequently.
Note. - The telegraphic address of the Health Officer of a port is "Quarantine"  and the Pratique Messages in Plain
Language and Standard Quarantine Messages  of the International Code of Signals are reproduced below.
Pratique Messages In Plain Language
1. My Maritime Declaration of Health has negative answers to all health  questions.
or
My Maritime Declaration of Health has a positive answer to question  (indicated by complements).
2. Called at or not called at any port in Ethiopia, Somalia, Kenya and  Tanzania and any port from northern-most point of
Senegal to southern  most point of Angola in West Coast of Africa within 30 days.
3. Have or have not monkey on board.
4. Have or have not any person on board embarking at Aden or Dijibouti.
Standard Quarantine Message
Item I
MEBAV. The following is an International Quarantine Message from ship  indicated, of port indicated, which expects to
arrive at time indicated, on date  indicated.
Page 4/30
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
(Here follow groups to complete above).
Item II
MECED. My port of departure (first port of loading) and my last port of can were  as indicated by the immediately
following groups.
Item III
MEDIH. No case of quarantinable or infectious disease, or of sickness suspected  to be of an infectious nature has
occurred on board during the last fifteen days.
MEFOF. Number indicated cases of quarantinable or infectious disease (s) indicated have occurred during the last
fifteen days.
Item IV
MEGYX. I have no other case of sickness on board.
MEHUD. I have number indicated other cases of sickness on board.
Item V
MEJAC. No deaths from sickness, infectious or otherwise, have occurred on  board during the voyage.
MEKEK. Number indicated deaths from sickness, infectious or otherwise, have  occurred on board during the voyage.
Item VI
MELOC. I have a ship's surgeon on board.
MEMYT. I have no ship's surgeon on board.
Item VII
MENIJ. I do not wish to disembark any sick.
MEPUP. I wish to disembark number indicated sick, suffering from disease (s)  indicated.
Item VIII
MEQOV. My crew consists of number indicated and I have no passengers on  board.
MERAT. My crew consists of number indicated, and I have number indicated  passengers.
Item IX
MESEC. I do not propose to disembark any passengers of class indicated.
METIK. I propose to disembark number indicated passengers of class indicated.
(2)
The Health Officer may, if authorised by general or special orders of the Central Government, grant pratique by radio to
a ship when on the basis of information  received from it prior to its arrival, he is of the opinion that its arrival will not
result  in the introduction or spread of a quarantinable or an infectious disease.
5.
(1)
The master of a ship, before arrival at a port, shall ascertain the state of  health on board, and he shall, on arrival,
complete and deliver a Maritime Declaration  of Health, which shall be countersigned by the ship's surgeon if one is
carried, to the  pilot, boarding officer, or other officer duly authorised in this behalf by the harbour  master or the
Conservator or his Deputy, and the pilot, boarding officer or other  officer duly authorised in this behalf, shall promptly
communicate the Declaration to  the Health Officer :
Provided that, except in the case of ships governed by the special provisions  relating to yellow fever and in the case of
ships having on board persons suffering  from typhus or relapsing fever, it shall be permissible for the pilot, boarding
officer or  other officer duly authorised as above in this behalf, if acting on general or special  instructions of the Health
Officer, to allow pratique to "healthy" ships.
(2)
The Master, and ship's surgeon if one is carried shall supply any further information required by the Health Officer as to
health conditions on board during the voyage.
(3)
A Maritime Declaration of Health shall conform with the model specified in Appendix 5.
6.
If after a ship has arrived within port limits a case or suspected case of any  quarantinable or infectious disease occurs
on board, the master shall hoist the signal  prescribed in rule 3 for an "infected" ship, shall stop all communication with
the  shore and shall immediately report the circumstances to the Health Officer.
Page 5/30
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
7.
Every medical practitioner who becomes cognizant that any person on board  any vessel in the port is suffering from a
quarantinable or an infectious disease shall  immediately give notice thereof by telephone and in writing to the Health
Officer.
8.
(1)
All infected or suspected ships or ships having on board persons suffering  from typhus or relapsing fever shall stop at
such place at the port as the appropriate  port authority shall, in consultation with the Health Officer, provide in this
behalf  and shall not enter any dock or come alongside any wharf or have communication  with the shore or with any
other vessel in the port until authorised to do so by the  Health Officer.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the Health Officer may,  for navigational reasons, permit such
infected or suspected ship or ships to come  alongside a specially controlled wharf where strict vigilance is possible to
be  maintained and enforced to prevent any communication with the shore or with any  other vessel in the port until
declared safe by him.
9.
So long as a signal showing that the ships is "infected" or "suspected" is  displayed by a ship, no tindal or other person
incharge of, or navigating any boat  other than a boat conveying a pilot, a harbour-master, a mooring crew when 
navigational reasons necessitate, a Conservator or his Deputy or an official acting in  execution of these Rules shall
attempt to take such boat alongside the ship except  with the permission of the Health Officer and no person other than
a pilot, a harbour-master, a mooring crew when navigational reasons necessitate, a Conservator or his  Deputy or an
official acting in the execution of these Rules shall board or leave any  "infected" or "suspected" ship without the written
permission of the Health Officer.
10.
(1)
Healthy ships, which, while in port, do not desire to have communication  with the shore, shall on arrival hoist the code
over 0 flag by day, and the International  Code Signal by night, meaning "I have not free pratique" (as provided for in rule
3).
(2)
A ship shall be regarded as not having communication with the shore if it is  making a call of less than twenty-four hours
and if while it is in port it has no  communication either with the shore or with any other vessel in the port, of such a 
nature as would, in the opinion of the Health Officer, render possible the conveyance  of a quarantinable or an infectious
disease from the ship to the shore or to any other  vessel in the port or vice versa.
(3)
A ship not having communication with the shore shall be subject to such  restrictions as the Health Officer acting under
these Rules may impose.
11.
In the case of all infected and suspected ships and ships having on board  persons suffering from typhus or relapsing
fever the Health Officer shall, and in the  case of all other ships the Health Officer may, proceed on board and medically
examine  the ship, and the master of the ship shall give him every facility for the examination  of the passengers, crew,
baggage, cargo, provisions, water supply and any part of the  ship which the Health Officer may consider it necessary to
examine. This examination  shall not be undertaken between sunset and sunrise except in such unusual  circumstances
as, in the opinion of the Health Officer, justify doing so. After every  medical examination the Health Officer shall classify
the ship as infected, suspected  or healthy in accordance with special provisions relating to quarantinable and  infectious
diseases in this part of the Rules.
12.
(1)
Further sanitary measures which may be applied to the ship shall be  determined by the conditions which existed on
board during the voyage or which  exist at the time of the medical examination, without prejudice, however, to the 
measures which are permitted by these Rules to be applied to the ship if it arrives  from an infected area. The
application of the measures in the case of a ship arriving  from an infected area shall be limited to the ship, person, or
Page 6/30
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
article, as the case may be,  arriving from such an area, provided that the Health Officer for the port of arrival is  satisfied
that the health authority for the port of departure in the infected area took all  practicable measures for checking the
spread of the disease.
(2)
Where special problems constituting a grave danger to public health exist, a  person on an international voyage may, on
arrival, be required to give a destination  address in writing.
13.
(1)
Any sanitary measure, other than medical examination, which has been  applied to a ship at a previous port, shall not be
repeated unless
(a)
after the departure of the ship from the port where the measures were  applied an incident of epidemiological
significance calling for a further  application of any such measure has accrued either in that port or on  board the ship; or
(b)
the Health Officer has reason to believe that the individual measure so  applied was not substantially effective.
(2)
In applying these sanitary measures the Health Officer shall attach due  importance to the presence on board of a ship's
surgeon and to the provision on  board of suitable apparatus for disinfecting, dis-insecting and derating and shall, in 
general apply the principles laid down in these Rules with due regard to their necessity  and practicability in the
particular circumstances of each case.
14.
(1)
All persons suffering or suspected to be suffering from a quarantinable  disease may be disembarked from a ship and
isolated. Such disembarkation shall be  compulsory if it is required by the master of the ship.
(2)
Where any person is required under these Rules to be disembarked and  isolated for any period, the Health Officer may
remove, or cause to be removed, that  person to a hospital or any other place approved by the Health Officer and detain
him therein for that period. If such a hospital or place is within Municipal or  Corporation limits, the Health Officer shall
communicate relevant particulars of the  person concerned to the Municipal or Corporation health authorities.
(3)
When a suspected case of any quarantinable disease is disembarked from a  ship at any port, the Health Officer of that
port shall report by telegraph the  confirmation, or otherwise, of the diagnosis to the Health Officer of the ship's next  port
of call if that port is in India, Burma, Ceylon, Pakistan, Aden or the Straits  Settlements.
15.
Apart from the special provisions relating to quarantinable or infectious diseases in Part II of these Rules, the Health
Officer may place under surveillance any suspect on an international voyage arriving from an infected area. Such
surveillance may be continued until the end of the appropriate period of incubation specified in sub-rule (13) of rule 2.
16.
(1)
A person under surveillance shall not be isolated and shall be permitted  to move about freely. The Health Officer may
require such a person to report to him, if  necessary, at specified intervals during the period of surveillance. The Health
Officer  may also subject such a person to medical investigation and make any enquiry which  are necessary for
ascertaining his state of health.
(2)
When a person under surveillance departs for another place in India he shall  inform the Health Officer who shall
immediately inform the medical officer of health of  the place to which the person is proceeding. On arrival the person
shall report to that  medical officer of health who may apply the measured provided for in sub-rule (1).
17.
Whenever surveillance is required or permitted by these Rules, isolation  shall not be substituted for suverillance unless
the Health Officer of the port where  the suspect arrives or any other health authority to whom he is required to report 
during the period of surveillance considers the risk of transmission of the infection  by the suspect to be exceptionally
Page 7/30
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
serious.
18.
The port or ports equipped for applying the sanitary measures prescribed in  these Rules to ships infected with yellow
fever or suspected of yellow fever infection  shall be specified by the Central Government by notification in the official
Gazette.  Any such ship calling at a port other than a specified port shall be required to proceed  at its own risk to the
nearest specified port convenient to the ship.
19.
(1)
Any ship which is unwilling to submit to the measures required by the  Health Officer of the port in accordance with these
Rules shall be allowed to depart  forthwith being permitted to enter into any form of communication with the shore or 
with any other vessel in the port which would render possible the conveyance of any  quarantinable or infectious disease
to the shore or to such other vessel or vice versa.
Provided that, in the case of a ship infected with yellow fever calling at a port  specified under rule 18, if aedes aegypti
have been found on board and the medical  examination shows that any infected person has not been isolated in good
time, the  ship shall not be allowed to depart and shall be subject to the measures, required by  the Health Officer in
accordance with these Rules.
(2)
In the case of a ship refused permission under sub-rule (1) to communicate  with the shore or with any other vessel in
the port, the ship shall not during its  voyage call at any other port in India. Such a ship shall nevertheless be permitted
to  take on fuel, water and stores in quarantine and any passengers, who desire to  disembark with or without their
baggage or to tranship from the ship, may be  permitted to do so on the condition that they undertake to submit to the
appropriate  measures required by the Health Officer under these rules.
(3)
In the event of any ship putting back to sea as a result of permission to  communicate with the shore or with any other
vessel in the port having been refused  under sub-rule (1), the Health Officer shall intimate by telegraph to the next port
of  call in India for the purpose of taking on fuel, water or stores in quarantine, if he can  ascertain it, this fact with the
attendant circumstances.
Special provision relating to ships arriving in an area where malaria or other mosquito-borne disease is occurring, etc.
19.
-A.
(1)
Any ship arriving in an area where malaria or other mosquito-borne  disease could develop from imported vectors may
be disinsected on such arrival, if  the ship was not disinsected at a previous port or where the ship was disinsected at  a
previous port, the Health Officer is not satisfied with such disinsection or if there  are live mosquitoes on board.
(2)
The provisions of this rule shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of,  the provisions of the other rules.
Special provisions relating to quarantinable diseases
A. Plague
20.
(1)
A ship shall be regarded as infected with plague.
(a)
if it has a case of human plague on board, or
(b)
if a case of human plague has occurred on board more than six days  after embarkation, or
(c)
if a plague-infected rodent is found on board.
A ship shall continue to be regarded as infected until the measures prescribed in  rule 21 have been effectively carried
out at a suitably equipped port.
(2)
A ship shall be regarded as suspected of plague infection
Page 8/30
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
(a)
if it has a case of human plague on board, but such a case has occurred  within the first six days after embarkation, or
(b)
if there is evidence of an abnormal mortality among rodents on board of  which the cause is not yet known.
The ship shall continue to be regarded as suspected until the Health Officer is  satisfied that the abnormal mortality
among rodents is not due to plague and until  the measures prescribed in rule 22 have, if necessary, been effectively
carried out at a  suitably equipped port.
(3)
A healthy ship is any ship other than a ship infected or suspected of infection  with plague. Even when coming from a
plague infected area or having on board a  person coming from a plague-infected area a ship shall be regarded as
healthy, if on  medical examination, the Health Officer is satisfied that the conditions specified in  sub-rules (1) and (2) of
this rule do not exist.
21.
In the case of a ship infected with plague
(A)
before pratique (which shall be in writing) is given
(1)
the ship and all persons on board shall be medically examined  by the Health Officer;
(2)
all infected persons on board shall be disembarked and isolated  for such period as the Health Officer may consider
necessary; and
(3)
suspects on board may be disinsected and, if necessary, placed under surveillance for a period of not more than six
days reckoned  from the date of arrival :
Provided that during this period the Health Officer may, in his discretion,  prohibit members of the crew from leaving the
ship;
(4)
the Health Officer may disinfect and, if necessary, disinsect-
(i)
any baggage of any infected person or suspect, and
(ii)
any other article such as used bedding or linen, and any  part of the ship, which is considered to be far contaminated;
(5)
if there is rodent plague on board the ship it shall be deratted, if necessary in quarantine, in the manner prescribed in
rule 53 of  these Rules subject to the following provisions.
(a)
the deratting shall be carried out as soon as the holds have  been emptied.
(b)
one or more preliminary derattings of the ship with the cargo  in situ or during its unloading, may be carried out to
prevent  the escape of infected rodents;
(c)
if the complete destruction of rodents cannot be secured  because only part of the cargo is due to be unloaded, the  ship
shall not be prevented from unloading that part, but  the Health Officer may apply any measures, including  placing the
ship in quarantine, which he considers  necessary to prevent the escape of infected rodents.
(B)
Unloading shall be carried out under the control of the Health Officer,  who shall take all measures which, in his opinion,
are necessary to  prevent the infection of the staff engaged on this work. The staff may be  subjected to isolation or to
surveillance for a period not exceeding six  days from the time when they have ceased to work at the unloading of  the
ship.
22.
In the case of a ship suspected of plague infection, the measures specified in  sub-clauses (1), (3), (4) and (5) of Cl. (A)
Page 9/30
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
of rule 21 maybe taken at the discretion of the  Health Officer before pratique (which shall be in writing) is given in
clause (B) of rule  21 shall also be applicable to such a ship.
23.
A healthy ship shall be given free pratique but, if it has come from a plague  area, the Health Officer may
(a)
place under surveillance any suspect who disembarks, for a period of  not more than six days, reckoned from the date
on which the ship left  the infected area; and
(b)
require the destruction of rodents on board the ship in exceptional  cases and for well-founded reasons which shall be
communicated in  writing to the master;
B. Cholera
24.
(1)
A ship shall be regarded as infected with cholera if it has a case of cholera  on board, or if a case of cholera has
occurred on board during a period of five days  before arrival.
(2)
A ship shall be regarded as suspected of cholera infection if a case of cholera  has occurred during the voyage, but a
fresh case has not occurred during a period of  five days before arrival.
(3)
A healthy ship is any ship other than a ship infected or suspected of infection  with cholera. Even when coming from a
cholera infected area or having on board a  person from a cholera infected area, a ship shall be regarded as healthy if,
on medical  examination, the Health Officer is satisfied that no case of cholera has occurred on  board during the
voyage.
25.
In the case of a ship infected with cholera.
(A)
before pratique (which shall be in writing) is given
(1)
the ship and all persons on board shall be medically examined  by the Health Officer;
(2)
all infected persons shall be disembarked and isolated for such  period as the Health Officer may consider necessary;
and
(3)
any passenger or member of the crew who produces a valid  certificate of vaccination against cholera may be placed
under  surveillance for a period of not more than five days reckoned  from the date of disembarkation, and all others,
who disembark,  may be isolated for a like period :
Provided that during this period the Health Officer may, in his discretion,  prohibit members of the crew from leaving the
ship;
(4)
the Health Officer may disinfect
(i)
any baggage of any infected person or suspect, and
(ii)
any other article such as used bedding or linen, and any  part of the ship, which is considered to be contaminated,
(5)
if, in the opinion of the Health Officer, any water carried on board is contaminated, he shall cause it to be emptied out
after it has  been disinfected, and to be replaced, after disinfection of the  containers, by supply of wholesome drinking
water;
(6)
human dejecta, waste water including bilge-water, waste matter  and any matter which, in the opinion of the Health
Officer, is  contaminated shall not be discharged from the ship or unloaded  without previous disinfection and shall, after
Page 10/30
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
disinfection, be  disposed of in such safe manner as the Health Officer may, in his  discretion, prescribe;
(7)
(i)
the Health Officer may prohibit the unloading of, or may remove,  any fish, shellfish, fruit or vegetables to be consumed
uncooked,  or beverages, unless such food and beverages are in sealed  containers and he has no reason to believe
that they are  contaminated :
Provided that, if any such food or beverage forms part of the cargo in a hold of a  ship, only the Health Officer for the
port at which such food or beverage is to be  unloaded may exercise the power to remove it;
(ii)
if any such food or beverage is removed, arrangements shall be  made by the Health Officer for its safe disposal.
(B)
Any unloading shall be carried out under the control of the Health  Officer, who shall take all measures which, in his
opinion, are necessary  to prevent the infection of the staff engaged on this work. The staff so  engaged may, at the
discretion of the Health Officer, be subjected to  isolation or to surveillance for a period not exceeding five days from the 
time when they have ceased to work at the unloading of the ship.
26.
In the case of a ship suspected of cholera infection, the measures specified in  sub-clauses (1), (4) (5), (6) and (7) of Cl.
(A) of rule 25 may be taken at the discretion of  the Health Officer before pratique (which shall be in writing) is given
Clause (B) of  rule 25 shall be applicable to such a ship.
In addition, any passenger or member of the crew who disembarks may be  placed under surveillance for a period of not
more than five days reckoned from the  date of arrival. The Health Officer may, in his discretion, prohibit the members of
the  crew from leaving the ship during this period.
27.
A healthy ship shall be given the pratique but, if it has come from a cholera  infected area, the measures specified in
sub-clauses (1) and (7) of Cl. (A) of rule 25  may be taken at the discretion of the Health Officer.
In addition, the Health Officer may apply the following measures to a person  who, within five days of arrival in India, was
in a cholera infected area to a person  who arrives in a port on the Andaman and Nicobar Islands from a port on the 
mainland:
(a)
if he is in possession of a valid certificate of vaccination against cholera,  he may be placed under surveillance for a
period of not more than five  days, reckoned from the date of his departure from the infected area or  from a port on the
mainland; and
(b)
if he is not in possession of such a certificate, he may be placed in  isolation for a like period.
C. Yellow Fever
28.
(1)
No ship shall bring to any Indian port other than a port specified by the  Central Government under rule 18 any person
who has been in a yellow fever infected  area within six days of embarkation unless such a person is vaccinated against 
yellow fever. In addition, no ship which has started from, or touched at, any port in a  yellow fever infected area within 30
days of its arrival in India, shall bring to any  Indian port other than a port specified by the Central Government under
rule 18 any  person, even though he may not have been in a yellow fever infected area, unless  such a person is
vaccinated against yellow fever.
(2)
The proof of vaccination against yellow fever shall consist in the possession  of a certificate in the form laid down in
Appendix 2 to these Rules.
(3)
If any ship brings to India any person not vaccinated against yellow fever in  contravention of sub-rule (1), then, without
prejudice to any other proceedings that  may be taken against the master of the ship, the Health Officer may, in his
discretion,  apply the measures prescribed in clause (v) of rule 31.
29.
Page 11/30
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
(1)
A ship shall be regarded as infected with yellow fever if it has a case of  yellow fever on board, or if a case has occurred
on board during the voyage.
(2)
A ship shall be regarded as suspected of yellow fever infection if it has left a  yellow fever infected area has less than six
days before arrival, or, if arriving after six  days but within thirty days of leaving such an area, the Health Officer finds
aedes  aegypti on board.
(3)
A healthy ship is any ship other than a ship infected or suspected of infection  with yellow fever.
30.
Apart from the provisions of rule 8, every ship infected with yellow fever or  suspected of yellow fever infection and every
other ship coming from a yellow fever  infected area shall be moored at such a distance, not being less than half a mile,
from  the shore and from all other vessels as will render improbable the access of mosquitoes  from the ship to the shore
or to any other vessel or vice versa. The ship shall continue  to be moored at such a distance until the Health Officer has
granted pratique.
31.
In the case of a ship infected with yellow fever the following measures shall  be taken before pratique (which shall be in
writing) is given
(i)
the ship shall be disinsected at the earliest opportunity to ensure  destruction of aedes aegypti in all phases of growth
and as far as possible  before unloading cargo, if unloading is carried out before the  destruction of aedes aegypti the
personnel employed on this work may,  at the discretion of the Health Officer, be subjected to isolation for a  period not
exceeding six days from the time when they ceased to be  exposed to the risk of infection;
(ii)
the ship and all persons on board shall be medically examined by the  Health Officer;
(iii)
all infected persons shall be disembarked and isolated for such period  as the Health Officer may consider necessary;
(iv)
any person in possession of a certificate of vaccination against yellow  fever which is not yet valid shall be isolated
(a)
if he does not disembark, on the ship in such manner as may be  prescribed by the Health Officer, and
(b)
if he disembarks in such place as may be approved by the Health  Officer for this purpose, until the certificate of
vaccination becomes valid or until the expiry of  'nine days reckoned from the time of arrival, whichever is earlier.
(v)
any person who is not in possession of a certificate of vaccination against  yellow fever shall be isolated
(a)
if he is not permitted to disembark or being a through passenger  does not disembark, on the ship in such manner as
may be  prescribed by the Health Officer; and
(b)
if he is permitted to disembark, in such place as may be approved  by the Health Officer for this purpose for a period not
exceeding nine days from the time of arrival.
32.
In the case of a ship suspected of yellow fever infection, the following measures  shall be taken before pratique. (which
shall be in writing) is given
(i)
the ship may be disinsected as provided in Cl. (i) of rule 31;
(ii)
the ship and all persons on board shall be medically examined by the  Health Officer; and
(iii)
the measures prescribed in Cls. (iv) and (v) of rule 31 may be applied at  the discretion of the Health Officer.
Page 12/30
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
33.
In the case of healthy ships coming from a yellow fever infected area the  following measures may be taken before
pratique is given
(i)
the ship and all persons on board may be medically examined by the  Health Officers.
(ii)
the ship maybe disinsected as provided in Cl (i) of rule 31.
34.
All isolation prescribed by rules 31 and 32 shall be carried out in such  manner as to preclude the access of mosquitoes
to the persons under isolation.
D. Smallpox
35.
(1)
A ship shall be regarded as infected with smallpox if it has a case of  smallpox on board, or if a case of smallpox has
occurred on board during the voyage.
(2)
Any other ship shall be regarded as healthy, even though there may be suspects on board, but any suspect on
disembarking may be subjected to the measures provided  for in Cl. (iii) of rule 36.
36.
(1)
In the case of a ship infected with smallpox, before pratique (which shall  be in writing) is given.
(i)
the ship and all persons on board shall be medically examined by the  Health Officer.
(iii)
all infected persons shall be disembarked and isolated for such period  as the Health Officer may consider necessary.
(iii)
other persons who disembark and who in the opinion of the Health  Officer are not sufficiently protected by vaccination
or by a previous  attack of smallpox.
(a)
if they are willing to be vaccinated, or in the case of minors if their  guardians or those incharge of them consent to their
vaccination,  may be subjected to vaccination free of charge, and also to  isolation or surveillance for a period not
exceeding fourteen days  reckoned from the time of the last exposure to infection, and
(b)
if they are not willing to be vaccinated, or in the case of minors if  their guardians or those incharge of them do not
consent to their  vaccination, shall be subjected to isolation or surveillance for the  aforesaid period;
(vi)
the Health Officer shall disinfect
(a)
any baggage of any infected person; and
(b)
any other baggage or article such as used bedding or linen, and  any part of the ship, which is considered to be
contaminated.
(2)
A ship shall continue to be regarded as infected until every infected person has been removed and until the measures
required by the Health Officer in accordance  with sub-rule (1) of this rule have been effectively carried out.
37.
A healthy ship shall be given free pratique but, if it has come from a smallpox  infected area, the measures specified in
Cls. (i) and (ii) of sub-rule 36 may be taken by  the Health Officer.
38.
(1)
The Health Officer may require any person on an international voyage  who does not show sufficient evidence of
Page 13/30
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
protection by a previous attack of smallpox  to possess on arrival, a certificate of vaccination against smallpox. Any such
person  who cannot produce such a certificate maybe vaccinated: if he refuses to be vaccinated,  he may be placed
under surveillance for not more than fourteen days, reckoned from  the date of his departure from the last territory visited
before arrival.
(2)
A person on an international voyage, who during a period of fourteen days  before his arrival has visited a smallpox
infected area or a person arriving from a port  on the mainland in a port on the Andaman and Nicobar Island and who, in
the  opinion of the Health Officer, is not sufficiently protected by vaccination or by a  previous attack of smallpox, may be
required to be vaccinated, or may be placed  under surveillance or may be vaccinated and then placed under
surveillance, if he  refuses to be vaccinated, he may be isolated. The period of surveillance or isolation  shall not be
more than fourteen days, reckoned from the date of his departure from  the infected area or a port on the mainland.
Explanation. - For the purposes of Cl. (iii) of sub-rule (1) of rule 36 and sub-rule  (2) of rule 38, a valid certificate of
vaccination against smallpox shall be considered  as evidence of sufficient protection.
E. Typhus And Relapsing Fever
39.
In the case of a ship having on board a person who is suffering from or is  believed to be infected with typhus or
relapsing fever, before pratique (which shall be  in writing) is given
(1)
the ship and all persons on board shall be medically examined by the  Health Officer;
(2)
all infected persons shall be disembarked and isolated for such period  as the Health Officer may consider necessary,
and disinsected.
(3)
any suspect may be disinsected; and
(4)
the accommodation occupied by the infected person and by any suspect,  together with the clothes they are wearing,
their baggage and any other  article which, in the opinion of the Health Officer, is likely to spread  typhus or relapsing
fever may be disinsected and, if necessary,  disinfected.
40.
A person on an international voyage, who has left a typhus infected area  within the previous fourteen days or a
relapsing fever infected area within the previous  eight days, may if the Health Officer considers it necessary be
disinsected and put  under surveillance for a period of not more than fourteen days in the case of typhus  and not more
than eight days in the case of relapsing fever, reckoned from the date of  disinsecting. The clothes which such person is
wearing, his baggage and any other  article which, in the opinion of the Health Officer, is likely to spread typhus or
relapsing fever may be disinsected and, if necessary disinfected.
41.
[ Omitted.]
42.
[ Omitted.]
43.
[ Omitted.]
44.
[ Omitted.]
Special Provisions relating to Infectious Diseases
45.
(1)
A ship shall be regarded as infected with an infectious disease-
(i)
if it has a case of any such disease on board, or
(ii)
if, prior to the arrival of the ship in port, a case of any such disease has  occurred on board within its period of
Page 14/30
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
incubation.
(2)
A ship shall be regarded as suspected of infection with an infectious disease  as aforesaid if, prior to the arrival of the
ship in port, a case of such disease has  occurred on board but not within its incubation period :
Provided that a ship shall not be regarded as so suspected if (a) the case occurred  before the arrival of the ship at a
previous port of call, (b) the period between such  occurrence and arrival was not less than the period of incubation, and
(c) the Health  Officer is satisfied that the ship was subjected to medical examination at that port  and that all necessary
measures have been taken.
(3)
A healthy ship is any ship other than a ship infected or suspected of infection  with an infectious disease.
46.
In the case of a ship infected with an infectious disease, before pratique  (which shall be in writing) is given.
(1)
the ship and persons on board may be medically examined;
(2)
any infected person, who disembarks, may be isolated for such period  as the Health Officer may consider necessary :
Provided that whenever any infected person remains on board, the  Health Officer may, in his discretion, limit
communication between the  ship and the shore or between the ship and any other vessel in the port,  or vice versa.
(3)
persons who have been exposed to infection may, if they disembark, be  placed under surveillance for a period not
exceeding the incubation  period of the infectious disease to which they have been exposed, such  period being
reckoned from the time of the last exposure to infection.
(4)
any parts of the ship and any goods or baggage on board which, in the  opinion of the Health Officer, are contaminated
may be disinfected.
47.
In the case of a ship suspected of infection with an infectious disease before pratique (which shall be in writing) is given
(1)
the measures specified in sub-rule (1) of rule 46 shall be taken; and
(2)
the measures specified in sub-rules (3) and (4) of rule 46 and not already  taken may be taken at the discretion of the
Health Officer.
48.
Healthy ships shall be given free pratique.
49.
Except in case of an emergency constituting a grave danger to public health,  a ship shall not on account of an infectious
disease be prevented by the Health  Officer from discharging or loading cargo or stores, or taking on fuel or water.
Part III ? Ships Departing
50.
(1)
All persons proposing to embark upon a ship leaving any Indian port for  any port outside India or leaving any port in the
Andaman and Nicobar Islands for  any port on the mainland or vice versa shall be medically examined by the Health 
Officer. Through passengers and members of the crew of a through ship shall be  liable to medical examination by the
Health Officer at his discretion.
(2)
Such medical examination shall ordinarily take place in the day time on  shore as shortly as possible before
embarkation, at the time and place fixed by the  Health Officer. The time and place of this examination shall be arranged
to take into  account the customs examination and other formalities so as to facilitate embarkation  and to avoid delay.
(3)
Any person failing to attend at the time and place fixed by the Health Officer  for such medical examination may, in the
discretion of the Health Officer, be prohibited  from embarking or re-embarking, as the case may be.
Page 15/30
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
(4)
No person shall be permitted by the Health Officer of a port on the mainland  to embark on a ship with a view to
proceeding by sea to any place in the Andman and  Nicobar Islands unless such person produces valid certificates of
vaccination against  cholera and small pox :
Provided that the Health Officer may, if acting on the general or special instructions of the Central Government, exempt
any particular person from the operation of this sub-rule:
Provided further that the Health Officer shall, before the ship leaves the port,  furnish to the medical officer (in any) or
master of the ship a certificate giving all  relevant details of persons exempted from the first proviso.
(5)
On the completion of the medical examination prescribed in sub-rule (1), the  Health Officer shall issue a certificate of
medical inspection in the form set out in  Appendix 6 to these rules. After the issue of the certificate of medical
inspection, no  baggage, merchandise or other articles shall be taken on board and no person shall  embark or
re-embark except with the permission of the Health Officer.
51.
The Health Officer shall prohibit the embarkation or re-embarkation on any  ship of
(a)
any person showing symptoms of any quarantinable disease, and
(b)
any person whom the Health Officer considers likely to transmit  infection because of his close contact with a person
showing symptoms  of a quarantinable disease :
Provided that a person on an international voyage who on arrival is placed  under surveillance may be allowed to
continue his voyage, but the health authority  for the next port of call shall be apprised of this fact.
52.
Where there is an epidemic of pulmonary plague in a port, every suspect  shall before departure on an international
voyage be placed in isolation for a period  of six days reckoned from the date of the last exposure to infection.
53.
(1)
The Health Officer shall take all practicable measures to prevent the  introduction on board a ship of possible agents of
infection or vectors of a  quarantinable disease.
(2)
When typhus or relapsing fever exists in a port, person proposing to embark  on a ship, whom the Health Officer
considers is liable to spread typhus or relapsing  fever, shall be disinsected by the Health Officer before such person is
permitted to  embark. The clothes which such person is wearing, his baggage, and any other article  likely to spread
typhus or relapsing fever shall be disinsected and, if necessary  disinfected before embarkation.
(3)
The Health Officer may, in his discretion, cause to be disinfected and/or  disinsected any clothing, bedding or other
articles belonging to any person proposing  to embark on a ship. In the absence of such disinfection and/or disinfecting,
the  Health Officer may prohibit the taking on board of any such clothing bedding or  other articles.
(4)
If any clothing, bedding or other articles which, in the opinion of the Health  Officer, may require disinfection and/or
disinsecting, has been placed on board  without having undergone such disinfection or disinsecting, the Health Officer
may  cause their immediate removal from the ship.
(5)
The master of a ship shall not permit the embarkation of any clothing, bedding  or other articles belonging to new
members of the crew unless embarkation of such  clothing, bedding or other articles has been authorised by the Health
Officer.
54.
A ship shall not remain in port for a period exceeding twenty-four hours  after the completion of the medical examination
prescribed in rule 50. A ship so  remaining shall not leave the port until a fresh medical examination of all the persons 
on board has been made by the Health Officer.
Special provisions relating to ships leaving any area where transmission of  malaria or other mosquito-borne disease is
Page 16/30
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
occurring, etc.
54.
-A.
Every ship leaving a port situated in an area where transmission of malaria  or other mosquito-borne disease is
occurring or where insecticides resistant mosquito  vectors of disease are present shall be disinsected under the
supervision of the Health  Officer as near as possible to the time of its departure but in sufficient time to avoid  delay in
such departure.
55.
No ship shall attempt to leave any port in India for any port outside India  unless and until the provisions of rules 50 to
54A have been complied with and the  master of a ship has handed over the copy of the certificate of medical inspection
 granted by the Health Officer to the customs authorities and one copy to the Port Pilot  Officer who boards the ship for
taking it out of the port. The authority responsible for  granting port clearance shall, before granting it, make sure of such
compliance.
Special provisions relating to Pilgrim Ships.
56.
No person shall be permitted by the Health Officer to embark on a ship with  a view to proceeding by sea to the Hedjaz
unless such person produces valid  certificates of vaccination against cholera and smallpox.
Part IV ? Special Provisions Relating To Rodent Control, Deratting  Certificates And Deratting Exemption Certificates
57.
(1)
Every ship shall be either-
(a)
periodically deratted; or
(b)
permanently kept in such a condition that the number of rodents on  board is negligible.
(2)
No ship shall leave any port of India for any port outside India unless the  master of such ship is in posession of a
Deratting Certificate or a Deratting Exemption  Certificate issued by the health authority for a port approved for that
purpose under  Article 17 of the International Sanitary Regulations. Every such certificate shall be  valid for six months,
but this period may be extended by one month for a ship  proceeding to such a port if the deratting or inspection, as the
case may be, would be  facilitated by the operations due to take place there :
Provided that the Health Officer may permit a ship to leave an Indian port not  approved for the purpose of issuing a
Deratting Certificate or Deratting Exemption  Certificate, for another port in or outside India, notwithstanding that the
master of  the ship is not in possession of any such certificate.
Note. - In India, the Health Officer for the ports of-
(i)
Bombay and Calcutta are approved for the purpose of issuing Deratting  Certificates, and
(ii)
Bombay, Calcutta, Madras, Cochin, Mormugao, Kandla,  Visakhapatnam, Mandapam Camp/Dhanushhkodi and
Mandapam  Camp/Rameswaram are approved for the purpose of issuing Deratting  Exemption Certificates.
(3)
Deratting Certificates and Deratting Exemption Certificates shall conform to  the model specified in Appendix Ito these
Rules.
(4)
If a valid certificate is not produced, the Health Officer for a port approved  under Art. 17 of the International Sanitary
Regulations, after enquiry and inspection,  may proceed in the following manner
(a)
If the port is approved for the purpose of issuing Deratting Certificate,  the Health Officer may derat the ship or cause the
deratting to be done  under his direction and control. He shall decide in each case the  technique which should be
employed to secure the extermination of  rodents on the ship. Deratting shall be carried out so as to avoid as far  as
possible damage to the ship and to any cargo and shall not take  longer than is absolutely necessary. Wherever
Page 17/30
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
possible deratting shall  be done when the holds are empty. When deratting has been  satisfactorily completed, the
Health Officer shall issue a Deratting  Certificate.
(b)
At any port approved for issuing Deratting Exemption Certificates only the Health Officer may issue such a certificate if
he is satisfied that the  number of rodents on board is negligible. Such a certificate shall be  issued only if the inspection
of the ship has been carried out when the  holds are empty or when they contain only ballast or other material 
unattractive to rodents, of such a nature or so disposed as to make a  through inspection of the holds possible. A
Deratting Exemption  Certificate may be issued for an oil-tanker with full holds.
(5)
If the conditions under which deratting is carried out are such that, in the  opinion of the Health Officer for the port where
the operation was performed, a  satisfactory result cannot be obtained he shall made a note to that effect on the existing
 Deratting Certificate.
(6)
The fees chargeable for Deratting Certificates and Deratting Exemption  Certificates at Indian ports shall be as fixed
from time to time by the Central  Government.
58.
The master of every ship shall, during the stay of the ship in a port take such  precautions as the Health Officer for the
port may specify in order to prevent rodents  gaining access to the ship.
59.
The Health Officer shall
(a)
take all practicable measures to keep rodents in the port installations to  a negligible number;
(b)
make every effort to extend rat-proofing to the port installations.
Part V ? Special Provisions Relating To The Carriage Of Dead Bodies  And Cremated Remains
60.
No person shall bring into India any dead body or human remains of persons  who may have died of yellow fever,
plague, anthrax, glanders or such other diseases  as may be notified by the Central Government for this purpose :
Provided that nothing in this rule shall apply to properly cremated ashes of  dead bodies or human remains.
61.
The dead body or human remains of a person who may have died of a  disease other than those specified in rule 60
may be brought into India subject to the  provisions of rules 62 to 66.
62.
The consignee as well as the shipping agents shall give to the Health Officer  of the port of arrival advance intimation, of
at least 48 hours, of the importation of the  dead body or human remains or ashes of cremated bodies.
63.
Applications to bring dead bodies or human remains or ashes of cremated  bodies to India shall be made to the Indian
Diplomatic representatives in countries  where such representatives are functioning or, where there is no such
representative,  to the Health Officer of the port at which the dead body is to be landed.
64.
(1)
If the dead body or human remains have been properly cremated, the  cremated ashes shall be placed in an urn or
casket having in outer packing of suitable  material.
(2)
In the case of uncremated remains, the following procedure shall be adopted-
(a)
A corpse which has not been buried should be enclosed in a shell of  zinc or other equally suitable metal with all joints
so soldered as to seal  them hermetically and prevent the escape of noxious gases or fluids.  The shell should be
enclosed in a stoutly built teak or other hard wood  coffin and the coffin should be enclosed in a zinc or tin-lined wooden 
packing case filled with saw-dust impregnated with carbolic powder.
(b)
Page 18/30
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
Where a coffin has been exhumed and proves on examination to be  intact, sound and free from offensive odour, it
should be enclosed in an  hermetically sealed zinc or tin-lined wooden packing case filled with  saw-dust impregnated
with carbolic powder.
(c)
Where a cofin has been exhumed and is not intact, sound and free from  odour, its contents should be dealt with in
accordance with the  requirements of Cl. (a) above.
65.
A certificate issued by a responsible municipal or governmental authority of  the country from where the package
containing the dead body, or human remains or  ashes of cremated bodies as the case may be is imported and
endorsed by the Indian  Diplomatic Representative, if any, in that country shall accompany the package. The  certificate
shall give the full name of the deceased, his age at time of death and the  place, date and cause of death and shall
indicate that the package conforms to and  has been sealed in accordance with the specifications prescribed in rule 64.
66.
The package containing the dead body or human remains or ashes of  cremated bodies shall not be open during its
transit and shall be in a sound sealed  condition at the time of arrival. It shall not be removed from the precincts of the
port  until the Health Officer has permitted in writing its removal. After the Health Officer  has accorded his permission,
the consignee shall remove and dispose of the package  in accordance with the general or special instructions which
may be issued by the  local authorities, Government and/or municipal, in this behalf.
67.
For the transmission of a dead body or human remains and ashes of cremated  bodies from India to any place outside
India, the prior written permission of the  competent authority of the country of destination as also of the District
Magistrate or  the Deputy Commissioner or the Chief Presidency Magistrate or the Coroner within  whose jurisdiction the
death took place shall be obtained. The requirements laid  down by the country of destination with regard to the import
of dead bodies, human  remains or ashes of cremated bodies into its territory shall be complied with by the  consignor.
In case, no such conditions have been prescribed, the provisions of rule 64  shall be complied with and the package
shall bear an inscription to the effect that it  contains infected material and should be handled with care.
68.
Subject to the provisions of rule 60 a package containing a dead body or  human remains or ashes of cremated remains,
which is in transit through India,  shall not be subjected to any restrictions if it has been packed and sealed in the 
manner prescribed in rule 64 or in a manner which, in the opinion of the Health  Officer, is considered to be equally
satisfactory.
Part VI ? Special Provisions Applicable In The Event Of Death On  Board
69.
If death occurs on board before a ship entres port limits, the dead body shall, unless there are special reasons to the
contrary, be buried at sea before the ship  entries port limits, in not less than five fathoms of water, in such manner as to
secure  its immediate sinking and remaining below the surface :
Provided that, in the case of a ship proceeding to Calcutta, if death occurs after  passing Saugor, and
(i)
if the ship is not li&y to reach Calcutta the same day, the dead body  shall be disposed of at Diamond Harbour with the
permission of local  Magistrate; or
(ii)
if the ship is likely to reach Calcutta the same day, the dead body shall  be brought to the port and then dealt with in
accordance with the  provisions of rule 70.
70.
If death occurs on board within port limits, or if a ship arrives with a dead  body on board
(i)
the master of the ship shall at once inform the Health Officer of the fact;
(ii)
the ship's surgeon, or if there is no ship's surgeon the Health Officer,  shall if possible ascertain and certify the cause of
death;
(iii)
Page 19/30
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
if for any reason the ship's surgeon or, as the case may be, the Health  Officer is unable to certify the cause of death the
Health Officer shall  report the matter to the police with a view to the removal of the dead  body from the ship and its
postmortem examination;
(iv)
the master of the ship shall, in all cases where postmortem examination  is necessary or where the dead body is
unclaimed, hand over the dead  body to the police and, in all other cases, to the person claiming the  dead body; and
(v)
the master of the ship shall carry out such instructions for the disposal  of the dead body and for the cleaning and
disinfection of the ship as  may be given by the Health Officer.
71.
If death occurs on board either by accident or in suspicious circumstances, the master of the ship shall report the matter
to the police at the earliest possible  opportunity.
72.
(1)
If death occurs during the day on board a ship within port limits, the  ensign and house flag, if any, shall immediately be
lowered to half-mast and keep in  that position from sunrise till sunset as long as the dead body remains on board; and 
if death occurs between sunset and sunrise, one red light shall be hoisted at the peak,  half-mast high.
(2)
Every ship arriving at a port witli a dead body on board shall, if the arrival is  by day, hoist the appropriate International
Code Signal in accordance with Code  Book, Volume I, and, if the arrival is by night, transmit a message to the Signal
Station,  intimating the fact of a dead body being on board.
Part VII ? General Rules
73.
The sanitary measures permitted by these Rules are the maximum measures  applicable to international traffic.
74.
Sanitary measures and health formalities shall be initiated forthwith,  completed without delay, and applied without
discrimination.
75.
(1)
Disinfection, disinsecting, deratting and other sanitary operations shall  be so carried out as
(a)
not to cause undue discomfort to any person, or injury to his health;
(b)
not to produce any deleterious effect on the structure of a ship, or on its  operating equipment; and
(c)
to avoid all risk of fire.
(2)
In carrying out such operations on foods, baggage and other articles, every precaution shall be taken to avoid any
damage.
76.
(1)
The Health Officer shall, when so requested, issue free of charge to the  master, or any representative of the owner or
agent, of a vessel a certificate specifying  the measures applied to the vessel, the parts thereof treated, the methods
employed  and reasons why measures have been applied.
(2)
The Health Officer shall, when so requested, issue free of charge
(a)
to any traveller a certificate specifying the date of his arrival or departure  and the measures applied to him and his
baggage;
(b)
to the consignor, the consignee, and the carrier, or their respective agents,  a certificate specifying the measures applied
Page 20/30
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
to any goods.
77.
The Health Officer shall take all practicable measures to control the discharge  from any vessel of sewage and which
might contaminate the waters of the port.
78.
No sanitary measures, other than medical examination, shall be applied to  passengers and crew on board a healthy
ship from which they do not disembark.
78.
-A.
The master of any vessel shall immediately give notice to the Port Health  Officer about the occurrence on board the
vessel of a case or suspected case of  quarantinable or infectious disease. The Health Officer, on receipt of information 
about the occurrence of a quarantinable or infectious disease on board a vessel in the  port shall immediately proceed
there, medically examine all persons on board, arrange  for the isolation of the case or the suspected case on board or
in a hospital in co-operation with the local health authorities and take other appropriate measures  prescribed under
special provisions relating to quarantinable or infectious disease  or both.
79.
The master of any vessel subject to these Rules and every other person shall  comply with all directions lawfully given
and all conditions lawfully imposed by the  Health Officer in pursuance of these Rules aid shall give that Officer all
reasonable  facilities for the discharge of any duty imposed on him by these Rules.
80.
The Health Officer may in his discretion
(i)
refuse entry into the limits of the port to any person or remove from the  limits of the port any person who in his opinion,
is likely to spread any  quarantinable or infectious disease; and
(ii)
prohibit the admission of any visitor to any vessel in port.
81.
The Health Officer shall take effectual measures to ensure
(1)
that drinking water and foodstuffs taken on board a ship are wholesome  and that water taken in as ballast is disinfected,
if necessary; and
(2)
that old clothes and rags, whether baled or otherwise, have been thoroughly disinfected before loading if, in his opinion,
they are likely  to be infected with small pox.
82.
The Health Officer shall take effectual measures for keeping the port area bee  from mosquitoes in their larval and adult
stages.
83.
(1)
The Health Officer, in order to ascertain its general sanitary condition,  may at any time inspect any ship or vessel within
the precincts of the port. Such  inspection may have regard to the prevalence on the ship or vessel of mosquitoes, 
insects or other vermin. The Health Officer may recommend such measures as he  thinks fit to the matter', owner or
agent for the rectification of any particular insanitary  state, for the destruction of mosquitoes, insects or other vermin
and for the elimination  of their breeding places on board. The Health Officer may further require such measures  to be
adopted and if they are not adopted may carry them out or cause them to be  carried out at the expense of the master,
owner, or agent.
(2)
The powers conferred on the Health Officer by sub-rule (1) may also be  exercised by the Conservator of the Port or any
Officer duly authorised by him in  writing or appointed in this behalf by the Central Government.
84.
(1)
Page 21/30
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
The Health Officer may disinfect or in special cases, for reasons to be  recorded in writing, remove foodstuffs or
beverage on board a ship if he has reason to  believe that they may have become contaminated by the infection of a
quarantinable  disease or may serve as a vehicle for the spread of any such disease. If any such  foodstuffs or beverage
is removed from the ship, the Health Officer shall make  arrangements for its safe disposal.
(2)
Apart from the special provisions relating to cholera in Part II of these Rules  goods, other than live animals, in transit
without transhipment shall not, however,  be subjected to any sanitary measures or detained.
85.
Except in the case of an infected person or suspect, baggage may be disinfected  or disinsected only in the case of a
person carrying infective material or insect vectors  of a quarantinable disease.
86.
(1)
Mail, newspapers, books and other printed matter shall not be subjected  to any sanitary measures.
(2)
Postal parcels may be disinfected and, if necessary disinsected if they contain-
(a)
any of the foods referred to in sub-clause (7) of clause (A) of rule 25 of these Rules which the Health Officer has reason
to believe comes from  a cholera infected area; or
(b)
linen, wearing apparel, or bedding, which has been used or soiled and  to which the provisions of Part II or III of these
Rules are applicable.
87.
(1)
A certificate of clearance for the purpose of customs duty shall not be granted in respect of consignments of imported
second-hand clothing unless covered  by a certificate of approval from the Health Officer. The Health Officer may
inspect all  such consignments and prohibit removal of any consignment unless the consignee  produces a certificate of
disinfection, in respect of such clothing, of the Government or  Municipal health authority for the port of despatch or for
the port of arrival in India.
(2)
When no such certificate of disinfection is produced, the Health Officer may  direct the disinfection of such clothing and
the fees chargeable for such disinfection  shall be such as the Central Government may, from time to time, fix.
(3)
The cost of carriage of such consignments from the docks to the disinfecting  station shall also be borne by the
consignor.
88.
No sanitary document, other than those provided for in these Rules, shall be  required by the Health Officer.
89.
(1)
No charge shall be made by the Health Officer of a port for
(a)
any medical examination provided for in these Rules or any  supplementary examination, bacteriological or otherwise
which may  be required to ascertain the state of health of the person examined; and
(b)
any vaccination of a person on arrival and any certificate thereof.
(2)
Charges for applying the measures provided for in these Rules, other than the measures referred to in sub-rule (1) of
this rule, shall conform with the traffic for  such charges as may be fixed from time to time by the Central Government.
These  charges shall be moderate and not exceed the actual cost of the service rendered, and  they shall be levied
without distinction as to the nationality, domicile or residence of  the person concerned or as to the nationality, flag,
registry or ownership of the ship.  In particular there shall be no distinction made between national and foreign persons 
and ships.
Page 22/30
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
(3)
The tariff, and any amendment thereto, shall be published in the Official  Gazette at least ten days in advance of the levy
thereunder.
(4)
If any person or member of the crew refuses or fails to pay any charges due  from him, then, without prejudice to any
proceedings that may be taken against him,  such charges shall be recoverable from the owner or agent of the ship on
which such  person or member of the crew arrives.
90.
A vaccination document issued by the Armed Forces shall be accepted in lieu  of a vaccination certificate in the form
shown in Appendix 2, 3 or 4 to these Rules if-
(a)
it embodies medical information substantially the same as that required  by such form; and
(b)
it contains a statement in English or in French recording the nature and  date of the vaccination and to the effect that it is
issued in accordance  with Art. 99 of the International Sanitary Regulations.
Part VIII ? Special Rules In Relation To The Andman And Nicobar  Islands
91.
Notwithstanding anything contained in these Rules
(a)
Every person, on arrival at a port in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands,  shall be required to produce valid certificate of
vaccination against  cholera and small-pox.
(b)
Any person who cannot produce such certificates may be isolated in  such place as may be approved by the Health
Officer for this purpose  or placed under surveillance for such period, as the Health Officer may  consider necessary.
92.
All cattle, on arrival at a port in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, shall  forthwith be sent to a segregation camp
established for this purpose and shall be  detained therein for a period of ten days during which it may be inoculated in
such  manner as the officer-incharge of the camp may deem necessary so as to render it free  from infectious or
contagious disorders.
Part IX ? Penalties
93.
Whoever contravenes any provision of these Rules or disobeys, or fails to comply with, any order given in pursuance of
these Rules, shall be punishable for  every such offence with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
94.
If the master of a vessel fails wholly or in part to do any act prescribed by any  rule, the Health Officer shall cause such
act to be done, and the reasonable expenses  incurred in doing such act shall be recoverable by him from such master.
Appendix I
(See rule 53)
Deratting Certificate (a)
Deratting Exemption Certificate (a)
issued in accordance with Article 52 of the International Sanitary Regulations.
(Not to be taken away by Port Authorities)
Port of ..................................................
Date ......................................................
This certificate records the inspectuion and (deratting)/(exemption) (a) at this port and on the above date.
of
the
ship
inland
navigation vessel
At
Page 23/30
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
the time of (inspection)/(deratting)
(a)
of
tonnage
for a sea-going vessel not ..................tonnage for an
inland navigation vessel
(a)
the holds were laden with .............tons of
....................cargo
Compartments
(b)
Rat
indications
(c)
Rat
Harbourage
Deratting
discovered
(d)
treated
By
Fumigation Fumigant.......
Hours
exposure .........
By
catching, trapping, or poisoning
Space
(cb. ft.)
Quantity
used
(e)
Rats
found dead
Traps
set or poisons put out
Rats
caught or killed
Holds
1.
?.......2
?.......3
?.......4
?.......5
Compartments
(b)
Rat
indications (c)
Rat
Harbourage
Deratting
discovered
Page 24/30
----- PAGE 25 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
(d)
treated
By
Fumigation Fumigant.......
Hours
exposure .........
By
catching, trapping, or poisoning
Space
(cb. ft.)
Quantity
used
(e)
Rats
found dead
Traps
set or poisons put out
Rats
caught or killed
....................6
....................7
Shelter
deck space.
Bunker
space.
Engine
room and shaft alley.
Forepeak
and store-room.
Afterpeak
and store-room Lifeboats.
Charts
and wireless rooms.
Galley.
Pantry.
Provision
store-rooms.
Quarter
(crew).
Quarters
(officers).
Quarters
(cabin passengers).
Quarters
(storage).
Total
(a)
Strike out the uncessary indication.
(b)
In case any of the compartments enumerated do not exist on the
ship or inland navigation vessel, this fact must be mentioned.
Page 25/30
----- PAGE 26 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
(c)
Old or recent evidence of excerta runs, or gnawing.
(d)
None, small, moderate, or large.
(e)
State the weight of sulphur or of cyanide salts or quantity of
HCN acid used.
(f)
Specify whether applies to metric displacement or any other
method of determining the tonnage.
RECOMMENDATIONS
MADE.-Observation.-In the case of exemption, state here the
measures taken for maintaining the ship or inland navigation
/vessel in such a condition that the number of rats on board is
negligible.
Scale,
name, qualification, and signature of the inspector.
Appendix 2
(See rule 2 (20) 28 (2), 31)
International Certificate of Vaccination or Revaccination Against Yellow Fever Certificate International De vaccination Ou
De Revacciation Contre La Fievre Jaune
This is to certify that ( ) .......................date of birth ( )....................... Sex ( ) ..................Je soussigne (e) certifie que (
)..........................ne(e) le ..............(c)...............sexe( )Whose signature follows( ) ................................ dont la signature
suit.has on the indicated been vaccinated or revaccinated against yellow fever. a etc. vaccine (e) contre as fievre jaune
la date indiquee.
Date
Signature
and professional status
Origin
and batch No. of vaccine
Official
stamp of vaccinating centre
Signature
et qualite professionelle du vaccinateur
Origine
de vaccin employe du lot
Cachet
Official due contre de vaccination
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
4
This certificate is valid only if the vaccine used has been approved by the World  Health Organisation and if the
vaccinating centre has been designated by the health  administration for the territory in which that centre is situated.
The validity of this certificate shall extend for a period of ten years, beginning  ten days after the date of vaccination or,
in the event of a revaccination within such  period of ten years, from the date of that revaccination.
Any amendment of this certificate, or erasure, or failure to complete any part of  it, may render it invalid.
Page 26/30
----- PAGE 27 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
Ce certificat nest valable que si le vaccin employe a ete approuve par 1'  Organisation mondiale de 'la Sante et si le
contre de vaccination a ete habilite part 1'  administration sanitarie du erritorie dans lequel co contre est situa.
La validite de ce certificat couvre une periode de dix ans commencant dix jours  apres la date de' la vaccination ou, dans
le cas dune revaccianation au cours de cette  periodice de dix ans, le jour de cette revaccination.
Toute correction ou rature sur le certificat ou 1' omission dune quelconque des  mentions qu'il comporte peut affecter sa
validite.
Appendix 3
(See rules 2 (20) 25, 27)
International Certificate of Vaccination or Revaccination against Cholera  Certificate International De Vaccination Ou De
Revaccination Contre Le  Cholera
This is to certify that Je soussigne (e) ............date of birth ............sex..............Certifie que ne (e) le
..............sexe..........whose signature follows dont la signature suit has on the date indicated been vaccinated or
revaccinated against cholera  a ete vaccine (e) ou revaccine (e) contre la cholera la date indique.
Date
Signature
and professional status of vaccinator
Approved
stamps Cachetd authentification
Signaturet
qualite professionelle du vaccinateur
1.
1
2
2
3
3
4
4
The validity of this certificate shall extend for a period of six months, beginning  six days after the first injection of the
vaccine or in the event of a revaccination within  such period of six months, on the date of that revaccination.
The approved stamp mentioned above shall be in a form prescribed by the  health administration of the territory in which
the vaccination is performed.
Any amendment of this certificate, or erasure, or failure to complete any part of  it, may render it invalid.
La validite de ce certificat couvre une periode de dix mois commencement six  jours apres la premiere injection du
vaccin ou, dans le cas dune revaccination au  cours de cette periodie de six mois, le jour de cette revaccination.
Le cachet d'authentication doit etre conforme au modele prescrit par 1'a  administration santaire duterritoire ou la
vaccination est effectuee.
Toute correction ou rature sur le certificat ou 1'omission dune quelconque des  mentions qu'il comporte affecter sa
validite.
Appendix 4
(See rules 2 (20) 36, 38 and explanation thereunder)
International Certificate of Vaccination or Revaccination against Small pox  Certificat International De Vaccination Ou De
Revaccination Contre La  Variole
This is to certify that ..................date of birth................sex.............  Je soussigne (e) certifie que ne (e) le ...................
sexe.....whose signature follows .................................. dont la signature suit has on the date indicated been vaccinated
or revaccinated against smallpox with a  freez-dried or liquid vaccine certified to fulfil the recommended requirements of
the  World Health Organisation a ete vaccine (e) contre la variole a la date indiquee, ci-dessous avec un vaccine
lyophilise ou liquide certifie conforme aux normes  recommandees per organisation modiale de la Sante.
Date
sho
by "x" whether Indiquer par "x" s'il agit de
Page 27/30
----- PAGE 28 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
:
Signature
and professional status of vaccinator
Origin
and batch No. of vaccine
Approved
stamp Cachet d' authentification
Signature
ettitre du vaccinatour
Origin
due vacci net numero du lot
(a)
Primary
a
b
1
vaccination
1
1
performed
primo
vaccination
effectuee
(b)
Read as
1.
successful
Prise
Unsuccessful
Pas de prise
2.
Revaccination
2
3
3.
Revaccination
The validity of this certificate shall extend for a period of three years, beginning  eight days after the date of successful
primary vaccination or, in the event of a  revaccination on the date of that revaccination.
The approved stamp mentioned above shall be in a form prescribed by the  health administration of the territory in which
the vaccination is performed.
Any amendment of this certificate, or erasure, or failure to complete any part of  it, may render it invalid.
La validite de ce certificat couvre une periode de trios ans commencnt huit jours  apres la date de la primovaccination
effectuee avec succes (prise) ou, dans le cas  dune revaccination, le jour de cette revaccination.
Le cachet d'authentification doit etre conforme au modele prescrit par  1'administration sanitaie du territoire ou la
vaccination est effectuee.
Toute correction ou rature sur le certificat ou l'omission d'june quelconque des  mentions qu'il comporte peut affector sa
validite.
Appendix 5
(See rule 5 (3))
Maritime Declaration of Health
(To be rendered by the masters of ships arriving from ports outside the territory)
Page 28/30
----- PAGE 29 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
Port
of
.................Dated.........................................
Name
of
ship.....................From.................to...................
Nationality
.............................Master's
name..........................
Net
Registered Tonnage
..................................................
Deratting
or
Certificate
..................Dated...........................
Deratting
Exemption
Issued
at ...........................................
No.
of passengers
Cabin
.......................Number of crew.............
Deck
........................................................
List
of ports of call from commencement of voyage with dates of
departure.
Health
Questions
Answer
Yes
or No
1.
Has there been on board during the voyage any case or  suspected
case of plague, cholera, yellow fever, small pox,  typhus, or
relapsing fever? Give particualrs in the Schedule.
2.
Has plague occurred or been suspected among the rats or  mice on
board during the voyage, or has there been an  abnormal mortality
among them?
3.
Has any person died on board during the voyage other wise than
as a result of accident? Give particulars in  Schedule.
4.
Is there on board or has there been during the voyage any  case
of disease which you suspect to be of an infectious  nature? Give
particulars in Schedule.
5.
In there any sick person on board now? Give particulars  in
Page 29/30
----- PAGE 30 -----
The Indian Port Health Rules, 1955
Schedule.
Note. - In the absence of a surgeon, the Master should regard the following  symptoms as ground for suspecting the
existing of disease of an infectious nature: fever accompanied by prostration or persisting for several days, or attended
with glandular swelling; or any acute skin rash or eruption with or without fever; severe diarrhoea with symptom of
collapse; jaundice accompanied by fever.
6. Are you aware of any other condition on board which may lead to infection or the spread of disease? .....................
I hereby declare that the particulars and answers to the questions given in this  Declaration of Health (including the
Schedule) are true and correct to the best of my  knowledge and belief.
Signed ....................................
Master
Countersigned ........................
Ship's Surgeon
Date ..............................
To The Declaration
Appendix 5 (contd.)
Particulars of every case of illness or death occurring on board
Name
Class
or rating
Age
Sex
Nationality
Port
of embarkation
Date
of embarkation
Nature
of illness
Date
of its onset
Result
of illness
Disposal
of case
Appendix 6
[See rule 50 (5)]
Government Of India
Certificate of Medical Inspection
Certified that the ship/ steamer ................sailing under..............flag under the  command of Captain ...............bound
for..........with..................crew  and .....................passengers on board has been inspected today the  ................
of.............................. 195................. at......................hours. Dated ..................195 Health Officer of the Port.
Note. - 1. This certificate is valid for 24 hours only vide rule 54 of the Indian
Port Health Rules, 1955.
Note 2. - One copy of this certificate shall be forwarded by the master of the ship to the customs authorities issuing the
port clearance and one copy to port Pilot Officer who boards the ship for taking it out of the port.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 30/30