
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/867444/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1011
]
Union of India - Act
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
Act 7 of 1887
Published on 1 November 1956
Commenced on 1 November 1956
[This is the version of this document from 1 November 1956.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
(7 of 1887)
088.
Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The principal object of this Bill is to prescribe a simple mode of valuing suits relating
to land for the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of those Courts with respect to them. Most of those suits are of
course cognizable exclusively by Civil Courts but some of them, as for instance, suits in the Punjab under section 9 of
the Specific Relief Act, may be tried by Revenue Courts.
It has been brought to the notice of the Government that, while the Civil Courts Acts of the several Provinces, with the
exception of that in force in the Presidency of Madras prescribe no special rules for fixing the value for jurisdiction of the
subject-matter of land suits, but simply define the limit of the jurisdiction of each grade of Court by the money value of
the subject-matter in suit, thus leaving the market value to be the strictly legal criterion, a practice has sprung up,
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
generally in the inferior Courts, of accepting in the absence of any express provision of law to the contrary the Court-fee
valuation as laid down in section 7, paragraph (v) of Act
7 of 1870
, for purposes of jurisdiction also.
The generally admitted result is that land suits are undervalued and dispose of by Courts not strictly competent to try
them. In order to remedy this state of things the present Bill has been prepared. It empowers (section 2) the Local
Government to frame rules, subject to the sanction of the Governor General in Council, for determining the value of land
in the territories under its administration for purposes of jurisdiction in the suits mentioned in section 7, paragraphs (v)
and (vi), and paragraph (x), clause (d) of the Court-fees Act, 1870, namely, suits for possession of land, to enforce a
right of pre-emption, and for specific performance of an award relating to land. These rules are to be made after
consultation with the High Court; and the Bill provides (section 7) a procedure for the publication of proposed rules, so
that the Courts and the public may have an opportunity of preferring any objections which they may have to them before
the rules are made. The Bill further declares (section 3) that where a suit mentioned in paragraph (iv) of section 7 of
Article 17 of Schedule II of the Court-fees Act, relates to land, the amount at which for purposes of jurisdiction the relief
sought in the suit is valued shall not exceed the value of the land to which the suit relates as determined by the rules
under the Act.
In addition to the foregoing provisions which relates exclusively to land suits section 4 provides that in other suits in
which Court-fees are payable ad valorem, the value for purposes of jurisdiction shall be estimated in accordance with
the rules which regulate the value for Court-fee purposes.
Section 5 of the Bill is taken from sections 206-208 of the North-Western Provinces Rent Act, 1881, and has been
inserted at the suggestions of Sir Charles Turnels, late Chief Justice of Madras. It lays down a special procedure, for
cases in which the objects that a suit was not properly valued for purposes of jurisdiction is taken in an appellate Court,
an objection which the Bill declares may not be entertained unless it was taken in the Court of first instance.
Lastly, the Bill (section 6) repeals section 14 of the Madras Civil Courts Act, 1873 which enacts the rule of valuation
which it is the object of this Bill to abolish, namely, the valuation for jurisdiction in the case of land suits shall be in
accordance with the Court-fee valuation prescribed by section 7, paragraph (v) of the Court-fees Act, 1870. In order,
however, to prevent hardship or inconvenience to suitors it is provided that this repeal shall not affect any suit instituted
before the rules under the proposed Act take effect.
[11th  February, 1887]...
An Act to prescribe the mode of valuing certain suits for the purpose of determining the  jurisdiction of Courts with
respect thereto .
Whereas  it is expedient to prescribe the mode of valuing  certain suits for the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of
Courts with  respect thereto; It is hereby enacted as follows:
1.
Title
.This Act may be called The Suits Valuation Act ,  1887 [and it extends to the whole of India except the territories which 
immediately before the 1st November, 1956, were comprised in Part B States.]
[Added by the Adaptation of Laws (No.2) Order, 1956.]
Part I ? Suits Relating To Land
2.
Extent and commencement of Part I
.This Part shall extend to such local areas, and  come into force therein on such dates, as the [State Government]
[Substituted by the Adaptation of Laws (No.2) Order, 1956, for " Government of a Part A State or a Part C State," .]
, by notification in the Official Gazette, [directs]
[Part I of the Act has under Section 2 been declared to extend to the Punjab, and to come into force therein on the 1st
day of March. 1889. Part I has also been extended to the Himachal Pradesh with effect from 13the December, 1958.]
.
3.
Power for State Government to make rules determining value of land for jurisdictional  purposes
(1)
The [State Government]
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
[Substituted by A.O.1950, for "Provincial Government" .]
may [* * *]
[The words "subject to the control of the Governor-General in Council"  omitted by A.O.1937.]
make rules for determining the value of land for purposes of jurisdiction in the suits mentioned in the Court-fees Act,
1870 (
7 of 1870
), section 7, paragraphs V and  VI, and paragraph X, clause (d).
(2)
The rules may determine the value of  any class of land, or of any interest in land, in the whole or any part of a local
area, and may prescribe different values for different places within the  same local area.
4.
Valuation of relief in certain suits relating to land not to exceed the value of the land
.Where a suit mentioned in the Court-fees Act, 1870 (
7 of 1870
), section 7, paragraph iv,  or Schedule II, Article 17, relates to land or an interest in land of which the  value has been
determined by rules under the last foregoing section, the amount at which for purposes of jurisdiction the relief sought in
the suit is valued  shall not exceed the value of the land or interest as determined by those  rules.
5.
Making and enforcement of rules
(1)
The [State Government]
[Substituted by A.O.1950, for "Provincial Government" .]
shall, before making  [rules]
[See Gujarat Suits Valuation Rules, 1966.]
under section 3, consult the High Court with respect thereto.
(2)
A rule under that section shall not take effect till the expiration of one month after the rule has been published  in the
Official Gazette.
6.
Repeal  of section 14 of the Madras Civil Courts Act, 1873
.On and  from the date on which rules under section 3 take effect in any part of the  territories under the administration of
the Governor of Fort Saint George in Council to which the Madras Civil Courts Act, 1873 (3 of 1873) extends, section 14
of that Act shall be repealed as regards that part of those territories.
Part II ? Other Suits
7.
Extent and commencement of Part II
.This Part [* * *]
[The words "extends to the whole of India except Part B States, and"  omitted by the Adaptation of Laws (No.2) Order,
1956.]
shall come into force on the  first day of July, 1887.
8.
Court-fee  value and jurisdictional value to be the same in certain suits
.Where in suits other than those referred to in the Court-fees Act, 1870 (
7 of 1870
),  section 7, paragraphs v, vi and ix, and paragraph x,  clause (d) Court-fees are payable ad valorem under the
Court-fees Act, 1870 (
7 of 1870
), the value as determinable for the computation of  Court-fees and the value for purposes of jurisdiction shall be the
same.
9.
Determination of value of certain suits by High Court
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
.When the subject-matter of suits of any class, other than suits mentioned in the Court-fees Act, 1870 (
7 of  1870
), section 7, paragraphs v and vi, and paragraph x ,  clause (d), is such that in the opinion of the High Court it does not
admit of being satisfactorily valued, the High Court may, with the previous sanction of the [State Government]
[Substituted by A.O.1950.]
direct that suits of that class shall, for the purposes of the Court-fees Act, 1870 (
7 of 1870
), and of this Act and any other enactment for the time being in force, be treated as if their subject-matter were of such
value as the High Court thinks fit to specify in this behalf.
10.
Repeal  of section 32 of the Punjab Courts Act, 1884 (18 of 1884)
.[Repealed  by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1891 (12 of 1891), section 2
and Schedule I.]...
Part III ? Supplemental Provisions
11.
Procedure where objection is taken on appeal or revision that a suit or appeal was not properly valued for jurisdictional
purposes
(1)
Notwithstanding  anything in [section 578]
[Now see the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), Section 99.]
of the Code of Civil Procedure (14 of 1882), an objection that by reason of the over-valuation or under-valuation of a suit
or appeal a Court of first instance or lower appellate Court which had not jurisdiction with respect to the suit or appeal
exercised jurisdiction with  respect thereto shall not be entertained by an Appellate Court unless
(a)
the objection was taken in the Court of first instance at or before the hearing at which issues were first framed and
recorded, or in the lower Appellate Court in the memorandum of  appeal to that Court, or
(b)
the Appellate Court is satisfied, for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, that the suit or appeal  was over-valued or
under-valued, and that the over-valuation or under-valuation thereof has prejudicially affected the disposal of the suit or
appeal on its merits.
(2)
If the objection was taken in the  manner mentioned in clause (a) of sub-section (1), but the Appellate  Court is not
satisfied as to both the matters mentioned in clause (b) of  that sub-section and has before it the materials necessary for
the  determination of the other grounds of appeal to itself, it shall dispose of the  appeal as if there had been no defect of
jurisdiction in the Court of first instance or lower appellate Court.
(3)
If the objection was taken in that manner and the Appellate Court is satisfied as to both those matters and has not those
materials before it, it shall proceed to deal with the appeal under the rules applicable to the Court with respect to the
hearing of appeals; but if it remands the suit or appeal, or frames and refers issues for trial, or requires additional
evidence to be taken, it shall direct its order to a Court competent to entertain the suit or appeal.
(4)
The provisions of this section with  respect to an Appellate Court shall, so far as they can be made applicable,  apply to
a Court exercising revisional jurisdiction under [section 622]
[Now see the Code of Civil Procedure. 1908 (5 of 1908), Section 115.]
of the  Code of Civil Procedure (14 of 1882) or other enactment for the time being in force.
(5)
This section [* * *]
[The words "extends to the whole of India except Part B States and"  omitted by the Adadtation of Laws (No.2) Order,
1956.]
shall come into force on the first day of July, 1887.
12.
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
Proceedings pending at commencement of Part I or Part II
.Nothing in Part I or Part II shall be construed to affect the jurisdiction of any Court
(a)
with respect to any suit instituted before rules under Part I applicable to the valuation of the suit take effect, or Part II has
come into force, as the case may be, or
(b)
with  respect to any appeal arising out of any such suit.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5