
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Religious Societies Act, 1880
The Religious Societies Act, 1880
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/120479391/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
5
]
Union of India - Act
The Religious Societies Act, 1880
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Religious Societies Act, 1880
Act 1 of 1880
Published on 1 November 1956
Commenced on 1 November 1956
[This is the version of this document from 1 November 1956.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Religious Societies Act, 1880
(1 of 1880)
077.
[9 th January , 1880]...
An Act to confer certain powers on Religious Societies.
Preamble .Whereas  it is expedient to simplify the manner in which certain bodies of persons associated for the purpose
of  maintaining religious worship may hold property acquired for such purpose, and  to provide for the dissolution of such
bodies and the adjustment of their affairs and for the decision of certain questions relating to such bodies;
It is hereby enacted as follows:
The Act has been extended to the new Provinces and merged States by the Merged States (Laws) Act 59 of 1949 and
to the States of Manipur, Tripura and Vindhya Pradesh by the Union Territory (Laws) Act
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Religious Societies Act, 1880
30 of 1950
. Manipur and Tripura are full-fledged States now, see Act
81 of 1971
. Vindhya Pradesh is a part of Madhya Pradesh State now, see Act
37 of 1956
.It has been extended to the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regn. 6 of 1963 and of Pondicherry by Act 26
of 1968.
1.
Short title
.This Act may be called The  Religious Societies Act , 1880.
Local  extent .It [* * *]
[The words " shall come into force at once, and"  repealed by the Repealing and Amending Act 10 of 1914, Section 3
and Sch.II.]
shall extend to the whole of India except [the  territories which, immediately before the 1st November, 1956, were
comprised in Part B States]
[Substituted by the Adaptation of Laws (No.2) Order, 1956.]
,
but nothing herein contained shall apply to any Hindus, Muhammadans or Buddhists,  or to any persons whom the State
Government may from time to time, by notification in the Official Gazette, exclude from the operation of this Act.
2.
Appointment of new trustee in cases not otherwise provided for
.When any body of persons associated for the purpose of maintaining religious worship has acquired, or hereafter shall
acquire, any property,
and such  property has been or hereafter shall be vested in trustees in trust for such  body,
and it becomes necessary to appoint a new trustee in the place of or in addition to,  any such trustee or any trustee
appointed in the manner hereinafter prescribed,
and no manner of appointing such new trustee is prescribed by any instrument by which  such property was so vested or
by which the trusts on which it is held have  been declared, or such new trustee cannot for any reason be appointed in
the  manner so prescribed,
such new trustee may be appointed in such manner as may be agreed upon by such body, or by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members of such body actually present at the meeting at which the appointment is made.
3.
Appointment under section 2 to be recorded in a memorandum under the hand of the chairman of the meeting
.Every appointment of new trustees under section 2 shall be  made to appear by some memorandum under the hand of
the chairman for the time  being of the meeting at which such appointment is made.
Such  memorandum shall be in the form set forth in the schedule hereto annexed, or as near thereto as circumstances
allow, shall be executed and attested by two or more credible witnesses in the presence of such meeting, and shall be
deemed to be a document of which the registration is required by the [Indian Registration Act, 1877]
[Now see the Registration Act, 1908 (
16 of 1908
).]
, section 17.
4.
Property to vest in new trustees without conveyance
.When any new trustees have been appointed, whether in the manner prescribed by any such instrument as aforesaid or
in the manner hereinbefore provided, the property subject to the  trust shall forthwith, notwithstanding anything
contained in any such  instrument, become vested, without any conveyance or other assurance, in such  new trustees
and the old continuing trustees jointly, or, if there are no old  continuing trustees, in such new trustees wholly, upon the
same trusts, and  with and subject to the same powers and provisions as it was vested in the old  trustees.
5.
Saving  of existing modes of appointment and conveyance
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Religious Societies Act, 1880
.Nothing  herein contained shall be deemed to invalidate any appointment of new trustees,  or any conveyance of any
property, which may hereafter be made as heretofore  was by law required.
6.
Provision for dissolution of societies and adjustment of their affairs
.Any number not less than three-fifths of the members of any such body as aforesaid  may at a meeting convened for
the purpose determine that such body shall be  dissolved; and thereupon it shall be dissolved forthwith, or at the time
when agreed upon; and all necessary steps shall be taken for the disposal and  settlement of the property of such body,
its claims and liabilities, according  to the rules of such body applicable thereto, if any, and, if not, then as such  body at
such meeting may determine:
Provided  that, in the event of any dispute arising among the members of such body, the  adjustment of its affairs shall
be referred to the principal Court of original  civil jurisdiction of the district in which the chief building of such body is
situate; and the Court shall make such order in the matter as it deems fit.
7.
Upon a dissolution no member to receive profit
.If upon the dissolution of any such body there remains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and  liabilities, any property
whatsoever, the same shall not be paid to or distributed among the members of such body or any of them, but shall be
given to some other body of persons associated for the purpose of maintaining  religious worship or some other religious
or charitable purpose to be  determined by the votes of not less than three-fifths of the members present at a meeting
convened in this behalf, or in default thereof by such Court as last aforesaid.
8.
Saving  of certain provisions of instruments
.Nothing in sections 6 and 7
shall be deemed to affect any provisions contained in any instrument for the  dissolution of such body, or for the
payment or distribution of such property.
9.
Questions may be submitted to High Court
.When any question arises, either in connection with the matters hereinbefore referred to, or otherwise, as to whether
any person is a member of any such body as aforesaid, or as to the  validity of any appointment under this Act, any
person interested in such  question may apply by petition to the High Court for its opinion on such  question. A copy of
such petition shall be served upon, and the hearing thereof  may be attended by, such other persons interested in the
question as the Court thinks fit.
Any opinion given by the Court on an application under this section shall be deemed  to have the force of a declaratory
decree.
The costs of every application under this section shall be in the discretion of the  Court.
The  Schedule
(See section 3)
Memorandum of the  appointment of the new trustees of the (describe the church, chapel, or other buildings and
property) situate               at a meeting duly convened and held for that purpose (in the vestry of the said                  )
on the                        day                   of 20                            , A.B.      of          Chairman.
Names and  descriptions of all the trustees on the constitution or last appointment of  trustees, made the                          
                   day of                (here  insert the same)
Names and descriptions of  all the trustees in whom the said (chapel and property) now become legally vested.
First.Old continuing trustees:
(here insert the same.)
Second.New trustees now chosen and appointed:
(here insert the same.)
Dated this                       day of                           20
Signed by the said A.B. as Chairman of the Said Meeting, at and in the presence of the Said Meeting on the  day and
year aforesaid in the presence of
A.B. ,
Chairman of the said Meeting
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Religious Societies Act, 1880
C.D.
E.F.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4