
----- PAGE 1 -----
The University Grants Commission (Disqualification, Retirement and Conditions of Service o...
The University Grants Commission (Disqualification, Retirement and
Conditions of Service of Members) Rules, 1956
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/107793010/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The University Grants Commission (Disqualification, Retirement and Conditions of Service of Members) Rules, 1956
UNION OF INDIA
India
The University Grants Commission (Disqualification, Retirement and Conditions of Service of Members) Rules, 1956
Rule
THE-UNIVERSITY-GRANTS-COMMISSION-DISQUALIFICATION-RETIREMENT-AND-CONDITIONS-OF-SERVICE-O
F-MEMBERS-RULES-1956 of 1956
Published on 1 November 1956
Commenced on 1 November 1956
[This is the version of this document from 1 November 1956.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The University Grants Commission (Disqualification, Retirement and Conditions of Service of Members) Rules, 1956
Published vide Notification in the Gazette of India, 1956, Part 2, Section 3, page 1880.
1745.
S.R.O. 2607, dated the 1st November, 1956. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 25 of the University Grants
Commission Act, 1956 (
3 of 1956
), the following rules to provide for the matters mentioned in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub-section (2) of section 25 of
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The University Grants Commission (Disqualification, Retirement and Conditions of Service o...
the said Act, namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the University Grants Commission (Disqualification, Retirement and Conditions of Service of
Members) Rules, 1956.
(2)
. They shall come into force on the 5th November, 1956.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Commission;
(b)
"Commission" means the University Grants Commission established under Section 4; and
(c)
"section" means a section of the University Grants Commission Act. 1956.
3.
Procedure for retirement of members under Section 6.
(1)
Of the six persons (other than the Chairman) appointed for the first time under clause (a) and clause (c) of sub-section
(2) of Section 5, three shall retire as soon as maybe, on the expiration of the third year, and for that purpose they shall
be selected by lot immediately before such expiration .
(2)
If all the three persons so selected have not been appointed entirely the said clause (a) or entirely under the said clause
(c), all of them shall retire on such expiration.
(3)
If all the three persons so selected have been appointed entirely under one of the said clauses, one out of them who
shall not retire on such expiration shall again be selected by lot, and in such a case one out of the three persons
appointed under the other of the said clauses shall be selected for retirement on such expiration by lot.
(4)
Selection by lot shall be made by the Chairman in each of the above-mentioned cases.
4.
Disqualification.
(1)
A person shall be disqualified for continuing as a member--
(a)
if he becomes of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent court' or
(b)
if he is an undischarged insolvent.
(2)
If any member is, without permission of the Commission, absent from any four consecutive meetings of the Commission,
he shall cease to by the member of the Commission.
5.
Terms and conditions of service of members.
- (i) The Chairman shall be paid as his salary a sum of Rs. 3,000 per month or such lesser sum as may be fixed in each
case by the Central Government.
(ii)
The Chairman shall be paid house-rent allowance as is admissible to officers of the Central Government of the same
grade :
Provided that the Chairman may be paid actual rent up to a maximum of Rs. 525 per month as the Central Government
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The University Grants Commission (Disqualification, Retirement and Conditions of Service o...
may decide in the circumstances of each case.
(iii)
Unless there is a contract to the contrary, the Chairman shall retire on his completing the age of sixty-five years :
Provided that the Central Government may order the retirement of the Chairman earlier if for special reasons it thinks fit
to do so.
(iv)
The Chairman shall not be entitled to the benefits of any Contributory Provident Fund.
(v)
[The Chairman shall be entitled to travel by the highest class of accommodation available in the train including
air-conditioned accommodation and shall also have the right to reserve by requisition a first class compartment when
travelling by Railway on duty. He shall also be entitled to travel by air in his discretion.
[Substituted by S.R.O. 558, dated 13th February, 1957]
NOTE. - A first class compartment for the purpose of this sub-rule means a two-berthed compartment or an
air-conditioned coupe. where it is available. or a four-berthed compartment. if a two-berthed compartment or an
air-conditioned coupe is not available. in the train by which the Chairman travels.]
(vi)
The Chairman while on duty outside his headquarters shall be paid daily allowance at the rate admissible to Grade I
Officers of the Central Government: Provided that the Chairman may be paid daily allowance up to a maximum of Rs. 20
per day as the Central Government may decide in the circumstances of each case.
(vii)
The Chairman may sanction travel by air of any other member of the Commission in any case where he considers it
necessary in the public interest.
(viii)
Subject to clause (vii), every non-official member shall be entitled to travel by the highest class of accommodation
available in the train other that the air-conditioned accommodation:
Provided that such member may travel by air-conditioned accommodation in accordance with any instructions issued by
the Government of India from time to time.
(ix)
Every non-official member of the Commission while on duty out-side his place of residence shall be paid daily allowance
at the rate of Rs. 20 per day. If a non-official member attends any meeting at the place where his normal place of
residence is situate, he shall be paid the actual cost of conveyance subject to a minimum of Rs. 10 per day.
(x)
The term of office of a member appointed under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 5 shall come to an end as soon
as he ceases to be the Vice-Chancellor of a University.
(xi)
The term of office of a member appointed under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 5 shall come to an end as soon
as he ceases to hold the office by virtue of which he was appointed to represent the Central Government on the
Commission.
(xii)
The term of office of a member appointed under clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 5 shall come to an end as soon
as he is appointed to any post under the Central Government or any State Government or is appointed the
Vice-Chancellor of any University.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3