
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Young Persons (Harmful Publications) Act, 1956
The Young Persons (Harmful Publications) Act, 1956
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/222413/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
10
]
Union of India - Act
The Young Persons (Harmful Publications) Act, 1956
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Young Persons (Harmful Publications) Act, 1956
Act 93 of 1956
Published in Gazette 93 on 28 December 1956
Assented to on 28 December 1956
Commenced on 28 December 1956
[This is the version of this document from 28 December 1956.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Young Persons (Harmful Publications) Act, 1956
[28th December, 1956.]
ACT NO. 93  OF 1956
An Act to prevent the dissemination of certain publications harmful to young persons.
PREAMBLE
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:?
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.?
(1)
This Act may be called the Young Persons (Harmful Publications) Act, 1956.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Young Persons (Harmful Publications) Act, 1956
(2)
It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.
(3)
It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
2.
Definitions.?
In this Act,?
(a)
?harmful publication? means any book, magazine, pamphlet, leaflet, newspaper or other like publication which consists
of stories told with the aid of pictures or without the aid of pictures or wholly in pictures, being stories portraying wholly or
mainly?
(i)
the commission of offences; or
(ii)
acts of violence or cruelty; or
(iii)
incidents of a repulsive or horrible nature;
in such a way that the publication as a whole would tend to corrupt a young person into whose hands it might fall,
whether by inciting or encouraging him to commit offences or acts of violence or cruelty or in any other manner
whatsoever;
(b)
?State Government? in relation to a Union territory, means the administrator thereof;
(c)
?young person? means a person under the age of twenty years.
3.
Penalty for sale, etc., of harmful publications.?
(1)
If a person?
(a)
sells, lets to hire, distributes, publicly exhibits or in any manner puts into circulation, any harmful publication, or
(b)
for purposes of sale, hire, distribution, public exhibition or circulation, prints, makes or produces or has in his possession
any harmful publication, or
(c)
advertises or makes known by any means whatsoever that any harmful publication can be procured from or through any
person, he shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with both.
(2)
On a conviction under this section, the court may order the destruction of all the copies of the harmful publication in
respect of which the conviction was had and which are in the custody of court or remain in the possession or power of
the person convicted.
4.
Power of Government to declare harmful publications forfeited.?
(1)
The State Government may, if it is of opinion after consultation with the principal law officer of the State, whether called
the Advocate-General or by any other name, that any publication is a harmful publication, declare, by order notified in
the Official Gazette, that every copy of such publication shall be forfeited to the Government and every such notification
shall state the ground for the order.
(2)
Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-section (1) of section 6, where there is an order of forfeiture under
sub-section (1) in respect of any publication it shall be lawful for any police officer to seize the same wherever found in
the territories to which this Act extends.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Young Persons (Harmful Publications) Act, 1956
5.
Appeal to High Court against order of forfeiture.?
Any person aggrieved by an order of forfeiture passed by the State Government under section 4 may, within sixty days
of the date of such order, apply to the High Court to set aside such order, and upon such application the High Court may
pass such order as it deems fit.
6.
Power to seize and destroy harmful publications.?
(1)
Any police officer or any other officer empowered in this behalf by the State Government may seize any harmful
publication.
(2)
Any magistrate of the first class may, by warrant, authorise any police officer not below the rank of sub-inspector to enter
and search any place where any stock of harmful publications may be or may be resonably suspected to be, and such
police officer may seize any publication found in such place if in his opinion it is a harmful publication.
(3)
Any publication seized under sub-section (1) shall be produced, as soon as may be, before a magistrate of the first
class, and any publication seized under sub-section (2) shall be produced, as soon as may be, before the court which
issued the warrant.
(4)
If in the opinion of the magistrate or court such publication is a harmful publication, the magistrate or court may cause it
to be destroyed, but if, in the opinion of the magistrate or court, such publication is not a harmful publication, the
magistrate or court shall dispose of it in the manner provided in sections 523, 524 and 525 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898).
7.
Offences under this Act to be cognizable.?
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), any offence punishable under
this Act shall be cognizable.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3