
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Countess Of Dufferin' s Fund Act, 1957
The Countess Of Dufferin' s Fund Act, 1957
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1282978/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
Union of India - Act
The Countess Of Dufferin' s Fund Act, 1957
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Countess Of Dufferin' s Fund Act, 1957
Act 63 of 1957
Published on 1 January 1957
Commenced on 1 January 1957
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1957.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
1.
Short title.
This Act may be called the Countess of Dufferin' s Fund Act,  1957 .
2.
Definitions.
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
" Association" means the National Association for Supplying Medical Aid by Women to the Women of India, being a
society registered under the Societies Registration Act,  1860 ; (21 of  1860  ).
(b)
" Fund" means all property, movable or immovable, of or belonging to the Association.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Countess Of Dufferin' s Fund Act, 1957
3.
Dissolution of Association and transfer of Fund. On the commencement of this Act-
(a)
the Association shall stand dissolved;
(b)
the Fund shall vest in the Central Government; and
(c)
all the debts and liabilities of the Association shall be transferred to the Central Government and shall thereafter be
discharged and satisfied by it out of the Fund.
4.
Validation of certain acts done before the commencement of this Act.
Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, all acts and things done, before the
commencement of this Act, by any person acting or purporting to act in pursuance of the Resolutions passed at the
extraordinary general meeting of the Association held on the 19th day of April,  1948 , shall be valid and shall be
deemed always to have been valid and no suit or other pro- ceeding shall be instituted, maintained or continued against
any person whatever on the ground that any such act or thing was not done in accordance with law.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2