
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Naga Hills-Tuensang Area Act, 1957
The Naga Hills-Tuensang Area Act, 1957
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/727141/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
5
]
Union of India - Act
The Naga Hills-Tuensang Area Act, 1957
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Naga Hills-Tuensang Area Act, 1957
Act 42 of 1957
Published on 29 November 1957
Commenced on 29 November 1957
[This is the version of this document from 29 November 1957.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Naga Hills-Tuensang Area Act, 1957
ACT NO. 42 OF 1957
1357.
This Bill seeks to give effect to the proposal to create a new administrative unit consisting of the existing Nagar Hills
District, now being adiministered by the Government of Assam, and the Tsuengang Frontier Division of the North East
Frontier Agency which is being administered by the Govern of Assam as the agent of the President. This new unit to be
named "The Naga Hills-Tuensang Area" will be administered by the Governer as the agent of the President but will be
distinct from the North East Frontier Administration. It is proposed to amend paragraph 20 of the Sixth Schedule to the
Constitution and make certain consequential amendments of the Delimitation of Parliament and Assembly
Constituencies Order, 1956, and the Representation of the People Act, 1950. Provision is made in clause 5 of the Bill for
an additional nominated member in the Lok Sabha to represent the new unit." - Gazette of India, 1957, Extra, Pt. II,
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Naga Hills-Tuensang Area Act, 1957
Section 2, p. 859.
[29th November, 1957]
An Act to provide for the formation of the Naga Hills-Tuensang Area of Assam as an administrative unit.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:--
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Naga Hills-Tuensang Area Act, 1957.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
1st December, 1957, vide Notification No. S. R. O. 3843, dated 30th November, 1957, see Gazette of India,
Extraordinary, Pt. II, Section 3, p. 2877.
2.
Formation of Naga Hills-Tuensang Area.
As from the commencement of this Act, there shall be formed a new administrative unit in the State of Assam by the
name of Naga Hills-Tuensang Area comprising the tribal areas which at such commencement were known as the Naga
Hills District and Tuensang Frontier Division of the North East Frontier Agency.
3.
Amendment of the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution.
In the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution, in paragraph 20,--
(a)
after sub-paragraph (2A), the following sub-paragraph shall be inserted, namely:--
"(2B) The Naga Hills-Tuensang Area shall comprise the areas which at the commencement of this Constitution were
known as the Naga Hills District and the Naga Tribal Area.";
(b)
in sub-paragraph (3), after the words "administrative area", the brackets and words "(other than the Naga
Hills-Tuensang Area)" shall be inserted;
(c)
in Part A of the Table, item 4 shall be omitted; and
(d)
in Part B of the Table, for item 2, the following item shall be substituted, namely:--
"2. The Naga Hills-Tuensang Area."
4.
Amendment of the Delimitation Order.
In the Delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies Order, 1956,--
(a)
in the First Schedule, in the entry in column 3 against serial No. 37, the words "Naga Hills", shall be omitted; and
(b)
in the Second Schedule, in the part relating to Assam, the heading "Naga Hills District" and all entries against serial Nos.
16, 17 and 18 shall be omitted.
5.
[Amendment of the Representation of the People Act, 1950.
] Rep. by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1960 (58 of 1960), s. 2 and Sch. I.
6.
Provision as to the sitting member of Parliament.
Notwithstanding the alteration in the extent of the Autonomous Districts Parliamentary constituency in Assam effected by
section 4, the sitting member of the House of the People representing that constituency shall be deemed to have been
elected to the House of the People by that constituency as so altered.
7.
Territorial extent of laws not to be affected.
The provisions of section 2 shall not be deemed to have effected any change in the areas to which any law in force
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Naga Hills-Tuensang Area Act, 1957
immediately before the commencement of this Act extends or applies, and territorial references in any such law to the
Naga Hills District, the Naga Tribal Area or the Tuensang Frontier Division shall, until otherwise provided by a competent
legislature or other competent authority, continue to have the same meaning.
Explanation.--In this section, law means any law, ordinance, regulation, order, bye-law, rule, scheme, notification or
other instrument having the force of law in India or any part thereof.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3