
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Public Employment (Requirement As To Residence) Act, 1957
The Public Employment (Requirement As To Residence) Act, 1957
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/67961/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
3
]
Union of India - Act
The Public Employment (Requirement As To Residence) Act, 1957
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Public Employment (Requirement As To Residence) Act, 1957
Act 44 of 1957
Published on 7 December 1957
Commenced on 7 December 1957
[This is the version of this document from 7 December 1957.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Public Employment (Requirement As To Residence) Act, 1957
ACT NO. 44 OF 1957
1356.
Clause (2) of Article 16 of the Constitution provides, inter alia, that no citizen shall, on grounds only of residence  be
ineligible for, or discriminated against in respect of, any employment or office under the State. Parliament is, however, 
competent under clause (3) of the said article to regulate the extent to which it would he permissible for a State to depart
 from the above principle. In considering this aspect of the question, the State Reorganisation Commission
recommended  that if any departure from the principle of non-discrimination on the ground of residence is to be
authorised at all, it should  be such as to cause minimum hardship and that necessary legislation in this regard should
be undertaken.
2. On the basis of these recommendations, provision was made in this behalf in paragraphs 14, 15 and 16 of the 
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Public Employment (Requirement As To Residence) Act, 1957
memorandum on safeguards for linguistic minorities which was laid before Parliament in September, 1956. It was stated
in  the memorandum that the Government of India did not consider it necessary or desirable to impose restrictions for
any  public employment and that it was proposed to repeal all the laws in force prescribing any requirement as to
residence for  any public employment. It was further stated that in certain cases exceptions might have to be made for a
transitional  period to the general rule of non-discrimination in the Telangana area of the former Hyderabad State and in
certain backward areas. In pursuance of this decision, it is now proposed to repeal all the laws in force prescribing any
requirement as  to residence within a State or Union Territory for any public employment in that State or Union territory.
Exception,  however, is being made in the case of Himachal Pradesh, Manipur and Tripura and the area transferred
from the State of  Hyderabad to Andhra Pradesh. In respect of these areas, it is proposed to prescribe residential
qualifications for a limited  period not exceeding five years in regard to non-gazetted services including the service of
tchsildars. It is proposed to  empower the Central Government to make rules for the purpose.
3. The Bill seeks to achieve these objectives. - Gazette of India, 11-9-1957, Pt. II, section 2, Ext., p. 811.
Amending Act 10 of 1964. - The Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Act, 1957, repeals all the  laws in
force in the StaiS and Union territories with regard to requirements as to residence for purposes of any employment of
ippointment under the State, any local or other authority, but section 3 of the Act empowered the Central Govern  mcnt t,
make rules prescribing requirements as to residence within Telangana area of Andhra Pradesh or the Union  territories
of Himachal Pradesh, Manipur or Tripura for appointments in subordinate services. Section 5 of the Act fixed a  period of
five year from the commencement of the Act during which the domicile rules trained under section 3 in respect  of the
ahove mentioned areas were to remain in force. Since the Act came into force on the 21st March, 1959, the domicile 
rules framed under section 3 will cease to be operative with effect from the 21st March, 1964.
2. It is considered desirable, after consultation with the Government of Andhra Pradesh and the Administration  of the
Union territories concerned, that the domicile rules trained in respect of the areas mentioned above should be kept  in
force for a further period of five years. The Bill seeks to achieve this object. - Gazette of India, 19-3-1964, Pt. II, section 
2. Ext.. p. 227.
Amending Act 1 of 1969. - Section 3 of the Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Act, 1957, empowers the
Central Government to make rules prescribing a requirement as to residence in regard to appointment in any 
subordinate service or post under the State Government of Andhra Pradesh or under the control of the Administrator of 
Himachal Pradesh, Manipur or Tripura or to any service or post under a local authority (other than a cantonment hoard) 
within the Telangana area of Andhra Pradesh or within the Union territory of Himachal Pradesh. Manipur or Tripura. 
Section 5 of the Act as amended in 1964 provides that section 3 and the rules made thereunder shall cease to have
effect on  the expiration of ten years from the commencement of the Act. By virtue of this, section 3 and the rules made
thereunder  would cease to have effect on the 21st March, 1969. It is considered desirable after consultation with the
Governments of  Andhra Pradesh and the Union territories concerned that the said section 3 and the rules made
thereunder should be  continued for a further period of five years on and from the 21st March, 1969.
2. With effect from 1st November, 1966. certain territories of the former State of Punjab were added to the Union 
territory of Himachal Pradesh [vide section 5(1) of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966]. It is considered desirable, after 
consultation with the Government of Himachal Pradesh. that the provisions of the Public employment (Requirement as
to  Residence) Act. 1957, should apply in relation to these territories also.
3. The Hill seeks to achieve the aforesaid objects.-Gazette of India, 23-12-1968. Pt. II. section 2. Ext., p. 1699.
[7th December, 1957]
An Act to make in pursuance of clause (3) of article 16 of the Constitution special provisions for requirement as to
residence in regard to certain classes of public employment in certain areas and to repeal existing laws prescribing any
such requirement. Be it enacted by Parliament in the Eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Act, 1957.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
21st March, 1959 ; vide Notification No. G.S.R. 323, dt. 21-3-1959, Gazette of India, Pt. II, Section 3(i), p. 392
Adapted in Himachal Pradesh, Manipur and Tripura - See Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Act
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Public Employment (Requirement As To Residence) Act, 1957
(Adaptation) Order, 1973 - Gazette of India, 23-1-1973, Pt. II, section 3(i), Ext., p. 72.
2.
Repeal of existing laws prescribing requirements as to residence.
Upon the commencement of this Act, any law then in force in any State or Union territory by virtue of clause (b) of article
35 of the Constitution prescribing, in regard to a class or classes of employment or appointment to an office under the
Government of, or any local or other authority within, that State or Union territory, any requirement as to residence
therein prior to such employment or appointment shall cease to have effect and is hereby repealed.
3.
Power to make rules in respect of certain classes of public employment in certain areas.
(1)
The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules prescribing, in regard to appointments
to-
(a)
any subordinate service or post under the State Government of Andhra Pradesh, or
(b)
any subordinate service, or post under the control of the Administrator of Himachal Pradesh, Manipur or Tripura, or
(c)
any service or post under a  [local or other authority]
[Substituted by Act 1 of 1969, Section 2, for "local authority "]
(other than a cantonment board) within the Telangana area of Andhra Pradesh or within the Union territory of Himachal
Pradesh, Manipur or Tripura, any requirement as to residence within' the Telangana area or the said Union territory, as
the case may be, prior to such appointment.
(2)
In this section,-
(a)
[ "Himachal Pradesh" includes the territories specified in sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Punjab Reorganisation Act,
1966 (
31 of 1966
);]
[Inserted by Act 1 of 1969, Section 2]
.
(aa)
[]
[Cl. (a) relettered by Act 1 of 1969, Section 2]
"subordinate service or post" means any service or post appointments to which are not notified in the Official Gazette but
includes any service of tehsildars ;
(b)
"Telangana area" comprises all the territories specified in sub-section (1) of section 3 of the States Reorganisation Act,
1956.(37 of 1956).
4.
[ Parliamentary scrutiny of rules.
[Substituted by Act 10 of 1964, Section 2, for s. 4]
Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament while
it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two successive sessions, and
if before the expiry of the session in which it is so laid or the session immediately following, both Houses agree in
making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so however that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.]
5.
Duration of Section 3 and rules.
Section 3 and all rules made thereunder shall cease to have effect on the expiration of [fifteen years]
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Public Employment (Requirement As To Residence) Act, 1957
[Substituted by Act 1 of 1969, Section 3, for "ten years"]
from the commencement of this Act, but such cesser shall not affect the validity of any appointment previously made in
pursuance of the said rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4