
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Sikh Gurdwaras Board Religious Fund Committee (Appointment of Members) Rules, 1959
The Sikh Gurdwaras Board Religious Fund Committee (Appointment
of Members) Rules, 1959
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/172154672/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Sikh Gurdwaras Board Religious Fund Committee (Appointment of Members) Rules, 1959
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Sikh Gurdwaras Board Religious Fund Committee (Appointment of Members) Rules, 1959
Rule
THE-SIKH-GURDWARAS-BOARD-RELIGIOUS-FUND-COMMITTEE-APPOINTMENT-OF-MEMBERS-RULES-1959 of
1959
Published on 20 April 1959
Commenced on 20 April 1959
[This is the version of this document from 20 April 1959.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Sikh Gurdwaras Board Religious Fund Committee (Appointment of Members) Rules, 1959
Published vide Punjab Government Home Department (General Gurdwaras) Notification No. 529-Gurdwaras, dated the
20th April, 1959.
1103.
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Sikh Gurdwaras Board Religious fund Committee (Appointment of Members) Rules,
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Sikh Gurdwaras Board Religious Fund Committee (Appointment of Members) Rules, 1959
1959.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,
(i)
`Act' means the Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925, as amended from time to time;
(ii)
`Board' shall have the meaning assigned it in the Act; and
(iii)
`Committee' means the Committee referred to in clause (i) of sub-section (2) of section 108-B, of the Act.
3.
Appointment of members to be by election to be conducted by Chairman in general meeting.
- The members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Board in its general meeting by election which shall be
conducted by the Chairman of the meeting functioning under section 60 of the Act.
4.
Nomination of candidates for committee.
- When a member or members of the Committee are to be appointed the Chairman shall call upon the members present
to nominate candidates for election and any member present may propose the name of any member of the Board, not
being a member or office-bearer of the Executive Committee of the Board, or any other person as a candidate for
election and if any other member present seconds such proposal and the member so nominated signifies his assent to
such nomination or the member or the other person so nominated has already signified such assent in writing, the
Chairman shall enter his name in a list of nominated candidates.
5.
Procedure in case there is no contest.
- If the number of candidates nominated under the provisions of rule 4 is equal to or less than the number of members to
be appointed, such candidates shall be deemed to have been elected and declared appointed as members of the
Committee.
6.
Method of voting in case of contest.
- If the number of candidates nominated under the provisions of rule 4 is more than the number of members to be
appointed the Chairman shall read out the list of nominated candidates and each member present at the meeting may
write on a paper the name of any one candidate whom he wishes to be appointed and shall then fold up the paper and
place it in a receptacle to be provided for the purpose:
Provided that if any member is unable to write, he may cause any other member to write on his behalf the name of the
candidate, whom he wishes to be appointed.
7.
Counting of votes.
(1)
When all the members present who wish to vote have recorded their votes in the manner prescribed in Rule 6, the
Chairman shall appoint two of the members (hereinafter referred to as tellers) to count the votes recorded for each
candidate.
(2)
In counting the votes the tellers shall reject as invalid any paper on which the name of more than one candidate is
written or any indication is given to the identity of the member whose vote is recorded on it other than such indication as
is afforded by the writing of the name of the candidate.
(3)
When counting of votes is concluded, the tellers shall prepare and sign a return showing the number of votes recorded
in favour of each candidate and shall deliver the return to the Chairman.
(4)
The Chairman shall declare to be appointed as members of the Committee these candidates up to the number of
members to be appointed who are shown in the return prepared by the tellers to have obtained the largest number of
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Sikh Gurdwaras Board Religious Fund Committee (Appointment of Members) Rules, 1959
votes:
Provided that if it is impossible to determine which candidates have obtained the largest number of votes up to the
number of members to be appointed owing to the fact that two or more candidates have obtained an equal number of
votes, the Chairman shall decide by lot which of such candidates shall be deemed to have been elected and shall
declare them to have been appointed as members of the Committee.
8.
Return of members appointed and safe custody of election papers
- At the conclusion of any election under these rules, the Chairman shall forward to the appropriate Secretary to
Government a return showing the name(s) of the person(s) appointed by the Board as member(s) of the Committee
together with a sealed packet containing the list of nominated candidates prepared under the provisions of rule 3, the
return prepared by the tellers under the provisions of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 and the papers on which votes were recorded
under the provisions of rule 6 and such packet shall be retained by the said Secretary in his custody until the expiry of
one year from the date of election when its contents shall be destroyed subject to any direction to the contrary by the
State Government or by a competent court or by an Enquiry Board appointed to hold an enquiry into an election under
these rules.
9.
Names of members appointed on Committee to be notified in Gazette.
- As soon as may be after the receipt of the return of election referred to in rule 8, the appropriate Secretary to
Government shall notify the name(s) of member(s) appointed by the Board on the Committee in the official Gazette for
general information.
10.
Application of Sikh Gurdwaras Election Enquiries Rules, 1925.
- The Sikh Gurdwaras Election Enquiries Rules, 1925, as amended from time to time, shall apply mutatis mutandis to
the conduct of enquiries and the decision of disputes relating to an election held in accordance with these rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3