
----- PAGE 1 -----
University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 1960
University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules,
1960
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/84563256/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 1960
UNION OF INDIA
India
University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 1960
Rule UNIVERSITY-GRANTS-COMMISSION-INSPECTION-OF-UNIVERSITIES-RULES-1960 of 1960
Published on 1 January 1960
Commenced on 1 January 1960
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1960.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 1960
To Be Published in the Gazette of India, Part II.
1884.
Notification. - In exercise of the power conferred by clause (g) of Sub Section (2) of Section 25 of the University Grants
Commission Act 1956 (
3 of 1956
) the Central Government hereby makes the following rules :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 1960
(1)
These rules may be called the University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 1960.
(2)
They shall come into force with immediate effect.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules unless the context otherwise requires :-
a. "Commission" means the University Grants Commission;
b. "University" means a University as defined in Section 2(f) of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956; and
includes an institution of higher learning deemed to be a University under Section 3 of the said Act;
c. "Financial Year" means the year commencing from the 1st April and ending 31st March of the following calendar year;
and
d. "Academic Year" means the academic year of the respective Universities.
3.
Inspection.
- The Commission may appoint a Committee, wherever or whenever necessary consisting of such persons as it may
decide in each case and subject to the provision of rule 6, to examine and report on the financial needs of a University or
its standards of teaching, examination and research or both.
4.
Before the Commission inspects the University, the Commission shall send to the Vice-Chancellor of the University a
questionnaire seeking information on all relevant matters relating to the Department/Departments or
institution/institutions to be inspected.
5.
After receipt of information under rule 4, the Commission shall fix the date of inspection by the Committee and
communicate the same, to the University concerned.
6.
Association of Universities.
- The University shall be associated with the inspection in the following manner, namely :-
a. The University shall nominate not more than three representatives who may include the Vice-Chancellor or the
Registrar, the Dean or the Deans of Faculty/Faculties concerned and such other officers/teachers of the
department/departments or institutions as may be deputed by the University and their names shall be communicated to
the Commission.
b. The representatives of the University shall be associated with the inspection for such time and in such manner as may
be determined by the Committee after consultation with the University.
c. In carrying out the inspection, the Committee may have discussions with such officer/teachers and other members of
the department(s) or institution(s) to be inspected as may be considered necessary by the Committee.
7.
Report to the Commission.
- As soon as possible after the inspection, the Committee shall report its findings to the Commission.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2