
----- PAGE 1 -----
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 1961
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules,
1961
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/159201064/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 1961
UNION OF INDIA
India
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 1961
Rule THE-UNIVERSITY-GRANTS-COMMISSION-INSPECTION-OF-UNIVERSITIES-RULES-1961 of 1961
Published on 28 January 1961
Commenced on 28 January 1961
[This is the version of this document from 28 January 1961.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 1961
Published vide Notification in the Gazette of India, dated of the 28th January, 1961.
1743.
S.O. 287, dated the 28th January, 1961. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (g) of sub-section (2) of Section
25 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956) the Central Government hereby makes the following
rules, namely :-
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 1961.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 1961
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules unless the context otherwise requires;-
(a)
"University" means a University as defined in clause (( of Section 2 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956, and
includes an institution for higher education deemed to be a University under Section 3 of the said Act;
(b)
"Financial Year" means the year commencing from the 1st April and ending on the 31st March of the following calendar
year; and
(c)
"Academic Year" means the academic year of the respective Universities.
3.
Appointment of Committees.
- The Commission may appoint a Committee, wherever or whenever necessary, consisting of such persons as it may
decide in each case and subject to the provisions of rule 6, to examine and report on the financial needs of a University
or its standards of teaching examination and research or both.
4.
Questionnaire to be supplied.
- Before the Committee inspects a University, the Commission shall send to the Vice-Chancellor of the University a
questionnaire seeking information on all relevant matters relating to the Department/Departments or
Institution/Institutions to be inspected.
5.
Communication of date of inspection.
- After receipt of information under rule 4, the Commission shall fix a date for inspection by the Committee and
communicate the same to the University concerned.
6.
University to be associated.
- The University shall be associated with the inspection in the following manner, namely :-
(a)
The University shall nominate not more than three representatives who may include the Vice-Chancellor or the
Registrar, the Dean who may include the Vice-Chancellor or the Registrar, the Dean or the Deans of Faculty/Faculties
concerned and such other officers/teachers of the Department/Departments or Institution/Institutions as may be deputed
by the University and their names shall be communicated to the Commission.
(b)
The representatives of the University shall be associated with the inspection for such time and in such manner as may
be determined by the Committee after consultation with the University.
(c)
In carrying out the inspection, the Committee may have discussions with such officers/teachers and other members of
the Department(s) or Institution(s) to be inspected as may be considered necessary by the Committee.
7.
Report to the Commission.
- As soon as possible after the inspection, the Committee shall report its findings to the Commission.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2