
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U. P. Sugarcane Cess (Validation) Act,   1961
The U. P. Sugarcane Cess (Validation) Act,   1961
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/5008792/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
25
]
Union of India - Act
The U. P. Sugarcane Cess (Validation) Act,   1961
UNION OF INDIA
India
The U. P. Sugarcane Cess (Validation) Act,   1961
Act 4 of 1961
Published on 1 January 1961
Commenced on 3 February 1961
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1961.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
An Act to validate the imposition and collection of cesses on sugarcane under certain Acts of Uttar Pradesh.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twelfth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the U. P. Sugarcane Cess (Validation) Act,  1961 .
(2)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 3rd day of February,  1961 .
2.
Definitions. In this Act,--
(a)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U. P. Sugarcane Cess (Validation) Act,   1961
" cess" means the cess payable under any State Act and includes any sum recoverable under any such Act by way of
interest or penalty;
(b)
" State Act" means any of the following Acts, namely:- (i) The United Provinces Sugar Factories Control Act,  1938  (U.
P. Act
1 of  1938
).(ii)  The U. P. Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Pur- chase) Act,  1953 ; (U. P. Act XXIV of  1953  .) and
(iii)
The U. P. Sugarcane Cess Act,  1956 . (U. P. Act XXII of  1956  .)
3.
Validation of imposition and collection of cesses under State Acts during a period.
(1)
Notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court, all cesses imposed, assessed or collected or purporting to
have been imposed, assessed or collected under any State Act
1
before the 3rd day of February,  1961  ] shall be deemed to have been validly imposed, assessed or collected in
accordance with law, as if the provisions of the State Acts and of all notifications, orders and rules issued or made
thereunder, in so far as such provisions relate to the imposition, assessment and collection of such cess had been
included in and formed part of this section and this section had been in force at all material times when such cess was
imposed, assessed or collect- ed; and accordingly,-
(a)
no suit or other proceeding shall be maintained or con- tinued in any court for the refund of any cess paid under any
State Act;
(b)
no court shall enforce a decree or order r directing the refund of any cess paid under any State Act; and
(c)
any cess imposed or assessed under any State Act before the 3rd day of February,  1961  but not collected before that
date, may be recovered (after assessment of the cess, where necessary) in the manner provided under that Act.
(2)
For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared that nothing in sub- section (1) shall be construed as preventing any
person,-
(a)
from questioning in accordance with the provisions of any State Act and rules made thereunder the assessment of any
cess for any period, or
(b)
from claiming refund of any cess paid by him in excess of the amount due from him under any State Act and the rules
made thereunder.
4.
Repeal. The U. P. Sugarcane Cess (Validation) Ordinance,  1961 , (1 of  1961  .) is here by repealed.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2