
----- PAGE 1 -----
Diplomatic Immunities (Conferences With Common-Wealth Countries And Republic of Ireland) A...
Diplomatic Immunities (Conferences With Common-Wealth Countries
And Republic of Ireland) Act, 1961
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/106623989/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Diplomatic Immunities (Conferences With Common-Wealth Countries And Republic of Ireland) Act, 1961
UNION OF INDIA
India
Diplomatic Immunities (Conferences With Common-Wealth Countries And Republic of Ireland) Act, 1961
Rule
DIPLOMATIC-IMMUNITIES-CONFERENCES-WITH-COMMON-WEALTH-COUNTRIES-AND-REPUBLIC-OF-IRELAND
-ACT-1961 of 1961
Published on 2 March 1961
Commenced on 2 March 1961
[This is the version of this document from 2 March 1961.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Diplomatic Immunities (Conferences With Common-Wealth Countries And Republic of Ireland) Act, 1961
9.
and 10 Eliz 2, c.11
1505.
[2nd March 1961.]
An Act to provide for conferring certain immunities on representatives of Governments of Common wealth Countries and
of the Republic of Ireland attending conferences in the United Kingdogi,and  on their staffs.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Diplomatic Immunities (Conferences With Common-Wealth Countries And Republic of Ireland) A...
1.
Diplomatic immunities of Commonwealth representatives attending conferences.-
(1)
Where a conference is held in the United Kingdom and is attended by representatives of Her Majesty's Government in
the United Kingdom and of the government or governments of one or  more countries to which this section applies, the
Secretary of State may compile a list of representatives of the last-mentioned government or governments attending the
conference and members of their official staffs, and cause that list to be published in the London, Edinburgh and  Belfast
Gazettes, and every representative of a government to which this section applies who is  for the time being included in
the list shall, for the purpose of any enactment [* *]
[Words "and rule of law" omitted by Act 1964, C. 81.]
or custom  relating to the immunities of an envoy of a foreign Sovereign Power accredited to Her Majesty  and of the
retinue of such an envoy, be treated as if he were such an envoy and subject to the  provisions of this section, such of
the members of his official staff as are for the time being  included in the list shall be treated for the purpose aforesaid as
if they were his retinue.
(2)
Whenever it appears to the Secretary of State that any person ceases or begins to be  qualified for inclusion in a list
complied under the foregoing sub-section he may amend the list  and cause a notice of the amendment or, if he thinks
fit, an amended list to be published in the  London, Edinburgh and Belfast Gazettes.
(3)
Every list or notice published under this section in relation to any conference shall  include a statement of the date from
which the list or amendment takes or took effect; and the  fact that any person is or was included or not included at any
time among the persons entitled to  diplomatic immunities as representatives attending the conference or as members of
the official  staff of any such representative may, if a list of those persons has been so published, be conclusively proved
by producing the Gazette containing the list or, as the case may be, the last list  taking effect before that time, together
with the Gazettes (if any) containing notices of the  amendments taking effect before that time, and by showing that the
name of that person is or  was at that time included or not included in the said list.
(4)
A person who is a member of the official staff or a representative of the government of  a country to which this section
applies and is [* * *]
[Certain words omitted by Act, 1964, C. 81.]
not [* * *]
[Certain words omitted by Act, 1964, C. 81.]
entitled under the foregoing  provisions of this section to any immunity except in respect of things done or omitted to be 
done in the course of the performance of his duties, [* * *]
[Certain words omitted by Act, 1964, C. 81.]
shall be entered in a separate part of any list compiled by the Secretary of State under sub-section (1) of this section.
(5)
The countries to which this section applies are Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the  Union of South Africa, India,
Pakistan, Ceylon, Ghana, the Federation of Malaya, Nigeria, the  Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland and the
Republic of Ireland.
2.
Power to extend section 1 to other Commonwealth countries.-
(1)
Her Majesty  may by Order in Council provide for including among the countries to which the foregoing  section applies
any country specified in the Order, being a country within the Commonwealth.
(2)
No recommendation shall be made to Her Majesty in Council to make an Order under  this section unless a draft thereof
has been laid before Parliament and approved by resolution of  each House of Parliament.
3.
Short title and extend.-
(1)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Diplomatic Immunities (Conferences With Common-Wealth Countries And Republic of Ireland) A...
This Act may be cited as the Diplomatic Immunities  (Conferences with Commonwealth Countries and Republic of
Ireland) Act, 1961.
(2)
This Act extends to Northern Ireland.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3