
----- PAGE 1 -----
Declaring certificates of competency granted in other countries as equivalent to correspon...
Declaring certificates of competency granted in other countries as
equivalent to corresponding certificates of competency in India
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/134454469/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Declaring certificates of competency granted in other countries as equivalent to corresponding certificates of
competency in India
UNION OF INDIA
India
Declaring certificates of competency granted in other countries as equivalent to corresponding certificates of
competency in India
Rule
DECLARING-CERTIFICATES-OF-COMPETENCY-GRANTED-IN-OTHER-COUNTRIES-AS-EQUIVALENT-TO-CORRE
SPONDING-CERTIFICATES-OF-COMPETENCY-IN-INDIA of 1961
Published on 25 April 1961
Commenced on 25 April 1961
[This is the version of this document from 25 April 1961.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Declaring certificates of competency granted in other countries as equivalent to corresponding certificates of
competency in India
Published vide Notification S.O.1016, dated 25th April, 1961
1.
S.O.1016, dated 25th April, 1961.  - In exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (1) of  Section 86 of the Merchant
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Declaring certificates of competency granted in other countries as equivalent to correspon...
Shipping Act, 1958 (
44 of 1958
), the Central Government hereby declares that the certificates of competency specified in the Schedule annexed hereto
issued by the Republic of Ireland shall, for the purposes of the said Act, be recognised as equivalent to the
corresponding certificates of competency issued in India.
Schedule
Master (foreign-going).
First Mate (foreign-going).
Second Mate (foreign-going).
First Class Engineer (Steamship).
First Class Engineer (Motorship).
First Class Engineer (Steamship and Motorship).
Second Class Engineer (Steamship).
Second Class Engineer (Motorship).
Second Class Engineer (Steamship and Motorship).
[Min. of Transport and Communications, No. 67-MA(12)/57.]
[Gazette of India, 1961, Part II, Section 3 (ii), p. 1009.]
S.O.4577, dated 17th December, 1968.  - Whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the conditions under which
certificates of competency are granted under the laws in force in the United Kingdom require standards of competency
not lower than those required for the grant of corresponding certificates under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (
44 of 1958
):
And whereas certificates of competency granted under the said Act are accepted in the United Kingdom in lieu of the
corresponding certificates granted under the laws of that country:
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of  Section 86 of the said Act, the Central
Government hereby declares that the certificate of competency granted under the laws in force in the United Kingdom
and specified in column (1) of the Schedule annexed hereto shall for the purpose of the said Act be recognised as
equivalent to the corresponding certificate of competency granted under the said Act and specified against the
corresponding entry in column (2) of the said Schedule.
Schedule 2
1
2
Master (foreign-going)
Master (foreign-going)
First Mate (foreign-going)
First Mate (foreign-going)
Second Mate (foreign-going)
Second Mate (foreign-going)
First Class Engineer (Steamship)
First Class Engineer (Steamship)
First Class Engineer (Motorship)
First Class Engineer (Motorship)
First Class Engineer (Steamship and Motorship)
First Class Engineer (Steamship and Motorship)
Second Class Engineer (Steamship)
Second Class Engineer (Steamship)
Second Class Engineer (Motorship)
Second Class Engineer (Motorship)
Second Class Engineer (Steamship and Motorship)
Second Class Engineer (Steamship and Motorship)
[Min. of Transport and Shipping, No. 30-ML(27)60-MD.]
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Declaring certificates of competency granted in other countries as equivalent to correspon...
[Gazette of India, 1968, Part II, Section 3 (ii), p. 5791.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3