
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Indian Medical Council (Post Graduate Medical Education Committee) Rules, 1961
The Indian Medical Council (Post Graduate Medical Education
Committee) Rules, 1961
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/152686181/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Indian Medical Council (Post Graduate Medical Education Committee) Rules, 1961
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Indian Medical Council (Post Graduate Medical Education Committee) Rules, 1961
Rule THE-INDIAN-MEDICAL-COUNCIL-POST-GRADUATE-MEDICAL-EDUCATION-COMMITTEE-RULES-1961 of
1961
Published on 14 July 1961
Commenced on 14 July 1961
[This is the version of this document from 14 July 1961.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Indian Medical Council (Post Graduate Medical Education Committee) Rules, 1961
Published in the Gazette of India, 1961, Part II, Section 3(ii), page 1650
1991.
S.O. 1699, dated, 14th July, 1961 - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 32 of the Indian Medical Council Act,
1956 (102 of 1956) the Central Government hereby makes the following rules namely:-
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Indian Medical Council (Post-graduate) Medical Education Committee) Rules, 1961.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Indian Medical Council (Post Graduate Medical Education Committee) Rules, 1961
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires.
(a)
"Committee means the Postgraduate Medical Education Committee constituted under Section 20 of the Indian Medical
Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956)";
(b)
"Council" means the Medical Council of India;
(c)
"Member" means a member of the Committee.
3.
Terms of office of members.
- A member shall hold office for a term of five years from the date of his nomination or election on the Committee or for
so long as he continues to be a member of the Council, whichever is shorter.
4.
Resignation of members and filling of casual vacancies.
(1)
"A member may at any time resign his office by a letter addressed to the President of the council. Such registration shall
be effective from the date on which it is accepted by the President. When a vacancy on the Committee occurs amongst
the nominated members the President of the Council shall forthwith report the fact of such vacancy to the Central
Government";
(2)
A casual vacancy in the Committee shall be filled by nomination or election as the case may be and the person so
nominated or elected to fill the vacancy shall hold office only for the remainder of the term for which the member in
whose place such person is nominated or elected.
(3)
Members nominated or elected shall be eligible for re-nomination or re-election as the case may be;
5.
Chairman.
- The Committee shall elect from amongst the members a Chairman who shall preside over meetings of the Committee.
In the absence of the chairman, a member elected by the members present from amongst themselves shall preside over
the meeting.
6.
Meeting of the Council.
(1)
The meetings of the Committee shall be held at New Delhi on such dates as may be fixed by the Chairman of the
Committee. The Secretary of Council shall issued the notice of the meetings at least ten days before the date on which
the meetings is to be held alongwith the agenda showing the business to brought before the meeting. Provided that
additional agenda may be placed before the meeting with the permission of the Chairman.
(2)
The quorum to constitute the meeting of the committee shall be five members.
7.
Minutes.
(1)
The Secretary shall draw the minutes of each meeting to be approved by the Chairman which shall be placed for
confirmation at next meeting of the Committee. The Secretary shall keep a record of the confirmed minutes of the
meeting of the Committee.
(2)
The Council shall forward to the Central Government a copy of minutes of each meeting of the Committee confirmed
under Sub-rules (1) together with its comments, if any.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Indian Medical Council (Post Graduate Medical Education Committee) Rules, 1961
Translation
Page 3/3