
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Port Rules Of The Port Of Madras, 1962
The Port Rules Of The Port Of Madras, 1962
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/145579446/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
4
]
Union of India - Act
The Port Rules Of The Port Of Madras, 1962
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Port Rules Of The Port Of Madras, 1962
Rule THE-PORT-RULES-OF-THE-PORT-OF-MADRAS-1962 of 1962
Published on 12 May 1962
Commenced on 12 May 1962
[This is the version of this document from 12 May 1962.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Port Rules Of The Port Of Madras, 1962
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, 1962, Part 2, Section 3(i), page 550.
2020.
G.S.R. 655, dated 12th May, 1962. - In exercise of the powers conferred by  sub-section (1) of Sec. 6 of the Indian Ports
Act, 1908 (
15 of 1908
), and in supersession  of the Port Rules of the Port of Madras published with the Notification of the  Government of
Madras in the Marine Department No. 53, dated the 15th June, 1889,  the Central Government hereby makes the
following Port Rules for the Port of Madras,  the same having been previously published as required by sub-section (2)
of the said  section.
Port Rules
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Port Rules Of The Port Of Madras, 1962
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Port Rules of the Port of Madras, 1962.
2.
Entering or leaving port.
(a)
No vessel shall enter or leave the harbour at  any time without having on board a Pilot, unless authority in writing to do
so has  been obtained from the Deputy Conservator of the Port.
(b)
All sea-going vessels, on entering or leaving the port between sunrise and  sunset, shall fly their national flag, and when
entering port, each vessel shall show  her number.
(c)
Every vessel entering or leaving the harbour shall be provided with an efficient  pilot ladder in compliance with the Indian
Merchant Shipping (Pilot Ladder) Rules,  1953. If a pilot considers the rope ladder or man-ropes provided by a vessel to
be  unsafe, he may refuse to board or leave her, as the case may be, until a strong and  efficient ladder and stout
man-ropes are provided as required.
(d)
Not more than one vessel shall enter or leave the harbour at the same time.
Notes. - (1) A vessel may leave the harbour without having on board a Pilot under  stress of weather if the Master
obtains authority to do so by signal from  the Deputy Conservator of the Port.
(2)
The Port Trust Board, being the Conservator of the Port have in  accordance with Sec. 31(1) of the Indian Ports Act,
1908, authorised the  Deputy Conservator of the Port to issue an order to the effect that all  mechanically propelled
vessels of 100 tons or under will be free to enter  or leave or be moved in the Port without having a Pilot, harbour master
 or assistant of the Port officer or harbour master on board, provided  that the vessels in question are not sea-going
vessels and provided  further that they comply with the provisions of any other laws or rules  for the time being
applicable to them.
3.
Berths of vessels.
- All vessels within the Port shall take up such berths as  may be assigned to them by the Deputy Conservator of the
Port and shall change  their berth when required by him.
Notes. - (1) No immobilised vessel will be shifted without the orders of the Deputy  Conservator of the Port.
(2)
Whenever the services of the second tug are utilised at the discretion of  the Pilot, the charges thereof shall be
separately paid by the vessel.
(3)
The Port Trust Board, being the Conservators of the Port, have, under  Sec. 8 (1) of the Indian Ports Act, 1908, issued
the following direction to  the Deputy Conservator of the Port for his guidance in giving effect to  this rule:
Any vessel carrying dangerous goods, i.e., goods which are likely to  cause risk or danger to any person or to
themselves or to any other  property from inherent vice, shall not be berthed at any berth inside the  harbour, if, having
regard to the quantity and nature of dangerous goods  carried on such vessel, her presence inside the harbour
constitutes in  the opinion of the Deputy Conservator of the Port undue danger to the  port. Every decision of the Deputy
Conservator of the Port in this respect  shall be reviewed by the Board before it is given effect to by the Deputy 
Conservator of the Port
4.
Discharge of rubbish overboard prohibited.
- Ballast and rubbish shall  not be thrown overboard within the limits of the port. If ashes, clinkers, sweepings or  any
rubbish are stowed on deck, care must be taken when washing decks that they  are not washed overside. Oil tankers
are not allowed to pump out their bilges.
5.
Closing of hatchways when not working.
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Port Rules Of The Port Of Madras, 1962
- Vessels, when not working,  cargo shall have all hatchways closed or well protected.
6.
Keeping free passages.
- The entrance to the harbour, the spaces between  the different moorings within the harbour, the spaces in the vicinity
of the quays and  the harbour walls, shall be kept clear to the extent that may be required by the Deputy  Conservator of
the Port.
7.
Moving and warping.
(a)
All vessels within the port shall be moved or  warped from place to place as required and by such means or appliances
as may be  ordered by the Deputy Conservator of the Port.
(b)
No vessel shall cast off a warp that has been made fast to her to assist a vessel  moving, without being required to do so
by the harbour master or Pilot.
8.
Fire and lights.
(a)
No vessel shall be fumigated except at a place appointed  by the Deputy Conservator of the Port for the purpose.
(b)
Pitch or dammer shall not be heated on board vessels within the port, but in  a boat alongside or astern, nor shall spirits
be drawn off on board such vessels by  candle or other unprotected artificial lights.
(c)
Vessels, while loading cotton, shall not have any unprotected lights in the hold.
(d)
When gun-powder, ammunition or other explosives in excees of 45 kgms.  (100 lbs)weigth are being shipped on board,
or being discharged from any vessel  within the limits of the port, neither fires, lights nor smoking are under any
circumstances to be permitted on board, except as provided in the Explosives Rules, 1940.
9.
Signal Lights.
- The master of any vessel arriving within the Port with  ammunition explosives of over 45 kgms. (100 lbs) in weight of
gun-powder on board  as cargo, shall display a red flag 'B' of the Commercial Code at the fore during daylight,  and
between sunset and sunrise shall exhibit when a tanker, a red light over the  usual anchor light for such time as the
ammunition, explosive or gun-powder may be  on board within Port limits.
The use of 'sound signals' for attracting attention is prohibited on board vessels  while within the limits of the Port, except
for the purpose specified in regulations 15,  28 and 31 of the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at sea
and in  case of emergency, where assistance from the shore is urgently required in the interest  of the safety of the
vessel or when the Pilot in charge thinks fit to do so.
10.
Number of crew.
- All vessels within the Port shall have on board a sufficient  number of crew to perform any duties which may become
necessary for the safety of  the vessel in any emergency.
11.
Employment of persons engaged in cleaning or painting vessels.
- No  person shall be employed in cleaning or painting a vessel or in working in the bilges,  boilers or double bottom of a
vessel in the Port either before or after the hours which  may be fixed from time to time by the Conservator of the Port
for such purposes.
12.
Bathing in the harbour.
-Bathing is strictly prohibited in the harbour on  account of the sharks which infest it.
13.
Signals to be made by vessels at the Port of Madras.
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Port Rules Of The Port Of Madras, 1962
(a)
By vessels.
All necessary signals can be made by vessels by using the International Code of  Signals and they will be acknowledged
by the answering pendant being hoisted at  the Signal Station masthead. Communications by the Morse and
Semaphore Codes  may be made to the Port Signal Station by day and by night, using flag 'Z' by day and  flashing 'Z' at
short intervals by night to call up station.
All the night signals shall be made in one hoist, the lights being a vertical line one over the other not less than 1 metre (3
feet) apart with the exception of single light signals and of the second and the third signals which are to be hoisted as
indicated against them:
Signal
Where hoisted
Signification
Day
Night
Flag Q
To
be hoisted where best seen.
My
ship is healthy and 1 request free pratique.
To
be shown where best seen, the lights being not more than 2
metres (6 ft) apart
I
have not received free pratique.
I
have not received free pratique.
Flag QQ
To be hoisted where best seen.
My ship is suspected
To
be shown where best seen, the lights being not more than 2
metres (6 ft) apart.
I
have not received free pratique.
Flag QL
To be hoisted where best seen.
My
ship is infected.
To
be shown where best seen, the light being not more than 2 metres
(6ft.) apart.
I
have no received free pratique
Ensign and House Flag
To be lowered mast half mast.
Death on board while in port limits.
Pilot Jack
Masthead
Harbour Master is required.
Flags DQ
Where best seen, masthead, signal yard arm, or
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Port Rules Of The Port Of Madras, 1962
stay signal halliards.
Am on fire and require immediate assistance
Flags DV
Where best seen, masthead, signal yard arm, or
stay signal halliards.
Have sprung a leak and require immediate
assistant.
Flag DZ
Where best seen, masthead, signal yard arm, or
stay signal halliards.
Require immediate assistant.
= Indicates a white light.
= Indicates a red light.
Flag B and
R
K
O
B to be hoisted at
fore masthead.
R at the main
masthead
K
O
Have
kerosene oil or petrol on board
Night signal at the fore.
Flag B
B to be hoisted at fore masthead.
Have explosive on board.
Night signal to be hoisted at the main
masthead.
(Note.- Vessels having any quantity of explosives other than for their
own use should make use of this signal.)
Flag ST
Where
best seen, masthead, signal yard arms or stay signal halliards.
Want Police
Flags A
Have parted moorings.
N
-----------Do----------
G
Flags Y
A
-----------Do----------
Require tug.
Flag W
-----------Do----------
Want doctor or medical assistance.
= Indicates a white light.
= Indicates a red light.
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Port Rules Of The Port Of Madras, 1962
Signal
Where
hoisted
Signification
Day
Night
Pendant
No. 4
Nil
Foremasthead.
Am
entering the harbour.
Flag
N
Nil
Do
Am
proceeding out of the  harbour.
Flags
Y, J
Nil
Where
best seen, masthead, signal yard arm, or stay signal halliards
Require
fresh water.
Flags
S, I, X
Nil
Where
best seen, masthead, signal yard arm, or stay signal halliards.
Require,
Binny's Madras
(b)
Signals made at the Madras Port Signal Station flag staff.
(i)
Day Signals
Signals
Where hoisted
Signification
Madras Storm
Signals
South yard arm
As detailed in the
chapter on Cyclone Code.
Flag N
Masthead
A vessel in
harbour requires a pilot.
Pendant No. 4
-Do-
A vessel is in
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Port Rules Of The Port Of Madras, 1962
sight.
Note. - A black ball at the masthead of the Signal Station indicates a vessel in  the harbour is underweigh, or about to
get underweigh, and that incoming vessels should allow plenty of sea-room. Flag N is hauled down on the Signal Station
after  the Pilot has boarded the outgoing vessel.
(ii)
Night Signals
Signals
Where hoisted
Signification
Madras Storm
Signals
Flag Staff
As detailed in the
chapter on Cylcone Code.
One white light
Masthead
Vessel (either
inside or outside the harbour) requires a pilot.
When a Pilot on board a vessel outside the harbour intending to enter, sees the  'N' of the Commercial Code at the
masthead of a vessel inside, or a black ball at the  masthead of the Signal Station, he must wait outside until the vessel
flying the 'N'  has left the harbour taking care to allow the outgoing vessel plenty of sea-room; if the
'N' is lowered to half-mast, he may then enter.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7