
----- PAGE 1 -----
Specifying form in Which Return of Facts Under Section 214 (2) of The Act May Be Transmitt...
Specifying form in Which Return of Facts Under Section 214 (2) of
The Act May Be Transmitted By The Master
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/189091304/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Specifying form in Which Return of Facts Under Section 214 (2) of The Act May Be Transmitted By The Master
UNION OF INDIA
India
Specifying form in Which Return of Facts Under Section 214 (2) of The Act May Be Transmitted By The Master
Rule
SPECIFYING-FORM-IN-WHICH-RETURN-OF-FACTS-UNDER-SECTION-214-2-OF-THE-ACT-MAY-BE-TRANSMITTE
D-BY-THE-MASTER of 1962
Published on 13 August 1962
Commenced on 13 August 1962
[This is the version of this document from 13 August 1962.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Specifying form in Which Return of Facts Under Section 214 (2) of The Act May Be Transmitted By The Master
Published vide Notification the Gazette of India, 1962, Part 2, Section 3(ii). P. 2858.
1.
S.O. 2638, dated 13th August, 1962.  - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 214 of the
Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (
44 of 1958
) the Director General of Shipping hereby directs that the return of the facts recorded by the master of an Indian ship in
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Specifying form in Which Return of Facts Under Section 214 (2) of The Act May Be Transmitt...
respect of the birth of a child or the death of a person on board the ship shall be delivered or transmitted to the I director
General in the form set out in the annexed Schedule.
B. & D. I. (India)
Return of Births and Deaths Occurring on Board* Important:  This form shall be forwarded as early as possible, by air, if
necessary, direct to:-
The Director General of Shipping,
Commerce House, Currimbhoy Road,
Bombay-1.
Name of Ship
Official
Number
Port of Registry
Instructions To Masters
(i)
A record of every birth of a child or death of a person ON BOARD ship is required to be made by the Master of every
Indian ship (excepting a Home-Trade ship of less than 200 tons gross) in the official log book and a return thereof
forwarded to the Director General of Shipping.
(ii)
Failure to send a return to the Director General of Shipping, Bombay, renders the Master liable to line which may extend
to one hundred rupees for each offence. [Section 214(2) and 436 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958].
Note :- When the death of a person at sea is assumed by the Master to have taken place because the person in
question is reported to be missing, or where a person is killed or drowned as a result of falling or jumping overboard,
falling from a rope or ladder attached to the ship, or from the ship's gangway, the death should be regarded as having
taken place, ON BOARD.
BIR
Date of Birth
Time and place of Birth
Whether still born or born alive
Name (if any) of child
Sex
Name and Occupation Surname of Father of Father
DEA
Date of Death
Place of Death
Name and surname of Deceased
Father's/ Husband's Name
Sex
Age
Occupation
Members of Crew
Persons who were not
Certificate To Be Signed
I hereby certify that this Return is a True Copy of the entry in the
tabular form in the
Signature of Master........
Date.........
THS
Name and Surname of Mother
Maiden name of Mother
Father
Mother
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Specifying form in Which Return of Facts Under Section 214 (2) of The Act May Be Transmitt...
Nationality (Stating Birth place & Religion)
Last place of abode
Nationality (stating Birth place & Religion)
Last place of abode
THS
Nationality (stating Birth place) & Religion
Last place of abode
Cause of Death
Manner in which body was disposed of
Including Master
member of the Crew
By The Master
official Log Book or other official record of the above-named ship.
Additional Particulars respecting Deceased Member of the Crew to be supplied(if known)
Home Address of Deceased
No. of C.D.C. and Registration Number
Department (Deck, Engine or saloon)
Particulars of Engagement
Date
Place
Copy of Entry or Entries respecting the Death appearing in
the Narrative section of the Official Log Book, or other
Official Record.
Date and Hour of the Occurrence
Place of the Occurrence or Situation by latitude and
Longitude at Sea
Date of  Entry
Entries required by the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 and rules
framed there under or by any other Act or Parliament
[Min. of Transport and Communications, No. 7-SL(29)/59.]
[Gazette of India, 1962, Part II, Section 3(ii) P. 2858]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3