
----- PAGE 1 -----
Presidents Pension (Maintenance of Secretarial Staff and Medical Attendance) Rules, 1962
Presidents Pension (Maintenance of Secretarial Staff and Medical
Attendance) Rules, 1962
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/178208331/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Presidents Pension (Maintenance of Secretarial Staff and Medical Attendance) Rules, 1962
UNION OF INDIA
India
Presidents Pension (Maintenance of Secretarial Staff and Medical Attendance) Rules, 1962
Rule
PRESIDENTS-PENSION-MAINTENANCE-OF-SECRETARIAL-STAFF-AND-MEDICAL-ATTENDANCE-RULES-1962 of
1962
Published on 1 October 1962
Commenced on 1 October 1962
[This is the version of this document from 1 October 1962.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Presidents Pension (Maintenance of Secretarial Staff and Medical Attendance) Rules, 1962
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extraordinary, 1962, Part, 2, Section 3(i), p. 521.
1584.
G.S.R. No. 1328, dated 1.10.1962.- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 of the President's Pension Act,
1951 (30 of 1951), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement.-
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Presidents Pension (Maintenance of Secretarial Staff and Medical Attendance) Rules, 1962
(1)
These rules may be called the President's Pension Rules, 1962.
2.
Definitions.-
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires -
(a)
`retired President' means a person who has ceased to hold office as the President of India either by the expiration of his
term of office or by resignation of his office and includes the last Governor-General of India;
(b)
`secretarial staff' means any person or persons who may be employed by the retired President in connection with
secretariat work;
(c)
`medical attendance and treatment' include medical consultation, cost of medicines, clinical and pathological tests, other
methods of examination and surgical operations, which the retired President may require;
(d)
`medical attendant' means any registered medical practitioner practicing any system of medicine;
(e)
`regular medical attendant' means a medical attendant who may be nominated by the retired President for regular
medical attendance and treatment;
(f)
`travelling expenses' mean -
(i)
in the case of Government medical officers, such travelling and other allowances as may be admissible to them under
the rules of their service; as
(ii)
in the case of persons other than Government medical officers, expenditure incurred on travel not exceeding the amount
admissible to a Class I Government servant of the highest grade.
3.
Maintenance of secretarial staff.-
(1)
During each financial year, an amount not exceeding Rs. 12,000 (Rupees twelve thousand) only shall be paid to every
retired President towards the actual charges incurred by him for the maintenance of his secretarial staff and office
expenses.
(2)
At the initial appointment of the staff, information regarding the number of persons employed, their emoluments and the
periods of their employment shall be furnished to the Central Government. All subsequent changes shall also be
intimated as and when they occur.
(3)
The amount required by the retired President or the surviving spouse of a deceased President, as the case may be, for
the maintenance of secretarial staff and the office expenses shall be drawn in the form of simple receipt as and when
required.
(4)
At the end of each year, a certificate in Form I appended to these rules shall be given by the retired President to the
effect that the amount so far drawn by him has been expended for the purpose for which it had been drawn.
4.
Medical Attendance and Treatment.-
(1)
The retired President shall be entitled to medical attendance and treatment at his residence, or at the clinic, nursing
home or institution of similar nature of consulting room of the medical attendant, specialist or practitioner concerned-
(a)
by a medical attendant or the regular medical attendant; and
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Presidents Pension (Maintenance of Secretarial Staff and Medical Attendance) Rules, 1962
(c)
by a specialist or medical practitioner not falling under clause (a)
Provided that a specialist or medical practitioner or medical attendant other than the regular medical attendant shall be
called from outside the State in which the retired President is residing, only on the advice of the Director of Medical
Services or other corresponding officer in the State concerned or the officer-in-charge of the principal Government
hospital in the district.
(2)
The retired President shall also be entitled to any other expenditure that may be incurred by him in connection with his
treatment by the medical attendant, the regular medical attendant or the specialist or practitioner referred to in sub-rule
(1), as the case may be.
(3)
All expenses referred to in sub-rule (1) and (2) in rule 5 shall be borne by the Central Government on production of a
certificate by the retired President in Form-II, or by any person authorised by him in this behalf in Form-IIA appended to
these rules.
5.
Hospitals, Nursing Homes and Medical Institutions at which treatment may be received.-
A retired President shall also be entitled to medical treatment and attendance in any hospital, nursing home or medical
institution in India. All expenses incurred in this connection shall be borne by the Central Government.
6.
Travelling Expenses.-
Any travelling expenses incurred by the retired President or the medical attendant or regular medical attendant or
specialist or medical practitioner in connection with the medical attendance and treatment of the retired President shall
be borne by the Central Government on production of a certificate by the retired President in Form-III, or any person
authorised by him in this behalf in Form-IV, appended to these rules. In the case of a Government medical officer who
may perform journeys to attend on the retired President, the travelling expenses may be drawn by him through the usual
Government channels. If the officer belongs to a State Government, the latter may claim reimbursement of the cost from
the Central Government.
7.
Interpretation and removal of difficulty.-
If any question arises relating to the interpretation of these rules or any difficulty arises in complying with the provisions
of these rules, it shall be referred to the Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs whose decision thereon
shall be final.
8.
Saving.-
Nothing in these rules shall be deemed to prevent the Central Government from providing to a retired President, his
spouse or the spouse of a person who dies while holding the office of President any facility relating to the medical
treatment or attendance or travelling expenses for any journey performed by him or the spouse which is not authorised
by rules 4 to 6B.
FORM - I
[Form of certificate referred to in sub-rule (4) of rule 3]
Certified that the amount of Rs. ........... (Rupees .........) drawn by me during the year ending 31st March, 19......... has
been expended on the maintenance of my secretarial staff and the office expenses thereof.
Signature :......
Date :...........
Place :..........
FORM - II
(Form of certificate referred to in rule 4 and rule 6B)
Certified that the amount of Rs........... (Rupees...........) drawn by me has been expended in connection with my medical
treatment/attendance/consultation.
Signature :......
Date :...........
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Presidents Pension (Maintenance of Secretarial Staff and Medical Attendance) Rules, 1962
Place :..........
FORM - III
(Form of certificate referred to in rule 6)
Certified that the amount of Rs. ....... (Rupees ............. ) drawn by me on account of travelling expenses has been
incurred by me/my medical attendant/specialist/medical practitioner in connection with medical
consultation/attendance/treatment.
Signature :......
Date :...........
Place :..........
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4