
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/182780107/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
Rule THE-MADRAS-PORT-PETROLEUM-RULES-1963 of 1963
Published on 18 May 1963
Commenced on 18 May 1963
[This is the version of this document from 18 May 1963.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, 1963, Part 2, Section 3(i), page 1110.
2015.
G.S.R. 1005, dated 18th May, 1963. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Sec. 6 of the Indian
Ports Act, 1908 (
15 of 1908
) and in supersession  of the Port of Madras (Landing and Shipment of Petroleum) Rules, published with  the late War
Transport Department Notification No. 13-P (53)/39, dated the 29th  August, 1942, the Central Government hereby
makes the following rules, regulating  the landing and shipping of petroleum within the Madras Port limits, the same 
having been previously published as required by sub-section (2) of the said section.
Rules
Page 1/17
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
Rules Regulating The Landing And Shipment Of 'Petroleum'  Within The Madras Port Limits
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
-(i) These rules may be called "The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963".
(ii)
They extend to the whole of the Madras Port area.
(iii)
They shall come into force from the date of publication.
2.
Application of Petroleum Rules, 1937, not barred.
-These rules shall be in  addition to and not in derogation of the Petroleum Rules, 1937, and nothing in these  rules shall
be deemed to be contrary to any of the provisions of the Petroleum Rules,  1937.
3.
Definitions.
-In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context
(a)
"Bulk Oil vessel" means a vessel licensed to carry petroleum in bulk as  cargo.
(b)
"Cased Petroleum" means petroleum packed in cases, casks, drums or  other receptacles.
(c)
"Dangerous Petroleum" means any petroleum having flash point below  76°F.
(d)
"Heavy Petroleum" means petroleum which has its flash point not  below 150°F.
(e)
"Non-dangerous Petroleum" means petroleum having its flash point  below 150°F, but not below 76° F.
(f)
"Petroleum" means any liquid hydro-carbon or mixture of hydrocarbons  and any inflammable mixture (liquid, viscous or
solid) containing any  liquid hydro-carbon or any other commodity given in the Schedule.
(g)
"Petroleum in bulk" means petroleum contained in receptacles  exceeding 200 gallons in capacity.
(h)
"Ton" when used to indicate the weight of petroleum is taken as  equivalent to 300 gallons.
4.
Notice of arrival of 'Petroleum'.
-The Master of every ship carrying  petroleum shall deliver to the Pilot a written declaration under his signature in Form
'A' prescribed in Sch. II to the Petroleum Rules, 1937:
Provided that if, in anticipation of a ship's arrival, the agent of such ship delivers  to the Deputy Port Conservator a
written declaration as aforesaid, no such declaration  need be made by the Master of such vessel.
The declaration given as aforesaid shall contain the following information in  addition to the details furnished in Form 'A':
(a)
The name /names of the petroleum product/products.
(b)
The flash point of such product/products.
(c)
Whether such product/ products is/ are mixable with water or not.
5.
Vessels carrying Petroleum in bulk.
(1)
No vessel with dangerous  petroleum in bulk on board shall enter the enclosed harbour. Such vessel shall be  berthed/
discharged only at the Petrol Berth, situated outside the enclosed harbour.
This sub-rule shall not apply to ships carrying on board less than 150 gallons of  dangerous petroleum as part of the
Page 2/17
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
ship's stores (but not as cargo), if such dangerous  petroleum is carried in appropriate receptacles other than the ship's
cargo tanks and  is stored in a safe manner.
(2)
No vessel shall enter the enclosed harbour from the Petrol Berth after having  discharged dangerous petroleum, until the
tanks which contained dangerous  petroleum have been gas-freed and a a certificate has been obtained by the Master 
from an officer appointed in this behalf by Government, to the effect that such officer  has, after examination with the aid
of vapour testing instrument, found the vessel to  be entirely clear of dangerous petroleum and petroleum vapour.
Such certificates shall be exhibited at the gangway of the vessel.
(3)
Vessels carrying only non-dangerous or heavy petroleum and vessels carrying  less than 150 gallons of dangerous
petroleum to which sub-rule (1) does not apply  may proceed direct to one of the oil berths inside the harbour or to any
other other  berth specially indicated by the Deputy Port Conservator and may discharge their  cargo from such berths
subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Deputy Port  Conservator may impose from time to time.
But when barges containing explosives lie alongside East Quay or are  discharging at East Quay, the outermost tanker
berth inside the North Harbour wall  shall not be used for petroleum tankers.
(4)
If so required by the Deputy Port Conservator, a bulk oil vessel alongside an  oil berth shall, at any time and from time to
time, be removed to any anchorage  appointed for bulk oil vessels; and when the petroleum has been discharged, the 
vessel shall as soon as possible, leave the oil berth and proceed to sea or to any other  anchorage indicated by the
Deputy Port Conservator provided that she may, with the  permission of the Deputy Port Conservator, clean her tanks
alongside subject to the  restriction laid down in sub-rule (2).
(5)
Bulk petroleum vessels lying within the port limits shall always take all  possible precautions to prevent discharge of oil,
oily water or oily refuse on to the  shore or into the sea.
(6)
Cleaning the tanks which contained petroleum shall be carried out within  the Port limits, only with permission in writing
of the Deputy Port Conservator.  During such cleaning, the Master of the vessel shall take particular care to ensure  that
sub-rule (5) is strictly observed.
(7)
Bulk petroleum vessels shall not carry out any repairs within the Port limits  without the permission in writing of the
Deputy Port Conservator. Such permission  maybe given only on production by the Master of such vessel of a 'gas-free
certificate'  obtained in the manner as stipulated in sub-rule (2).
(8)
Vessels carrying petroleum in bulk shall, whilst within the Port limits, exhibit  conspicuously
(a)
from sunrise to sunset a red flag not less than three feet square with a  white circular centre six inches in diameter, if
dangerous petroleum is  carried and a red flag not less than three feet square, if non-dangerous  petroleum is carried;
and
(b)
from sunset to sunrise, a red light.
(9)
Every bulk oil vessel having petroleum other than heavy petroleum on board  as cargo whilst moored in the Port, shall
keep the end of wire hawser having a large  eye paid out to the water's edge at bow and quarter, to enable a tug to take
hold in case  of emergency.
(10)
During the time that any bulk oil vessel is in the Port, a responsible officer  and an Engineer shall always be on board,
night and day, to carry out and give effect  to these rules.
When discharging is proceeding or about to be started, it is absolutely essential  that an officer who holds a certificate of
competency not lower than First Mate and an  Engineer, who holds a certificate of competency not lower than Second
Engineer  shall be on board. Each of these officers shall have at least twelve years service in sea  going oil tank vessels
to his credit. These officers shall see that all necessary  precautions are taken for the safety of the vessel and her cargo.
Page 3/17
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
During all such time  the machinery shall be maintained in working order so that the vessel can be moved  (i.e. as soon
as steam can be raised, in the case of vessels discharging dangerous  petroleum, if so required by the Deputy P9rt
Conservator. Provided that where a vessel.  has power to work her anchor cables and mooring lines, she may not be
required to  maintain her main engines in working conditions during landing of petroleum.
(11)
Any vessel, having petroleum (dangerous or non-dangerous or both) in  bulk on board for discharge partly at the Port
and partly at a port or ports other than  Madras, shall not in any circumstances move the dangerous petroleum intended
for  other ports from the tank or tanks containing it for any purpose whatsoever without  the special permission of the
Deputy Port Conservator.
(12)
Two or more vessels having petroleum other than heavy petroleum on board  shall not, except for the purpose of
transhipment, lie within 100 feet of one another,  unless in the opinion of the Deputy Port Conservator, it is impracticable
to maintain  such distance.
6.
Landing of Petroleum in bulk.
(1)
Before any petroleum in bulk is  discharged from any vessel, the owner of the cargo shall give due notice to the Deputy 
Port Conservator and the Traffic Manager. Discharge of petroleum shall commence  only after obtaining permission to
do so from both the aforesaid officers.
(2)
Dangerous petroleum in bulk shall be loaded/discharged only at the Petrol Berth.
(3)
During loading or discharge of dangerous petroleum no cargo other than  non-dangerous heavy petroleum whatsoever
may be loaded or discharged.
(4)
A bulk oil vessel, while discharging non-dangerous petroleum, may be  permitted simultaneously to load and unload
general cargo. A bulk oil vessel, when  carrying, but not while discharging or loading dangerous petroleum, may load or 
unload general cargo.
7.
Vessels discharging Petroleum in bulk.
(1)
All the mechanical and  electrical fitments on vessels discharging petroleum in bulk shall be constructed and  maintained
in accordance with Lloyd's or other approved Society's rules for vessels  intended to carry petroleum in bulk.
(2)
All the safety devices incorporated into such vessels, in accordance with  Llyod's or other approved Society's
specification, shall remain in good working  condition throughout the period that such vessel discharges dangerous or
non-dangerous petroleum.
Discharge of petroleum shall commence only after all such safety devices are  inspected by a competent ship's officer
and found to be in good working condition.
If any of these safety devices becomes defective or otherwise ineffective at any time when discharge of petroleum is in
progress, the vessel shall immediately stop  pumping. Pumping shall thereafter be resumed only after such defective
safety device  has been restored to working condition.
8.
Conditions of landing of Petroleum in bulk.
(1)
A bulk oil vessel shall  discharge dangerous petroleum, under her own power, only after obtaining special  permission
from the Deputy Port Conservator. Such vessel shall be permitted to  discharge petroleum under its own power, only
subject to the conditions stipulated  in rule 7.
A certificate signed by the Master or owner of such vessel to the effect that all the  safety devices referred to in rule 7
are in good working conditions, shall accompany  the application for permission to discharge petroleum under the ship's
own power.
Page 4/17
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
(2)
(a)
A bulk oil vessel shall commence discharging of dangerous petroleum,  only during the day time, but a vessel which has
commenced the discharge before  sunset may continue to discharge even after sunset, provided that such discharging 
is continuous and without interruption. Should anything occur after sunset, which  necessitates the repair or
disconnection to the plant, pipes or connections, such  discharge shall be discontinued until after sunrise.
(b)
In the case of interruption to pumping after sunset due to any reasons, other  than those stated in Cl. (a) above, the
Deputy Port Conservator may, at his discretion,  grant special permission to re-commence pumping even during the
night time.  Discharge of dangerous petroleum interrupted or suspended after sunset, shall on  no account, be
re-commenced until after sunrise, without the permission of the Deputy  Port Conservator.
(3)
Every time before any bulk oil vessel commences discharging of petroleum,  the pipelines through which such petroleum
is to be pumped (from ship to terminal)  shall be tested for 10 to 15 minutes by pumping through water at 100 lbs.
pressure per  square inch.
(4)
Under no conditions shall petroleum be pumped through the pipelines at  pressure exceeding 100 lbs. per square inch.
This maximum pressure shall not be applied to the pipelines until one hour  after commencement of discharge of
petroleum.
(5)
Throughout the period that petroleum is being discharged, the floating  pipelines shall be under constant supervision by
a responsible employee of the owner  of such petroleum.
(6)
A bulk oil vessel berthed at the petrol berth or at any of the oil berths inside  the harbour for purpose of discharging
petroleum shall discharge such cargo with  due diligence, i.e., at the rate of not less than 1,200 tons in 24 hours,
provided the  pressure allowed permits of a rate of discharge of 50 tons per pumping hour.
Failure to discharge petroleum at the above rate may render the vessel liable to  be removed from the berth at the
discretion of the Deputy Port Conservator.
(7)
Except in cases where discharge is interrupted to shift the vessel concerned  from one berth to another in according with
the orders of any competent authority,  the discharge of petroleum in bulk shall be continuous day and night until
completed,  weather and appliances permitting.
(8)
If for any cause discharge of petroleum is at any time suspended,  arrangements shall be made by some efficient means
to prevent any of the oil in the  pipe-line from escaping.
(9)
In the event of its being necessary to interrupt pumping in order to raise  steam on board, the oil pipes in the vicinity of
the vessel shall be flushed with water  and the valve at the junction of flexible and fixed pipe ashore shall be closed
before  the boiler fires are lighted.
(10)
When a vessel has finished discharging or loading petroleum, the pipe to  the storage tanks shall immediately be
emptied of petroleum by the vessel's pump  flushing water at least as far as the valve house on shore.
The same procedure shall also be observed every time pumping is suspended for any reason whatsoever.
9.
Accident Fire prevention.
- (l) A Harbour Police Guard of one Sergeant and  two constables (or more if considered necessary) shall remain on
duty on board  during the whole time that discharge of petroleum is going on, to strictly enforce  these rules and any
other precautions considered necessary.
Arrangements for this Police Guard shall be made with the Inspector of Harbour  Police direct by the Agent of the
vessel. That this has been done shall always be  notified to the Deputy Port Conservator on each application for
permission to work  cargo, etc.
Page 5/17
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
(2)
Any unauthorised floating craft going alongside the oil vessel without the  permission of the Police Sergeant shall be
liable to be prosecuted, and if such floating  craft even attempts to pass between the vessel's stern and the quay and so
endangers  the floating pipeline, they shall have their licences cancelled by the Deputy Port  Conservator.
(3)
No person shall be allowed on board such oil vessels, except those actually  belonging to the ship's company or those
on ship's business. No workmen shall  normally be allowed on board such vessels; if any workmen have to go on board
such  vessels for any special reasons, the police constable on duty at the gangway shall  thoroughly search such
workmen for matches and other forbidden articles.
(4)
No person engaged in landing or loading petroleum shall carry fuses, matches  or any other appliances for producing
ignition or explosion.
(5)
No fires, smoking or non-safety lights shall, under any conditions, be  permitted on board any floating craft lying
alongside or within 100 feet of any oil  vessel. Harbour tugs proceeding within 100 feet of such oil vessels shall ensure
that  the galley fire and other naked flames/lights are either damped down or extinguished.
Boats shall never hang around the gangway of an oil vessel.
(6)
During the whole time that an oil vessel is discharging petroleum, the oil  pipelines within the harbour area shall be
efficiently patrolled by Mazdoors posted  for the purpose by the Chief Engineer, Madras Port Trust.
(7)
The employees of the oil companies and their representative shall strictly  observe or cause to be strictly observed all
the instructions detailed under Appendix I.
(8)
The Port Trust Departments concerned and the employees of such departments shall strictly observe or cause to be
strictly observed all the instructions detailed under Appendix II 'Fire Protection of the Oil Pipelines and Booster
Pumphouse-Instructions to Port Trust Staff.'
10.
Cased Petroleum, i.e., Petroleum not in bulk.
(1)
No vessel with cased  dangerous petroleum on board, the total quantity of which exceeds 20 tons or 6,000  gallons shall
be permitted to enter the enclosed harbour, whether such dangerous  petroleum is for discharge at the port or not. The
hold or holds containing cased  dangerous petroleum intended for another port shall be kept securely closed and 
covered during the vessel's stay in the port, provided that if the cased dangerous  petroleum is contained only in the
lower hold, the lower hold only need be secured,  closed and covered.
(2)
Landing of cased petroleum, other than heavy petroleum, shall be done at  such place or places as the Deputy Port
Conservator directs.
(3)
The importer must produce to Trustees customs clearance documents before  the cased petroleum is landed.
(4)
Before any cased petroleum is landed or shipped, arrangements must be  made with the Traffic Manager and his
authority obtained for the landing or shipping  of such petroleum.
(5)
When cased petroleum, other than heavy petroleum, is landed, an officer not  below the rank of an Assistant Shed
Master, shall be deputed by the Traffic Manager, to be in attendance from the moment the landing is commenced until it
shall have  been completed, or until such petroleum has been loaded into railway wagons or  other vehicles of transport.
The importer of cased petroleum or persons acting on his  behalf shall strictly carry out any instruction given by the said
officer.
(6)
A ship's officer who holds a certificate of competency, not lower than Second  Mate, shall be on duty at the hatch from
Page 6/17
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
which cased petroleum is being discharged  or into which cased petroleum is being shipped until the discharge or
shipping shall  have been completed.
(7)
During the discharge of cased petroleum at any hatch, no other cargo but  petroleum shall be handled at the hatch.
General cargo and non-dangerous cased petroleum may be simultaneously  handled, provided that they are contained
in separate holds, but when cased  dangerous petroleum is being discharged from a vessel, no other cargo shall be
loaded  into or discharged from such vessel.
(8)
All cased petroleum other than cased dangerous petroleum, brought into  port premises for shipment shall forthwith be
put on board the vessel on which the  same is to be received.
(9)
Cased dangerous petroleum intended for shipment must not be put into  harbour craft until the vessel by which such
petroleum is intended to be shipped is  ready to receive such petroleum.
(10)
The Master of every vessel, other than harbour craft or country craft carrying  cased dangerous petroleum as cargo
shall, whilst in the port, hoists a red flag at the  fore, where it can be best seen. Such flags shall be kept flying from
sunrise to sunset,  as long as the cased petroleum is on board the vessel. Such vessels shall exhibit,  between sunset
and sunrise, a red light at the fore.
11.
Landing of Non-dangerous cased Petroleum.
(1)
Non-dangerous cased  petroleum may be landed or shipped by vessel inside the harbour, but not more than  one vessel
shall be allowed to land or ship such petroleum at any time.
(2)
It shall not be landed or shipped over any West or North Quay berth.
(3)
It may, however, be discharged or shipped overside into or from lighters by a  vessel lying at West or North Quay berths,
provided that not more than 16,000 gallons  of cased petroleum shall be in transit to or from a vessel at any time.
(4)
It may be landed or shipped over the South Quay, or overside into harbour  craft, provided not more than 16,000 gallons
of cased petroleum shall be in transit to  or from a vessel at any time.
(5)
It may be landed or shipped by a vessel lying at the East Quay under the  same conditions as those governing landing
or shipment at the South Quay, except  that there shall be no limit to the quantity in transit to or from the vessel at any
time.
(6)
It may be shipped or landed without limit of quantity into or from steamers at  moorings in the harbour.
(7)
When harbour crafts are used for the purpose of the landing or shipment of  non-dangerous cased petroleum, in no case
shall the quantity of such petroleum  afloat in harbour craft at any time, exceed 16,000 imperial gallons, and not more
than  12 harbour craft shall be used for the purpose at the same time.
(8)
The South Groyne shall be the place for the landing and shipment of non-dangerous cased petroleum by means of
harbour craft from or into steamers or sailing  vessels, provided that only six harbour craft shall be allowed to discharge
or load  simultaneously at the said place.
(9)
Handling of non-dangerous cased petroleum, during the hours of darkness,  shall be done under the surveillance of the
Police and the Trustees' Traffic Department,  but harbour craft containing such petroleum must not he in the harbour at
night  except during the actual operations of loading or discharge.
12.
Sailing vessels.
Page 7/17
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
(1)
Not more than 2,400 imperial gallons of cased  petroleum may be shipped into, or landed from a sailing vessel or
transhipped from  another vessel into a sailing vessel.
(2)
Loading of cased petroleum other than heavy petroleum, into country craft  shall be done under the supervision of the
police, and shall only be allowed between  sunrise and sunset and at such places as may be notified for the purpose by
the  Deputy Port Conservator.
(3)
Any country craft loaded with cased dangerous petroleum shall not leave  the loading berth, except during daylight and
with the written permission of the  Deputy Port Conservator. Such permission shall not be granted unless there is 
reasonable probability that such craft will be clear of the shipping in Port before  sunset.
No such craft shall, after leaving the loading berth, anchor within half a mile of  other shipping in the Port unless
compelled by stress of weather or accident.
13.
Landing of cased dangerous Petroleum.
(1)
Except as provided for in  sub-rule (4), cased dangerous petroleum shall not be landed or shipped by any vessel  inside
the harbour. West of a line running parallel to the West Quay and 2,000 feet  Eastward of the base line of the harbour.
The normal shipping and landing places  shall be the steps on the East side of the harbour, the East Quay and the
South Groyne  East of the first named line.
(2)
Cased petroleum coming under the category of dangerous cased petroleum  and other inflammable liquids given in the
Schedule may be shipped or discharged  by means of harbour craft on the off side of vessels lying at the West Quay
subject to  observance of these rules. The transport of such cargo between harbour craft and  shore shall be done East
of the 2,000 feet line mentioned in sub-rule (1) (vide Schedule  for a sample list of dangerous petroleum).
(3)
No dangerous cased petroleum shall be in actual transit in the harbour  between sunset and sunrise otherwise than in
railway wagon, that is, such petroleum  shall not be handled in any way at night nor he afloat in harbour, craft, etc., in
the  harbour at night.
(4)
Not more than 2,000 gallons of cased dangerous petroleum shall be permitted  to be in transit in the harbour premises at
one and the same time, i.e., between ship's  hatch and harbour gates. Any quantity of such petroleum exceeding 2,000
gallons  shallbe dealt with at the East Quay where it must be landed direct from the vessel on  to the quay and loaded
into railway wagons.
(5)
Not more than one vessel at a time shall land or take in cased dangerous  petroleum in the enclosed harbour.
(6)
Cased dangerous petroleum shall not be landed at the Sand Screen steps  while a vessel is lying at South Quay II and
shall not be landed at the East Quay steps  while a vessel is lying at the East Quay. Should both quays be occupied at
the same  time, such cased dangerous petroleum shall be landed at the steps just inside the  Eastern head of the
harbour entrance, provided that barges containing explosives  are not then lying at or near the said steps.
(7)
No harbour craft containing cased dangerous petroleum shall be in transit  anywhere in the harbour while a vessel is
entering or leaving the Port.
(8)
While the handling of cased dangerous petroleum is in progress, no cooking  fires, smoking or lights of any description,
other than those of the approved safety  type, shall be allowed anywhere on board the vessel, on any barge used for
landing/  carriage of such petroleum and on tugs used to tow such barges.
(9)
Leaky receptacles containing dangerous petroleum shall not be discharged  from a vessel into a harbour craft containing
sound receptacles. Special arrangements  must be made with the Trustees official in charge of the wharf for the landing
Page 8/17
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
of any  leaky receptacles containing dangerous petroleum.
(10)
The presence anywhere in the harbour area of any leaky receptacles  containing dangerous petroleum shall,
immediately on being detected or noticed, be  notified (over telephone) to the Port Fire and Assistant Safety Officer, who
shall  immediately arrange to inspect such receptacles and suggest necessary precautionary  measures. Landing/
transport storage of such leaky drums shall thereafter be carried  out only subject to such precautionary measures as
might be suggested by the Port  Fire and Assistant Safety Officer.
(11)
Only covered wagons or vehicles shall be used to transport cased dangerous  petroleum to or from the loading or
unloading site. Wagons containing cased  dangerous petroleum must be sealed before they are removed from the
loading site.
(12)
Three empty wagons shall be kept between the shunting engine and the  wagons loaded with cased dangerous
petroleum.
(13)
Where harbour crafts are used, not more than 2,000 gallons of cased  dangerous petroleum shall be loaded into any
one harbour craft.
(14)
Cased dangerous petroleum must not be put into harbour craft without the  prior consent of the Trustees. In order,
therefore, to avoid possible delay to vessels  carrying cased dangerous petroleum, the agents of such vessels should
make early  arrangements with the Trustees for the disposal of their cargo of cased dangerous  petroleum.
14.
Cased Dangerous Petroleum in excess of 20 tons or 6,000 gallons.
(1)
When any consignment of dangerous petroleum (not in bulk) in excess of 20 tons or  6,000 gallons is imported into the
Port, the following conditions shall be observed:
(a)
Such consignment shall be unloaded into harbour craft at the Petrol Berth.
(b)
The harbour craft containing such consignment shall lie in the Royapuram Bay.
(c)
Not more than four loaded harbour crafts shall be allowed to lie at anchor outside the harbour entrance at any time.
(d)
If it is proposed to leave harbour craft loaded with such consignment afloat in Royapuram Bay during night, the Deputy
Port Conservator shall be notified before 4 P.M. of the preceding day.
(e)
Each harbour craft loaded with such consignment shall be provided  with a full crew whose duty it shall be to attend to
the moorings of the  harbour craft under their charge and to see that she does not drag. No  harbour craft shall be
moored East of the oil intake at the Oil Berth.
(f)
Each harbour craft loaded with such consignment shall be provided  with an efficient anchor and 30 fathoms of good
chain and in addition  with not less than 30 fathoms of good 4 inch manila or 6 inch coir rope;  each harbour craft shall
also carry at least two oars.
(g)
No harbour craft loaded with such consignment shall be anchored in  Royapuram Bay at a distance less than 150 feet
from any other harbour  craft or any vessel.
15.
Bunkering.
-Bunkering of vessels with heavy petroleum at the West and  North Quays by means of the Trustees' service pipelines,
shall be allowed subject to  the conditions specified hereunder, namely:
(a)
Page 9/17
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
During all such time, as any vessel is receiving heavy petroleum into  her bunkers, the Master or First Mate of such
vessel shall be present on  board. It shall be his duty to see that the conditions specified in these  rules are complied
with and that all reasonable precautions for safety  are observed.
(b)
A ship's officer shall be on watch and an attendant shall be stationed  alongside the flexible connection pipe while
bunkering is in progress.
(c)
Suppliers of heavy petroleum shall be responsible for seeing that all flexible pipes used for bunkering are tested to a
pressure of 30 lbs. per  square inch before operations commence, and that all joints are oil  tight, that when flexible
pipes are dismantled, any unavoidable spillage  on the quay shall be properly cleansed up with sand. No bunkering 
shall be commenced until their supplier has delivered to the Trustees a  certificate to the effect that all flexible pipes to
be sued in the operation  have been tested as required by this rule. Officers-in-charge of vessels  which receive heavy
petroleum for bunkering shall be responsible for  seeing that all valves in the vessel's tanks connections are properly 
regulated to receive the petroleum and due warning shall always be  given to suppliers by ship's officers before any
valves are closed, to  prevent the possibility of a sudden increase in pressure which may  cause a burst in the flexible
pipe or elsewhere and a consequent leakage  of oil. Owners of vessels which receive heavy petroleum for bunkering 
and suppliers, shall be severally responsible for seeing that bunkering  operations are conducted with cleanliness and in
an orderly manner  and any damage resulting from neglect of all proper precautions shall  render them liable under
clause (d).
(d)
Suppliers of heavy petroleum for bunkering shall be liable for any  damage whatsoever caused to cargo or property
belonging to or in  charge of the Trustees by any leakage of such petroleum due to or arising  from negligence or any
defect in or failure of, apparatus or appliances  belonging to the suppliers. The Master and owners or the agents of the
vessels receiving heavy  petroleum shall also be liable for any such damage if caused by  negligence or defect or failure
of apparatus or appliances belonging to  the vessel.
(e)
No cargo other than steel plates, iron rails and similar goods unaffected  by oil, shall be allowed on the wharf within 50
feet of the oil stand  pipes, and shed doors immediately behind them shall be kept closed  while bunkering is in
progress.
(f)
Before bunkering commences, the vessel's attendant shall see that the  telephone connection to the Oil Company's
depots is in working order.
(g)
An attendant shall be on duty at the .pump throughout the time of  bunkering.
(h)
At least two hour's notice in writing shall be given to the Deputy Port  Conservator before bunkering is commenced.
(i)
No bunkering shall be commenced unless a sand cart containing 15  c.f.t. of sand is on the spot at the supply pipe. This
would be the  responsibility of the Oil Company supplying the oil for bunkering.
16.
Enforcement and Penalties.
(1)
The Port Safety Officer, the Port Fire and  Assistant Safety Officer or any other officer duly authorised in this behalf by
the Port  Safety Officer, shall be responsible and shall have due jurisdiction to enforce these  rules.
(2)
(a)
Masters and/or agents of vessels lying within the Port limits and carrying  petroleum as cargo, shall, when so required by
the Port Safety Officer, the Port Fire  and Assistant Safety Officer or any other officer duly authorised in this behalf by
the  Port Safety Officer, afford all reasonable facility to enable such officers to ascertain  whether these rules are duly
observed.
(b)
Page 10/17
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
The occupiers or custodians of premises within the Port limits and/or owners  of petroleum handled or stored anywhere
within the Port limits, shall, if so required  by any of the officers mentioned in sub-rule (1), afford all reasonable facility to
such  officers to ascertain whether these rules are duly observed.
(3)
The Trust's Section Officers and staff shall always ensure that these rules are  duly observed by all parties handling or
storing hazardous substances within the  Port limits.
Any violation of these rules shall, immediately on being noticed by the Section  Officers and staff,. be notified to the Port
Safety Officer or the Port Fire and Assistant  Safety Officer directly and by the quickest means.
Appendix I
[See rule 9 (7)]
Fire Protection of the Oil Pipelines and Booster Pumphouse-Precautions to be taken or procedure to be observed by the
Oil Companies landing petroleum in bulk.
(a)
General. - 1. Advice to the Trust's Mechanical Engineer - Oil Companies  intending to land petroleum in bulk shall advise
the trust's Mechanical Engineer of  the intended landing of such petroleum at least 24 hours before such landing 
commences, so as to enable him to post necessary staff to man the Booster Pumphouse  and to petrol the oil pipelines.
Advice, as above, regarding landing of petroleum in bulk on Sundays and Board  holidays should reach the Mechanical
Engineer, before 1100 hours on the preceding  working day.
2. Manifold pit to the North of the Booster Pumphouse. - The Oil Company  receiving petroleum in bulk, shall be
responsible to keep manifold pit reasonably  clean and free from split oil and litter, at all times during tanker discharge.
Before commencement of tanker discharge, during tanker discharge and  immediately after completion of tanker
discharge, the Oil Company concerned shall  arrange to collect cotton waste and other waste matter which may be lying
in the  manifold pit and to deposit the same into rubbish bin provided for the purpose.
The Oil Company concerned shall arrange to collect in barrels any oil that may  escape into the manifold pit, even as
such oil escapes from the pipelines or joints, and  shall arrange to clear quickly from the site such barrels into which oil
has been so  collected.
(b)
Action to be taken in the event of a leak and/or fire.-In the event of a leak in  the flexible pipelines, (i.e.pipelines
connecting the tanker to the shore pipelines) and/  or a fire on or around the North Groyne, the Oil Company's
Supervisor/Assistant-in-charge of tanker discharge shall take action as follows :
1. Arrange for the tanker to stop pumping and to shut down all tanker  discharge valves.
2. Notify the Port Fire Service-Telephone No. 30161, Extension 268.
3. Notify the Booster Pumphouse.
4. Notify the Terminal receiving petroleum, if necessary.
Note. - (a) The Port Fire Service need not be notified if the oil involved in any leak  is known, beyond all doubt, to be
'Heavy Petroleum', as defined in the  Petroleum Rules.
(b)
It is to be clearly understood that all 'leaks' involving 'Petroleum' other  than'Heavy Petroleum' shall be notified to the
Port Fire Service.
Tanker discharge, suspended on account of a leak involving petroleum other than heavy petroleum, or a fire, shall
recommence only after the leak is repaired or the  fire is put out and the 'All Clear Signal' is obtained from the Deputy
Port Conservator,  or any other official authorised in this behalf by the Deputy Port Conservator.
Appendix II
[See rule 9 (8)]
Fire Petroleum of the Oil Pipelines and the Booster Pumphouse-Instructions to Port Trust Staff
I. Instructions To The Drivers Of Booster Pumphouse :
(a)
General. - The drivers of the booster pump shall, at normal times, be responsible for carrying out the following
instructions:
1. Speaking-tube communicating between the pump room and the engine room shall, at all times, be left closed with the
metal cap provided.
Page 11/17
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
2. The doors and windows of the pumphouse shall always be left closed.
3. Breakages to the door and window-panes and damage to ventilator  shutters shall promptly be reported to the
Workshop Foreman for urgent  repairs.
4. The refuse-bin provided in the pit shall always be kept reasonably  clean of oil waste and other waste matter.
(b)
In case of a leak and/or fire in pipelines or in or about the pumphouse. - In  the event of a leak coming to his notice or
being reported to him,.the pump driver shall  expeditiously carry out the following instructions in the order of precedence
as given  below:
1. Stop or arrange to stop pumping.
2. Actuate the warning device to warn the supervisor on North Groyne and to Engineer at tanker pump.
3. Notify West Fire Station by telephone.
4. Hoist warning signal (Red burgee during day and red light during  night) on the flag staff on top of the pumphouse.
In case of fire occurring in or about the pumphouse the driver may, in addition  to and after carrying out the above
instructions, endeavour to keep in check or put out  the fire using all available equipment. (The pump driver may not,
however, engage  himself in fire-fighting if the fire occurs some distance away from the pumphouse; in  such cases he
may depute all available men to fight the fire and shall himself remain  in the pumphouse premises.)
II. Instructions To The Section Officers And Staff Of The Traffic Department
On a leak in oil pipelines and/ or a fire in or near oil pipelines being noticed or  reported, the Section Officer or staff
concerned shall arrange to take action as detailed  below. The sequence of action should be in the order as detailed
below.
1. Vans of the pumphouse driven by the quickest means.
2. Inform West Fire Station of the occurrence (In case of leak, information  may be given over telephone, in case of fire,
actuate the nearest fire  alarm box and follow up with a telephonic message.)
3. Report the occurrence to 'M' Division Police Station.
4. Cordon off the area as best as possible pending arrival of police party  and see that no naked lights are brought or
caused to be within 300 feet  of the point of occurrence. (For the purpose of this order, locos internal  combustion
engines, hurricanes and pressurised lanterns, railways  signal lamps, all types of cycle lamps, ordinary electric hand
torches,  etc., are to be considered as 'naked lights'.)
5. Pending arrival of Fire Service, take such other measures as may be  considered expedient to prevent outbreak of fire
or to keep in check or  extinguish the fire if one has already started.
III. Instructions To The Staff Of Railway Section Of The Traffic Department
On a leak and/or fire in oil pipeline being reported or on the warning signal  (Red burgee during day and red light during
night) being hoisted atop the pumphouse,  the Yard Superintendent or in his absence the senior most of his assistants
present  shall arrange to suspend immediately wagon shunting operations to the extent  necessary to ensure that no
locos pass within 300 feet of the point of occurrence or  beyond such limits as may be specified by the Deputy Port
Conservator, the Harbour  Master or the Port Fire and Assistant Safety Officer or the seniormost rank of the Port  Fire
Service present at the scene. All paraffin and other non-safety types of signal  lamps also should be warned off or
should cease to be in the area forbidden for the  passage of locos.
Locos and signal lamps may thereafter resume operations in the forbidden area  only after getting the 'All Clear Signal'
from the Deputy Port Conservator, the Harbour  Master, the Port Fire and Assistant Safety Officer or the seniormost
rank of the Port  Fire Service present.
IV. Instructions To The Mazdoors, Posted To Patrol The Oil Pipelines
In the case of a leak and/or fire in the oil pipelines, the mazdoors patrolling the  pipelines shall take action as follows:
1. The, mazdoor who notices the leak/fire, shall rush either to the  Pumphouse near No. 1 Gate or to the Oil Companies'
bunk on the  North Groyne (whichever of the two places is nearer or more readily  reached from the location of the
leak/fire) and shall notify the occurrence  to the Pumphouse driver or the Oil.Company's staff present at the North 
Groyne. On his way to the pumphouse or North Groye, he shall alert  the other mazdoors, by shouting out the
information to them.
2. A second mazdoor, i.e., the one nearest to the location of the leak/ fire  shall rush to contact any responsible member
of the Port Trust Section  or Railway staff who may be available nearest to location of the leak/  fire, and shall notify him
of the occurrence.
Page 12/17
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
3. The remaining two Mazdoors shall rush to the location of the leak/fire  and shall take such action as they can, to
prevent a fire or to keep the  fire under control. In the case of a leak, such Mazdoors shall endeavour  to cordon off the
area, as best as they can and shall ward-off locos and  other sources of naked light, from the vicinity of the leak. In the
event of a fire, they shall endeavour to keep the fire under check; by using  earth and sand or the foamengine stationed
near the Pumphouse.
Note. - The supervisory staff of the Engineering Department who are responsible  to post Mazdoors to patrol the oil
pipelines shall always ensure that such Mazdoors  are thoroughly conversant with what exactly they should do in the
event of a leak/  fire.
V. Instructions To The Port Fire Service
On receiving report of a leak/fire in the pipelines or the Pumphouse, the West Fire Station shall take action as follows:
1. Turn out one unit, under the charge of the seniormost rank of the Fire Service then present at the station.
2. Notify the Fire Officer and Assistant Satefy Officer, and also notify the Harbour Master of the leak/fire.
3. Instruct the Hydraulic Powerhouse Driver to start the Fire Service pump and to maintain a working pressure of about
100 lbs.p.s.i. at the pump gauge.
The seniormost rank of the Fire Service turning out for the leak/fire shall take or  cause to be taken such action as may
be necessary to prevent a fire in case of a leak or  to extinguish the fire, if a fire has already started.
In the case of a leak, he shall ensure that the precautionary measures stipulated  in the instructions above are duly
observed.
In the case of a fire he shall treat it as a Medium Fire' as defined in the Port of  Madras Fire Orders, and take action as
appropriate for a 'Medium Fire'.
If the Police strength available at the scene of occurrence is found inadequate for  cordoning off the area or for any other
legitimate purpose, he may arrange to dial  Telephone No. 100 and requisition assistance of the 'Mobile Police Party.'
N.B. - In cases where oil leaking out of a pipeline is known, beyond all doubt,  to be 'Heavy Petroleum' (e.g. Diesel Oil or
Furnace Oil), fire prevention  measures stipulated in these instructions may not be enforced.
However, all leaks in oil pipelines, whatever be the nature of the petroleum  involved shall be noticed to the Port Fire
Service, for inspection and action as necessary.
Schedule
[See rule 3 (1)]
Inflammable liquids-Their characteristics properties and precautions necessary in the handling of such liquids
Note. - Inflammable liquids are liquids or mixtures of liquids which give off an  inflammable vapour at or below 76°F,
open test, e.g., Gasoline, Coaltar  Naptha, driers for paints or varnish in liquid form, ethyl alcohol,  acetone, etc.
Such liquids generally come under the classification of 'Petroleum"; the  handling and transport of such liquids come
within the purview of the  Petroleum Rules, 1937, and the Madras Port Petroleum Rules.
Inflammable
liquids(not exhaustive)
Hazards
generally associated with inflammable liquids
Precautions
necessary
Amylalcohol
Bisulphide
of corbon Collodion Ether
1.
Highly inflammable, even a spark may be
sufficient to cause
ignition.
1.
Naked or non-safety lights should not be
allowed within a radius
of atleast 100 ft. of any
place where such liquids
Page 13/17
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
are
handled/st.
Ether
Butyric (Ethyl Butyrate
Ether Formic (Ethyl
Formate), [Ether
(Sulphuric)
Ethyl Acetate (Accetic Ether)
Fuel Oil
2.
Vapour forms
explosive mixture with air
ignition of such
mixture
by a spark or flame may
cause a shattering
explosion.
2.
The electrical
fittings (switches for light
and fans, lamp
holders,
etc.) within the premises
used for storage of such
liquids should be of the
gasproof safety pattern
and the wiring
should be
run in properly earthed
metal conduits.
Petroleum
Ether
Pyroxyine
(for photo-graphic and similar purposes)
Vinesthene
(Di-Vinyl Ether)
Ethyl
Chloride
3.
The vapour, which
is generally heavier than
air, may travel
considerable distances
(as and when blown by a
draught of air)
and may
then ignite by contact with
flame or spark.
3.
Every source of
sparking should be
Page 14/17
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
avoided within a. radius
of
100 ft. of any place
where vapour of such
liquids may be
present.
Absolute
Alcohol
Acetone
Butyl
Alcohol
C.P.
Methanol
French
Polish
Hydraulic
Brake Fluid
Industrial
Alcohol
denatured, as under:-
4.
Vapours of most
such liquids are injurious
if inhaled for any
length
of time.
4.
The drums/
containers of such liquids
should not be dropped,
bumped, rolled or roughly
handled.
Denatured
Mhews
Spirit
Denatured
Spirit
Ordinary
Denatured
Spirit
5.
Every possible
precaution should be
taken to prevent leaks in
containers/drums of
such liquids.
Special
Methylated
Spirit
6.
Leaks in such
Page 15/17
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
drums/containers
should be notified to the
Fire
Service, immediately
on being noticed.
Isopropyl
Alcohol
Methyl
Acetone
Methyl
Alcohol
Naptha
Mineral
Power
Alcohol
Power
Alcohol Mixture
Solvent
Naptha
Spirit
Varnish
Rectified
Spirit (50°F. over
proof
and above)
As
under:-
Arrack
Liquor
Mhowa
Spirit
Toddy
Toluol
Wood
Naptha or wood
spirit
XvloI,
Insecticides
(Fluid)
Inflammable.
Necol
household cement
Neco
ustre
Paint
thinners
Enamels,
nitro-cellulose
Lacquers
nitro-cellulose
Paints,
Page 16/17
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Madras Port Petroleum Rules, 1963
nitro-cellulose
Polishes,
nitro-cellulose
Stains,
nitro-cellulose
Varnishes,
nitro-cellulose
Cellulose
Acetate Dope
Nitro,
cellulose Dope
Paint
and Varnish
Remover
Plastic
Wood
Rawplug
Durofix
Rubber
solution
composed of
Rubber
and naptha
Note. - Non-Safety light-Hurricane lanterns, petromax lights, paraffin signal lamps, ordinary electric hand torches, etc.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 17/17