
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/121552124/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
2
]
Union of India - Act
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Rule THE-IRON-ORE-MINES-LABOUR-WELFARE-CESS-RULES-1963 of 1963
Published on 20 September 1963
Commenced on 20 September 1963
[This is the version of this document from 20 September 1963.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Published vide Notification G.S.R. 1534, Dated 20th September, 1963.
G.S.R. 1534, dated 20th September, 1963. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 8 of the
Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Act, 1961 (L VIII of 1961), the Central Government hereby makes the following
rules, the same having been previously published as required by the said section, namely.
Chapter 1
General
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963.
Page 1/58
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
(2)
They shall come into force from 1st October, 1963.
(1)
the "Act" means the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Act, 1961 (LVIII of 1961);
(2)
"Advisory Committee" means a committee constituted under Section 4 of
(3)
"Chairman" means the Chairman of an advisory committee;
(4)
"Commissioner" means an Ore Mines Cess Commissioner referred to in rule 31;
(5)
"fund" means the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Fund;
(6)
"member" means a member of an advisory committee;
(7)
"month" means the period from the first day of any month reckoned according to the British calendar to the last day of
the same month:
(8)
"owner" in relation to an iron ore mine includes a lessee, or mortgagee in possession of such mine and any partner,
managing director, agent; manager or any other person authorized to represent such mine in its transactions:
(9)
[ "schedule" means a schedule appended to these rules]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 907, dated 31st May, 1967.]
(10)
"treasury" means any Government treasury or sub-treasury.]
[Re-numbered by G.S.R. 907, dated 31st May, 1967.]
Chapter II
Advisory Committees and Sub-Committees
3.
[ Composition.-
[Substituted by G.S.R. 1251, Dated 27th June, 1968.]
(1)
There shall be an advisory committee for each of the States of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra,
Mysore, Orissa and the Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu, consisting of the following members, namely:
(i)
[ Chairman;
(ii)
an officer of the Central Government who shall be Vice-Chairman, Exofficio ;
(iii)
two officers of the Central Government to be nominated by the Government, ex-officio;
[Three Welfare Commissioners to be nominated by the Central Government, ex-officio.]
(iv)
such number of persons to represent the owners of Iron Ore Mines, Manganese Ore Mines and Chrome Ore Mines as
are equal in number to the aggregate of those provided in sub-clauses (ii) to (iv) to be appointed, after consultation with
such organisations, if any, of the owners as may be recognised by the Central Government in this behalf]
(v)
such number of persons of whom one shall be a woman, to represent the persons employed in Iron Ore Mines,
Manganese Ore Mines and Chrome Ore Mines as are equal in number to those provided in sub-clause (v) to be
appointed, after consultation with such organisations, if any, of persons so employed as may be recognised by Central
Government, in this behalf.]
(vi)
Page 2/58
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
An officer, of the iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Fund of the State or the Union territory appointed by the Central
Government, who shall be the Secretary.]
4.
Term of office.
- [(1) A member shall, unless he resigns his office or dies at an earlier date, hold office for a period not exceeding three
years, as may be determined by the Central Government in each case, from the date of publication of the notification
appointing him a member of the Advisory Committee and shall be eligible for reappointment :
Provided that an outgoing member may continue in office until the appointment of his successor is notified in the
Gazette of India.]
[Substituted, by G.S.R. 1251, dated 27th June, 1968.]
(2)
A member appointed to fill a casual vacancy shall hold office for as long as the member whose place he fills would have
been entitled to hold office, if the vacancy had not occurred.
(3)
if a member is unable to attend a meeting of the Advisory Committee, the Central Government may nominate or the
body which is represented by him may, by notice in writing signed on its behalf and by the said member, addressed to
the Chairman of the Committee, depute a substitute in his place to attend that meeting. Such nominated or deputed
member shall have all the rights of a member in respect of that meeting.
5.
Resignation.
- A non-official member may resign his office by letter addressed to the Chairman and the resignation shall take effect
from the date of its acceptance or on the expiry of thirty days from the date of its receipt by the Chairman, whichever is
earlier.
6.
Absence from India.
(1)
Before a non-official member leaves India he shall intimate to the Chairman the date of his departure from and the date
of his expected return to India, and if he intends to be absent from India for a period longer than six months, he shall
tender his resignation.
(2)
If any such member leaves India without taking action as required by sub-rule (1), he shall be deemed to have resigned
with effect from the date of his departure from India.
7.
Vacation of office.
- A non-official member shall be deemed to have vacated his office-
(a)
if he becomes insolvent; or
(b)
if he is convicted of any offence which in the opinion of the Central Government involves moral turpitude; or
(c)
if he is absent from three consecutive meetings of the Advisory Committee without leave of absence from the Chairman;
or
(d)
if, in the opinion of the Central Government, it is undesirable that he should continue to be a member of the Committee;
or
(e)
if he ceases to represent the interest for representing which he was appointed.
8.
Power to co-opt.
(1)
An Advisory Committee may at any time and for such period as it thinks fit, co-opt any person or persons to the Advisory
Page 3/58
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Committee.
(2)
A person co-opted under sub-rule (1) shall exercise all the powers and functions of a member under these rules, but
shall not be entitled to vote.
9.
Power to invite persons to attend meetings.
- An Advisory Committee or its Chairman may at any time and for such meeting or meetings as it considered necessary
invite any persons to attend the meeting of the Committee. A person so invited shall exercise all the powers of a
member under these rules, except that he shall not be entitled to vote on any question coming before the Committee.
10.
Remuneration to members.
(1)
Every non-official member, including a non-official member co-opted under rule 8 or invited to attend a meeting of the
Advisory Committee under rule 9, shall be entitled to the following allowances for attending
each meeting of the Advisory Committee or any of its sub-committees provided the non-official member is not resident at
the place where the meeting is held:
(i)
Travelling allowance-
(a)
In respect to journey by air.
Actual fares paid subject to the approval of the Government.
(b)
In respect of journey by rail.
Single first class fare plus an allowance for
incidental expenses at such rates as may be fixed by the Central
Government for its officers of the first grade from time to time,
where first class accommodation is available. Where first class
accommodation is not available on the particular train or railway
line by which he travels, the member will have the option to
travel in air-conditioned accommodation, by paying from his own
pocket, the difference between the fares for the air-conditioned
and the first class accommodation and where he does not exercise
this option, he will be entitled to single fare for the highest
class of accommodation excluding air-conditioned accommodation,
actually provided on the particular train or the railway line
plus an allowance for incidental expenses at such rates as may be
fixed by the Central Government for its officers of the first
grade from time to time.
(c)
In respect of journey by road.
Where the journey is performed en the ly by
road, road allowance at the rates admissible to the Central
Government officers of the first grade, subject to the condition
that the member concerned furnishes a certificate to the effect
that journey was undertaken by road to avoid loss of time which
journey by rail would have entailed by road exceeds 120
kilometres in a single journey, road allowance will be payable
only for the first 120 kilometres for each journey.
(ii)
Daily allowance. - Ten rupees for each day of any meeting or meetings subject to a maximum of thirty rupees for any
one calendar month.
Page 4/58
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
(2)
Non-official members, who are resident at the places where the meetings are held, shall be entitled only to the actual
cost of conveyance hire subject to a maximum of ten rupees per day.
(3)
The allowances referred to above shall be admissible on production of a certificate by the non-official members to the
effect that they have not claimed or drawn travelling or daily allowance in respect of the journeys and halts from any
other source.
Procedure relating to meetings
11.
Disposal of business.
(1)
Every question which an Advisory Committee is required to take into consideration shall be considered either at a
meeting or if the Chairman so directs, by sending the necessary papers to every member for opinion:
Provided that the papers will not be sent to a member who is absent from India.
(2)
When a question is referred to an Advisory Committee for opinion, any member may request that the question be
considered at a meeting and thereupon the Chairman may, and if the request is made by three or more members shall,
direct that it be so considered.
(3)
It not less than three members of an Advisory Committee request the Chairman thereof to refer any matter to the
Committee, the Chairman shall refer that matter to it accordingly.
12.
Time and place of meetings.
- An advisory Committee shall meet at such places and times as may be appointed by the Chairman.
13.
Notice of meetings and list of business.
(1)
Notice shall be given to every member present in India of the time and place fixed for each ordinary meeting at least
fifteen days before such meeting and every member shall be furnished with a list of business to be considered at the
meeting:
Provided that when an emergency meeting is called by the Chairman such notice shall not be necessary.
(2)
No business which is not on the list shall be considered at a meeting without the permission of the Chairman.
14.
Presiding at meetings.
- The Chairman shall preside at every meeting at which he is present and in his absence, the Vice-Chairman shall
preside.
15.
Quorum.
- No business shall be transacted at a meeting of an Advisory Committee, whether an ordinary or emergency meeting,
unless at least three members having the right to vote are present, of whom the Chairman or Vice-Chairman shall be
one:
Provided that if at any meeting, less than three such members attend, the Chairman may adjourn the meeting to a date
not less than seven days later, informing the members present and sending notice to the other members that he
proposes to dispose of the business at the adjourned meeting whether there is a quorum or not and it shall thereupon be
lawful to dispose of the business at the adjourned meeting irrespective of the number of members attending it.
16.
Recommendation by majority.
(1)
Every question at a meeting of an Advisory Committee shall be decided by a majority of votes of the members present
and voting on that question. But the minority shall in all cases have the right or requiring their dissent to be noted.
Page 5/58
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
(2)
Every question referred to the members for opinion shall, unless the Chairman in pursuance of sub-rule (2) of rule 11
reserve it for consideration at a meeting, be decided in accordance with the opinion of majority of members recording
opinion within the time allowed.
(3)
In the case of an equal division of votes or opinions, the Chairman shall give an additional vote or opinion.
17.
Minutes of meetings.
(1)
The proceedings of each meeting of an Advisory Committee shall be circulated to all members present in India and
thereafter recorded in a minute book, which shall be kept for permanent record.
(2)
The record of the proceedings of each meeting shall be signed by the Chairman or Vice-Chairman, as the case may be.
18.
Headquarters of an advisory committee.
- The headquarters of an Advisory Committee shall be at such place or places as may be fixed by the Central
Government.
19.
Finance sub-committee.
(1)
An Advisory Committee shall elect from among its members two persons of whom one shall be a person representing
iron ore mine owners and the other representing iron-ore mine workers to constitute a finance sub-committee of which
the Vice-Chairman of that Advisory Committee shall be an additional member and President.
(2)
An Advisory Committee may at any time co-opt a person or persons to the finance sub-committee and any person so
co-opted shall exercise all the powers and functions of a member of such sub-committee, but shall not be entitled to vote
and shall not solely by reason of being so co-opted be a member of that Advisory Committee.
(3)
Notice of every meeting of the finance sub-committee shall be sent to the Chairman of the Advisory Committee who may
attend such meeting if he so desires and if he does so attend, he shall, notwithstanding anything in sub-rule (1), preside
and shall be entitled to vote.
20.
Duties of the finance sub-committee.
- The duties of the finance subcommittee shall be to frame schemes of expenditure, to advise on the budget drawn up
by the executive of the advisory committee and on the accounts of the Advisory Committee and also in regard to all
expenditure and to consider all schemes referred to in proviso (ii) to rule 25.
21.
Other sub-committees.
- An Advisory Committee may, as and when considered necessary, constitute from among its members a
sub-committee for considering and reporting no such matters as may be specifically assigned to it.
22.
Meetings of sub-committees.
- The meetings and proceedings of the finance sub-committee and any other sub-committee which may be constituted
under rule 21 shall be governed by the provisions herein contained for regulating the meetings and proceedings of any
advisory committee in so far as the same are applicable.
Powers of Advisory Committees
23.
Executive.
(1)
The Chairman, the Vice Chairman, and the Secretary of an Advisory Committee shall be the executive officers of such
committee and exercise the executive functions of the Advisory Committee on its behalf.
Page 6/58
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
(2)
The Secretary shall carry out routine duties and shall exercise such powers and discharge such duties of the
[Vice-Chairman]
[Substituted, by G.S.R. 1251, dated 27th June, 1968.]
as the [Vice-Chairman]
[Substituted, by G.S.R. 1251, dated 27th June, 1968.]
may, with the approval of the Central Government, delegate to him.
24.
Staff.
(1)
Subject to the provision in the budget and the provisions of rule 25, the [Vice-Chairman]
[Substituted, by G.S.R. 1251, dated 27th June, 1968.]
of each Advisory Committee may create and fill technical and other posts to assist him in carrying out his duties, may fix
the scale of establishment and the salaries and allowances and determine the other conditions of service of officers and
staff employed by him including the security to be taken from them:
Provided that (i), the salaries and allowances of the staff appointed by the [Vice-Chairman]
[Substituted, by G.S.R. 1251, dated 27th June, 1968.]
under this rule shall be in accordance with the scales sanctioned by the Central Government for similar post; and (ii) the
creation of a post with a maximum salary exceeding Rs. 500 per month shall require the previous sanction of the Central
Government.
(2)
The [Vice-Chairman]
[Substituted, by G.S.R. 1251, dated 27th June, 1968.]
of an Advisory Committee may authorize the staff to give assistance to any member of that committee or of a
sub-committee of that committee or to any other authority exercising executive or advisory functions in connection with
the Act.
25.
Schemes of expenditure.
(1)
The sanction of the Central Government to the budget shall, if no specific mention is made to the contrary, be deemed to
include sanction to expenditure on all schemes included in the budget.
(2)
The [Vice-Chairman]
[Substituted, by G.S.R. 1251, dated 27th June, 1968.]
shall have power, subject to the provision in the sanctioned budget, to incur expenditure on administrative staff and
welfare schemes:
Provided (i) that he shall have no power to sanction any scheme, not included in the budget, if it involves expenditure
exceeding Rs. 20,000 non-recurring and Rs. 2,500 recurring an year, and (ii) that any new scheme within these limits
shall require the approval of the finance: sub-committee before any expenditure on it is incurred.
26.
Contingent expenditure.
- The [Vice-Chairman]
[Substituted, by G.S.R. 1251, dated 27th June, 1968.]
may sanction, without reference to the Advisory Committee, expenditure on contingencies, supplies and services and
purchases of articles required for the running of the organization under him subject to financial provision in the
sanctioned budget and to the condition that the expenditure on any single object shall not exceed Rs. 2,000
non-recurring and Rs. 400 recurring.
27.
Budget.
(1)
The annual budget as prepared by the executive in consultation with finance sub-committee shall be considered by the
Page 7/58
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Advisory Committee concerned each year. Thereafter a copy of the budget as approved by the Advisory Committee
shall be forwarded not later than the 1st day of October, each year for sanction to the Central Government which may
make such alterations therein as it considers necessary before according its sanction.
(2)
The budget to be forwarded to the Central Government shall be accompanied by detailed self-contained notes
explaining new schemes included therein.
28.
Other matters to be considered by Advisory Committee.
(1)
An Advisory Committee shall, besides carrying out its statutory duties, consider and advise upon any matter concerning
these rules referred to it by the Central or State Government for advice.
(2)
An Advisory Committee shall also consider the budget and any matter that may be laid before it by the Chairman.
29.
Committee to be informed of expenditure.
- A memorandum setting forth any grant made or expenditure incurred since the last meeting shall be laid at each
meeting of an Advisory Committee.
Chapter III
Grants and Welfare Standards
30.
Grants.
(1)
In each case in which a grant is made by or with the approval of the Central Government to a State Government, a local
authority, the owner of an iron-ore mine, or any other person, in aid of any scheme approved by the Central Government
for the purpose of the Act, the Central Government may impose conditions necessary for ensuring-
(a)
that the work for which the grant is made is duly and promptly executed and the money is actually utilized for the
purpose for which it is granted;
(b)
that the data on which the grant is calculated are in accordance with facts;
(c)
that any particulars which the Central Government may from time to time require for the proper discharge of its
responsibilities are promptly supplied.
(d)
that all unnecessary facilities for inspection are accorded to persons duly authorized by the Central Government for the
purpose of Clause (a) or for checking the correctness of any particulars supplied under Clause (c) or for the collection of
any such particulars;
(e)
that proper accounts of the money granted are kept and are submitted for audit by such persons as the Central
Government may authorize in this behalf; and
(f)
that an additional statement of accounts together with a certificate of a Registered Accountant or other recognized body
of auditors to the effect that the accounts are correct, is furnished by the grantee.
(2)
Before making a grant to a local authority, or the owner of an iron ore mine or any other person, the Central Government
shall require such local authority or owner or such person to execute a bond for the fulfilment of conditions imposed by
the Central Government under sub-rule (1).
(3)
It shall be the condition of every bond executed under sub-rule (2) that in the event of the local authority or owner of the
mine or such person violating any condition imposed under sub-rule (1), such local authority or owner or person be liable
to pay the Central Government such sum by way of penalty as may be specified in the bond.
Page 8/58
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
30A.
[ Standard of dispensary services. - (1) The standard of dispensary services to be provided by owners of iron ore mines
for the purpose of getting the grants-in-aid envisaged in Clause (c) of Section 3 of the Act, shall be as specified in
Schedule I, hereinafter in this rule and in rules 30 B, 30C and 30D referred to as the prescribed standard.
(2)
There shall be maintained an independent dispensary at each iron ore mine according to the prescribed standard :
Provided that a common main dispensary may be maintained for several iron ore mines with branch dispensaries
attached to each iron ore mine subject to the following conditions, namely:
(i)
the common main dispensary shall maintain the standards prescribed for the aggregate number of workers of all the
iron-ore mines served by it or the standard maintained by it during the year 1961, whichever is higher;
(ii)
every branch dispensary shall have a qualified doctor and a qualified compounder;
(iii)
the common main dispensary shall be so situated that none of the iron ore mines served by it is more than fifteen
kilometres away from it; and
(iv)
the common main dispensary shall maintain an ambulance van for taking serious cases of injury and sickness from the
branch dispensaries to the common main dispensary.
(3)
The Chairman may, if he is satisfied that any dispensary is being efficiently run and serves the purpose for which it is
established, waive any of the requirements specified in the prescribed standard:
Provided that no such dispensary shall contain any room other than a store room which is less than four metres by three
metres in area:
Provided further that a medical licentiate may be appointed to be incharge of a dispensary catering to more than 250
workers only if he has ten years experience as a medical officer in independent charge of a mine dispensary.
30B.
Inspection.
- The dispensary services, maintained by owners of iron ore mines shall be inspected at intervals not exceeding one
year by such medical or other officer as may be authorized by the Chairman for the purpose or by the Chairman himself
whenever he considers it necessary. The Inspecting Officer or Chairman, as the case may be, shall, if the dispensary
conforms to the prescribed standard, issue a certificate in Form "H" which shall be valid for a period of one year from the
date of issue.
30C.
Submission of periodic returns.
- Every owner of an iron ore mine who maintains a dispensary service according to the prescribed standard shall submit
to the Chairman-
(i)
in January and July of each year a statement showing the total amount of iron ore produced in his mine during the
preceding six months, and
(ii)
in January of each year a certified statement of expenditure incurred on the dispensary during the preceding twelve
months.
30D.
Extent of grant-in-aid.
- Every owner of an iron ore mine who maintains a dispensary for the benefit of the labour employed in his mines shall, if
 the  Chairman is of opinion that the dispensary conforms to the prescribed standard, be eligible to a grant-in-aid which
shall not exceed.-
(i)
the amount of duty at the rate of five paise per tonne recovered in respect of iron ore produced by the mine less the
proportionate cost of recovery, or
Page 9/58
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
(ii)
the amount spent by the owner of the mine in the maintenance of the dispensary service as determined by the
Chairman, whichever is less:
Provided that in the case of a dispensary which serves other workers and members of the public, the amount spent by
the owner of the mine in the maintenance of the dispensary service for the purpose of this clause may, if separate
expenditure figures are not available, be determined by the Chairman on proportionate basis.
30E.
Standard of maternity centre.
(1)
The standard of maternity centre to be provided by owners of iron ore mines for the purpose of getting the grants-in-aid
envisaged in Clause (c) of Section 3 of the Act shall be as specified in Schedule II. It hereinafter in this rule and in rules
30F, 30G and 30FI referred to as the prescribed standard.
(2)
There shall be maintained an independent maternity centre at each iron ore mine according to the prescribed standard:
Provided that a common main maternity centre may be maintained for several iron ore mines with branch maternity
centres attached to each iron ore mine subject to the following conditions, namely:
(i)
the common main maternity centre shall maintain the standards prescribed for the aggregate number of workers of all
the iron ore mines served by it or the standard maintained by it during the year 1961, whichever is higher;
(ii)
every branch maternity centre shall have a qualified doctor and a qualified compounder:
(iii)
the common main maternity centre shall be so situated that none of the iron ore mines served by it is more than fifteen
kilometres away from it: and
(iv)
the common maternity centre shall maintain an ambulance van for taking serious cases from the branch maternity
centres to the common maternity centre.
(3)
The Chairman may, if he is satisfied that a maternity centre is being efficiently run and serves the purpose for which it is
established, waive any of the requirements specified in the prescribed standard:
Provided that the functions of a lady health visitor may be performed by a fully qualified and registered midwife who has
not less than ten years experience as a midwife:
Provided further that a lady medical licentiate may be appointed to be incharge of a maternity centre catering to more
than 1,000 workers if she has ten years experience as a medical officer in independent charge of a mine maternity
centre.
30F.
Inspection.
- The maternity centres maintained by owners of iron ore mine shall be inspected by the Chairman himself whenever he
considers it necessary. The Inspecting Officer or other officer as may be authorised by the Chairman for the purpose or
by the Chairman himself whenever he considers it necessary (sic). The Inspecting Officer or the Chairman, as the case
may be, shall, if the centre conforms to the prescribed standard, issue a certificate in Form "I" which shall be valid for a
period of one year from the date of issue.
30G.
Submission of periodic returns.
- Every owner of an iron ore mine who maintains a maternity centre according to the prescribed standard shall submit to
the Chairman in January of each year a certified statement of the expenditure incurred on the maternity centre during
the preceding twelve months.
30H.
Extent of grant-in-aid.
- Every owner of an iron ore mine who maintains a maternity centre for the benefit of the labour employed in his mine
shall, if the Chairman is of opinion that the maternity centre conforms to the prescribed standard, be eligible to a
Page 10/58
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
grant-in-aid which shall not exceed 50 percent of the amount determined by the Chairman as the amount spent by the
owner in the maintenance of the maternity centre:
Provided that in the case of a maternity centre which serves other workers and members of the public, the a mount
spent by the owner in the maintenance of the maternity centre for the purpose of this clause may, if separate
expenditure figures are not available, be determined by the Chairman on proportionate basis.
30I.
Standard of facilities for education and recreation.
(1)
The standard of facilities for education and recreation of workers to be provided by owners of iron ore mines for the
purpose of getting grants-in-aid as envisaged in Clause (e) of (Section 3 shall be as specified in Schedule III, hereinafter
in this rule and in rules 30J, 30K and 30-L, referred to as the prescribed standard.
(2)
There shall be maintained an independent welfare centre at each iron ore mine according to the prescribed standard.
(3)
The Chairman may, if he is satisfied that the centre is being efficiently maintained and serves the purpose for which it is
established, waive any of the requirements specified in the prescribed standard.
30J.
Inspection.
- The welfare centres maintained by owners of iron ore mines shall be inspected at intervals not exceeding one year by
such officer as may be authorized by the Chairman for the purpose or by the Chairman himself whenever he considers it
necessary. The Inspecting Officer or the Chairman, as the case may be, shall, if the centre conforms to the prescribed
standard, issue a certificate in Form "J" which shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of issue.
30K.
Submission of periodic returns.
- Every owner of an iron ore mine who maintains a welfare centre according to the prescribed standard shall submit to
the Chairman-
(i)
immediately on the establishment of the welfare centre, adequate proof to the satisfaction of the Chairman showing the
capital expenditure incurred on the construction and equipment of the welfare centre; and
(ii)
in January each year a certified statement of the expenditure incurred on the welfare centre during the preceding twelve
months:
Provided that the statement shall not include expenditure, if any, incurred on repairs and replacements.
30L.
Extent of grant-in-aid.
- Every owner who maintains a welfare centre for the benefit of the labour employed in his mine shall, if the Chairman is
of opinion that the welfare centre conforms to the prescribed standard, be eligible to a grant-in-aid which shall not
exceed.-
(i)
50 per cent of the amount spent by the owner of the mine in the construction and equipment of the welfare centre
subject to a maximum of Rs. 10,000; and
(ii)
50 per cent, of the amount spent by the owner of the mine as recurring expenditure in the maintenance of the welfare
centre, as determined by the Chairman:
Provided that the amount determined shall not include the amount, if any, spent on repairs and replacements.
30M.
Commissioner to exercise functions of Chairman in certain cases.
- For areas where no Advisory Committee has been set up, the Iron Ore Mines Cess Commissioner shall exercise, the
powers and discharge the functions of the Chairman under the provisions of these rules.]
[Substituted, by G.S.R. 907, dated 31st May, 1967.]
Chapter IV
Page 11/58
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Assessment and Recovery
31.
Assessing and collecting authority.
- Any officer (including the  [Vice-Chairman]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 1251, dated 27th June, 1968.]
of an Advisory Committee) may be specified by the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, to be an
Iron Ore Mines Cess Commissioner who shall be responsible for the assessment and collection of the cess levied under
the Act in such areas as may be specified in that notification.
32.
Liability for payment of duty of excise.
- The duty of excise as fixed, under Section 2 of the Act on iron ore produced shall be recovered from the owner of the
mine concerned and he shall be liable to make payment thereof in the manner prescribed in these rules.
33.
Maintenance of register of production and submission of returns.
(1)
Every owner of an iron ore mine shall maintain in Form "A" a register of production of iron ore and shall record therein
date-wise the production during the month. At the close of each month the entries made against each date in the
register shall be totalled and the total production of the month shall be entered therein. The amount of duty of excise
payable on the total production at the rate, as the Central Government may, from time to time fix by notification in the
Official Gazette, shall be worked out and recorded in the register itself.
Explanation.  - In calculating the duty of excise payable on the production of iron ore, unmarketable fines and rejects will
not be included and a fraction of less than half of a metric tonne in the total production of the month shall be ignored and
a fraction of half or more than half of a metric tonne shall be reckoned as one metric tonne.
(2)
Every owner of an iron mine shall submit to the Commissioner, in duplicate, return in Form "A" for each month in
accordance with the entries made in the register maintained under sub-rule (1) duly signed by him or any other person
authorized by him in this behalf.
(3)
A return so submitted shall reach the Commissioner not later than the last day of the month following the month to which
the return pertains.
(4)
Where no iron ore is produced in any month, the owner of the mine shall submit to the Commissioner within the time
specified in sub-rule (3) a nil return in duplicate for that month accompanied by a certificate duly signed by the owner or
any other person authorized by him in this behalf to the effect that no iron ore was produced during that month.
(5)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule, if the Commissioner is satisfied with respect to the owner of any mine
that no iron ore was produced by him during the preceding twelve months, he may, by a permit in writing allow him to
submit, in place of a monthly return, a consolidated return in Form "A" for such period not exceeding one year as may be
specified in the permit. The consolidate return so submitted shall reach the Commissioner not later than the last day of
the month following the period specified in the permit.
34.
Provisional assessment and payment of duty of excise.
- The amount of duty of excise payable for any month and recorded in the register maintained under rule 33 shall be
deemed to be a provisional assessment of the duty and shall be subject to final assessment under rule 38.
35.
Manner of payment of duty.
(1)
The owner of a mine shall pay the duty of excise assessed under rule 34 into  the  nearest treasury not later than the
last day of the month following the month for which the duty of excise is payable.
(2)
The payment into the treasury shall be made by means of a challan the remittance being shown as creditable to the
Page 12/58
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Central Government under Major Head "H-Union Excise Duties-Iron Ore".
(3)
The challan shall be filled in duplicate, a copy of which shall be retained by the treasury and the other copy shall be
returned to the depositor who will transmit it to the Commissioner as proof of payment along with the monthly return
prescribed in sub-rule (2) of rule 33 after entering the number, date and amount shown in the treasury receipt in the
copy of the return.
36.
Delay in submission of returns.
- If the return of any month does not reach the Commissioner within the time prescribed by rule 33 the owner of the iron
ore mine shall be punishable with fine which may extend to Rs. 500.
37.
Late returns and revision of returns.
- If the owner of any mine has not furnished the return within the prescribed date or having furnished it, discovers any
omission or wrong statement therein, he may furnish the return or revised return, as the case may be, at any time before
the order of final assessment is passed.
38.
Final assessment of duty of excise.
(1)
If the Commissioner is satisfied that the returns submitted by any owner is correct and complete, he shall confirm the
provisional assessment referred to in rule 34 as final and send an intimation to that effect to the owner of the mine
concerned in Form "B" within three months from the date of receipt of the return.
(2)
(a)
If the Commissioner is not so satisfied, he may either depute an officer for the purpose of verification of the correctness
and completeness of the return with reference to the books and accounts and other relevant records of the mine at its
premises, or issue a notice in Form "C" on the owners of the mine concerned requiring him to attend either personally or
through a duly authorized representative on the date and at the time and place to be specified in the notice.
The officer deputed by the Commissioner shall be afforded all necessary facilities at the premises of the mine for the
purpose of verification as aforesaid.
(b)
After verification of the return or after hearing such evidence as the owner may produce in compliance with  the  notice
issued under Clause (a) and such evidence as the Commissioner may require on specified points, the Commissioner
shall as soon as possible, assess the amount of duty due from the owner and such assessment shall be final.
(c)
If the Commissioner is satisfied that the return submitted by the owner is correct and complete, he shall confirm the
provisional assessment as final if, on the other hand, the Commissioner finds that a further sum is due from the owner,
he shall issue on the owner a demand notice in Form "G" requiring the payment of the balance due within the time
specified therein.
(d)
If any owner, having furnished a return for a month, fails to comply with any of the terms of the notice that may be issued
on him under Clause (a), the Commissioner shall assess the amount of the duty due from him which, in his judgment, is
just and proper and such assessment shall be final.
(3)
If any owner does not furnish a return in Form "A" for any month by the prescribed date in the manner laid down in rules
33 and 35, the Commissioner shall, after giving the owner a reasonable opportunity of being heard by the issue of a
notice in Form "D" assess the amount of duty due from him which in his opinion is just and proper. The owner shall
further be punishable with fine which may extend to Rs. 500 as provided in rule 36.
(4)
If upon information which has come into his possession the Commissioner is satisfied that an owner has actually
produced iron ore during a month and has thereby become liable to pay duty of excise under Section 2 of the Act. but
has failed to furnish a return in respect of that month and also to pay the amount of provisional assessment on that basis
Page 13/58
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
by the last day of the month following the month in which he has produced iron ore the Commissioner shall, after giving
the owner a reasonable opportunity of explaining the reasons for the failure, by issue of a notice in Form "E", assess the
amount of duty of excise due from him which, in his opinion, is just and proper in respect of that month of production.
(5)
The Commissioner shall fix a date ordinarily not earlier than 30 days from the date of issue of a notice in Form "C" or
Form "E" for producing such accounts and documents as he may require and for considering any objection which the
owner may wish to offer.
(6)
After considering any objection made by the owner and any evidence produced in support thereof, the Commissioner
shall assess the amount of the duty of excise to be paid by the owner and shall record his findings and pass his final
assessment order in Form "F".
(7)
The amount of duty thus assessed, the date by which the amount so assessed is to be deposited (which shall not
ordinarily be earlier than 30 days from the date of issue of demand noticed) and any other particulars connected
therewith shall be specified in the demand notice in Form "G".
(8)
The mode of payment into the treasury of the amount specified in demand notice in Form "G" shall be the same as laid
down in rule 35, provided that the copy of the necessary challan intended for transmission to the Commissioner shall be
forwarded to him with a covering letter quoting reference to the demand notice.
39.
Recovery of duty of excise on iron ore which has escaped assessment,
-
If-
(a)
the Commissioner has reason to believe that by reason of the concealment by the owner of any particulars of production
of iron ore from any mine such production has escaped the levy of duty of Excise; or
(b)
notwithstanding any such concealment of particulars as is mentioned in Clause (a) on the part of the owner, the
Commissioner has, in consequence of information in his possession, reason to believe that any production of iron ore
from a mine has escaped levy of duty of excise, the Commissioner may, in cases falling under Clause (a) at any time
within four years and in cases falling under Clause (b) at any time within two years of the end of the month the return in
respect of which should have included such production of iron ore which has escaped assessment, assess the duty of
excise payable thereon and all the provisions of these rules shall apply to the duty of excise so assessed as if
assessment were included in the final assessment order as provided under rule 38:
Provided that the Commissioner, before exercising the powers conferred upon him under this rule, shall give the owner
a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
40.
Recovery of unpaid duty of excise and penalty.
(1)
Any amount of duty of excise which remain unpaid after the date specified in the demand notice and any amount of
penalty which is imposed on an owner for violation of any of the rules framed under the Act shall be recovered as an
arrear of land revenue and shall be credited to the Central Government as provided in rule 33.
(2)
The Government shall (in Order to recover the unpaid amount of cess and also the penalty, if not paid) apply to the
Collector of the district in which the mine is situated for the recovery of the amount due from the owner of a mine.
(3)
The Collector shall send a report to  the  Commissioner by the 10th day of each month showing the amount recovered
by him as land revenue during the preceding month.
41.
Review.
(1)
Page 14/58
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Within 30 days from the date of issue of a demand notice in Form "G" any owner may submit a petition to the
Commissioner asking for a review of such assessment, provided that no such petition shall be entertained unless the
Commissioner is satisfied that the amount assessed has been paid by the owner into a treasury as required under rule
38.
(2)
Every petition for review shall be accompanied by a memorandum setting forth clearly the principal grounds of objection
against the assessment made together with a copy of the treasury challan showing that the amount assessed has been
paid to Government and a certified copy of the assessment order.
(3)
The Commissioner shall, after verifying the fact of assessment from the records of his office, satisfy himself as to the
correctness of the grounds in the petition and if he finds that a prima facie error of judgment has been made shall issue
an order either reducing or annulling the assessment.
(4)
If, on the other hand, the records in his office reveal that assessment has been made correctly, the Commissioner shall,
after giving the petitioner an opportunity of being heard, issue an order confirming the assessment. The order of the
Commissioner shall be final.
(5)
The Commissioner shall record his decision in writing.
(6)
The petitioner shall be entitled to a copy of the Commissioner's orders on the petition for review free of cost and it shall
be furnished to him as soon as possible after the orders are passed.
(7)
So much of the duty originally assessed upon and paid by the owner as is found not to be due from him as a result of
review under sub-rule (1) shall be refunded to the owner concerned or adjusted in the account of the owner concerned,
as the Commissioner may deem fit, on the basis of the orders on the petition for review.
(8)
Any refund under sub-rule (7) shall be made in cash by drawing the amount from the treasury on an ordinary contingent
bill on which shall be specified the review case, number, date of review order and the number, date and amount of
treasury challan concerned.
42.
Records of collection.
(1)
For the proper accounting of the duty collected under these rules, the Commissioner shall maintain records to show the
following particulars along with any other particulars required:
(a)
assessment and collection of duty;
(b)
particulars of petition and orders thereon;
(c)
refunds.
(2)
All the papers relating to the assessment of duty in respect of a mine shall be kept together and shall form an
assessment case record.
Chapter V
Miscellaneous
43.
Maintenance of the accounts.
(1)
The amount of the case collected under the Act shall be credited to Major Head "II-Union Excise Duties-Iron Ore".
(2)
The proceeds of the case, reduced by the cost of collection as may be determined by the Central Government shall,
Page 15/58
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
after due appropriation made by Parliament by law, be transferred to "Section T-Deposits and Advances-Part II -
Deposits not bearing interest-(B) Reserve Funds-Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Fund" in the public account of the
Central Government for expenditure on measures for the welfare of labour employed in the iron ore mining industry.
(3)
The miscellaneous receipts accruing from the investment of the accounts in the Fund and the other moneys received in
connection with the measures for the welfare of labour employed in the iron ore mining industry shall be credited in the
first instance to Head "XXII-Miscellaneous Special and Developmental Organization-Labour and Employment" and
subsequently transferred, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law, to the Reserve Fund referred to in
sub-rule (2).
44.
Allocation.
- The proceeds of the cess transferred to the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Fund every year and such other moneys as
may be received in the Fund, shall be distributed by the Central Government for expenditure in iron ore producing areas
in proportion to their production or in such manner as may be decided in consultation with the Government of those
areas.
45.
Statistics and other information.
(1)
The owner of an iron ore mine shall furnish such statistics or other information as the Central Government or any other
person authorized by the Central Government in writing in this behalf may by written order require for the purposes of
the Act in such manner and within such time as may be specified in the order.
(2)
Any owner of an iron ore mine who, without reasonable excuse, fails to furnish the statistics or other information required
under sub-rule (1) or furnish statistics or other information containing a statement, entry or detail which is not to the best
of his knowledge or belief true, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to Rs. 500.
46.
Conditions of service of persons appointed under Section 5 of the Act.
- Until other provision is made in this behalf, persons appointed under Section 5 of the Act, shall be governed by such
rules relating to the terms and conditions of service of Government servants generally, as may be made applicable with
modifications, if any, to such persons by the Central Government.
Form A
[See Rule 33]
Return of actual production of iron ore and duty assessed and paid on a provisional basis
Name of owner of mine...................  Month of production.......year 19 Full Address................................
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
SI. No.
Opening stock on the 1st day of the month to
which the return pertains in (metric tonne)
Output of iron-ore during the month (in metric
tonne)
Total (in met- rice tonne)
Details of despatches during the month (in
Page 16/58
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
metric tonne) Export Internal consumption
Closing stock on the last day of the month (in
metric tonne)
Calculation of duty
Particulars of deposits into treasury
Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess on tonnes -
at Re.
Paid into on...... (date with month any year) A
spare copy of treasury Challan No._____ enclosed herewith
Certified that the above statements are true to the best of my knowledge and belief and are based on the records
maintained in mine.
Signature
Owner/Partner/Director/Agent/Manager
No.....................date and place.
Form B
[See Rule 38]
Confirmation of Provisional Assessment
To
.............Mine.
.............Address.
With reference to the Return in Form A of the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963, submitted by you in
respect of the month of......19....., you are hereby informed that the provisional assessment of cess on...... tonne
amounting to Rs.........(Rupees............) only paid by you as per............Treasury Challan No................... dated
................has been confirmed.
Commissioner.
Seal of the Commissioner.
No.......................
Date.....................
Place....................
Form C
[See Rule 38]
Notice
..............Mine.
.........................
............Address.
Whereas I desire to satisfy myself that the return in Form A filed by you for the month of.............19........,is correct and
complete;
You are hereby directed to appear in person or through a duly authorized representative before........................(person)
and to produce on........................(date) at.......................(time) or cause to be produced at that time the accounts and
documents specified below, together with any objection which you may wish to prefer and to produce any evidence you
may wish to do in support thereof.
In the event of your failure to comply with this notice, I shall proceed to assess the duty to the best of my judgment under
rule 38 of  the  Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1983, without further reference to you.
Commissioner.
Seal of Commissioner.
No..................
Date................
Place...............
Particulars of Accounts and Documents required
1. Books of account for the month (s) in question in general and records of production together with records in support of
the figures entered therein.
Page 17/58
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
2.
Any other subsidiary record showing production of iron ore during the month (s).
Form D
[See Rule 38]
Notice
To
...............Mine
...............Address
Whereas you have not furnished a return in Form A in respect of the month (s)of.........19....,by the prescribed date (s):
You are, therefore, required to submit a return within one calendar month from the date of issue of this notice for the
month (s) of...............19.....In Form A of the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963.
In the event of your failure to comply with this notice, I shall proceed to assess the duty to the best of my judgment under
rule 38 of  the  Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963, and you will also further be liable to prosecution under
rule 36.
Commissioner.
Seal of the Commissioner.
No..................
Date................
Place.
Form E
[See Rule 38]
Notice
To
..............Mine
.............Address
Whereas it appears that you have produced iron ore during the month (s) of...............19 but have failed to furnish return
in Form A under rule 33 of the Iron One Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963:
You are, therefore, directed to appear in person or through a duty authorized representative before...................(person)
at.......(place) on.................(date) at...........,(time) and to produce or cause to be produced at that time the accounts and
documents specified below, lodge at that time any objection which you may wish to prefer and produce any evidence
which you may wish to do in support thereof and you will further be liable to prosecution under rule 36.
In the event of your failure to comply with this notice I shall proceed to assess the cess to the best of my judgment under
rule 38 of the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules 1963.
Commissioner
Seal of the Commissioner
No......................
Date....................
Place...................
Particulars of Accounts and Documents required
1. Books of account for the month (s) in question in general and records of production together with records in support of
the figures entered therein.
2. Any other subsidiary record showing production of Iron ore during the month (s).
Form F
[See Rule 38]
Order of Assessment
State in which the mine is situated................
Assessment case No.............of...........19
1. Year of assessment...   Month for which assessment in made.
2. Name of mine assessed.
3. Location of mine.
4. Full postal address.
Page 18/58
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
5. Account books, etc. produced, if any.
6. Rule and sub-rule under which assessment is made.
7. Total tonnes of iron ore produced as per return furnished by the mine (in tonnes).
8. Total tonnes of iron ore produced as determined on the basis of the books of account produced or to the best
judgment of the Commissioner.
9. Amount of cess assessed at the rate of......................per tonne of iron ore produced on the basis of item 8
above..............
Assessment Order in Brief
Commissioner.
Seal of the Commissioner.
No  ...............
Date...............
Place..............
Certified copies of the assessment order may be obtained from the Commissioner's Office on payment to him of a fee of
Rs. 2 for each copy. The amount paid on this account shall be credited by the Commissioner to the Head "S-Deposits
and Advances-Part II-Deposits not bearing interest-B-Reserve Fund-Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Fund- (ii)
Miscellaneous Receipts."
Form G
[See Rule 38]
Demand Notice
To
.............(Owner/partner/director/manager/agent) of................... (mine) at .................at.......................(location of
mine)............. P.O. ..............District....................in the State of...................
In continuation of the notice in Forms C,D,E, issued to you per registered post on the............day of.........19...., you are
hereby required that your total production of iron ore during the month(s) of..............19....
has been finally determined at....................tonnes and accordingly cess amounting to
Rs................(Rupees...............)only is payable by you.
2. You are hereby directed to pay the sum of Rs........... (Rupees..........)only as detailed below into the nearest
Government treasury on or before the..............day of.............19.....and to produce before the Commissioner a copy of
the relevant treasury challan as proof of payment not later than the day of....19................failing which the said sum of
Rs...................(Rupees................)only will be recoverable from you as an arrear of land revenue.
Details of Assessed Amount
1. Amount of cess payable...................
2. Deduct amount already paid by you as per Treasury Challan No............ dated.............
3. Net amount payable Rs.................
Commissioner.
Seal of the Commissioner.
No............
Date...........Place.....
Note.- Strike out the number of form and words and phrases not applicable.
[Form H]
[Added by G.S.R. 907, dated 31st May, 1967.]
[See Rule 30-B]
Certificate of Inspection
Inspection Report of the.............Dispensary at..............by the..............for the year.............ending.................19.
1. Name of iron ore mine/iron ore mines served by dispensary.
2. Number of workers for which it caters.
3. Date and hour of inspection.
4. Date of last inspection.
5. Dispensary buildings.
(a)
Page 19/58
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Condition of dispensary building.
(b)
Does the accommodation provided conform to the prescribed standard?
6. Medicines-
(a)
Is the supply sufficient and according to the prescribed scale ?
(b)
Are the poisons labelled and kept separately under lock and key?
7. Surgical instruments and equipment-Are they sufficient and in good order?
8. Staff Acquittance Rolls-Are they in order and up-to-date?
9. Registers and Returns-Are these properly kept and regularly submitted?
10. Establishment -
(a)
Officer-in-charge-
(i)
Part-time/Whole-time.
(ii)
Name and qualifications.
(b)
Designation and pay of staff-
(i)
Medical Graduate.
(ii)
Medical Licentiate
(iii)
Lady Doctor
(iv)
Nurse
(v)
Compounder.
(vi)
Auxiliary Nurse Midwife.
(vii)
Male Dresser.
(viii)
Female Dresser.
(ix)
Sweeper.
(x)
Chowkidar.
(xi)
Peon.
(c)
Attendance Register - Do the staff attend regularly?
11. Annual expenditure-
(a)
Establishment.
(b)
Medicines.
12. Out-patients-
(a)
Page 20/58
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Number seen at the time of visit.
(b)
Total number of new patients treated in current year up to date.
(c)
Total number of old patients treated in current year up to date.
(d)
Total treated during the last year.
(e)
Do the entries on tickets of patients present tally with the entries on the registers?
(f)
Are there any arrangements for treating women apart from men?
13. Are you satisfied with the working of the dispensary ? If not, what suggestions can be made for its improvement?
I certify that I have inspected the dispensary noted above and that it conforms/ does not conform in the following
respects* to the standards laid down in the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Signature of Inspecting Officer Date
Countersignature of Chairman with date
*Give details below.
Note. - The countersignature of the Chairman is not necessary when the Chairman himself is the inspecting authority.]
Form I
[See Rule 30F]
Inspection Report of the Maternity Centre at.............by the..........for the year.............ending........19.....
1. Name of iron ore mine/iron ore mines served by the Maternity Centre.
2. Number of workers for which it caters.
3. Date and hour of inspection.
4. Date of last inspection.
5. Maternity Centre buildings-
(a)
Condition of Maternity centre buildings.
(b)
Does the accommodation provided conform to the prescribed standard?
6. Medicines-
(a)
Is the supply sufficient and according to the prescribed scale?
(b)
Are the poisons labelled and kept separately under lock and key ?
7. Surgical Instruments and equipments-Are they sufficient and in good order?
8. Staff Acquittance Rolls-Are they in order and up-to-date ?
9. Registers and Returns-Are these properly kept and regularly submitted.
10. Establishment-
(a)
Officer-in-charge-
(i)
Part-time/Whole-time.
(ii)
Name and qualifications.
(b)
Designation and pay of staff-
(i)
Medical Graduate.
(ii)
Medical Licentiate.
Page 21/58
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
(iii)
Lady Doctor.
(iv)
Compounder.
(v)
Nurse.
(vi)
Midwife.
(vii)
Ayah.
(viii)
Sweeper.
(ix)
Ward Attendant.
(x)
Cook.
(c)
Attendance Register-Do the staff attend regularly ?
11. Annual expenditure on-
(a)
Establishment.
(b)
Medicines.
12. Out-potients-
(a)
Number seen at the time of visit.
(b)
Total number of new patients treated in current year up-to-date.
(c)
Total number of old patients treated in current year up-to-date.
(d)
Total treated during the last year.
(e)
Do the entries on tickets of patients present tally with the entries on the register ?
13. Are you satisfied with the working of the dispensary ? If not, what suggestions can you make for its improvement?
I certify that I have inspected the Maternity Centre noted above and that it conforms/does not conform in the following
respects* to the standards laid down in the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963.
Signature of the Inspecting Officer Date
Countersignature of Chairman with date
*Give details below.
Note. - The counter signature of the Chairman is not necessary when the Chairman himself is the inspecting authority.
Form J
[See Rule 30-J]
Certificate of Inspection of the Welfare Centre
Inspection Report of the...................Welfare Centre at.............by
the...............for the year............ending............
1. Name of iron ore mine served by the centre.
2. Number of workers for which it caters.
3. Date and hour of inspection.
4. Date of last inspection.
5. Centre building-
Page 22/58
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
(a)
Condition of the building.
(b)
Does the accommodation provided conform to the prescribed standard?
6. Equipment-
(a)
Are the equipments provided according to the prescribed standard ?
(b)
Are timely repairs/replacements done where necessary ?
(c)
Are the equipments all in serviceable condition ?
7. Establishment-
(a)
Officer-in-charge-
(i)
Part-time/whole time.
(ii)
Name and qualification.
(b)
Designation and pay of staff-
(i)
Adult Education Instructor.
(ii)
Sevika.
(iii)
Sweeper.
(c)
Attendance Register-Do the staff attend regularly ?
8. Annual expenditure-
(a)
Establishment.
(b)
Repairs and replacement of equipments.
9. Activities-
(a)
Total number on rolls attending the centre.
(b)
Number seen at the time of inspection.
(c)
Number of adults attending literary classes.
(d)
Number of women attending craft classes.
(e)
Number of adults participating in games and sports.
10. Are you satisfied with the working of the Centres ? If not, what suggestion can you make for its improvement ?
I certify that I have inspected the Welfare Centre noted above and that it conforms/does not conform in the following
respects* to the standards laid down in the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963.
Signature of the Inspecting Officer Date
Countersignature of Chairman with date
*Give details below.
Note. - The countersignature of the Chairman is not necessary when the Chairman himself is the inspecting authority.
Page 23/58
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Schedule 1
Standard of Dispensary Service
[See Rule 30A]
1. Building
1. Dispensary catering for 1,000 workers or less.
Three rooms to be used as follows:
(i)
Consulting room (5 metres x 4 metres).
(ii)
Dressing room (5 metres x 4 metres).
(iii)
Dispensary and store room (5 metres x 4 metres).
Covered waiting accommodation-15 square metres.
Two latrines (flush type) - Each 2 metres x 3 metres.
2. Dispensary catering for 1,001 to 2,000 workers-Six rooms to be used as follows:
(i)
Consulting room for males (5 metres x 4 metres).
(ii)
Consulting room for females (5 metres x 4 metres).
(iii)
Minor Operation room (5 metres x 4 metres).
(iv)
Dispensary room (5 metres x 4 metres).
(v)
Laboratory room (15 to 18 square metres).
Covered waiting accommodation-20 square metres.
3. Dispensary catering for 2,001 workers or more Nine rooms to be used as follows:
(i)
Consulting room for males (5 metres x 4 metres).
(ii)
Consulting room for females (5 metres x 4 metres).
(iii)
Minor Operation room (5 metres x 4 metres).
(iv)
Dispensary room (5 metres x 4 metres).
(v)
Laboratory room (15 to 18 square metres).
(vi)
Dressing room (3 metres x 4 metres).
(vii)
Dark room (3 metres x 3 metres).
(viii)
Registration and record office room (15 square metres).
(ix)
Store room (5 metres x 4 metres).
Covered waiting accommodation-25 square metres.
Three latrines (flush type)-Each 2 metres x 3 metres.
Each dispensary shall provide emergency beds for treatment of simple and emergency cases at the rate of one bed for
every 250 workers subject to a minimum of two beds, one for males and one for females. For this purpose separate
rooms shall be provided for males and females. The rooms shall have air space of 18 cubic metres per bed and door
and window space not less than one-third of the floor space with verandah 2.5 metres wide along the front of the rooms.
Page 24/58
----- PAGE 25 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Iron ore mines which have no provision for emergency beds on the lines mentioned above at their dispensaries at the
commencement of the Iron One Mines Labour Welfare Cess (Amendment) Rules, 1967, may within a period of three
years from such commencement provide for such beds. Such of those mines which fail to provide emergency beds
within such period shall not be entitled to any subsidy thereafter even if they shall be otherwise qualified for it.
II. Staff
1.
Dispensary catering for 250 workers or less:
Medical Licentiate or GraduateAuxiliary Nurse
MidwifeCompounder-cum-dresserSweeper
???...
1111
}
Whole-time
2.
Dispensary catering for 251 to 500 workers:
Medical Licentiate or GraduateAuxiliary Nurse
MidwifeCompounded-cum-dresserSweeper
????
1111
}
Whole-time
3.
Dispensary catering for 501 to
1,000 workers:Medical Licentiate or GraduateAuxiliary
Nurse Mid wifeCompounder-cum-dresserSweeperAttendantsCook
??????
111121
}
Whole-time
4.
Dispensary catering for 1,001 to 2,000 workers:
Medical GraduateCompounderDresserAuxiliary
Nurse MidwifeSweepersAttendantsCook
??????
1111231
}
Whole-time
5.
Dispensary catering for 2,001 workers or more:
Medical GraduateMedical Licentiate or
GraduateCompounderDressersAuxiliary Nurse MidwifeNurseSweepersAttendantsCooks
?????????
111211242
}
Whole-time
III. List of drugs, surgical equipments, dressings, etc. for dispensary
A. Drugs.
1. Acid acetic
2. Acid boric
3. Acid carbolic
4. Acid salicylic
Page 25/58
----- PAGE 26 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
5. Aqua distillate
6. Ammon carb
7. Aspirin
8. Acriflavin or other antiseptic dye
9. Benedict's solution
10. Calcium lactate
11. Copper sulphate
12. Calamina preparate
13. Cod liver oil
14. Ephedrine hydrochloric ( ½ gr. tab.)
15. Ether
16. Esct. glycerr. liq.
17. Ferri sulph.
18. Ferriet ammont citras
19. Glucose
20. Glycerine
21. Gum acacia
22. Hydrarg ammoniate
23. Hydrarg oxide flava
24. Ethyl
25. Koaline
26. Lint saponis
27. Liq. ammonium acetate
28. Liq. plumbi suaceltas fort
29. Lysol
30. Mag. oxide powder or mag. trisillicate
31. Mag. sulph.
32. Menthol
33. Multi-vitamin tab.
34. Oil Ricini
35. Oil menth pip
36. Oil olive or oil or arachis
37. Paludrine tabs.
38. Pheno barbitone
39. Pot. bromide
40. Pot. citrate
41. Pot. iodide
42. Pot. permanganate
43. Protargol or argyrol
44. Pulv. ipeacac co.
45. Pulv. quinine sulph.
46. Sodi bicarb
47.
Sodi salicylate
48.
Spt. ammon aromal
49.
Sodi chloride
50.
Spt. methyl
51.
Page 26/58
----- PAGE 27 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Spt. rectified
52.
Sulphanilamtde or sulphadiazine tablets.
53.
Sulphanilami d e
54.
Sulphanilamide powder
55.
Tab. digozin or pill digitalis (co. B. P. C.)
56.
Tabs, laxative (co. B. P. C.)
57.
Tetrachlorethylene
58.
Tinct. Belladonna
59.
Tinct. Benzoin co.
60.
Tinct. oppi comphorata
61.
Tinct. card. Co.
62.
Tinct. hyoscyamus
63.
Tinct. iodine
64.
Ung. sulphris (B.P.C.)
65.
Vaseline
66.
Vin ipecac or tinct/or liq.
67.
Zinc oxide
68.
Adrenalin hydrochloride liquor (1:1000)
69.
Coramine or nikethmide
70.
Emetine hydrochlor (amp or tab.)
71.
Cr. 1. Ditto
72.
Cr. ½  Ditto
73.
Injectto quinine Cr. 10
74.
Procaine hydrochlor or novocain 2% amp
75.
Serum anti-venom
76.
Serum tetanus anti-toxion 1,500 units.
Page 27/58
----- PAGE 28 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
77.
Soluseptasine or other injectable sulphamide
78.
Tab. atropine (1/100 gr.)
79.
Tab. morphine (1/4 gr.)
80.
Penicillin 100,000 unit ampoules or 400,000 unit ampules.
81.
Streptomycin
82.
90 P. A. S.
83.
Isonicotinic acid hydrazide
84.
Introdex
85.
Dextrose and sodium chloride Injection U. S. P. in transfusion bottles.
86.
Distilled water ampoules
87.
Liquid paraffin
88.
Vinegars.
89.
Tetanus toxoid.
Note. - The actual quantities of the above mentioned items to be stocked shall be such as are found necessary in the
light of day-to-day working of the dispensaries provided that provision for drugs shall be made at each dispensary at
least at the rate of 50 paise per annum per worker attached to the dispensary.
B. Dressing
Number
-------------------------------------
250 workers orbelow
251-1,000Workers
1.
Bandage, roller 15 cm.
6
6
2.
Bandage, roller 10 cm.
6
6
3.
Bandage, roller 8 cm.
6
6
4.
Bandages triangular
6
6
5.
Page 28/58
----- PAGE 29 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Cotton wool
450 gms.
450 gms.
6.
Gauze metre each
6
12
7.
Lint
100 gms.
100 gms.
8.
Plaster of paris bandage 10 cm.
...
...
6
9.
Plaster of parts bandage 8 cm.
...
...
6
10.
Strapping adhesive 12 rollers
...
1
1
11.
Strapping adhesive 2 rollers
...
1
1
12.
Strapping adhesive 3 rollers
...
1
1
13.
Burn dressing
...
6
12
C. Medical and Surgical Equipments
1.
Basin 35 cm.
...
1
2
2.
Bowls E. 3.5 cm.
...
1
Page 29/58
----- PAGE 30 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
1
3.
Bowls E. 4.5 cm.
...
1
1
4.
Catheter rubber (side 8 and 10)
...
2
2
5.
Cup feeding
...
2
2
6.
Douche can with fittings
...
1
2
7.
Drums dressing
...
...
1
8.
Examination lamp
...
1
1
9.
Forceps artery
...
2
2
10.
Forceps cheatle
...
1
1
11.
Forceps dissecting toothed
...
1
1
12.
Forceps dissecting plain
...
1
1
Page 30/58
----- PAGE 31 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
13.
Hammer percussion
...
1
1
14.
Jug measures
...
1
1
15.
Lancet vaccination
...
...
1
16.
Mirror forehead
...
...
1
17.
Needle aneurysm
...
...
1
18.
Needle suture assorted
...
6
6
19.
Probe
...
1
2
20.
Razor safety
...
1
1
21.
Roger's cholera apparatus or apparatus intravenous
...
1
1
22.
Stethoscope
...
1
1
23.
Page 31/58
----- PAGE 32 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Syringes 2 c.c.
...
1
1
24.
Syringes 10 c.c.
...
1
1
25.
Syringes 20 c.c. or above
...
...
1
26.
Spygmonamomeler
...
...
1
27.
Speculum nasal
...
1
1
28.
Speculum aural
...
1set
1set
29.
Stove primus
...
1
1
30.
Scaples
...
1
2
31.
Skinner's
...
1
32.
Stretcher
...
1
1
33.
Syringes ear
...
Page 32/58
----- PAGE 33 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
..
1
34.
Spud eye
...
..
1
35.
Splint leg Thomas (medium)
...
..
1
36.
Splinting wire crammer
...
..
1
37.
Scissors straight Mayo
...
..
1
38.
Scissors straight both ends sharp
...
..
1
39.
Stertlizer instrument portable
...
...
1
40.
Thermometers
...
1
2
41.
Tongue depresser
...
1
1
42.
Tape measure
...
1
1
43.
Test type chart
...
1
Page 33/58
----- PAGE 34 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
1
44.
Tray dressing
...
1
2
45.
Tray kidney
...
1
2
46.
Tourniquel
...
1
1
47.
Undine
...
1
1
48.
Weighing machine
...
1
1
49.
Water-proof sheets of 2 metres
...
1
1
50.
Autoclave
...
1
1
51.
Stomach tube
...
1
1
52.
Mouth gag
...
1
1
53.
Catgut (assorted numbers)
...
6 tubes
12 tubes
Page 34/58
----- PAGE 35 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
54.
Silkworm gut or nylon thread
...
3 metres
6 metres
55.
Sets of wooden splints (4VS, 3', 1?.6")
...
1set
2sets
56.
Lifter
...
1
1
57.
Enamel bucket
...
1
1
58.
Stainless steel dekchi 12" with cover
...
1
2
59.
Wooden board 7' x l/2 x 1"
...
1
1
60.
Torch with spare cells
...
1
1
61.
Stretcher
...
2
2
62.
Eye cups
...
1
1
D. Other Dispensary Equipment
1.
Blankets
...
2
2
Page 35/58
----- PAGE 36 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
2.
Bin for soiled clothes
...
1
1
3.
Bottles drop with grooved stoppers
...
1
2
4.
Cork screw
...
1
1
5.
Corks assorted
...
25
25
6.
Dropper eye
...
2
2
7.
Funnel 100 grams glass of E. 1.
...
1
1
8.
Filter paper
...
lpkt.
1 pkt.
9.
Gloves
...
1 pair
1 pair
10.
Litmus paper red
...
1 pkt.
lpkt.
11.
Litmus paper blue
...
lpkt.
lpkt.
12.
Page 36/58
----- PAGE 37 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Measure glass 200 grams
...
1
1
13.
Measure glass 50 grams
...
1
1
14.
Minim glass
...
1
1
15.
Pestle and mortar composition ... 1
...
1
16.
Pin safety
...
6
6
17.
Pot delf with cover
...
2
2
18.
Spatula
...
1
1
19.
Slab ointment
...
1
1
20.
Soap
...
1 cake
1 cake
21.
Spirit lamp
...
1
1
22.
Scales and weights
...
Page 37/58
----- PAGE 38 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
1
1
23.
Slides glass
...
15 grams
1 gram
24.
Scissors shop
...
1
1
25.
Towels ordinary
...
2
2
26.
Tin opener
...
1
1
27.
Test tubes
...
4
6
28.
Test tubes stand
...
1
1
29.
Test tube holder
...
1
1
30.
Urine glass specimen
...
1
2
31.
Nail brush
...
1
2
32.
Sand bags 12" x6"
...
12
Page 38/58
----- PAGE 39 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
12
E Furniture
1.
Almirah
...
1
1
2.
Benchs
...
1
1
3.
Chairs
...
2
2
4.
Cupboard poison
...
1
1
5.
Examination couch
...
1
1
6.
Stools
...
2
2
7.
Screen
...
1
1
8.
Table, Medical Officer
...
1
1
9.
Table dispensing
...
1
1
10.
Table dressing
...
1
Page 39/58
----- PAGE 40 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
1
Note. - In the case of dressings and surgical equipments, other dispensary equipment and furniture, a 50 per cent
increase in the numbe 1,000 workers shall be made for every additional 1,000 workers.
II
Standard of Maternity Centres
[See Rule 30E ]
1.
Building
1.
Maternity Centre for a mine employing up to 100 workers:
(i)
Consulting and office room (5 metres x 4 metres)
(ii)
Labour room (5 metres x 4 metres)
(iii)
Annexe to the labour room for sterilizing (3 metres x 4 metres)
(iv)
Dispensary room (5 metres x 4 metres)
(v)
Store-room (3 metres x 3 metres x 4 metres)
(vi)
Ward for two beds (5 metres x 4 metres)
(vii)
Bathroom and latrines (fresh) two-(2 metres x 3 metres)
(viii)
Annexe to the bathroom for bathing babies (2 metres x 3 metres)
(ix)
Washing room (2 metres x 3 metres)
(x)
Kitchen (2 metres x 3 metres)
(xi)
Covered waiting shed (15 square metres)
Note. - A part of the ward may be screened off to provide for work-room for nursing staff.
2. Maternity Centre for a mine employing up to 2,000 workers:
(i)
Consulting room (5 metres x 4 metres)
(ii)
Labour room (5 metres x 4 metres)
(iii)
Annexe to the labour room for sterilizing (3 metres x 3 metres)
(iv)
Dispensary room (5 metres x 4 metres)
(v)
Work room for nursing staff for storage of medicines, maintenance and preparation of supplies and maintenance of
records and reports (5 metres x 4 metres)
(vi)
Store room (3 metres x 3 metres)
(vii)
Ward for four beds (6 metres x 5 metres)
(viii)
Bathroom and latrine (two flush)-[2 metres x 3 metres)
Page 40/58
----- PAGE 41 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
(ix)
Annexe to the bathroom for bathing babies (2 metres x 3 metres)
(x)
Washing room (2 metres x 3 metres)
(xi)
Kitchen (2 metres x 3 metres)
(xii)
Laboratory room (10 square metres)
(xiii)
Covered waiting accommodation (15 square metres)
3. Maternity Centre for a mine employing over 2,000 workers:
(i)
Consulting room (5 metres x 4 metres)
(ii)
Labour room (5 metres x 4 metres).
(Hi)
Annexe to the labour room for sterilizing (3 metres x 3 metres).
(iv)
Dispensary room (5 metres x 4 metres).
(v)
Work room for nursing staff for storage of medicines, maintenance and preparation of supplies and maintenance of
records and reports (5 metres x 4 metres).
(vi)
Minor operation room (5 metres x 4 metres).
(vii)
Store room (3 metres x 3 metres).
(viii)
Ward for six beds (7 metres x 6 metres).
(ix)
Bath room and latrines (three flush) (2 metres x 3 metres).
(x)
Annex to the bath room for bathing babies (2 metres x 3 metres).
(xi)
Washing room (2 metres x 3 metres)
(xii)
Kichen (2 metres x 3 metres).
(xii)
Laboratory room (15 square metres).
(xiv)
Covered waiting accommodation (25 square metres).
II. Staff-
1.
Maternity Centre for a mine employing 1,000 workers and
below:
(i) Medical Licentiate or Graduate (Lady)(ii) Lady
Health Visitors(iii) Sweepers (female)(iv)  Compounder
.........
1221
}
Full time
2.
Page 41/58
----- PAGE 42 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Maternity Centre for a mine employing 1,001 to 2,000 workers:
(i)Medical Graduate (Lady)(ii)Compounder(iii)Lady
Health Visitors(iv)Sweepers (female)(v)Ayahs(vi)Cook
?...............
112321
}
Ful time
3.
Maternity Centre for a mine employing more than 2,000
workers:
(i)Medical Graduate (Lady)(ii)Nurse(iii)Lady
Health Visitors(iv)Compounder(v)Sweepers (female)(vi)Ayahs(vii)Cook
?..................
1131331
}
Ful time
III. List of drugs, surgical equipments, etc. for maternity centres
A. Drugs
1. Acid.
2. Acid Boric.
3. Acid Carbolic.
4. Acid Salicylic.
5. Aqua Distillate.
6. Ammon. Carb.
7. Aspirin.
8. Acriflavin or other anti-septic dye.
9. Benedict solution.
10. Calcium Lactate.
11. Copper Sulphate.
12. Calamina Preparate.
13. Cod Liver Oil.
14. Ephedrine Hydrochlor ( ½ gr. tab.).
15. Ether.
16. Esct. Clycrr. Liq.
17. Ferri Suph.
18. Ferriet Ammoni Citras.
19. Glucose.
20. Glycerine.
21. Gum Acacia.
22. Hydrarg Ammoniata.
23. Kaoline.
24. Liq. Ammon Acetate.
25. Liq. Plumbi Subacetas Fort.
26. Lysol.
27. Mag. Oxide Power or Mag. Trisillicate.
28. Mag. Sulph.
29. Multi vitamin tab.
30. Oil Ricini.
31. Oil Menth. Pip.
32. Oil Olive or Oil or Arachis.
33. Paludrine tabs.
Page 42/58
----- PAGE 43 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
34. Pheno Barbitone.
35. Pot. Bromide.
36. Pot. Citrate.
37. Pot'. Iodide.
38. Pot. Permanganate.
39. Protargol or Argyrol.
40. Pulv. Ipecas Co.
41. Pulv. Quinine Sulph.
42. Sodi Bicarb.
43. Sodi Salicylate.
44. Spt. Ammon Aromat.
45. Spt. Methyl.
46. Spt. Rect.
47. Sulphanilamide or Sulphadiazine tablets.
48. Sulphaguanidline.
49. Sulphanilamide powder.
50. Tab. Digoxin or Pill Digitalis Co. B.P.C.
51. Tab. Laxative Co. B.P.C.
52. Tinct. Belladonna.
53. Tinct. Benoin Co.
54. Tinct. Opii Cam phorate.
55. Tinct. Card. Co.
56. Tinct. Hyoscyamus.
57. Tinct. Iodine.
58. Ung. Sulphuris B. P. C.
59. Vaseline.
60. Vin. Ipecac or Tinct. or Liq.
61. Zinc Oxide.
62. Andrenalin Hydrochloride Liquor (1:1000).
63. CoramineorNikethmide.
64. Emetine Hydrochlor (amp. or tab.).
65. Gr. 1
66. Gr. ½
67. Injection Quinine Cr. 10.
68. Peracine Hydrochlor or Novocain 2% amp.
69. Serus Tetanus anti-toxin 1,500 units.
70. Seluseptasine or other injectible sulphamide.
71. Tab. Atropine (1/100 gr.)
72. Tab. Morphine.
73. Penicillin 1,00,000 unit ampoules or 4,00,000 unit amps.
74. Streptomycine.
75. 90 P. A. S.
76. Isonicotinic Acid Hydrazide.
77. Ext. Ergot Liquid.
78. Ersdhui Capsules or Neogynergin Tabs.
79. Lovelive ampoules.
80. Introdex.
81. Dextrose and Sodium Choride injection U. S. P. in transfusion bottles.
82. Distilled water ampoule.
83. Liquid Parafflin.
84. Vinegars.
Page 43/58
----- PAGE 44 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
85. Tetanus Toxoid.
Note. - The actual quantities of the above mentioned items to be stocked shall be such as are found necessary in the
light of the day-to-day working of the maternity centres provided that provision for drugs shall be made at each centre at
least at the rate of 50 paise per annum per worker attached to the maternity centre.
B. Dressings
1,000 workersor below
1,001-2,000workers
1.
Bandage, roller, 15cm.
...
12
12
2.
Bandage, roller 10cm.
...
12
12
3.
Bandage, roller, 8cm.
...
12
12
4.
Bandage, triangular
...
12
12
5.
Cotton wool
...
1.35 Kilogram
1.35 Kilogram
6.
Gauze, 1 metre each
...
12 metres
24 metres
7.
Lint
...
200gms.
300gms.
8.
Strapping adhesive, 12 roller
...
2
2
9.
Strapping adhesive, 2 roller
...
2
Page 44/58
----- PAGE 45 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
2
10.
Strapping adhesive, 3 roller
...
2
2
11.
Burn Dressing
...
12
12
C. Medical and Surgical Equipment
1.
Basin, 35 cms.
...
2
4
2.
Bowls E., 3.5 cm.
...
2
2
3.
Bowls E., 4 cm.
...
2
2
4.
Female catheters, rubber and metal(size 8 and 10).
...
4
4
5.
Cup feeding
...
2
4
6.
Douche can with fittings
...
1
2
7.
Drums dressing
...
2
2
8.
Examination lamps
...
2
Page 45/58
----- PAGE 46 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
2
9.
Forceps, artery
...
2
2
10.
Forcep. Cheatle
...
1
1
11.
Forcep. Dissecting, toothed
...
1
1
12.
Forcep, Dissecting, plain
...
1
1
13.
Hammer percussion
...
1
1
14.
Jug measure
...
1
1
15.
Lancet, Vaceinations
...
1
1
16.
Mirror, Forehead
...
1
1
17.
Needle, aneurysm
...
1
18.
Needle, suture, assorted
...
6
6
19.
Page 46/58
----- PAGE 47 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Probe
...
1
2
20.
Razor, safety with blades
...
2
4
21.
Rager's cholers apparatus or apparatus intravenous
...
1
1
22.
Vaginal retractor
...
1
2
23.
Vaginal speculum
...
1
2
24.
Ovam Forceps
...
1
2
25.
Heggar's Dialator
...
1 set
1 set
26.
Curetto, sharp and blunt, fliushing
...
1
1
27.
Delivery Forceps
...
1
2
28.
Factal stethoscope
...
1
1
29.
Palvimeter
Page 47/58
----- PAGE 48 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
...
1
1
30.
Perforator
...
1
1
31.
Cramotatory Forceps
...
1
1
32.
Maternity table
...
1
1
33.
Stethoscope
...
1
2
34.
Syringes, 2 cc.
...
2
2
35.
Syringes, 10 cc.
...
2
2
36.
Syringes, 20 cc. or above
...
1
1
37.
Spygmonanometer
...
1
1
38.
Stove, primus
...
2
2
39.
Scaples
...
Page 48/58
----- PAGE 49 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
1
2
40.
Skinners mask
...
1
1
41.
Stretcher
...
2
2
42.
Scissors, straight, both ends sharp
...
1
1
43.
Scissors, straight, Mayo
...
1
1
44.
Stertilizer instrument, portable
...
1
1
45.
Thermometers
...
2
4
46.
Tongue depressor
...
2
2
47.
Tape measure
...
1
1
48.
Test type chart
...
1
1
49.
Tray, dressing
...
2
Page 49/58
----- PAGE 50 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
2
50.
Tray kidney
...
2
2
51.
Tourniquet
...
1
1
52.
Weighing machine
...
1
1
53.
Waterproof sheets of 2 metres
...
2
4
54.
Autoclave
...
1
1
55.
Stomach tube
...
1
1
56.
Mouth gag
...
1
1
57.
Cat gut, assorted (Numbers)
...
6 tubes
12 tubes
58.
Silkworm gut or nylon thread
...
3 metres
6 metres
59.
Sets of wooden splints (41/2. 3', 1' 6")
...
1
1
Page 50/58
----- PAGE 51 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
60.
Lifter
...
1
2
61.
Enamel bucket
...
2
4
62.
Stainless Steel dekchi, 12' with cover
...
1
1
63.
Wooden board 7'x 1 Vi x 1'
...
1
1
64.
Torch with spare cells
...
1
1
65.
Eyecups
...
1
1
D. Other Equipment
1.
Blankets
...
6
12
2.
Bins for soiled clothes
...
2
4
3.
Bottles, drop with grooved stoppers
...
2
2
4.
Cork screws
...
2
2
Page 51/58
----- PAGE 52 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
5.
Corks, assorted
...
25
50
6.
Droppers, eye
...
2
2
7.
Funnel, 100 gms. glass or E. 1.
...
1
1
8.
Filter paper
...
1 packet
1 packet
9.
Gloves
...
2 pairs
4 pairs
10.
Litmus paperred
...
2 packets
4 packets
11.
Litmus paper, blue
...
2 packets
4 packets
12.
Measure glass, 200 gms.
...
2
2
13.
Measure glass, 50 gms.
...
2
2
14.
Minim glass
...
2
2
15.
Page 52/58
----- PAGE 53 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Pestle and Mortar Composition
...
1
1
16.
Pin. safety
...
12
12
17.
Pot delf with cover
...
2
2
18.
Spatula
...
1
1
19.
Slab ointment
...
1
1
20.
Soap
...
4 cakes
8 cakes
21.
Spirit lamps
...
2
2
22.
Scales and weights
...
4
8
23.
Slides, glass
...
15 gms.
15 gms.
24.
Scissors, shop
...
2
2
25.
Towels, ordinary
Page 53/58
----- PAGE 54 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
...
4
8
26.
Tin openers
...
2
2
27.
Test tubes
...
8
8
28.
Test tube stands
...
2
2
29.
Test tube holders
...
2
2
30.
Urine glass specimen
...
2
2
31.
Mattresses
...
4
6
32.
Beds
...
4
6
33.
Nail brushes
...
2
4
34.
Sand bags, 12" x 8"
...
3
6
E. Furniture
1.
Almirah
Page 54/58
----- PAGE 55 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
...
1
1
2.
Benches
...
4
8
3.
Chairs
...
4
8
4.
Cupboard, poison
...
1
1
5.
Examination couch, female
...
1
1
6.
Stools
...
2
2
7.
Screen
...
1
2
8.
Table, Medical Officer
...
1
1
9.
Table, dispensing
...
1
1
10.
Table, dressing
...
1
1
Note. - In the case of dressings, medical and surgical equipments, other centre equipments and furniture, a 50 per cent
increase in the number shown above for 2,000 workers shall be made for every additional 1,000 workers.
III
Page 55/58
----- PAGE 56 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
Standard of Facilities for Adult Education and Recreation-
Welfare Centre
[See Rule 301]
Welfare Centre
1.
Accommodation:
(a)
1.  One hall of 45 square metres.
2.  Two rooms of 15 square metres each.
3.  Covered verandah 18 square metres.
4. One lavatory for men.
5. One lavatory for women.
6.   One bath room for children.
(b)
Play ground of the size of 36 metres x 18 metres.
(c)
Children's Park equipment-
(i) Swing
1 set
(ii)  Ocean wave
1
(iii)  Sea saw
1
(iv) Sea saw
1
(v)  Slides
1
2.
Staff:
1. Adult Education Lnstructor-cum-Games Supervisor
1
2. Sevika
...
1
3.
Furniture and Equipment:
1.  Table
....
1
2. Chairs
....
2
3. Chairs, Steel folding
....
6
4. Notice Board
....
1
5. Benches
....
2
Page 56/58
----- PAGE 57 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
6. Black Board
....
1
7. Steel Almirah
....
1
8. Coir mat, 15 metres x 1 metre
....
1
9. Radio with loudspeaker
....
1
10.  Slates, slate pencils, chalk, etc.
....
As necessary
11.  Books, charts, maps, etc.
....
Do
12.  Petromax (if no electricity is available)
....
1
13.  Dholak
....
1
14.  Jhals
....
4 parts
15. Volley ball court equipment, ball etc.
....
1 set
16.  Tennis-court
....
1
17.  Carrom Boards
....
2
18. Chess
....
2
19.  Ludo
....
3
20.  Newspapers and periodicals
....
As necessary
21.  Sewing machine
....
1
22.  Scissors
....
1 pair
Page 57/58
----- PAGE 58 -----
The Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963
23.  Tape
....
1
24.  Knitting and crochet needles
....
As necessary
25.  Raw materials
....
Do
26.  Gong
....
1
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 58/58