
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Mormugao Port Trust (Procedure At Board Meeting) Rules, 1964
The Mormugao Port Trust (Procedure At Board Meeting) Rules, 1964
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/174181727/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Mormugao Port Trust (Procedure At Board Meeting) Rules, 1964
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Mormugao Port Trust (Procedure At Board Meeting) Rules, 1964
Rule THE-MORMUGAO-PORT-TRUST-PROCEDURE-AT-BOARD-MEETING-RULES-1964 of 1964
Published on 29 June 1964
Commenced on 29 June 1964
[This is the version of this document from 29 June 1964.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Mormugao Port Trust (Procedure At Board Meeting) Rules, 1964
Published vide Notification Gazette of India Extraordinary, of 1964, Part 2, Section 3(i) page 584
1939.
G.S.R. 967, dated 29th June, 1964. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 122 of the Major Port Trusts Act,
1963 (
38 of 1963
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, the same having been previously published as required by
sub-section (2) of the said section, namely :-
1.
Short Title and Application.
(1)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Mormugao Port Trust (Procedure At Board Meeting) Rules, 1964
These Rules may be called the Mormugao Port Trust (Procedure at Board Meetings) Rules, 1964.
(2)
They shall, subject to the provisions of section 16 of the Act, apply to the business transacted at the meetings of the Port
Trust Board of Mormugao as and when such Board is constituted.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires--
(a)
"Act" means the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963 (
38 of 1963
);
(b)
"the words" and "expressions" defined in the Act and used in these Rules have the meanings assigned to them in the
Act.
3.
Frequency of Meetings.
(1)
A meeting of the Board shall be held at least once in every month.
(2)
The Board shall from time to time determine the place, date and time of its meeting.
4.
Calling of Special Meetings.
- The Chairman or in his absence the Dy.Chairman if appointed may whenever he thinks fit, and shall upon the written
request of not less than three Trustees, call a special meeting.
5.
Circulation of the Agenda Papers.
- The papers connected with the agenda relating to any meeting of the Board, except a special meeting, shall be
circulated to the members at least three days before the date of the meeting. In the case of a special meeting such
papers shall be circulated, at least one day before the date of the meeting.
6.
Discussion of items not included in the Agenda.
- The Chairman or in his absence the Dy.Chairman if appointed may, at his discretion, include for discussion at any of
the meetings of the Board, except a special meeting, any item not included in the agenda if the same is, in his opinion,
of sufficient importance and urgency and cannot be held over for the consideration of the Board at any subsequent
meeting.
7.
Poll.
- If a poll is demanded, the names of the Trustees voting and the nature of their votes shall be recorded by the President
of the meeting.
8.
Minutes of the Meeting.
(1)
Minutes of the proceedings at each meeting of the Board shall be recorded in a book to be provided by the Board for his
purpose, which shall be signed as soon as practicable by the President of such meeting and shall be open to the
inspection by any trustee during the office hours and the said minutes, excepting such portion thereof as the Chairman
or in Deputy Chairman as the case may be may direct in any particular case, shall also be open to the inspection of the
public at the office of the Board during office hours on payment of such fee for each inspection as may be fixed by the
Board from time to time.
(2)
The names of the Trustees present at each meeting shall be recorded in the Minutes Book.
9.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Mormugao Port Trust (Procedure At Board Meeting) Rules, 1964
Adjournment of Meetings.
- The President of a meeting may, with its consent, adjourn it to a later date which shall either be announced at the
meeting or communicated to the members at least three days before the date of the meeting.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3