
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Indian Forest Service (Appointment by Competitive Examination) Regulations, 1967
The Indian Forest Service (Appointment by Competitive Examination)
Regulations, 1967
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/69186438/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Indian Forest Service (Appointment by Competitive Examination) Regulations, 1967
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Indian Forest Service (Appointment by Competitive Examination) Regulations, 1967
Rule THE-INDIAN-FOREST-SERVICE-APPOINTMENT-BY-COMPETITIVE-EXAMINATION-REGULATIONS-1967 of
1967
Published on 1 July 1966
Commenced on 1 July 1966
[This is the version of this document from 1 July 1966.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Indian Forest Service (Appointment by Competitive Examination) Regulations, 1967
In pursuance of Rule 7 of the Indian Forest Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1966, the Central Government, in consultation
with the State Governments and the Union Public Service Commission, hereby makes the following regulations, namely
:
1.
Short title.
- These regulations may be called the Indian Forest Service (Appointment by Competitive Examination) Regulations,
1967.
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Indian Forest Service (Appointment by Competitive Examination) Regulations, 1967
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
'available vacancies' means the vacancies in the Service which, as determined by the Central Government under the
provisions of sub-rule (3) of rule 4 of the Recruitment Rules, are to be filled on the results of an examination;
(b)
'examination' means a competitive examination for recruitment to the Service held under sub-rule (1) of rule 7 of the
Recruitment Rules;
(c)
'list' means the list of candidates prepared under regulation 7;
(d)
'Recruitment Rules' means the Indian Forest Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1966.
(2)
All other words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Recruitment Rules.
3.
Holding of examination.
- The examination shall be conducted by the commission in the manner notified by the Central Government from time to
time.
(2)
The dates on which and the places at which the examination shall be held shall be fixed by the Commission.
4.
Conditions of eligibility.
- In order to be eligible to compete at the examination, a candidate must satisfy the following conditions, namely :
(1)
Nationality. - He must be a citizen of India or must belong to such categories of persons as may from time to time be
notified in this behalf by the Central Government.
(2)
[ Age. - He must have attained the age of 21, and not attained the age of 30 on the first day of July of the year in which
the examination is held]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 676 (E), dated 13th November, 1998 (w.e.f. 13-11-1998).]
;
Provided that the upper age limit may be relaxed in respect of candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes and such other categories of persons as may from time to time be notified in this behalf by the Central
Government by general or special orders to the extent and subject to the conditions notified in respect of each category :
Provided further that the upper age limit may be relaxed in respect of a person who was directly recruited to the gazetted
cadre of the State Forest Service and had put in less than 4 years service, including 2 years training for diploma course
in the Forest Research Institute and Colleges, Dehra Dum, on the 1st July, 1966, to such extent and for such periods as
the Central Government may by order specify :
[Provided also that the upper age limit shall be raised to 31 years for the candidates appearing at the examination to be
conducted by the Commission in 1990.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 140 (E), dated 16th March, 1990.]
(3)
Educational qualification. - He must hold a Bachelor's degree with at least one of the subjects, namely, Botany,
Chemistry, Forestry, Geology, Mathematics, Physics and Zoology, or a Bachelor's degree in Agriculture, or in [* * *]
[Omitted by M.H.A. Notification No. 4/70/68 (1)-A.I.S. (IV), dated 25th July, 1969.]
Engineering of any University incorporated by an Act of the Central or of the State Legislature in India or other
educational institutions established by an Act of Parliament or declared to be deemed as Universities under Section 3 of
the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Indian Forest Service (Appointment by Competitive Examination) Regulations, 1967
3 of 1956
), or a foreign University approved by the Central Government from time to time, or possess a qualification which has
been recognised by the Central Government for the purposes of admission to the examination :
Provided that in exceptional cases the Commission may treat a candidate not possessing the qualifications prescribed
herein as qualified if-
(a)
he has passed an examination conducted by any other institution of a standard which, in the opinion of the Commission
justifies, has admission to the examination, or
(b)
he has taken one or more degrees by passing an examination in any one or more subjects aforesaid from a foreign
university which is not approved by the Central Government.
Explanatory Memorandum
A degree in Forestry or Statistics has been included as one of the educational qualifications for admission to the Indian
Forest Service examination to be conducted by the Union Public Service Commission in the year 1988. The 'Notice' for
the ensuing examination has been issued on this basis by the Union Public Service Commission.
Correspondingly, the 'Rules' governing the conduct of the above examination have also been notified on the same basis,
by the Ministry of Environment and Forests. The Gazette notifications of the 'Notice' and 'Rules' for the examination have
been published in the Gazette on the 30th January, 1988.
2. The rules for the conduct of the Indian Forest Service examinations drive authority from the Indian Forest Service
(Appointment by Competitive Examination) Regulations, 1967. To lend authority to the 'Notice' and the 'Rules' for the
examination to be conducted in the year, 1988 it is necessary to amend the provisions of the statutory Regulations of
1987 appropriately.
3. In order to amend the Regulations of 1967, consultation with the 22 State Governments participating in the Indian
Forest Service is necessary. The process of consultation with the State Governments, and arriving at a decision taking
into account their opinions, which are mostly in affirmative, has just been completed.
4. In the above circumstances, it has been essential to give retrospective effect to the amendments to the Regulations of
1967.. It is certified that no person is likely to be adversely affected by this Notification being given retrospective effect.
[(3-A) Attempts at the examination. - Unless covered by any of the exceptions that may, from time to time, be notified by
the Central Government in this behalf, [every candidate appearing at the examination after the 1st January, 1990, who is
otherwise eligible, shall be permitted four attempts at the examination]
[Inserted by Notification No. 16071/2/82-AIS (IV), dated 12th December, 1983.]
.
(4)
Fees. - He must pay the fees prescribed by the Commission.
5.
Disqualification for admission.
- Any attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain support for his candidature by any means may be held by the
Commission to disqualify him for admission to the examination.
6.
Decision of the Commission to be final.
- The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candidate for admission to the examination shall
be final and no candidate to whom a certificate of admission has not been issued by the Commission shall be admitted
to the examination.
7.
[ List of candidates.
[Substituted by G.S.R. 808, dated 4th November, 1989.]
- List of successful candidates-
(1)
Subject to the provision of sub-regulation (2) the Commission shall forward to the Central Government a list arranged in
order of merit of the candidates who have qualified by such standards as the Commission may determine.
(2)
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Indian Forest Service (Appointment by Competitive Examination) Regulations, 1967
The candidates, belonging to any of the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes, may, to the extent of the number of
vacancies reserved for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, be recommended by the Commission by a
relaxed standard, subject to the fitness of these candidates for selection to the Service :
Provided that the candidates, belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Schedules Tribes, who have been
recommended by the Commission without resorting to the relaxed standard referred to in this sub-regulation, shall not
be adjusted against the vacancies reserved for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.]
8.
Appointment of candidates.
- Subject to the provisions of regulations 9, 10, 12 and 13, candidates will be considered for appointment to the available
vacancies in the order in which their names appear in the list.
9.
Reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.
(1)
In pursuance of rule 7 of the Recruitment Rules [15 per cent and 7-½ per cent]
[Substituted by DP Notification No. 3/31/70-(ii)-AIS(IV), dated 26th April, 1971 (w.e.f. 8th May, 1971).]
of the available vacancies shall be reserved for candidates who are members of the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes respectively.
(2)
In filling the vacancies reserved for candidates who are members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes
such candidates shall be considered for appointment in the order in which their names appear in the list.
(3)
[ If sufficient number of candidates, who are members of the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes, are not
available for filling all the vacancies so reserved, the vacancies not so filled shall be treated as backlog vacancies and
carried forward to the subsequent examinations until they are filled. The backlog vacancies shall be treated as a distinct
group separate from the current vacancies reserved under sub-regulation (1), for candidates, who are members of the
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 808, dated 4th November, 1989.]
(4)
[ and (5) [* * *]]
[Sub-regulations (4) and (5) omitted by G.S.R. 808, dated 4th November, 1989.]
10.
Disqualification for appointment.
- [(1) No person-
(a)
who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living; or
(b)
who, having a spouse living has entered into or contracted a marriage with any person, shall be eligible for appointment
to the Service :
Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the personal law
applicable to such person and the other party to the marriage and there are other grounds for so doing exempt any
person from the operation of this regulation.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 3/31 /70-(ii) AIS (iv), dated 26th April, 1971 (w.e.f. 8th May, 1971).]
(2)
[ * * *]
[Omitted by DP & AR Notification No. 16021/1/75-A1S (III), dated 29th September, 1975 (w.e.f. 6th October, 1973).]
11.
[ Disciplinary action.
[Substituted by DP & AR Notification No. 11028/1/77-AIS (I)-C, dated 29th March, 1978.]
- A candidate who is or has been declared by the Commission to be guilty of-
(i)
[ obtaining support for his candidature by the following means, namely :
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Indian Forest Service (Appointment by Competitive Examination) Regulations, 1967
(a)
offering illegal gratification to, or
(b)
applying pressure on, or
(c)
blackmailing, or threatening to blackmail, any person connected with the conduct of the examination, or;]
(ii)
impersonating, or
(iii)
procuring impersonation by any person, or
(iv)
submitting fabricated documents or documents which have been tampered with, or
(v)
making statements which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information, or
(vi)
[ resorting to the following means in connection with the candidature for the examination, namely :
[Substituted by G.S.R. 682, dated 9th September, 1989.]
(a)
obtaining copy of question paper through improper means,
(b)
finding out the particulars of the persons connected with secret work relating to the examination,
(c)
influencing the examiners, or,
(vii)
using unfair means during the examination, or]
(viii)
[ writing obscene matters or drawing obscene sketches in the scripts, or
[Substituted by G.S.R. 682, dated 9th September, 1989.]
(ix)
misbehaving in the examination hall including tearing of the scripts, provoking fellow examinees to boycott examination,
creating a disorderly scene and the like, or]
(x)
harassing or doing bodily harm to the staff employed by the Commission for the conduct of their examinations; or
(xi)
[ violating any of the instructions issued to candidates alongwith their admission certificates permitting them to take the
examination;
[Inserted by Notification No. 11028/1/83-AIS (1), dated 29th September, 1983.]
(xii)
attempting to commit or as the case may be abetting the commission of all or any of the acts specified in the foregoing
clauses;]
may, in addition to rendering himself liable to criminal prosecution, be liable-
(a)
[ to be disqualified by the commission from the examination for which he is a candidate; and/or
[Substituted by G.S.R. 682, dated 9th September, 1989.]
(b)
to be debarred either permanently or for a specified period-
(i)
by the Commission, from any examination or selection held by them;]
(ii)
by the Central Government from any employment under them; and
(c)
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Indian Forest Service (Appointment by Competitive Examination) Regulations, 1967
if he is already in service under Government to disciplinary action under the appropriate rules :
[Provided that no penalty under Clause  (a) or Clause (b) as the case may be, shall be imposed except after-
(i)
giving the candidate an opportunity of making such representation in writing as he may wish to make in that behalf, and
(ii)
taking the representation, if any, submitted by the candidate, within the period allowed to him, into consideration.]
12.
Disqualification for appointment on medical grounds.
- No candidate shall be appointed to Service who, after such medical examination as the Central Government may
prescribe, is not found to be in good mental or bodily health and free from any mental or physical defect likely to interfere
with the discharge of the duties of the Service.
13.
Inclusion in the list confers no right of appointment.
- The inclusion of a candidate's name in the list confers no right to appointment unless the Central government is
satisfied, after such inquiry as may be considered necessary, that [candidate having regard to his character and
antecedents]
[Substituted by DP & AR Notification No. 32/1/74-AIS (II), dated 25th March, 1975.]
is suitable in all respects for appointment to the Service.
[Inserted by F. 11028/1/81-AIS (1), dated 25th January, 1982.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6