
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Indian Forest Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1966
The Indian Forest Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1966
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/178445103/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Indian Forest Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1966
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Indian Forest Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1966
Rule THE-INDIAN-FOREST-SERVICE-RECRUITMENT-RULES-1966 of 1966
Published on 1 September 1966
Commenced on 1 September 1966
[This is the version of this document from 1 September 1966.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Indian Forest Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1966
Published vide M.H.A. Notification No. 2/6/64-A.I.S. (4), dated 1st September, 1966
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the All India Service Act, 1951 (61 of 1951), the
Central Government, after consultation with the Governments of the States concerned, hereby makes the following
rules, namely:
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Indian Forest Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1966.
(2)
They shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from 1st July, 1966.
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Indian Forest Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1966
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"Commission" means the Union Public Service Commission;
(aa)
[ "direct recruit" means a person appointed to the service after recruitment under clause (a) of sub-rule (2) of Rule 4;]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 731 (E), dated 31st December, 1997.]
(b)
"Scheduled Castes" means such castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within such castes, races or tribes as are
deemed under Art. 341 of the Constitution to be Scheduled Castes for the purpose of the Constitution;
(c)
"Scheduled Tribes" means such tribes or tribal communities or parts of or groups within such tribes or tribal communities
as are deemed under Art. 342 of the Constitution to be Scheduled Tribes for the purpose of the Constitution;
(d)
"Service" means the Indian Forest Service;
(e)
"State" means a State specified in the First Schedule to the Constitution and includes a Union Territory;
(f)
"State Cadre" and "Joint Cadre" have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Indian Forest Service (Cadre)
Rules, 1966;
(g)
"State Forest Service" means-
(i)
any such service in a State, being a service connected with forestry and the members thereof having gazetted status, as
the Central Government may, in consultation with the State Government, approve for the purpose of these rules; or
(ii)
any service in such Central Civil Post; Class I or Class II, connected with forestry, as may be approved by the Central
Government for the purposes of these rules;
(h)
[ "State Government concerned" in relation to a Joint Cadre, means the Joint Cadre Authority.]
[Substituted by D.P. Notification No. 13/4/71-AIS (I), dated 11th January, 1972.]
3.
[ Constitution of the service.
[Substituted by by G.S.R. 731 (E), dated 31st December, 1997.]
- The Service shall consist of the persons recruited to the service in accordance with the provisions of these rules.]
4.
Method of recruitment to the Service.
- [(1) * * *]
[Sub-rule (1) omitted by by G.S.R. 731 (E), dated 31st December, 1997.]
(2)
[* * *]
[The words 'After the recruitment under sub-rule (1) subsequent' omitted by G.S.R. 731 (E), dated 31st December,
1997.]
Recruitment to the Service, shall be by the following methods, namely :
(a)
by a competitive examination;
(aa)
[ * * *]
[Clause (aa) omitted by by G.S.R. 731 (E), dated 31st December, 1997.]
(b)
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Indian Forest Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1966
by promotion of substantive members of the State Forest Service.
(3)
[ Subject to the provisions of these rules-
(a)
the method or methods of recruitment to be adopted for the purpose of filling any particular vacancy or vacancies as
may be required to be filled during any particular period of recruitment, shall be determined by the Central Government
and the State Government concerned;
(b)
the number of persons to be recruited by each method shall be determined on each occasion by the Central
Government in consultation with the State Government concerned.]
[(3-A) * * *]
[Sub-rule (3-A) omitted by G.S.R. 731 (E), dated 31st December, 1997.]
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (2), if in the opinion of the Central Government the exigencies of the
Service so require, the Central Government may, after consultation with the State Government and the Commission,
adopt such methods of recruitment to the Service other than those specified in the said sub-rule, as it may by
regulations made in this behalf prescribe.
(5)
[ * * *]
[Sub-rule (5) omitted by G.S.R. 731 (E), dated 31st December, 1997.]
5.
Disqualifications for appointment.
- [(1) No person shall be qualified for appointment to the service unless he is a citizen of India, or belongs to such
categories of persons as may, from time to time be notified in this behalf by the Central Government.]
[Substituted by M.H.A. Notification No. 3/2/67-AIS (IV), dated 15th March, 1967.]
(2)
No person -  [* * * ]
[Deleted by D.P. Notification No. 3/14/72-AIS (IV), dated 22nd September, 1973.]
(a)
who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living, or
(b)
who, having a spouse living has entered into or contracted a marriage with any person, shall be eligible for appointment
to the Service :
Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the personal law
applicable to such person and the other party to the marriage and there are other grounds for so doing, exempt any
person from the operation of this rule.
6.
Appointment to the Service.
(1)
All appointments to the Service shall be made by the Central Government and no such appointment shall be made
except after recruitment by one of the methods specified in Rule 4.
(2)
[ The appointments of persons recruited to the service under Cls. (a) [* * *]
[Inserted by M.H.A. Notification No. 3/8/66-AIS (IV), dated 8th June, 1967.]
of sub-rule (2) of Rule 4 shall be in the junior time-scale of pay.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 731 (E), dated 31st December, 1997.]
(3)
[ The initial appointment of persons recruited to the Service under clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of Rule 4 shall be in the
senior scale of pay.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 731 (E), dated 31st December, 1997.]
6A.
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Indian Forest Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1966
[ Appointment of officers in the junior time scale of pay to posts in the senior time scale of pay.
[Substituted by G.S.R. 731 (E), dated 31st December, 1997.]
(1)
Appointments of officers recruited to the Service under Clause (a) [* * *] of sub-rule (2) of Rule 4 to posts in the senior
time-scale of pay shall be made by the State Government concerned.
(2)
An Officer, referred to in sub-rule (1), shall be appointed to a post in the Senior time-scale of pay if, having regard to his
length of service and experience, the State Government is satisfied that he is suitable for appointment to a post in the
senior time-scale of pay :
[Provided that, if he is under suspension or disciplinary proceedings are instituted against him, he shall not be appointed
to a post in the senior time-scale of pay, until he is reinstated in the Service, or the disciplinary proceedings are
concluded and final orders are passed thereon, as the case may be :
Provided further that on the conclusion of the disciplinary proceedings-
(a)
if he is exonerated fully and the period of suspension, if any, is treated as duty for all purposes, he shall be appointed to
the senior time-scale of pay from the date on which he would have been so appointed, had the disciplinary proceedings
not been instituted against him, and paid accordingly; and
(b)
if he is not exonerated fully, and if the State Government, after considering his case on merits, proposes not to appoint
him to the senior time-scale of pay from the date on which he would have been so appointed had the disciplinary
proceedings not been instituted against him, he shall be given an opportunity to show cause against such action.]
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (2) the State Government may-
(a)
withhold the appointment of an officer, referred to in sub-rule (1), to a post in the senior time-scale of pay,-
(i)
till he is confirmed in the Service, or
(ii)
till he passes the prescribed departmental examination or examination, and appoint, to such a post, an officer junior to
him,
(b)
appoint an officer, referred to in sub-rule (1), at any time to a post in the senior time-scale of pay as a purely temporary
or local arrangement.]
Government's Decisions
D.P. and A.R. letter No. 3I7I72-AIS (IV), dated 24.9.1973. - A question was raised what should be the length of service
for direct recruits appointed on the basis of the competitive examination for promotion to the posts in the senior
time-scale in the Indian Forest Service.
(2)
It has been decided that in order to determine the suitability of direct recruits to the Indian Forest Service for promotion
to the posts in the senior time-scale, their works and performances should be watched for a period of at least two years
after having completed successfully the period of three years. In other words, the direct recruits to the Indian Forest
Service may be considered for promotion to senior time-scale on completion of five years of service including the period
of their training.
7.
Recruitment by competitive examination.
(1)
A competitive examination for recruitment to the Service shall be held at such intervals as the Central Government may,
in consultation with the Commission, from time to time, determine.
(2)
The examination shall be conducted by the Commission in accordance with such regulations as the Central Government
may from time to time make in consultation with the Commission and the State Governments.
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Indian Forest Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1966
(3)
Appointments to the Service will be subject to orders regarding special representation in the Service for [the Scheduled
Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and other Backward Classes]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 731 (E), dated 31st December, 1997.]
issued by the Central Government from time to time :
[Provided that candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes or other Backward Classes and
declared by the Commission to be suitable for appointment to the Service shall be appointed against unreserved
vacancies, in case they qualify for appointment to the Service based on their merit without recourse to the benefit of
reservation.]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 731 (E), dated 31st December, 1997.]
7A.
[ Recruitment by selection of persons from among the released Emergency Commissioned Officers and Short Service
Commissioned Officers Commissioned in the Armed Forces of the Union after the 1st November, 1962 but before the
10th January, 1968.
[Inserted by G.S.R. 731 (E), dated 31st December, 1997.]
- [* * *]
[Inserted by D.P. Notification No. 11027/1/75-AIS (I)-C, dated 29th June, 1976.]
8.
Recruitment by promotion.
(1)
The Central Government may, on the recommendations of the State Government concerned and in consultation with the
Commission and in accordance with such regulations as the Central Government may, after consultation with the State
Government and the Commission from time to time, may recruit to the Service persons by promotion from amongst the
substantive members of the State Forest Service.
(2)
Where a vacancy occurs in a State Cadre which is to be filled under the provisions of this rule the vacancy shall be filled
by promotion of a member of the State Forest Service.
(3)
Where a vacancy occurs in the Joint Cadre which is to be filled under the provision of this rule, the vacancy shall,
subject to any agreement in this behalf, be filled by promotion of a member of the State Forest Service of any of the
State constituting the group.
9.
Number of persons to be recruited under Rule 8.
- [(1) The number of persons recruited under Rule 8 in any State or group of States shall not, at any time, exceed 33-1/3
per cent, of the number of senior posts under the State Government, Central deputation reserve, State deputation
reserve and the training reserve in relation to that State or to the group of States, in the Schedule to the Indian
Administrative Service (Fixation of Cadre Strength) Regulations, 1955.
Explanation. - For the purpose of calculation of the posts under this sub-rule, fractions, if any, are to be ignored.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 731 (E), dated 31st December, 1997.]
(2)
For the purpose of determining the percentage specified in sub-rule (1) the officers of a State Forest Service, who may
be appointed to any of the vacancies caused by the transfer of cadre officers to another service or by their
quasi-permanent deputation to the Centre shall be excluded.
(3)
[ Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule, in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, the number of persons
recruited under sub-rule (1), shall not, upto the 30th April, 2002, exceed at any time, fifty per cent, of the number of
senior posts under the State Government, Central deputation reserve, State deputation reserve and the training reserve
in relation to that State in the Schedule to the Indian Administrative Service (Fixation of Cadre Strength) Regulations,
1955.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 731 (E), dated 31st December, 1997.]
Explanatory Note. - The provisions for reservations in respect of the Other Backward Classes for recruitment to the
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Indian Forest Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1966
service was commenced by the Central Government from the year 1994 onwards and hence it is proposed to give
retrospective effect to the provisions of sub-rule (3) of Rule 7 from the 1st day of January, 1994. It is certified that by
giving retrospective effect to the provisions of sub-rule (3) of Rule 7, nobody is being adversely affected.
10.
Interpretation.
- If any question arises as to the interpretation of these rules, the same shall be decided by the Central Government.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6