
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Merchant Shipping (Pilot Ladder) Rules, 1967
The Merchant Shipping (Pilot Ladder) Rules, 1967
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/57214784/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Merchant Shipping (Pilot Ladder) Rules, 1967
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Merchant Shipping (Pilot Ladder) Rules, 1967
Rule THE-MERCHANT-SHIPPING-PILOT-LADDER-RULES-1967 of 1967
Published on 21 October 1967
Commenced on 21 October 1967
[This is the version of this document from 21 October 1967.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Merchant Shipping (Pilot Ladder) Rules, 1967
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, 1967, Part 2, Section 3(i), page 1770.
1788.
G.S.R. 1650, dated 21st October, 1967. - In exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (1), read with clause (0) of
sub-section (2) of, section 288 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958) and in supersession of the Indian
Merchant Shipping (Pilot Ladder) Rules, 1953, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, the same
having been previously published as required by the said sub-section (1) of section 288, namely :-
1.
Short title, application and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Merchant Shipping (Pilot Ladder) Rules, 1967.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Merchant Shipping (Pilot Ladder) Rules, 1967
(2)
They shall apply to-
(a)
Indian Ships of over 200 tons net tonnage,
(b)
all Indian passenger ships engaged on international voyages in the course of which pilots are likely to be employed, and
(c)
other ships which are required to have on board a pilot harbour-master or assistant harbour-master under section 31 of
the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (15 of 1908) while they are in any port in India:
Provided that these rules shall not apply to a ship, other than an Indian ship, by reason of her being within a port in India
if she would not have been in such port but for stress of weather or any other circumstances that neither the master nor
the owner nor the charter (if any) of the ship could have prevented or forestalled.
(3)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
Provision of Pilot Ladder.
(1)
Every ship to which these rules apply shall be provided with a pilot ladder which shall comply with the following
requirements, namely:-
(a)
a single length of ladder shall be provided capable of reaching the water from the point of access to the ship when the
ship is in an unloaded condition and in normal conditions of trim with no list
(b)
the pilot ladder shall be secured in a position so that each step rests firmly against the ship's side;
Provided that the Central Government may exempt ships with rubbing bands or ships which by virtue of their
construction cannot fully comply with the provisions of this clause, to the requirements of this clause subject, however, to
the condition that the provisions of this clause shall be complied with as nearly as circumstances permit;
(c)
the pilot ladder shall be in a position clear of any possible discharges from the ship and so secured that the pilot can
gain safe ad convenient access to the ship after climbing not less than 1.5 metres and not more than 9 metres.
Whenever the distance from sea level to the point of access to the ship exceeds 9 metres, access from the pilot ladder
to the ship shall be by means of an accommodation ladder or other suitably safe or equally convenient means;
(d)
the treads of the pilot ladder shall be of hard wood and not less than 48 centimetres long, 11.4 centrimetres wide 2.5
centimetres in depth;
(e)
the steps shall be joined in such a manner that the ladder will be of adequate strength;
(f)
the steps shall be maintained in a horizontal position and shall be evenly spaced and not less than 30.5 centimetres or
more than 38 centimetres apart;
(g)
spreaders of sufficient a length at such intervals so as to prevent the ladder from twisting;
provided that the provisions of this clause need not be complied with if the owner or master is satisfied that the ladder
will not twist when in use without spreaders;
(h)
the side ropes of the pilot ladder shall consist of two manila ropes 5.71 centimetres on each side;
provided that the Central Government may accept the use of ropes of such other material as may be approved by them.
(2)
There shall also be available on board-
(a)
two man ropes of adequate strength and properly secured and of not less than 6.25 centimetres in circumference each
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Merchant Shipping (Pilot Ladder) Rules, 1967
and a safety line, ready for use whenever required;
(b)
handholds to enable the pilot to pass safely and conveniently from the head of the ladder into the ship or on to the ships'
deck;
(c)
a light capable of shining alongside the ship so as to illuminate the ladder  effectively at night and adequaete lighting
arrangements on the deck at the position  where the pilot would board the ship.
3.
Maintenance and use of pilot ladder and other appliances.
(1)
The pilot ladder and other appliances required to be carried on board under sub-rule (2) of rule 2 (hereinafter in this rule
referred to as other appliances) shall be kept in good condition and shall be reserved for the use of officials and other
persons while a ship is arriving at, or leaving a port and for the embarkation and disembarkation of pilots.
(2)
Pilot ladder and other appliances shall be used whenever a pilot, harbour-master or assistant harbour-master embarks
or disembarks from a ship.
(3)
It shall be the duty of the master or other person in charge of a ship to ensure that no ladder other than a pilot ladder is
used by a pilot for embarkation or disembarkation.
(4)
The rigging of the pilot ladder and other appliances and the embarkation and disembarkation of a pilot shall be
supervised by the mate or other responsible officer on board of the ship.
4.
Penalty.
- Whoever commits a breach of any of the provisions of these rules shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
one thousand rupees and, if the breach is continuing one, with further fine which may extend to fifty rupees for a every
day after the first during which the breach continues.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3