
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Criminal Court And Border Security Force Courts (Adjustment Of Jurisdiction) Rules, 19...
The Criminal Court And Border Security Force Courts (Adjustment Of
Jurisdiction) Rules, 1969
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/166914278/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Criminal Court And Border Security Force Courts (Adjustment Of Jurisdiction) Rules, 1969
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Criminal Court And Border Security Force Courts (Adjustment Of Jurisdiction) Rules, 1969
Rule
THE-CRIMINAL-COURT-AND-BORDER-SECURITY-FORCE-COURTS-ADJUSTMENT-OF-JURISDICTION-RULES-19
69 of 1969
Published on 27 August 1969
Commenced on 27 August 1969
[This is the version of this document from 27 August 1969.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Criminal Court And Border Security Force Courts (Adjustment Of Jurisdiction) Rules, 1969
Published Vide S.O.3477, dated 27-8-1969, published in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt.II, Section 3(ii), dated 27-8-1969
323.
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (k) of sub-section (2) of section 141 of the Border Security Force Act,
1968 (
47 of 1968
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely : -
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Criminal Court And Border Security Force Courts (Adjustment Of Jurisdiction) Rules, 19...
1.
Short title .-These rules may be called the Criminal Court and Border Security Force Courts (Adjustment of Jurisdiction)
Rules, 1969.
2.
Definitions
.-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(i)
"Act "means the Border Security Force Act, 1968 (
47 of 1968
);
(ii)
"Commandant "in relation to a person subject to the Act, means the Officer Commanding the unit or detachment to
which such person belongs or is attached;
(iii)
"competent authority "means the Director-General, Inspector-General, or a Deputy Inspector-General of the Border
Security Force;
(iv)
words and expressions used in these rules and not defined but defined in the Act, shall have the meaning respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Trial of person subject to the Act
.-Where a person subject to the Act, is brought before a Magistrate and charged with an offence for which he is liable to
be tried by the Border Security Force Court, such a Magistrate shall not proceed to try such persons or to inquire with a
view to his commitment for trial by the Court of Sessions or the High Court for any offence triable by such Court, unless,
-
(a)
he is of opinion, for reasons to be recorded in writing that he should so proceed without being moved thereto by the
competent authority; or
(b)
he is moved thereto by such authority.
4.
Notice by Magistrate
.-Before proceeding under clause (a) of rule 3, the Magistrate shall give written notice to the commandant of the
accused and until the expiry of a period of, -
(i)
three weeks, in the case of a notice given to a commandant in command of a unit or detachment located in any of the
following areas, that is to say -
(a)
State of Nagaland;
(b)
Mizo Hill, Garo Hill, Khasi and Jaintia Hill and North Cachar Hill Districts of Assam, or
(ii)
ten days in the case of a notice given to any other commandant in command of a unit or detachment located elsewhere
in India, from the date of the service of such notice, he shall not -
(a)
convict or acquit the accused under section 243 or section 245 or section 247 or section 248 of the [Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)] or hear him in his defence under section 244 of the said Code; or
(b)
frame in writing a charge against the accused under section 254 of the said Code; or
(c)
make an order committing the accused for trial by the High Court or the Court of Sessions under section 213 of the said
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Criminal Court And Border Security Force Courts (Adjustment Of Jurisdiction) Rules, 19...
Code; or
(d)
transfer the case for inquiry or trial under section 192 of the said Code.
5.
Procedure on notice to the Magistrate .-Where within the period mentioned in rule 4 above, or at any time thereafter
before the Magistrate has done any act or made any order referred to in that rule, the commandant of the accused or the
competent authority, as the case may be, gives notice to the Magistrate that in the opinion of such authority, the
accused should be tried by a Border Security Force Court, the Magistrate shall stay proceedings and if the accused is in
his power or under his control, shall deliver him with the statement prescribed in sub-section (1) of section 549 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898) to the authority specified in said sub-section.
6.
Procedure on notice to Magistrate before commencement of trial
. -Where a Magistrate has been moved by the competent authority under Clause (b) of rule 3, and the Commandant of
the accused or the competent authority, as the case may be, subsequently gives notice to such Magistrate that in the
opinion of such authority the accused should be tried by a Border Security Force Court, such Magistrate if he has not
before receiving such notice, done any act or made any order referred to in rule 4, shall stay proceedings, and, if the
accused is in his power or under his control, shall in the like manner deliver him, with the statement prescribed in
sub-section (1) of section 549 of the Code of [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)] to the authority specified in
the said sub-section.
7.
Intimation regarding trial of accused .-(1) When an accused has been delivered by the Magistrate under rule 5 or 6, the
commandant of the accused or the competent authority, as the case may be, shall, as soon as may be, inform the
Magistrate whether the accused has been tried by a Border Security Force Court or other effectual proceedings have
been taken or ordered to be taken against him.
(2)
When the Magistrate has been informed under sub-rule (1) that the accused has not been tried or other effectual
proceedings have not been taken or not ordered to be taken against him, the Magistrate shall report the circumstances
to the State Government, take appropriate steps to ensure that the accused person is dealt with in accordance with law.
8.
Reference to Central Government for determination of Court of trial
. -Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing rules, where it comes to the notice of a Magistrate, that a person
subject to the Act has committed an offence, proceedings in respect of which ought to be instituted before him and that
the presence of such person cannot be procured except through the commandant or the competent authority, the
Magistrate may, by written notice, require the commandant of such person either to deliver such person to a Magistrate
to be named in the said notice for being proceeded against according to law, or to stay the proceedings against such
person before the Border Security Force Court, if since instituted, and to make reference to the Central Government for
determination as to the Court before which proceedings should be instituted.
9.
Delivery of accused to the Magistrate
.-Where a person subject to the Act has committed an offence which, in the opinion of competent authority ought to be
tried by a Magistrate in accordance with the Civil law in force or where the Central Government, on a reference
mentioned in rule 8, decides that the proceedings against such person should be instituted before a Magistrate, the
commandant of such person shall, after giving a written notice to the Magistrate concerned deliver such person under
proper escort to that Magistrate.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3