
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Newspapers (Price Control) Act, 1972
The Newspapers (Price Control) Act, 1972
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/229304/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
Union of India - Act
The Newspapers (Price Control) Act, 1972
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Newspapers (Price Control) Act, 1972
Act 15 of 1972
Published on 1 January 1972
Commenced on 1 January 1972
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1972.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
An Act to provide for the control, in the interests of the general public, of the prices of newspapers with a view to
ensuring that newspapers continue to function, in the prevailing conditions, as effective mass communication media and
for securing their availability at fair prices.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twenty- third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title, extent and duration.
(1)
This Act may be called the Newspapers (Price Control) Act,  1972 .
(2)
It extends to the whole of India.
(3)
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Newspapers (Price Control) Act, 1972
It shall cease to have effect on the expiry of two years from the date of its commencement except as respect things
done or omitted to be done before such cesser of operation of this Act and section 6 of the General Clauses Act,  1897 ,
(10 of  1997  ) shall apply upon such cesser of operation of this Act as if it had then been repealed by a Central Act.
2.
Definitions.
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
" basic price", in relation to a newspaper, means the price of the newspaper on the 22nd day of October,  1971  [ being
the date on which the Stamp and Excise Duties (Amend- ment) Ordinance,  1971 , (16 of  1971  .) was promulgated] or
if the newspaper was not published on that day, its price on the day on which it is first published after that day.(b) " basic
price date", in relation to a newspaper, means the date with reference to which its basic price is to be ascertained under
clause (a);
(c)
the expressions" newspaper"," owner" and" publisher" have the same meanings as in the Press and Registration of
Books Act,  1867  (
25 of  1867
)
3.
Power to fix maximum prices of newspapers.
(1)
If the Central Government is of opinion that for the purpose of securing the availability of any newspapers or any class of
newspapers at fair prices, it is necessary or expedient to do so, the Central Government may, from time to time, by order
published in the Official Gazette determine the maximum prices which may be charged for such news- papers or
newspapers of such class as may be specified in the order.
(2)
In making under sub- section (1) any order determining the maximum price which may be charged for any newspaper
referred to in that sub- section, the Central Government shall have regard to-
(a)
the basic price of the newspaper;
(b)
the excise duties and other taxes, if any, payable in respect of the newspaper;
(c)
any special circumstances arising on or after the basic price date of the newspaper and having a bearing on the cost of
the production of newspapers; and
(d)
all other relevant circumstances: Provided that the maximum price determined in respect of a news- paper shall in no
case be less than its basic price.
(3)
No order shall be made under this section in respect of any newspaper which is being sold at a price not exceeding its
basic price.
(4)
An order made under sub- section (1) may provide for different maximum prices in respect of different newspapers or
different classes of newspapers or different newspapers in each such class and may provide for such incidental and
supplemental matters (including the printing in a newspaper to which the order relates of the price thereof in a
conspicuous manner) as the Central Government may deem fit.
4.
Review and revision of orders.
(1)
The owner or publisher of a newspaper to which an order under sub- section (1) of section 3 relates may,-
(a)
if he is aggrieved by such order, make within thirty days of the date of publication of the order in the Official Gazette, an
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Newspapers (Price Control) Act, 1972
application to the Central Government for a review of the order setting out in such application the grounds on which he
considers such review to be necessary;.
(b)
whenever fresh circumstances having a bearing on the cost of production of the newspaper arise after the date of
making of the order, make an application for a revision of the order within thirty days after the date on which such
circumstances have arisen, and the Central Government may pass such order on the said application for review or
revision as it thinks fit: Provided that the Central Government may for sufficient cause allow any such application to be
made after the expiry of the period of thirty days aforesaid.
(2)
Save as otherwise provided by an order made under clause (a) or clause (b) of sub- section (1), the order of the Central
Government under sub- section (1) of section 3 shall be final.
5.
Power to call for information, return, etc.
(1)
The Central Government or any officer authorised by the Central Government in this behalf may, by order in writing,
require the owner or publisher of any newspaper to furnish, within such time as may be specified in the order any
information, return or report which the Central Government or such officer may consider necessary for carrying out the
purposes of this Act and such owner or publisher shall be bound to comply with such order.
(2)
If any owner or publisher contravenes any order under sub- section (1), he shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees.
6.
Prohibition of sale of newspapers in contravention of the order under section 3.
No newspaper shall be sold in the territories to which this Act extends in contravention of an order made under section
3.
7.
Penalty.
Whoever sells or causes to be sold a newspaper in contravention of an order made under section 3 shall, on first
conviction, be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees and, on any second or subsequent
conviction, with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees;.
8.
Offences by companies.
(1)
Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every person who, at the time the offence was
committed was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub- section shall render any such person liable to any punishment if he proves
that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission
of such offence.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or con- vinance of, or is attributable to
any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this section,-(a) " company" means a body corporate and includes a firm or other
association of individuals; and
(b)
" director", in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.
9.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Newspapers (Price Control) Act, 1972
Previous sanction of Central Government for prosecution.
No prosecution shall be instituted against any person in respect of any offence punishable under section 5 or section 7
without the previous sanction of the Central Government or such officer or authority as may be authorised by that,
Government by order in writing in that behalf.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4