
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Solvent-Extracted Oil, De-Oiled Meal, and Edible Flour (Delegation of Powers) Order, 1...
The Solvent-Extracted Oil, De-Oiled Meal, and Edible Flour
(Delegation of Powers) Order, 1968
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/119004806/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Solvent-Extracted Oil, De-Oiled Meal, and Edible Flour (Delegation of Powers) Order, 1968
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Solvent-Extracted Oil, De-Oiled Meal, and Edible Flour (Delegation of Powers) Order, 1968
Rule
THE-SOLVENT-EXTRACTED-OIL-DE-OILED-MEAL-AND-EDIBLE-FLOUR-DELEGATION-OF-POWERS-ORDER-1968
of 1968
Published on 9 October 1972
Commenced on 9 October 1972
[This is the version of this document from 9 October 1972.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Solvent-Extracted Oil, De-Oiled Meal, and Edible Flour (Delegation of Powers) Order, 1968
Published vide Notification Gazette of India Extraordinary Part 2, Section 3(1), dated 9th October, 1972.
G.S.R. 1864, dated 9th October, 1968 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause 15 of the Solvent-extracted Oil,
De-oiled. Meal and Edible Flour (Control) Order, 1967, the Central Government hereby makes the following Order,
namely:
1.
Short title and commencement
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Solvent-Extracted Oil, De-Oiled Meal, and Edible Flour (Delegation of Powers) Order, 1...
(1)
This Order may be called the Solvent-Extracted Oil, De-oiled Meal and Edible Flour (Delegation of Powers) Order, 1968.
(2)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Delegation of powers of inspection, entry, search and sampling.
- The powers conferred on the Vegetable Oil Products Controller for India under Clause 12 of the Solvent-Extracted Oil,
De-oiled Meal and Edible Flour (Control) Order, 1967 (hereinafter referred to as the said Order), shall subject to the
restrictions specified herein, be exercisable also by -
(a)
the officers of the Central Government specified in Part A of the First Schedule annexed hereto, in respect of the
sub-clause of Clause 12 of the said Order mentioned against each officer, and
(b)
the officers specified in Parts B and C of the First Schedule in their respective jurisdiction in respect of sub-clauses (c),
(d) , (e) and (f) of Clause 1 of the said Order.
exercisable also by the officer mentioned in First Schedule.
3.
Authorization of laboratories for analysis of samples drawn.
- The samples of solvent oil-bearing material, solvent-extracted oil, de-oiled meal or edible flour drawn by the Controller
and, in exercise of the powers delegated to them in Clause 2 of this Order, by the officers specified therein, shall be sent
for analysis to the following laboratories which have been authorized by the Controller for the purpose, namely:
(a)
the appropriate laboratories specified in Part A of the Second Schedule annexed hereto, in so far as the requirement in
item (ii) under para (d) of sub-clause (1) of Clause 13 of the said Order is concerned, and
(b)
the second laboratories specified in Part B of the Second Schedule, in so far as the requirement in sub-clause (3) of
Clause 13 of the said Order is concerned.
4.
Repeal and saving.
- The Solvent-Extracted Oil, De-oiled Meal and Edible Flour (Delegation of Powers) Order, 1968 published with the
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Community Development and Co-operation
No. G.S.R. 849, dated the 4th May, 1968, in Part II Section 3, Sub-section (i) of the Gazette of India, dated the 11th
May, 1968, is hereby repealed except as respects things done or omitted to be done under the Order so repealed.
I
Part A ? Officers of the Central Government
1. The following officers of the Directorate of Sugar and Vanaspati, Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Community
Development and Co-operation, namely:
(1)
The Chief Director
(2)
The Additional Chief Director
(3)
Directers, Deputy Directers and Assistant Directors
In respect of sub-clauses (a),(b)(c),(d),(e), W and (g) of Clause 12 of said Order.
(4)
The Research Chemist
(5)
Inspectors
2. The following officers of the Subsidiary Foods Division of the Department of Food, Ministry of Food, Agriculture,
Community Development and C.- operation in so far as the inspection, entry and search and drawal of samples concern
the manufacture of edible flour and stocks thereof, namely:
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Solvent-Extracted Oil, De-Oiled Meal, and Edible Flour (Delegation of Powers) Order, 1...
(1)
The Executive Director, Food and Nutrition Board
(2)
Deputy Technical Advisers and Assistant Technical Advisers
In respect of sub-clauses (c),(e) and (f) of Clause 12 of the said Order.
(3)
Inspectors
[Part B]
[Substituted by G.S.R.  1020 (E), dated 22d May, 1971.]
Officers of the State Governments
(in respect of sub-clause(c), (d), (e), (f)of Clause 12 of the said order)
State
Designation of Authority
(1)
(2)
Andhra Pradesh
1. Collectors and District Magistrates.2. District Revenue
Officers.3. Revenue Divisional Oficers and Sub-divisional
Magistrates (Executive.)4. Commissioner of Civil Supplies.5.
Police Officers not below the rank of Deputy Superintendent of
Police.
Gujarat
1. Supply Officers and Revenue Officers not below the rank of
Aval Karkun.2. Police Officers not below the rank of Sub-
Inspector.
Kerala
1. District medical Officers of Health and Assistant District
Medical Officers of health.2. Regional Food Inspectors.
Madras
1. Joint Director of Industries and Commerce
(Chemical),Madras.2. Regional Deputy Dirctors of industries
and Commerce.
Madhya Pradesh
1. Director, Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors of Food
and Civil supplies and other officers of the Directorate of Food
and Civil Supplies not below the rank of Inspector.2.
Collectors, Deputy Collectors and Tahsildars.3. Iron and
Steel Controller.4. Additional Dirstrict Magistrate, Bhopal.
Maharasthra
1. Assistant Director of industries(Quality marketing) and
industries officer (Chemicals), Bombay.2. Regional Deputy
Director of Industries, industries officer and industries
inspectors.
Mysore
1. Officers of the food and Civil supplies Department not
below the rank of inspectors.
Rajasthan
1. Joint Director of industries(Chemicals)2. Assistant
Directors of industries and District industries officers.
Uttar Pradesh
1. District Magistrate.2. Regional Food Controller and
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Solvent-Extracted Oil, De-Oiled Meal, and Edible Flour (Delegation of Powers) Order, 1...
Deputy Regional food controller.3. Provincial Marketing
Officer (Food) and Regional Marketing Officers.4. District
supply.5. The oil export to the Government and the research
chemist.
West Bengal
1. Police Officers not below the rank of inspector.2.
officers of the food and supplies department not below the rank
of chief inspector.
Part C ? Officers of Administrations of Union Territories
(In respect to sub-clause (c), (d) , (e) and (f) of Clause 12 of the said Order)
Union Territory
Designation of authority
(1)
(2)
Dadra and Nagar Haveli Goa, Daman and Diu
1.Mamlatdar,
1. Collectors, Goa and Daman and
Civil Administrator, Diu.2. Director of Industries and Mines,
Panaji.
Tripura
1. [ Director of Food and Civil
Supplies and Deputy Controller (Supplies).]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 1020 (E), dated 22nd May, 1971.]
2. District
Controller (Food) and Deputy Controller (Food).3. Deputy
Controllers Sub-Divisional Officers and Sub-Deputy Collectors
(Additional Sub-Divisional Officers).4. Inspectors (Food and
Supplies).
II
Part A ? Analysis of sample under Clause 13(1)(d)(ii)of the said Order.
Officers by whom sample drawn
Laboratory to which the samples should be sent
for analysis
1.
The Vegitable Oil Products Controller for India.
Any of the laboratories specified in part A of yjis Schedule.
2.
Officers of the Directorate of Sugar and Vanaspati, Ministry
of Food and Agriculture, Community Development and Co¬operation,
specified in Part A of the first Schedule.
Laboratory of the directorate of Sugar and Vanaspati at New
Delhi.
3.
Officers of the Subsidiary Food Division of the Department of
Food, Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Community Development and
Co-operation, specified in Part A of the First Schedule
Any of the Labo of the Department of food situated at Delhi
Bombay and Coimbator.
4.
Officers of the State Governments
specified in Part B of the First Schedule:
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Solvent-Extracted Oil, De-Oiled Meal, and Edible Flour (Delegation of Powers) Order, 1...
[Andhra
Pradesh]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 1020 (E), dated 22nd May, 1971.]
GujaratKeralaMadrasMaharashtraMysoreRajasthanUttar
Pradesh
Institute of preventive medicines Hyderabad.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 1020 (E), dated 22nd May, 1971.]
Public Health
Laboratory Baroda.Government Analyst's laboratory
Trivandram.Chemical, testing and Analytical Laboratory Guindy
Madras.1. Industrial Research Laboratory Matunga Bombay.2.
Industrial Research Laboratory Ganesh Khind Poona.Food and
water analysis Laboratory Banglore.Industrial Laboratory
Industrial Department Jaipur.Laboratory of the Harcourt
Butler Technological Institute, Kanpur.
5.
Officer of the Administrations of Union Territories specified
in Part C of the First Schedule:Dadra and Nagar Haveli Goa,
Daman and Diu.Tripura.
[Public Health Laboratory, Baroda.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 1020 (E), dated 22nd May, 1971.]
The Oils and fats
Analysis Laboratory, Goa.Laboratory of the Directorate of
Sugar and Vansapati, Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Community
Development and Co¬operation, New Delhi.
Part B ? Analysis of sample under Clause 13(3)of the said Order.
Officer by whom sample drawn.
All sample, regardless of by whom drawn
Second Laboratory to which the samples should be sent for
analysis
Central Food laboratory ministry of Health and Family Planning
Calcutta.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5