
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Payment Of Wages (Deductions For National Defence Fund And Defence Savings Scheme) Rul...
The Payment Of Wages (Deductions For National Defence Fund And
Defence Savings Scheme) Rules, 1972
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/77223113/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Payment Of Wages (Deductions For National Defence Fund And Defence Savings Scheme) Rules, 1972
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Payment Of Wages (Deductions For National Defence Fund And Defence Savings Scheme) Rules, 1972
Rule
THE-PAYMENT-OF-WAGES-DEDUCTIONS-FOR-NATIONAL-DEFENCE-FUND-AND-DEFENCE-SAVINGS-SCHEME-
RULES-1972 of 1972
Published on 21 November 1972
Commenced on 21 November 1972
[This is the version of this document from 21 November 1972.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Payment Of Wages (Deductions For National Defence Fund And Defence Savings Scheme) Rules, 1972
Published vide G.S.R. 1346, published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3(i), dated 21.11.1972.
19.
/847
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 26 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby makes the following
rules of the Payment of Wages (Deductions for National Defence Fund and Defence Savings Scheme) Rules, 1972,
namely:--
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Payment Of Wages (Deductions For National Defence Fund And Defence Savings Scheme) Rul...
1.
Short title, application and extent .-(1) These rules may be called the Payment of Wages (Deductions for National
Defence Fund and Defence Savings Scheme) Rules, 1972.
(2)
These rules shall apply to persons employed on railways, mines and oil-fields.
(3)
They extend to the whole of India.
2.
Definitions .-In these rules,-
(a)
"Act" means the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (4 of 1936);
(b)
"section" means a section of the Act.
3.
Conditions for making deductions .-The conditions for making deductions in pursuance of clause (ii) of sub-section (2) of
section 7 from the wage of the employed persons for contribution to the National Defence Fund or to any Defence
Savings Scheme approved by the State Government with the written authorisation of the president or secretary of the
registered trade union of which the employed person is a member shall be as follows:-
(a)
the President or, in his absence, the secretary of such trade union shall forward,-
(i)
in duplicate to the employer, a copy of the list of the employed persons who are members of the trade union indicating
therein the amount or extent of deductions which are to be made from the wages of each employed person and also,
where the deductions are to continue for more than one wage period, the total period during which such deductions are
to be made and a copy of the resolution adopted at a meeting of such trade union authorising such deductions; and
(ii)
a copy of the said list and resolution to the person who acts as an Inspector for the purposes of the Act;
(b)
the employer shall display in a conspicuous place of the establishment one of the two copies of the said list and
resolution received from the president or secretary as the case may be, of the trade union, for at least a period of three
consecutive days immediately preceding the day on which the deductions are to be made from the wages of the
employed person; and
(c)
if an employed person objects in writing to deductions being made from his wages upto the amount or extent of
deductions indicated in the list displayed by the employer, no deduction shall be made from his wages except in
accordance with the written authorisation of such employed person.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2