
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands (Alteration of Name) Act, 1973
The Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands (Alteration of Name)
Act, 1973
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/16843478/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
4
]
Union of India - Act
The Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands (Alteration of Name) Act, 1973
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands (Alteration of Name) Act, 1973
Act 34 of 1973
Published in Gazette of India on 26 August 1973
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 26 August 1973.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS
At the time of States reorganisation in 1956, the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi group of islands were constituted into
a Union territory which was given the name "the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands". Since then there has been
considerable improvement in the inter -island communication facilities and a feeling of oneness is growing among the
inhabitants of these islands. In order to foster this feeling, the Administrator's Advisory Council which consists of
representatives of the local people suggested that the islands may be collectively named as "Lakshadweep the name by
which they Were known in ancient times. The suggestion was later endorsed by the Home Minister's Advisory
Committee for the Union territory. Accordingly, the Bill seeks to alter the name of the Union territory of the Laccadive,
Minicoy and Amindivi Islands into "Lakshadweep". The Bill contains the necessary amendments to the provisions of the
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands (Alteration of Name) Act, 1973
Constitution and the consequential provision. See Gaz. of India, 1972,Pt.ll,S.2 Ext., p. 1734, An Act to alter the name of
the Union territory of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twenty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:
SECTION 01: SHORT TITLE AND COMMENCEMENT
(1)
This Act may be called the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands (Alteration of Name) Act, 1973.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date1as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
SECTION 02: DEFINITIONS
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"appointed day" means the date appointed under sub-section (2) of section 1-for the coming into force of this Act;
(b)
"law" includes any enactment. Ordinance, regulation, order, bye-law, rule, scheme, notification or other instrument
having the force of law in the whole or any part of the Union territory of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands.
SECTION 03: ALTERATION OF NAME OF THE UNION TERRITORY OF THE LACCADIVE, MINICOY AND AMINDIVI
ISLANDS
As from the appointed day,2[the Union territory of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands shall be known as the
Union territory of Lakshadweep.
SECTION 04: AMENDMENT OF ARTICLE 240 OF THE CONSTITUTION
In Article 240 of the Constitution, in clause (1), for entry (b), the following entry shall be substituted, namely:-
"(b) Lakshadweep;"
SECTION 05: AMENDMENT OF FIRST SCHEDULE TO THE CONSTITUTION
In the First Schedule to the Constitution, under the heading "II. THE UNION TERRITORIES", in entry 3, for the words
"The Laccadive, Minicoy and- Amindivi Islands", the word "Lakshadweep" shall be substituted.
SECTION 06: POWER TO ADAPT LAWS
(1)
For the purpose of giving effect to the alteration of the name of the Union territory of the Laccadive, Minicoy and
Amindivi Islands bysection 3-, the Central Government may, before the expiration of one year from the appointed day,
by order, make such adaptation and modifications of any law made before the appointed day, whether by way of repeal
or amendment as may be necessary or expedient, and thereupon every such law shall have effect subject to the
adaptations and modifications so made.
(2)
Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to prevent Parliament or other competent authority from repealing or
amending any law adapted or modified by the Central Government under the said sub-section.
SECTION 07: POWER TO CONSTRUE LAWS
Notwithstanding that no provision or insufficient provision has been made under section 6-for the adaptation of a law
made before the appointed day, any court, tribunal or authority required or empowered to enforce such law may
construe the law in such manner, without affecting the substance, as may be necessary or proper in regard to the matter
before the court, tribunal or authority.
SECTION 08: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Where immediately before the appointed day any legal proceedings are pending to which the Administrator of the Union
territory of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands is a party, or the Union of India represented by the said
Administrator is a party, then, for the purposes of those proceedings, any reference to the Administrator of the Union
territory of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands shall be construed as a reference to the Administrator of the
Union territory of Lakshadweep.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2