
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Board Of Trustees Of The Port Of Bombay (Procedure At Board Meeting) Rules, 1975
The Board Of Trustees Of The Port Of Bombay (Procedure At Board
Meeting) Rules, 1975
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/132424552/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Board Of Trustees Of The Port Of Bombay (Procedure At Board Meeting) Rules, 1975
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Board Of Trustees Of The Port Of Bombay (Procedure At Board Meeting) Rules, 1975
Rule THE-BOARD-OF-TRUSTEES-OF-THE-PORT-OF-BOMBAY-PROCEDURE-AT-BOARD-MEETING-RULES-1975
of 1975
Published on 1 February 1975
Commenced on 1 February 1975
[This is the version of this document from 1 February 1975.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Board Of Trustees Of The Port Of Bombay (Procedure At Board Meeting) Rules, 1975
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2, Section 3(i), dated 1st Feburary, 1975.
1943.
G.S.R. 27(E), dated 1st February, 1975. - Whereas the draft of the Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay (Procedure
at Board Meetings) Rules, 1974 was published as required by sub-section (2) of Section 122 of the Major Port Trusts
Act, 1963 (38 of 1963) at pages 2101-2104 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary, Part 11, Section 3, sub-section (i),
dated the 6th November, 1974, under the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Shipping and
Transport (Transport Wing) No. G.S.R. 451(E), dated the 6th November, 1974, inviting objections and suggestions, from
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Board Of Trustees Of The Port Of Bombay (Procedure At Board Meeting) Rules, 1975
all persons likely to be affected thereby till the expiry of a period of forty-five days from the date of publication of the said
notification in the Official Gazette;
And whereas the said Gazette was made available to the public on the 11th November, 1974;
And whereas no objections and suggestions have been received from the public;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the said Act, the Central
Government hereby makes the following rules, namely :-
1.
Short title and application.
(1)
These rules may be called the Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay (Procedure at Board Meetings) Rules, 1975.
(2)
They shall, subject to the provisions of Section 16 of the Act, apply to the business transacted at the meetings of the
Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay.
[2. Frequency of meetings of Board and place of meetings thereof, etc. - (1) A meeting of the Board, other than a special
meeting referred to in rule 3, shall be held at least once in every month.
(2)
The Board shall, from time to time, determine the date and time of its meeting :
Provided that where the Board is unable to do so for any reason, the Chairman may do so for reasons to be recorded in
writing.
(3)
A meeting of the Board shall be held in the Board's room, in the Bombay Port Administrative Offices Building, at
Bombay.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 925(E), dated 16th December, 1976.]
3.
Calling of special meetings.
- The Chairman or in his absence Deputy Chairman if appointed may, whenever he thinks fit, and shall upon the written
request of not less than three Trustees, call a special meeting.
4.
Circulation of agenda, etc.
- Agenda and notes or memorandum thereon, if any, for any meeting of the Board shall be circulated to the Trustees at
least three days before the date of the meeting.
Provided that in the case of a special meeting, such Agenda and notes or memoranda thereon shall be circulated at
least one day before the date of the meeting.
5.
Discussion of items not included in the agenda.
- The Chairman or in his absence Deputy Chairman, if appointed may, at his discretion, include for discussion at any of
the meetings of the Board, including a special meeting, any item not included in the agenda if the same is, in his opinion,
of sufficient importance or urgency or both and cannot be held over for the consideration of the Board at any subsequent
meeting.
6.
Poll.
- If a poll is demanded on any question, the names of the Trustees voting and the nature of their votes shall be recorded
by the President of the meeting.
7.
Minutes of the meeting.
(1)
Minutes of the proceedings at each meeting of the Board shall be recorded in a book to be provided by the Board for this
purpose, which shall be signed as soon as practicable by the president of such meeting and shall be open to inspection
by any Trustee during office hours.
(2)
Minutes of the proceedings excepting such portion thereof as the Chairman or, in his absence Deputy Chairman, if
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Board Of Trustees Of The Port Of Bombay (Procedure At Board Meeting) Rules, 1975
appointed, may direct in any particular case, shall also be open to the inspection of the public at the office of the Board
during office hours.
(3)
The names of the Trustees present at each meeting shall be recorded in the minutes book.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this rule and rule 8, the expression "President" shall mean the Chairman or, in his
absence the Deputy Chairman, if appointed, and in the absence of both, any person chosen by the Trustees present
from among themselves.
[8. Adjournment of meetings. - The President of a meeting may, with the consent of the Trustees present in the meeting,
adjourn it to a later date, which date shall either be announced at the meeting in which case intimation would be sent to
the Trustees absent at the meeting at least three days in advance, or communicated to the Trustees at least three days
before the date of the meeting.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 925(E), dated 16th December, 1976.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3