
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Betwa River Board Act, 1976
The Betwa River Board Act, 1976
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1809244/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
2
]
Union of India - Act
The Betwa River Board Act, 1976
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Betwa River Board Act, 1976
Act 63 of 1976
Published on 10 April 1976
Commenced on 10 April 1976
[This is the version of this document from 23 August 1993.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
[Amended by The Betwa River Board (Amendment) Act, 1993 (Act 49 of 1993) on
23 August 1993
]
The Betwa River Board Act, 1976
NO. 63 OF 1976
1251.
River Betwa is the major tributary of the Yamuna. It flows through the States of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar  Pradesh. In
August, 1972, the Chief Ministers of the two  States agreed to the sharing of the waters of the Betwa  river at Rajghat.
Thereafter the State Governments considered the various technical and engineering problems  concerning the dam to
be built at Rajghat and the machinery for executing the Project. By the Supplementary Agreement of the 7th December,
1973 the State Governments agreed to the setting up of a Control Board under the Chairmanship of the Union Minister
Page 1/9
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Betwa River Board Act, 1976
for Irrigation and Power. The question as to how the Board  should be set up and the various technical and engineering
aspects of the project were thereafter examined and  considered and a final agreement in regard to the various matters
was reached on the 18th August, 1975.
2. Both the State Governments are anxious that the proposed Board should have necessary powers to act
independently and without any legal or other difficulties so that there is no delay in the execution of the Rajghat Dam
Project. The State Governments are willing to bear the expenses in proportion to the benefits which will accrue to them.
They want the Board to utilise in equal measure the services of the officers of the two States. It  is, therefore, proposed
to take under the control of the Union the regulation and development of the Betwa river valley to the extent necessary
for setting up a high-powered Board with necessary powers on the lines agreed to  by the State Governments. Hence
this Bill.
3. The Bill seeks to provide for the establishment of a Board to be called the Betwa River Board. The Union  Minister in
charge of Irrigation will he the Chairman of  the Board. The other members of the Board will be the Chief Ministers of
Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and Ministers of those States in charge of Irrigation and Finance. Subject to the
general superintendence and control of the Board, the management of the affairs of the Board will vest in an Executive
Committee consisting of officers of the two State Governments and the Central Government. The Board's functions will
include the carrying out of surveys and investigations in the Betwa river  valley, the preparation of a comprehensive
project report and the construction of Rajghat Dam and the common carrier from the dam to irrigate areas in Madhya
Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. The expenses of the Board  will be met by the Governments of Madhya Pradesh and  Uttar
Pradesh and those Governments will also make suitable provisions as to moneys, land facilities and electrical power for
construction and all other things required by the Board. - Gazette of India, 6-1-76, Pt. II, Section 2, Ext., p. 81.
Act 47 of 1971.- The Betwa River Board Act, 1976, was enacted to provide for the establishment of a Board for the
creation of a reservoir at Rajghat by construction on behalf of the Governments of Madhya Pradesh and  Uttar Pradesh,
of a dam on the Betwa river at Rajghat. The Rajghat Dam Project, as then envisaged, was intended to be a project for
providing irrigation facilities  only. It has since been decided that generation of power  should also form an integral part
of the project. It is, therefore, proposed to amend the Act to alter the composition of the Board so as to include therein
the Union and the Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh Ministers in charge of Power and amplify the functions of the
Board so as to include within the Rajghat Dam Project generation of power also.
2. To meet situations in which suitable officers of the Governments of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh are not
available for appointment as Financial Adviser to the Board, it is proposed to avail of the present opportunity to amend
section 7 of the Act to provide that the Central Government may with the concurrence of the Governments of Madhya
Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, appoint an officer of the Central Government as the financial Adviser to the Board.
3. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects. - Gazette of India, 9-8-1977, Pt. II, Section 2. Ext., p. 555.
[10th April, 1976]
An Act to provide for the establishment of a Board for the creation of a reservoir at Rajghat by construction, on behalf of
the Governments of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, of a dam on the Betwa river at Rajghat and for the regulation
of such reservoir.
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Twenty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Betwa River Board Act, 1976.
(2)
It shall come into force on such [date]
[25.10.1976: Vide Notification No G.S.R. 1518, dated 14.10.1976.]
as the Central Government may, after consultation with the Governments of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
2.
Declaration as to expediency of control by the Union.
It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the Central Government should take under its control
Page 2/9
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Betwa River Board Act, 1976
the regulation and development of the inter-State Betwa River and River Valley to the extent hereinafter provided.
3.
Definitions.
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Board" means the Betwa River Board established under section 4;
(b)
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Board;
(c)
"Executive Committee" means the Executive Committee constituted under section 5;
(d)
"member" means a member of the Board and includes the Chairman;
(e)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made by the Central Government under section 22;
(f)
"Rajghat Dam" means the Dam described in the Schedule;
(g)
[Rani Laxmibai Sagar] means the reservoir created by the construction of the Rajghat Dam;
(h)
"regulations" means regulations made by the Board under section 23;
(i)
"rules" means rules made by the Central Government under section 22.
Chapter II
Establishment Of The Board
4.
Establishment and incorporation of the Betwa River Board.
(1)
With effect from such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint in this behalf,
there shall be established for the purposes of this Act, a board to be called the Betwa River Board.
(2)
The Board shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid having perpetual succession and a common seal with
power, subject to the provisions of this Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of property, both movable and immovable, and
to contract and shall by the said name sue and be sued.
(3)
The Union Minister in charge of Irrigation shall be the Chairman of the Board and the other members of the Board shall
be the following, namely:-
(a)
[where the same Union Minister is not in charge of both Irrigation and Power, the Union Minister in charge of Power or
such Minister or Deputy Minister in the Union Ministry or Department in charge of Power as may be specified in this
behalf by the Union Minister in charge of Power;
[ Substituted by Act 49 of 1993, Section 2 2. Substituted by Act 47 of 1977, Section 2 for the original clauses.]
(b)
the Chief Ministers of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh; and
(c)
the Ministers of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar pradesh in charge of Finance, Irrigation and Power]:
Provided that when a proclamation made under article 356 of the Constitution is in force in relation to the State of
Madhya Pradesh or Uttar Pradesh, the Central Government may appoint three persons to represent such State on the
Board and the persons so appointed shall vacate their offices upon the revocation or cesser of operation of such
proclamation.
(4)
The Board may permit any officer of the Central Government or the Government of Madhya Pradesh or Uttar Pradesh to
Page 3/9
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Betwa River Board Act, 1976
attend any of its meetings and take part in the proceedings but such officer shall not be entitled to vote.
(5)
The Board may associate with itself, in such manner and for such purposes as may be determined by regulations, any
person whose assistance or advice it may desire in complying with any of the provisions of this Act and a person so
associated shall have the right to take part in the discussions of the Board relevant to the purpose for which he has been
associated, but shall not be entitled to vote.
5.
Executive committee.
(1)
The Central government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute an Executive Committee consisting of
officers of that government and officers of the Governments of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
(2)
The composition of the Executive Committee shall be such as may be prescribed:
Provided that-
(a)
an officer of the Central government shall be the Chairman of the Committee;
(b)
the Governments of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh shall have equal representation.
(3)
Subject to the general superintendence and control of the Board, the management of the affairs of the Board shall vest
in the Executive Committee and the Chairman and other members of the Committee shall assist the Board in such
manner as the Board may require.
(4)
Subject to the rules, and to the directions of the Board, the Executive Committee may exercise any power and do any
act or thing which may be exercised or done by the Board.
(5)
The procedure to be followed by the Executive committee and all other matters relating to the Executive Committee shall
be as such as may be prescribed.
6.
Vacancies, etc, not to invalidate proceedings of the Board or the Executive Committee.
No act or proceeding of the Board or the Executive Committee shall be invalidated by reason of-
(a)
any vacancy in the Board or the Executive Committee;
(b)
any defect in the composition of, or in any appointment to, the Board or the Executive Committee;
(c)
any irregularity in the procedure of the Board or the Executive Committee not affecting the merits of the case.
7.
Chief Engineer and Financial Adviser.
(1)
The Central Government may, after consultation with the Governments of Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh, appoint
an Engineer (to be the Chief Engineer of the Board and to be known as the Chief Engineer, Rajghat Dam Project), and a
Financial Adviser, and a Secretary, to the Board from amongst the officers of the Government of Madhya Pradesh and
Uttar Pradesh:
Provided that the Central Government shall, so far as practicable, ensure that officers from the same State do not hold
the posts of Chief Engineer and Secretary at the same time:
[Provided further that the Central Government may, with the concurrence of the Governments of Madhya Pradesh and
Uttar Pradesh, appoint an officer of the Central government as the Financial Adviser]
[Inserted by Act 47 of 1977, Section 3.  ]
.
(2)
Page 4/9
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Betwa River Board Act, 1976
Subject to the general superintendence and control of the Board and the Executive Committee, the Chief Engineer of
the Board appointed under sub-section (1) shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Board and shall exercise and
discharge-
(a)
such powers and duties as may be prescribed or as may be delegated to him by the Board;
(b)
such other powers and duties as may be determined by regulations.
(3)
The Financial Adviser appointed under sub-section (1) shall be the Chief Accounts Officer of the Board.
(4)
The terms and conditions of service of the Chief Engineer of the Board, and of the Financial Adviser, and the Secretary,
to the Board shall be such as may be prescribed.
8.
Other officers and employees of the Board.
(1)
Subject to the rules, the Board may appoint such officers and employees as it may deem necessary for the efficient
discharge of its functions:
Provided that the Board shall, as far as practicable, utilise the services of the officers and employees offered by the
Governments of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh in such a manner that equal representation is given to the two
States.
(2)
The terms and conditions of service of the officers and employees of the Board shall be such as may be determined by
regulations.
9.
Advisory Committees.
Subject to the rules, the Board may from time to time, constitute one or more Advisory Committees to assist the Board
and the Executive Committee in the efficient discharge of their functions.
Chapter III
Functions And Powers Of The Board
10.
Functions of the Board.
Subject to the other provisions of this Act and the rules, the Board may, if satisfied that the Governments of Madhya
Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have complied with or arranged to comply with the conditions specified in section 11,--
(a)
carry out surveys and investigations in the Betwa Inter-State river valley and prepare a comprehensive project report for
the construction of Rajghat Dam and appurtenant works 1*[and for the generation of power at Rajghat Dam, including
the construction of a power house (hereinafter referred to as the Rajghat Power House) near the dam and appurtenant
works] and finalise the same after consulting the Governments of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and taking into
account the suggestions if any made by those Governments;
(b)
prepare detailed reports and estimates in respect of the Project and allocate the cost among the Governments of
Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh;
(c)
draw up standards and specifications for implementation of the project and for the maintenance thereof;
(d)
construct the Rajghat Dam  [and the Rajghat Power House]
[Inserted by Act 47 of 1977, Section 4.]
and the common carrier from the dam to irrigate areas in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh;
(e)
lay down rules of operation and management of Rajghat Dam;
(f)
Page 5/9
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Betwa River Board Act, 1976
perform any other function which is supplemental, incidental, or consequential to all or any of the functions specified in
clauses (a) to (e).
11.
Conditions subject to which the Board may exercise its functions.
(1)
The exercise by the Board of the functions specified in section 10 shall be subject to the following conditions, namely:-
(i)
that the Governments of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh shall at all times make, to the satisfaction of the Board,
suitable provisions as to the moneys, land facilities and electrical power for construction and all other things required by
the Board;
(ii)
that the liability for the entire expenditure on the  [Rajghat Dam and Rajghat Power House including appurtenant works
and on the generation of power at Rajghat Dam]
[Substituted by Act 47 of 1977, Section 5, for "Rajghat Dam including appurtenant works"]
and all other expenditure incurred by the Board in the discharge of its functions shall be shared by the Governments of
Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh in such proportion as may be specified by the Board:
Provided that the Board may specify different proportions for different works or matters having regard to the benefits
which may accrue to the States and other relevant factors;
(iii)
that the Governments of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh shall extend full co-operation to the Board and shall in
particular make available to the Board the land and electric power required by it for construction purposes as
expeditiously as possible.
(2)
For the purposes of clause (ii) of sub-section (1), the expenditure on the Rajghat Dam shall include the expenditure
incurred by the Government of Uttar Pradesh on the Rajghat Dam Project before the establishment of the Board and the
Board shall determine the amount of expenditure so incurred by the Government of Uttar Pradesh and the extent to
which it shall be reimbursed by the Government of Madhya Pradesh.
12.
Powers of the Board.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules, the Board shall have the power to do anything which may be
necessary or expedient for the purpose of carrying out its functions under this Act.
(2)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, such power shall include the powers-
(a)
to acquire, hold and dispose of such properties both movable and immovable as the Board deems necessary;
(b)
to publish statistics or other information relating to the various aspects of flood control and drainage in the Betwa River
Valley  [, the regulation of
[Substituted by Act 47 of 1977, Section 6 for "and the regulation of Rajghat Reservoir" ]
[Rani Laxmibai Sagar]
[Substituted by Act 49 of 1993, Section 3. ]
and the generation of power at Rajghat Dam]
[Substituted by Act 47 of 1977, Section 6 for "and the regulation of Rajghat Reservoir" ]
;
(c)
to require the Governments of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh to furnish such information as the Board may require
in the discharge of its functions.
Chapter IV
Finance, Accounts And Audit
13.
Page 6/9
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Betwa River Board Act, 1976
Betwa River Board Fund.
(1)
There shall be constituted a Fund to be called the Betwa River Board Fund and there shall be credited thereto the sums
paid to the Board by the Governments of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and all other sums received by the Board.
(2)
The Fund shall be applied-
(a)
for meeting the salaries, allowances and other remuneration of the officers and other employees of the Board and other
administrative expenses of the Board;
(b)
for meeting the expenditure on surveys and investigations undertaken by the Board;
(c)
for meeting the cost of construction of the  [Rajghat Dam, the Rajghat Power House and appurtenant works]
[Substituted by Act 47 of 1977, Section 7, for "Rajghat Dam and appurtenant works". ]
;
(d)
for meeting the other expenses of the Board in the discharge of its functions under this Act.
14.
Budget.
The Board shall prepare in such form and at such time each year as may be prescribed its budget for the next financial
year showing the estimated expenditure, the amount of expenditure which the State Governments of Madhya Pradesh
and Uttar Pradesh have  undertaken to provide for and forward the same to the Central Government and the said State
Governments.
15.
Annual report.
(1)
The Board shall prepare in such form and at such time each year as may be prescribed its annual report giving a full
account of its activities during the previous year and forward copies thereof to the Central Government and that
Government shall cause the same to be laid before each House of Parliament.
(2)
The Board shall forward copies of its annual reports to the Governments of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
16.
Accounts and audit.
The accounts of the Board shall be maintained and audited in such manner as may, in consultation with the Comptroller
and Auditor-General of India, be prescribed.
Chapter V
Miscellaneous
17.
Directions by Central Government.
In the discharge of its functions, the Board shall be guided by such directions and instructions on questions of policy as
may be given to it by the Central Government.
18.
Disputes between the Board and the State Governments.
If any dispute arises between the Board and the Government of Madhya Pradesh or Uttar Pradesh or both regarding
any matter covered by this Act or touching or arising out of it, it shall be referred to the Central government and the
decision of the Central Government shall be final and binding on the Board and the said Governments.
19.
Power to enter.
Subject to any rules made in this behalf, any officer of the Board generally or specially authorised by the Board in this
behalf may, at all reasonable times, enter upon any land or premises and there do such things as may be reasonably
necessary for the purpose of lawfully carrying out any works or of making any surveys, examination or investigation,
Page 7/9
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Betwa River Board Act, 1976
preliminary or incidental to the exercise of any power or the performance of any function by the Board under this Act:
Provided that no person shall enter into any building or upon any enclosed court or garden attached to a dwelling house,
unless with the consent of the occupier thereof, without previously giving such occupier at least seven days' notice in
writing of his intention to do so.
20.
Members, officers and employees of the Board to be public servants.
All members of the Board and the Executive Committee and all officers and employees of the Board shall be deemed,
when acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act to be public servants within the
meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
21.
Protection of action taken in good faith.
(1)
No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Central Government or the government of Madhya
Pradesh or Uttar Pradesh or any members of the Board or the Executive Committee or any officer or employee of the
Board for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act or the rules or regulations.
(2)
No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Board for any damage caused or likely to be caused by anything
in good faith done or purported to be done under this Act or the rules or regulations and, in particular, it shall not be the
responsibility of the Board to provide for relief measures necessitated by floods or by breaches and failure of works.
22.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the
following matters, namely:-
(a)
the composition of, and the procedure to be followed, by the Executive Committee and all other matters relating to the
Executive Committee under sub-sections (2) and (5) of section 5;
(b)
the powers and duties which may be exercised or discharged by the Chief Engineer of the Board, under clause (a) of
sub-section (2) of section 7;
(c)
the terms and conditions of service of the Chief Engineer of, and the financial Adviser and the Secretary to, the Board,
under sub-section (4) of section 7;
(d)
appointment of officers and employees of the Board, under sub-section (1) of section 8;
(e)
the form in which and the time at which the budget and annual report of the board shall be prepared, under section 14,
and sub-section (1) of section 15;
(f)
the manner in which the accounts of the Board shall be maintained and audited, under section 16;
(g)
the form and manner in which disputes may be referred under section 18 to the Central Government and the procedure
to be followed by the Central Government for the settlement of such disputes.
23.
Power to make regulations.
(1)
The Board may, with the previous approval of the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
regulations not inconsistent with this Act and the rules, for enabling it to discharge its functions under this Act.
(2)
Page 8/9
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Betwa River Board Act, 1976
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely:-
(a)
the manner in which and the purposes for which the Board may associate with itself any persons, under sub-section (5)
of section 4;
(b)
the powers which may be exercised and the duties which may be discharged by the Chief Engineer of the Board, under
sub-section (2) (b) of section 7;
(c)
the terms and conditions of service of the officers (other than the Chief Engineer of the Board, Financial Adviser and
Secretary to the Board) and other employees of the Board, under sub-section (2) of section 8.
24.
Rules and regulations to be laid before Parliament.
Every rule and every regulation made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each
House of Parliament, while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in
two or more successive session and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or successive
sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree that the rule or regulation, as the case may be, should not be made, the rule or
regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however,
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule or regulation.
THE SCHEDULE
[See section 3(f)]
DESCRIPTION OF RAJGHAT DAM
The Dam is to be built across the Betwa river about one furlong upstream of Lalitpur Chanderi Causeway at Rajghat on
the river Betwa, District, Lalitpur, of Uttar Pradesh.
The Dam will comprise a masonry section in the river bed and earthen flanks on both sides.
It will also include the earth dam to be constructed in the saddles on either side for creating a reservoir.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 9/9