
----- PAGE 1 -----
Departmentalisation of Union Accounts (Transfer of Personnel) Act, 1976
Departmentalisation of Union Accounts (Transfer of Personnel) Act,
1976
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/199410304/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
2
]
Union of India - Act
Departmentalisation of Union Accounts (Transfer of Personnel) Act, 1976
UNION OF INDIA
India
Departmentalisation of Union Accounts (Transfer of Personnel) Act, 1976
Act 59 of 1976
Published on 8 April 1976
Commenced on 8 April 1976
[This is the version of this document from 8 April 1976.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Departmentalisation of Union Accounts (Transfer of Personnel) Act, 1976
Act
No. 59 of 1976
1500.
Object and Reason.- The present account system applicable to most Ministries and Departments is essentially external
to financial management functions in that payment are made by the treasuries and accounts are complied by the Audit
and Accounts offices under the control of the Comptroller and Auditor General on the basis of initial and subsidiary
accounts received by them from the treasuries. This system worked fairly well when governmental business was limited.
With the increase in the volume and variety of governmental business and the continual stepup of development outlays
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Departmentalisation of Union Accounts (Transfer of Personnel) Act, 1976
the system has proved inadequate to the administration's tasks.
2. The scheme of separation of accounts from audit is to he implemented in the Ministry of Communications, Ministry of
Tourism and Civil Aviation and the Ministry of Industry and Civil Supplies from 1st April, 1976. The remaining Ministries
will also be covered gradually by the 1st October, 1976. The taking over of accounting functions from the Comptroller
and Auditor-General involve the transfer of a large number of employees of the Indian Audit and Accounts Department
to the Ministries and Departments of the Government of India and offices under them. The transfer of so many
employees working under the Comptroller and Auditor General has to be effected in such a manner that it does not
entail serious administrative problems. To achieve this object, the Departmentalisation of Union Accounts (Transfer of
Personnel) Ordinance, 1976 (2 of 1976) was promulgated by the President on Ist March, 1976.
3. The Ordinance empowers the Central Government to transfer officers and employees from the Indian Audit and
Accounts Department to any Ministry or Department of the Central Government or any of its attached and subordinate
offices, on the advice of a Committee. It provides for constitution of one or more Advisory Committees to assist the
Government in the selection of personnel to be transferred. Persons transferred from the Indian Audit and Accounts
Department will cease to be employees of the said Department and will hold office in the Ministry. Department or office
thereunder with such designations as the Central Government may specify. The transferred officers and employees will
be entitled to be appointed to posts carrying scales of pay not less favourable than those of the Post held by them
immediately before the date of such transfer. Substantive status, if any, will be protected.
4. The Bill seeks to replace the Ordinance mentioned above. S.O.R. Gazette of India, 23-3-76, II Section 2, Ext., p. 725.
[8th April 1976.]
An Act to provide for the transfer of officers serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department to any Ministry,
Department or office of the Central Government for facilitating the efficient discharge by such Ministry, Department or
office of the responsibility in connection with compiling the accounts thereof.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twenty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title and Commencement.-
(1)
This Act may be called the Departmentalisation of Union Accounts (Transfer of Personnel) Act, 1976.
(2)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of March, 1976.
2.
Transfer of officers and employees of the Indian Audit and Accounts Department.-
(1)
Where the President has, by order under the first proviso to sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Comptroller and
Auditor-General's (Duties, Powers and Conditions of Service) Act, 1971(56 of 1971), provided for relieving, with effect
from any date (hereinafter referred to as the prescribed date), the Comptroller and Auditor-General from the
responsibility for compiling any accounts of the Union or of any services or departments of the Union as may be
specified in such order, then, subject to the provisions of this Act, it shall be lawful for the Central Government, on the
advice of the Committee established under sub-section (2), to transfer, by order and with effect from such date or dates
(which may be either retrospective to any date not earlier than the prescribed date or prospective) as may be specified
in the order, to any Ministry or Department of the Central Government or any of its attached or subordinate offices, any
of the officers or employees serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, for the purpose of facilitating the
efficient discharge by such Ministry, Department or office of the responsibility of compiling such accounts:
Provided that no order under this sub-section shall be made in relation to any such officer or employee serving in the
Indian Audit and Accounts Department who has, in respect of the proposal made on the advice of the Committee to
transfer such officer or employee under this sub-section, intimated, within such time as may be specified in this behalf
his unwillingness to be so transferred, unless the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary in the public
interest to transfer such officer or employee as aforesaid:
Provided further that nothing in this sub-section shall affect the right of any such officer or employee to resign or retire
from service in accordance with the rules applicable to him in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department.
(2)
The Central Government may, by order, establish one or more Advisory Committees consisting of such number of
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Departmentalisation of Union Accounts (Transfer of Personnel) Act, 1976
members as it thinks fit for the purpose of assisting it in regard to the transfer of officers and employees under
sub-section (1).
(3)
An officer or other employee transferred to any Ministry, Department or office of the Central Government by an order
made under sub-section (1) shall, on and from the date of transfer, cease to be an officer or employee in the Indian
Audit and Accounts Department and shall, subject to the provisions of sub-section (4) and of any law or rules made
under Chapter I of Part XIV of the Constitution, hold office in such Ministry, Department or office with such designation
as the Central Government may specify.
(4)
Every officer or employee transferred under sub-section (1) shall be entitled to be appointed to a post carrying a scale of
pay not less favourable than that of the post which he held immediately before the date of such transfer and in the same
capacity (whether substantive or officiating) in which he held the post last mentioned:
Provided that if immediately before the date of such transfer any such officer or employee is officiating in a higher post in
the Indian Audit and Accounts Department either in a leave vacancy or in any other vacancy of a specified duration, his
pay, on transfer, shall be protected for the unexpired period of such vacancy.
3.
Repeal and saving.-
(1)
The Departmentalisation of Union Accounts (Transfer of Personnel) Ordinance, 1976(2 of 1976), is hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have
been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3