
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Textiles Committee (Appeal to the Tribunal) Rules, 1976
The Textiles Committee (Appeal to the Tribunal) Rules, 1976
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/172152883/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Textiles Committee (Appeal to the Tribunal) Rules, 1976
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Textiles Committee (Appeal to the Tribunal) Rules, 1976
Rule THE-TEXTILES-COMMITTEE-APPEAL-TO-THE-TRIBUNAL-RULES-1976 of 1976
Published on 19 April 1976
Commenced on 19 April 1976
[This is the version of this document from 19 April 1976.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Textiles Committee (Appeal to the Tribunal) Rules, 1976
Published vide Notification in the Gazette of India, Extra, Part 3, Section 3(i), dated 19th April, 1976
1739.
G.S.R. 296 (E), New Delhi, the 19th April, 1976. - Whereas the draft of the Textiles committee (Appeal) Rules, 1975, to
provide for certain matters regarding appeal to the Tribunal constituted under section 58 of the Textiles Committee Act,
1963 (
41 of 1963
), was published as required by sub-section (1) of section 22 of the said Act, at pages 1931-34 of the Gazette of India,
Extraordinary, part II, Section 3, sub-section (i), dated the 3rd September, 1975, under the notification of the
Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce, No. G.S.R. 482(E), dated 3rd September, 1975, inviting objections
and suggestions from all persons likely to be affected thereby, till the expiry of a period of forty-five days from the date of
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Textiles Committee (Appeal to the Tribunal) Rules, 1976
publication of the said notification in the Official Gazette :
And whereas the said Gazette was made available to the public on the 9th September, 1975;
And whereas objections and suggestions received from the public on the said draft have been considered by the Central
Government;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 22 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby makes
the following rules, namely :-
1.
Short title.
(1)
These rules may be called the Textiles committee (Appeal to the Tribunal) Rules, 1976,
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,---
(a)
"Act" means the Textiles Committee Act, 1963 (
41 of 1963
);
(b)
"Assessing Officer", "cess" and "manufacturer" shall have the meaning respectively assigned to them in the Textiles
Committee (Cess) Ru.cs,1975;
(c)
"Form" means the Form annexed to these rules;
(d)
"Tribunal" means the Tribunal constituted under section 5B of the Act.
3.
Form of appeal to the Tribunal.
(1)
An appeal to the Tribunal under section 5A of the Act shall be made in the Form annexed to these rules and be verified
in the manner indicated therein.
(2)
The Form of appeal referred to in sub-rule (1) and the form of verification appended thereto shall be signed,--
(a)
in the case of an individual, by the individual himself; where the individual is absent from India, by the individual
concerned or by some person duly authorised by him in this behalf; and where the individual is mentally incapacitated
from attending to his affairs, by his guardian or by any other person competent to act on his behalf;
(b)
in the case of a Hindu undivided family, by the Karla, and, where the Karla is absent from India or is mentally
incapacitated from attending to his affairs, by any other adult member of such family;
(c)
in the case of a company or local authority, by the principal officer thereof;
(d)
in the case of a firm, by any partner thereof, not being a nimor;
(e)
in the case of any other association by any member of the association or the principal officer thereof; and
(f)
in the case of any other person, by that person or by some person competent to act on his behalf.
4.
Fees payable on appeals.
- An appeal to the Tribunal shall be accompanied by a fee equal to 10 percent of the amount disputed or Rs 100/-
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Textiles Committee (Appeal to the Tribunal) Rules, 1976
whichever is less.
5.
Procedure for filing appeals.
(1)
An appeal to the Tribunal shall be presented by the appellant in person or by his authorised representative, to the
Tribunal at its headquarters in Bombay or to an officer authorised in this behalf by the Tribunal, or sent by registered
post addressed to the Tribunal or to such officer.
(2)
An appeal sent by post under sub-rule (1) shall be deemed to have been presented to the Tribunal or to the officer
authorised by the Tribunal on the day on which it is received in the office of the Tribunal at Bombay or, as the case may
be, in the office of such-officer.
6.
Contents of Form of appeal.
- Every form of appeal to the Tribunal shall be written in English and shall set forth, concisely and under distinct head the
grounds of appeal without any arguments or narrative and such grounds shall be numbered consecutively.
7.
What to accompany an appeal.
(1)
Every From of appeal to the Tribunal shall be in triplicate and shall be accompanied by two copies (at least one of which
shall be a copy duly certified by the assessing Officer) of the notice of demand regarding assessment appealed against.
(2)
The Tribunal may in its discretion accept a Form of appeal which is not accompanied by all or any of the documents
referred to in sub-rule (1).
8.
Filing of affidavits.
- Where a fact which cannot be borne out by, or is contrary to the record is alleged, it shall be stated clearly and
concisely and supported by a duly sworn affidavit.
9.
Grounds which may be taken in appeal.
- The appellant shall not, except by leave of the Tribunal urge or be heard in support of any ground not set forth in the
Form of appeal.
10.
Who may be joined as respondent in an appeal by assessee.
- In an appeal under section 5A of the Act, the Committee shall be made a respondent to the appeal.
11.
Authorisation to be filed.
- An authorised representative appearing on behalf of the appellant at the hearing of an appeal shall file the document of
authorisation before the commencement of the hearing.
12.
Hearing of the appeal.
(1)
On the day fixed or any other day to which the hearing may be adjourned, the appellant shall be heard in support of the
appeal.
(2)
The Tribunal shall then, if necessary, hear the respondent against the appeal and in such case the appellant shall be
entitled to reply.
13.
Dismissal of appeal for appellant's default etc.
- Where on the day fixed for hearing or any other day to when the hearing may be adjourned, the appellant does not
appear when the appeal is called on the hearing, the Tribunal may, in its discretion, either dismiss the appeal for default
or may hear it ex parte :
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Textiles Committee (Appeal to the Tribunal) Rules, 1976
Provided that where the appeal has been dismissed for default and the appellant apprears afterwards and satisfies the
Tribunal that there was sufficient cause for his non-appearance when the appeal wat called on for hearing, the Tribunal
shall make an order setting aside the dismissal and restoring the appeals.
Explanation.- In this rule and in rule 14, "appear" means appear in person or through an authorised representative.
14.
Hearing appeal ex parte.
- Where on the day fixed for hearing or any other day to which the hearing may be adjourned the appellant appears and
the respondent does not appear when the appeal is called on for hearing, the Tribunal may hear the appeal ex parte.
15.
Remand of the case by the Tribunal.
- Where the Tribunal is of the opinion that the case should be remanded, it may remand it to the committee or to the
Assessing Officer with such directions as the Tribunal may think fit.
16.
production of additional evidence before the Tribunal.
- The parties to the appeal shall not be entitled to produce additional evidence either oral or documentary before the
Tribunal, except by the leave of the Tribunal.
17.
Mode of taking additional evidence.
- Such document may be produced or such witness examined or such evidence adduced before the Tribunal as the
Tribunal may direct.
18.
Adjournment of appeal.
- The Tribunal may, on such terms as it think fit, and at any stage, adjourn the hearing of the appeal.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4