
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Port Of New Tuticorin (Rates For The Use Of The Wharf) Rules, 1976
The Port Of New Tuticorin (Rates For The Use Of The Wharf) Rules,
1976
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/108941740/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Port Of New Tuticorin (Rates For The Use Of The Wharf) Rules, 1976
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Port Of New Tuticorin (Rates For The Use Of The Wharf) Rules, 1976
Rule THE-PORT-OF-NEW-TUTICORIN-RATES-FOR-THE-USE-OF-THE-WHARF-RULES-1976 of 1976
Published on 3 May 1976
Commenced on 3 May 1976
[This is the version of this document from 3 May 1976.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Port Of New Tuticorin (Rates For The Use Of The Wharf) Rules, 1976
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, 1976, Part 2, Section 3(i), page 1415.
2030.
G.S.R. 727, dated 3rd May, 1976. - Whereas a draft of the Port of New Tuticorin (Rates for the Use of the Wharf) Rules,
1975, was published as required by sub-section (2) of Sec. 6 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (
15 of 1908
) at page 2723 of the Gazette of India, Part II, Sec 3, sub-section (i), dated the 20th September, 1975, under the
Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Shipping and Transport (Transport Wing) No. G.S.R. 2419,
dated the 3rd September, 1975, inviting objections and suggestions from all persons likely to be affected thereby, till the
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Port Of New Tuticorin (Rates For The Use Of The Wharf) Rules, 1976
2nd December, 1975;
And whereas the said Gazette was made available to the public on the 3rd October, 1975.
And whereas no,objections or suggestions have been received from the public on the said draft;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Sec. 6 of the said Act, the Central Government
hereby makes the following rules, namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Port of New Tuticorin (Rates for the Use of the Wharf) Rules, 1976.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Fixation of rates for the use of wharf.
- Subject to the provisions of these rules, the rates to be charged for the use of wharf at the Port of New Tuticorin shall
be as specified in the Schedule (hereinafter referred to as the Schedule) hereto annexed.
3.
Bulk cargo.
- In the case of bulk cargo dues shall be levied on the manifested tonnage subject to the provision that if all the cargo
landed and cleared is weighed on the port's weigh bridges, the dues may be levied on the total weight so recorded.
4.
Assessment of goods for shipment.
- All goods intended for shipment shall be assessed on Export Application and the wharf dues shall be paid before the
goods are shipped.
5.
Assessment of goods landed.
- All goods landed within the port of New Tuticorin shall be assessed on Import Application and wharf dues shall be paid
before the goods are removed outside the said port.
6.
Wharf dues not leviable on ship's fitting etc.
- Wharf dues shall not be leviable on bona fide ship's fittings, dunnage or provisions for the use of ships.
7.
Wharf dues on cargoes in port's transit areas.
- Wharf dues shall be payable on all cargoes admitted to the said port's transit areas for shipment whether they are
shipped or having been brought in are taken out without having been shipped except that in the case of cargoes
intended for shipment and stored in rented spaces, warehouses or leased plots, wharf dues shall be levied at the time of
shipment only.
8.
Goods consigned to or by Administrator exempt from wharf dues.
- Goods consigned to or by the Administrator of the Port of New Tuticorin shall be exempted from the levy of wharf dues.
9.
Tranship Goods.
(1)
Cargo landed on and shipped from the wharf, except as otherwise provided, shall be charged full wharf dues as per the
Schedule.
(2)
Through cargo originally manifested at the port of shipment for transhipment landed on the wharf shall be charged full
wharf dues as per the Schedule less fifteen per cent.
(3)
Cargo discharged overside and shipped overside (ship to ship) shall be charged at half the wharf dues as per Schedule
except in respect of foodgrains manifested for Indian ports and transhipped to smaller vessels from large tankers or bulk
carriers within the port limits.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Port Of New Tuticorin (Rates For The Use Of The Wharf) Rules, 1976
(4)
Cargo manifested for 'local' and subsequently amended at the Port of New Tuticorin for 'transhipment' shall be charged
full wharf dues as per the Schedule less fifteen per cent.
(5)
Wharf dues shall be recovered at Re.1 per tonne of foodgrains transhipped into a smaller vessel from tanker or bulk
carrier at the port.
10.
Questions as to classification of goods.
- If, for the purpose of application of these rules, any question arises as to the classification of any goods, it shall be
referred to the Administrator of the Port of New Tuticorin for decision and the Administrator shall decide the question.
Schedule
[See rule 2]
(1)
Cement
Rs.
8 per tonne.
(2)
Coal
Rs.
6 per tonne.
(3)
Foodgrains
Rs.
8 per tonne.
(4)
Fertilisers.
Rs.9
per tonne.
(5)
Oil-animal, vegetable or mineral in bulk
Rs.
12 per tonne
(6)
Salt
Rs.
8 per tonne.
(7)
Sulphur, rock phosphate, muriate of potash
Rs.
9 per tonne.
(8) [
Ores and minerals]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 121, dated 31st December, 1976]
Rs.
4.00 per tonne.
(9) []
[Re-numbered by G.S.R. 121, dated 31st December, 1976]
Unspecified items
Rs.
12 per tonne or Rs. 9 per cubic metre whichever is higher.
Note 1. - For the purpose of calculating the wharf dues the unit by weight shall be 1 tonne of 1000 kilograms, the unit by
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Port Of New Tuticorin (Rates For The Use Of The Wharf) Rules, 1976
volume measurement shall be 1 cubic metre and the unit by capacity measurement for liquids in bulk shall be 1000
litres.
Note 2. - For the recovery of charges, the gross and not the net unit of each package as specified in the relative invoice
or other shipping document shall be taken, subject to test check by the port authorities. In the absence of these
documents or the specification of the gross units therein, the units actually arrived at by test check shall be taken as the
gross units.
Note 3. - In calculation the gross weight or measurement by volume or capacity of any individual item, fractions up to
and including 0.5 shall be taken as 0.5 and fractions over 0.5 shall be taken as one unit.
Note 4. - 0n packages containing articles of a miscellaneous charter, charges shall be levied at the rate applicable to the
article on which the highest rate is chargeable.
Note 5. - In the case of hazardous cargo classified under item 1[(9)] relating to unspecified items 100% of the wharfage
shall be recovered over and above the normal dues.
Note 6. - The wharf dues do not include the charges for handling cargo on shore or on board. If handling is done by the
port authorities a separate charge of Rs. 3.50 per tonne shall be recovered for each operation.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4