
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Port Of New Mangalore (Goods In Transit) Rules, 1976
The Port Of New Mangalore (Goods In Transit) Rules, 1976
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/102824481/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Port Of New Mangalore (Goods In Transit) Rules, 1976
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Port Of New Mangalore (Goods In Transit) Rules, 1976
Rule THE-PORT-OF-NEW-MANGALORE-GOODS-IN-TRANSIT-RULES-1976 of 1976
Published on 17 August 1976
Commenced on 17 August 1976
[This is the version of this document from 17 August 1976.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Port Of New Mangalore (Goods In Transit) Rules, 1976
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, 1976, Part 2, Section 3 (i), page 2390.
2026.
G.S.R. 1344, dated 17th August, 1976. - Whereas a draft of the Port of New  Mangalore (Goods in Transit) Rules, 1976,
was published as required by sub-section  (2) of Sec. 6 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (15 of 1908) in the Gazette of India,
Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, sub-section (i), dead the 15th December, 1975 under the Notification of the
Government of India in the Ministry of Shipping and Transport (Transport Wing) No. G.S.R. 585 (E), dated the 15th
December, 1975, inviting objections and suggestions from all persons likely to be affected thereby, till the expiry of a
period of sixty days from the date of publication of the said notification in the Official Gazette.
And whereas the said Gazette was made available to the public, on the 30th  December, 1975.
And whereas no objections or suggestions have been received from the public  on the said draft.
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Port Of New Mangalore (Goods In Transit) Rules, 1976
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Sec. 6 of  the said Act the Central Government
hereby makes the following rules, namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Port of  New Mangalore (Goods in Transit) Rules, 1976.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
Imports
2.
Free days.
- Free days for import cargo shall be admissible as follows.
(a)
Three working days (excluding Sundays and Port holidays) following the date of the complete discharge of the goods
from the vessel on to  jetties, quays or wharves, when goods are landed from the vessel into  lighters, barges or other
floating craft, the three working days shall be  calculated from the date of complete discharge of the goods from the 
lighters, barges, or other floating craft on the jetties, quays or wharves.
(b)
In the case of salvaged goods, the free days shall be reckoned from the  day following the date of notification of salvage
by the Receiver of  Wrecks in the Official Gazette of Karnataka State.
3.
Free periods.
- The following free periods shall be allowed in addition to the  free days.
(a)
Periods during which goods are detained by the Collector of Customs  for examination under sub-sections (3) and (4) of
Sec. 17, and for  chemical test under Sec. 144 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), other  than the ordinary
processes of apportionment and certified by the  Collector of Customs to be not attributable to any fault or negligence on
 the part of importers, plus one working day. The customs holidays  shall also be treated as free periods in addition.
(b)
Periods during which the goods are detained by any Public Health  Authority whether cleared or destroyed.
4.
Transit Fees.
- Transit fees at the following rates shall be levied in respect of  all goods left in the port's transit sheds or open space
after the expiry of the free days  and free periods till their delivery is effected.
Imports:
classification
How
charged
Rates
(i)
Goods left lying in the transit sheds or open transit space and
on which per day   wharfage dues are fixed on weight
per
ton
1st
week Rs. 2.60
2nd
week Rs. 6.00 succeeding period Rs. 10.00
(ii)
Goods left lying in the transit sheds or in the open space and on
which    wharfage dues are fixed on measurement.
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Port Of New Mangalore (Goods In Transit) Rules, 1976
per
cubic meter per day
1st
week Rs. 2.30
2nd
weekl Rs. 4.50 succeeding period Rs. 6.00
(iii)
Liquid left lying in the transit sheds or in the open transit
space  and on which wharfage dues are fixed on liquid measures.
per
1000 litres per day
1st
week Rs. 3.30
2nd
week Rs. 6.00 succeeding period Rs. 10.00
(iv)
Goods left lying in the transit sheds of or in the open transit
space and on which the rate of wharfage dues is or number fixed
per each package or by
per
each package or number per week or part of a week
1st
week 13% the wharfage dues
2nd
week 220% of the wharfage dues succeeding week 330% of the
wharfage dues.
Notes - (a) In calculating the transit fees, the unit to be adopted shall be the one which is more favourable to the port.
(b)
Fractions of .50 and above of one unit will be rounded off as one and  lesser fractions omitted. A minimum charge as for
one unit shall be  levied.
(c)
Demurrage on tranship goods shall also be charged at the above rates.
5.
Reduction of fees.
- The fees prescribed in rule 4 may be reduced by half, if  the goods lie in the open without any covering provided by the
port.
6.
Survey of goods.
- If goods are detained for survey, then a period not  exceeding seven days excluding Sundays and Port holidays, from
the date of  completion of discharge from the vessel may be excluded while calculating the transit  fees, provided that
the goods are removed within twenty-four hours after the  completion of the survey.
7.
Unclaimed goods.
- Transit fees shall not be charged on unclaimed goods  provided that they are cleared within two months from the date
of complete discharge  of the vessel from which they were landed.
8.
Empty or partially empty packages.
- Transit fees shall be payable on  packages landed empty or partially empty.
9.
Transit fees on Sundays and port holidays.
- Once transit fees begins to  accrue, no allowance shall be made for Sundays and Port holidays.
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Port Of New Mangalore (Goods In Transit) Rules, 1976
10.
Delivery of goods.
- Goods shall not be delivered to owners or consignees  unless all dues leviable thereon, including transit fees, are paid.
11.
Congestion of goods.
- If at any time the Traffic Manager of the Port  apprehends a serious congestion in the transit sheds or the transit area
which may  affect the rapid transit of goods through the port, he may direct the owners or  consignees of any specified
goods to remove such goods from the Port premises  within a specified period. If the goods are not removed within such
period, the said  Traffic Manager may cause them to be removed and restacked in any other place  within the Port
premises at the expense and the sole risk of owners or consignees.  Goods so removed shall be charged transit fees at
the rates for the third week under  rule 4.
Exports
12.
Export cargo.
- No export cargo shall be admitted into the Port premises without the permission in writing of the Traffic Manager of the
Port. Normally, export  cargo for a vessel shall be admitted only after the vessel is open for exports.
13.
Free days.
- Free days for export cargo shall be admissible as follows:
(a)
All cargo except salvaged goods-
(i)
Six days (excluding Sundays and Port holidays) from the actual date of receipt of the goods in the transit  area.
(ii)
From the date the vessel is berthed for working cargo to the date the vessel completes loading.
(b)
Salvaged goods-Three days (excluding Sundays and Port holidays) from the date on which the goods were actually
salvaged.
14.
Shut out cargo.
(1)
In the case of goods shut out from shipment and removed  outside, in addition to the free days mentioned in rule 13, the
working day next to the  date of completion of taking in of the exports by the vessel shall also be allowed as a  free day.
(2)
In the case of goods shut out by one vessel and subsequently shipped by  another vessel the free period shall count up
to twenty-one days, including Sundays  and Port holidays and thereafter transit fees shall be payable till the goods are
shipped.
15.
Free periods.
- In addition to the free days, export cargo shall be allowed  the following free periods, that is period during which goods
are detained by the  Collector of Customs for examinations under sub-sections (3) and (4) of Sec. 17 and  for chemical
test, under Sec. 144 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), other than the  ordinary processes or appraisement and
certified by the Collector of Customs to be  not attributable to any fault or negligence on the part of exporters, plus one
working  day. The customs holidays shall also be treated as free periods in addition.
16.
Transit fees.
- 50 per cent of the transit fees as applicable for imports shall  be revised after the expiry of the free days and free
periods.
17.
Reduction of rates.
- The rates specified in rule 16 may be reduced by half,  if the goods lie in the open without any covering provided by the
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Port Of New Mangalore (Goods In Transit) Rules, 1976
Port.
18.
Congestion of goods.
- If at any time the Traffic Manager of the port should  apprehend serious congestion in the transit sheds or other spaces
allotted for the  goods in transit to the detriment of the rapid transit of goods through the Port, he may  cause the goods
to be removed at the cost of the owner and may stack them in any  open space within the port premises at the risk of the
owner. Transit fees shall be  leviable on such goods in accordance with the rules for the third week under rule 16.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5