
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Customs Tariff (Determination of Origin of Other Preferential Areas) Rules, 1977
The Customs Tariff (Determination of Origin of Other Preferential
Areas) Rules, 1977
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/31923558/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Customs Tariff (Determination of Origin of Other Preferential Areas) Rules, 1977
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Customs Tariff (Determination of Origin of Other Preferential Areas) Rules, 1977
Rule THE-CUSTOMS-TARIFF-DETERMINATION-OF-ORIGIN-OF-OTHER-PREFERENTIAL-AREAS-RULES-1977 of
1977
Published on 1 July 1977
Commenced on 1 July 1977
[This is the version of this document from 1 July 1977.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Customs Tariff (Determination of Origin of Other Preferential Areas) Rules, 1977
Published vide Notification No. 99-Cus, dated 1st July, 1977
Notification No. 99-Cus, dated 1st July, [1977]
[Substituted by the Finance Act, 1995 (22 of 1995), Section, 50.]
. - in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (
51 of 1975
), and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the Department of Revenue and Banking No.
351-Customs, dated the 2nd August, 1976, the Central (3ovemment hereby makes the following rules, namely :
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Customs Tariff (Determination of Origin of Other Preferential Areas) Rules, 1977
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Customs Tariff (Determination of Origin of Other Preferential Areas) Rules, 1977.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Application.
- These rules shall apply to articles consigned from other preferential area.
3.
Definitions.
- In these rules unless the context otherwise requires.
(a)
"Act" means the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (
51 of 1975
);
(b)
"country" means a country or territory declared to be other preferential area;
(c)
"expenditure on material" means the cost of the manufacture of the material at the factory or works, including containers
but excluding royalties;
(d)
"factory or works cost" means the cost of production to the manufacturer at the factory or works and shall include the
value of containers and other forms of interior packing ordinarily sold with an article when it is sold in retail, but shall not
include the manufacturer's or exporter's profit or the cost of exterior packing, carriage to port and other charges
incidental to the export of the article subsequent to its manufacture;
(e)
"other preferential area" means any country or territory declared to be other preferential area under sub-section (3) of
Section 4 of the Act;
(f)
words and expression used in these rules and not defined herein but defined in the Customs Act, 1962 (
52 of 1962
), shall have the meanings, respectively, assigned to them in that Act.
4.
Produce or manufacture of a country.
- No article shall be deemed to be the produce or manufacture of a country, unless the proper officer of customs is
satisfied,
(a)
that the article has been consigned from such country; and
(b)
(i)
where the article is unmanufactured, that it has been grown or produced in such country;
(A)
that it has been wholly manufactured in such country from material produced in such country; or
(B)
that it has been wholly manufactured in such country from un-manufactured materials; or
(C)
that it has been partially manufactured in such country and that the final process of manufacture has been performed in
such country and that the expenditure on material produced and labour performed in such country in the manufacture of
the article is, in the case of an article specified in the Schedule to these rules, not less than one-half and in the case of
other articles, not less than one-quarter, of the factory or works cost of the article in its finished state :
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Customs Tariff (Determination of Origin of Other Preferential Areas) Rules, 1977
(ii)
where the article is manufactured
Provided that where the articles are consigned from other preferential area the material produced and labour performed
in any other preferential area may be reckoned as though it were material produced or labour performed in the
preferential area from which the goods were consigned.
Explanation. - For the purposes of Clause  (b) (ii) (C), the final process of manufacture shall not be deemed to have
been performed in any country in which no process other than the process of mixing, bottling, labelling, packing into
retail containers or the like have been performed, but where the final process as aforesaid has been performed in the
country in which the final process of manufacture has been performed, nothing herein shall render the cost of such
process of ineligible for inclusion in the computation of the fraction of the factory or works cost of the article in its finished
state which represents expenditure on material produced and labour performed in that country.
5.
Imports by post.
- No claim that articles are chargeable with a preferential rate of duty shall be considered by the [Assistant
Commissioner of Customs]
[Substituted by the Finance Act, 1995 (22 of 1995), Section 50.]
in respect of articles imported by post, unless at the time of arrival in India, such articles are covered by a declaration as
to the country of origin entered in the customs declaration form of (in the absence of such a form), on the wrapper of the
package.
Schedule
(See Rule 4)
1. Sewing and knitting machines (and parts thereof) to be worked by manual labour or which require for their operation
less than one quarter of one brake-horse-power.
2. Cycles (other than motor cycles) imported entire or in sections and parts and accessories thereof, excluding rubber
tyres and tubes.
3. Motor cars including taxi cabs and articles (other than rubber tyres and tubes) adapted for use exclusively as parts
and accessories thereof.
4. Motor omni-buses; chassis of motor omni-buses, motor vans and motor lorries; and parts of mechanically propelled
vehicles and accessories excluding rubber tyres and tubes.
5. Motor cycles and motor scooters and articles (other than rubber tyres and tubes) adapted for use as parts and
accessories thereof.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3