
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Application Of Fines) Rules, 1978
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Application Of Fines) Rules,
1978
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/198756754/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Application Of Fines) Rules, 1978
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Application Of Fines) Rules, 1978
Rule THE-PREVENTION-OF-CRUELTY-TO-ANIMALS-APPLICATION-OF-FINES-RULES-1978 of 1978
Published on 15 February 1978
Commenced on 15 February 1978
[This is the version of this document from 15 February 1978.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Application Of Fines) Rules, 1978
Published vide Notification No. 14-21/76 LDI, dated 15.2.1978, published in the Gazette of India, Part I, Section 3(ii).
19.
/886
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (k) of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
Act, 1960 (
59 of 1960
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, the same having been previously published as required by
the said section, namely:--
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Application Of Fines) Rules, 1978
1.
Short title .-These rules may be called The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Application of Fines) Rules, 1978.
2.
Definitions .-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,--
(a)
"Act" means the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 (
59 of 1960
);
(b)
"Board" means the Animal Welfare Board of India established under the Act;
(c)
"fines" means fines levied under the Act.
3.
Fines, after deducting cost of collection, to be made over to Board .-(a) Fines levied and realised under the Act shall,
subject to any deductions relating to the cost of collection, be made over by the State Government to the Board as soon
as may be after due appropriation by law (by State Legislature) in this behalf.
4.
Application of fines made over to Board .-(1) Fines made over by any State Government to the Board shall be applied
exclusively for the following purposes, namely:--
(i)
the grant of financial assistance to societies dealing with the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals or organisations actively
interested in animal welfare work which are for the time being recognised by the Board;
(ii)
the maintenance of infirmaries,  pinjrapoles and veterinary hospitals.
(2)
Fines realised in one State and made over to the Board shall be utilised only for the benefit of such societies or other
organisations within the jurisdiction of that State and not otherwise.
5.
Principles to govern application of fines .-In applying the fines for the benefit of societies or other organisations in any
State, the Board shall have due regard to the following principles, namely:--
(i)
financial assistance shall first be given to societies dealing with the prevention of cruelty to animals within the jurisdiction
of the State which are for the time being recognised by the Board;
(ii)
in granting financial assistance to such societies, due regard shall be had to the amounts they had been receiving from
the State Government prior to the coming into force of these rules, and consistently with the amount of fines at its
disposal and having regard to the revenues of the societies concerned, the objects for which assistance is to be given
and other relevant matters, the Board shall make every endeavour to ensure that there is no diminution in the amounts
such societies had been receiving earlier;
(iii)
if after the grant of financial assistance to the societies earlier referred to in this rule, there is any unspent balance, it
may be applied by the Board at its discretion for the benefit of any other organisation actively interested in animal
welfare work including infirmaries,  pinjrapoles and veterinary hospitals.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2