
----- PAGE 1 -----
University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by Universities) Rules, 1979
University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by
Universities) Rules, 1979
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/60589046/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by Universities) Rules, 1979
UNION OF INDIA
India
University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by Universities) Rules, 1979
Rule UNIVERSITY-GRANTS-COMMISSION-RETURNS-OF-INFORMATION-BY-UNIVERSITIES-RULES-1979 of 1979
Published on 18 January 1979
Commenced on 18 January 1979
[This is the version of this document from 18 January 1979.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by Universities) Rules, 1979
To be published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary Part II-Section 3, Sub-Section (i)
1883.
[18th January, 1979]
Notification. - In exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (i) read with (f) & (k) of subsection (2) of Section 25, of
the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956), the Central Government hereby makes the following
rules,namely :-
1.
Short title, and commencement.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by Universities) Rules, 1979
(1)
These rules may be called the University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by Universities) Rules, 1979.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Returns and Information to be furnished.
- Every university shall, on or before the date specified by the University Grants Commission every year in this behalf,
furnish the following returns and information to the Commission,namely :-
a. upto date copies of,---
i. the Act., Statutes and Ordinances concerned;
ii. rules for grant in aid to the colleges belonging to or affiliated to it;
iii. rules of the inspection of colleges belonging to or affiliated to it;
b. reports on the inspection of colleges belonging to or affiliated to it;
c. minimum working days in the university, period of vacations, examination days and the number of days when actual
teaching is conducted exclusive of the days for the preparation for examinations;
d. where there are admission tests, a note indicating the minimum criteria laid down alongwith admission policy and
variations, if any, from the basis specified for admission;
e. the statistics of the students admitted below the minimum qualifications referred to in clause (d);
f. residence for students;
g. residence for staff;
h. the annual accounts of the university including the audit report;
i. the total staff strength in different categories with qualifications and research experience. (This could be intimated by
the university once in every five years, with changes, if any, to be intimated every year);
j. student strength at various stages;
k. teacher pupil ratio;
l. results of examinations with divisions.
Explanations : For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared that for the purpose of this rule, the term ?university?
means a university as defined in clause (f) of Section 2 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956), and
includes an institution deemed to be a University under Section 3 of the said Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2