
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Working Journalists And Other Newspaper Employees Tribunal Rules, 1979
The Working Journalists And Other Newspaper Employees Tribunal
Rules, 1979
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/180729963/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Working Journalists And Other Newspaper Employees Tribunal Rules, 1979
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Working Journalists And Other Newspaper Employees Tribunal Rules, 1979
Rule THE-WORKING-JOURNALISTS-AND-OTHER-NEWSPAPER-EMPLOYEES-TRIBUNAL-RULES-1979 of 1979
Published on 4 April 1979
Commenced on 4 April 1979
[This is the version of this document from 4 April 1979.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Working Journalists And Other Newspaper Employees Tribunal Rules, 1979
Published vide S.O. 1294, dated 4.4.1979.
1090.
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 20 of the Working Journalists and other
Newspaper Employees (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955 (
45 of 1955
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title .-These rules may be called The Working Journalists and Other Newspaper Employees Tribunal Rules, 1979.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Working Journalists And Other Newspaper Employees Tribunal Rules, 1979
2.
Calling of parties .-A Tribunal constituted under section 13-AA or, as the case may be, under section 13-DD, of the
Working Journalists and Other Newspaper Employees (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955 (
45 of 1955
), shall, subject to the provisions of rule 3, call at such date, time and place, as may be appointed by it, from time to time,
the parties representing employers in a newspaper establishment and the parties representing the working journalists,
or, as the case may be, the non-journalist newspaper employees in such newspaper establishment.
3.
Notice .-Not less than ten days before the date fixed by the Tribunal for calling the parties, a notice containing the date,
time and place of the meeting, together with a list of business to be conducted at the meeting, shall be sent to both the
parties referred to in rule 2 by registered post by an officer authorised by the Tribunal in this behalf.
4.
Proceedings before the Tribunal .-The proceedings before the Tribunal shall ordinarily be open to the public:
Provided that the Tribunal may, at any stage, direct that any witness shall be examined, or its proceedings shall be held,
in camera.
5.
Summoning of witnesses and production of documents .-(1) The Tribunal may summon any person to appear as a
witness in the course of any inquiry. Such summons may require the witness to appear before it on a date specified
therein and to produce any books, papers or other documents and information in his possession or under his control
relating in any manner to the inquiry.
(2)
A summons under sub-rule (1) may be addressed to an individual or an organisation of employers or a trade union of
working journalists or, as the case may be, of non-journalist newspaper employees, or other workmen as the Tribunal
may think fit.
(3)
A summons under this rule may be served-
(a)
in the case of an individual, by being delivered or sent to him by registered post; and
(b)
in the case of an organisation or, as the case may be, trade union, referred to in sub-rule (2), by being delivered or sent
by registered post to the Secretary or other principal officer of the organisation or trade union, as the case may be.
6.
Expenses of witnesses .-Every person who is summoned and appears before the Tribunal shall be paid by the Tribunal
such sum of money as appears to the Tribunal to be sufficient to defray the travelling and other expenses incurred by
the person so summoned in passing to and from the place where he is required to attend.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2