
----- PAGE 1 -----
Hind Cycles Limited and Sen Raleigh Ltd. (Nationalisation) Rules, 1981
Hind Cycles Limited and Sen Raleigh Ltd. (Nationalisation) Rules,
1981
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/189891710/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Hind Cycles Limited and Sen Raleigh Ltd. (Nationalisation) Rules, 1981
UNION OF INDIA
India
Hind Cycles Limited and Sen Raleigh Ltd. (Nationalisation) Rules, 1981
Rule HIND-CYCLES-LIMITED-AND-SEN-RALEIGH-LTD-NATIONALISATION-RULES-1981 of 1981
Published on 27 March 1981
Commenced on 27 March 1981
[This is the version of this document from 27 March 1981.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Hind Cycles Limited and Sen Raleigh Ltd. (Nationalisation) Rules, 1981
Published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(ii), dated 27th March, 1981 (w.e.f. 27th March, 1981).
2007.
S.O. 228 (E), dated 27th March, 1981. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sec. 31 of the Hind Cycles Limited and
Sen-Raleigh Limited (Nationalisation) Act, (
70 of 1980
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules namely :-
1.
Short Title and Commencement.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Hind Cycles Limited and Sen Raleigh Ltd. (Nationalisation) Rules, 1981
(1)
These rules may be called the Hind Cycles Limited and Sen-Raleigh Ltd. (Nationalisation) Rules, 1981-.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a)
"Act" means the Hind Cycles Limited and Sen-Raliegh Limited (Nationalisation) Act, 1980.
(b)
`Section' means a section of the Act.
3.
Time Limit For Intimation.
- Every mortgagee of any property which has vested under the Act in the Central Government or in a Government
Company, as the case may be, and every person holding any charge, lien or other interest in, or in relation to, any such
property shall give intimation of such mortgage, charge, lien, or other interest to the Commissioner within a period of
thirty days from such date, as may be specified by the Central Government under Sec.18: Provided that if the
Commissioner is satisfied that the mortgage of the person holding any charge, lien or other interest was prevented by
sufficient cause from giving the intimation within the said period of thirty days, he may, after recording reasons in writing
receive the intimation within a further period of thirty days and not thereafter.
4.
Manner of Intimation.
(1)
Every intimation to be given to the Commissioner under rule 3-shall be in writing addressed to the Commissioner, and
shall contain the following particulars, namely :-
(a)
Name, description and full address of the mortgagee/charge lien or other interest holder;
(b)
Name of the undertaking in respect of which the claim is made;
(c)
amount of claim (in Indian currency);
(d)
particulars of the instrument, if any, by which the mortgage, charge, lien or other interest is secured, supported by an
attested copy of the instrument;
(e)
amount, if any, already received, with particulars;
(f)
any other particulars relevant to the claim;
(g)
relief claimed.
(2)
Every intimation shall be duly signed and verified by the mortgagee or the person holding the charge, lien or other
interest or by a person duly authorised by him.
(3)
Intimation may be filed in the office of the Commissioner at Calcutta or Bombay on all working days during office hours
or may be sent to the Commissioner by registered post with acknowledgement due.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2