
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Emblems And Names (Prevention Of Improper Use) Rules, 1982
The Emblems And Names (Prevention Of Improper Use) Rules, 1982
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/131548724/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Emblems And Names (Prevention Of Improper Use) Rules, 1982
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Emblems And Names (Prevention Of Improper Use) Rules, 1982
Rule THE-EMBLEMS-AND-NAMES-PREVENTION-OF-IMPROPER-USE-RULES-1982 of 1982
Published on 27 November 1982
Commenced on 27 November 1982
[This is the version of this document from 27 November 1982.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Emblems And Names (Prevention Of Improper Use) Rules, 1982
Published vide S.O. 4100, dated 27.11.1982, published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3(ii), Sl. No. 50, dated
11.12.1982.
9.
/502
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950 (
12 of 1950
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called The Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use)
Rules, 1982.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Emblems And Names (Prevention Of Improper Use) Rules, 1982
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions .-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950 (
12 of 1950
);
(b)
"Committee" means the Committee appointed by the Central Government under rule 4;
(c)
"designated officer" means an officer designated by the Central Government under rule 3;
(d)
"Schedule" means Schedule to the Act.
3.
Appointment of designated officer .-The Central Government may, for purposes of these rules, designate an officer who
shall not be below the rank of a Group "A" officer of the Central Government as designated officer.
4.
Appointment of Committee .-The Central Government may appoint a Committee for purposes of these rules consisting
of,-
(i)
an officer of the Central Government not  below the rank of a
Joint Secretary to the Government of India in the
Ministry/Department of that Government which is administratively
concerned with the administration of the Act
?Chairman;
(ii)
an officer of the Ministry of Law, Justice and Company Affairs in
the Department of Legal Affairs
?Member;
(iii) an officer
of the Ministry of Home Affairs
?Member.
5.
Co-option of Members of the Committee .-The Committee may, at its discretion co-opt any person or persons of
eminence/erudation not exceeding two at a time as its Members for considering any proposal or classes of proposals for
the consideration of which such persons' views are considered valuable by the Committee.
6.
Processing of proposals .-Any proposal for making additions or alterations to the Schedule received by the Central
Government from any State Government, local authority or any other source, shall be referred to the designated officer
who shall, after examining the same and after classifying the said proposals in appropriate classes wherever possible,
submit them for consideration by the Committee.
7.
Recommendation of the Committee .-(1) The Committee shall, after considering the proposal submitted by the
designated officer, make appropriate recommendations as to the desirability or otherwise of including any particular
proposal or classes of proposals in the Schedule.
(2)
The designated officer shall, on receipt of the recommendations from the Committee, submit the same to the Central
Government whose decision thereon shall be final.
8.
Use of emblems and names contained in the Schedule .-No person shall use or continue to use, for the purpose of any
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Emblems And Names (Prevention Of Improper Use) Rules, 1982
trade, business, calling or profession, or in the title of any patent, or in any trademark or design, any name or emblem
specified in the Schedule or any colourable imitation thereof without the previous permission of the Central Government
or of such officer of Government as may be authorised in this behalf by the Central Government except in the following
cases, namely:-
(1)
the use thereof by the agencies, bodies or persons to whom the name or emblem belongs;
(2)
the use thereof by the Central Government or any State Government to whom the name or emblem belongs;
(3)
issue of postal stamps, coins or other commemorative items brought out by the Central Government or a State
Government in honour of any of the persons or institutions whose names are included in the Schedule;
(4)
the use of the names of persons included in the Schedule by bodies set up by the Central Government or State
Government for propogation of the ideals for which they stood and lived;
(5)
the authorship, production, publication, exhibition or transmission by any medium for academic, artistic, biographical,
cultural, educational, scientific or spiritual purposes with the previous permission of the Central Government and subject
to such conditions as the Central Government may lay down while granting such permission.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3