
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Limestone and Dolomite Mines Labour Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 1982
The Limestone and Dolomite Mines Labour Welfare Fund
(Amendment) Act, 1982
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/163884123/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Limestone and Dolomite Mines Labour Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 1982
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Limestone and Dolomite Mines Labour Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 1982
Act 70 of 1982
Published in Gazette of India on 13 November 1982
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 13 November 1982.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
An Act to amend the Limestone and Dolomite Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1972.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title.-
This Act may be called the Limestone and Dolomite Mines Labour Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 1982.
1.
* * * * *
1. Sections 2 to 7 rep. by Act 19 of 1988, s. 2 and the First Schedule (w.e.f. 31-3-1988).
2.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Limestone and Dolomite Mines Labour Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 1982
2-7-[Repealed.]
8.
Validation.-
Notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court, tribunal or other authority,-
(a)
all duties of excise levied, assessed or collected or purported to have been levied, assessed or collected under the
principal Act before the commencement of this Act shall, for all purposes, be deemed to be, and to have always been,
as validly and effectively levied, assessed or collected as if the provisions of sections 3 and 4 of the principal Act as
amended by sections 3 and 4 of this Act had been in force at all material times;
(b)
no suit or proceeding shall be maintained or continued in any court for the refund of, and no enforcement shall be made
by any court of any decree or order directing the refund of, any such duty of excise which had been collected and which
would have been validly collected if the provisions of sections 3 and 4 of the principal Act, as amended by sections 3
and 4 of this Act, had been in force at all material times;
(c)
refunds shall be made of all such duties of excise which have been collected but which would not have been so
collected if the provisions of sections 3 and 4 of the principal Act, as amended by sections 3 and 4 of this Act, had been
in force at all material times;
(d)
recoveries shall be made of all such duties of excise which have not been collected or, as the case may be, which have
been refunded but which would have been collected or, as the case may be, would not have been refunded if the
provisions of sections 3 and 4 of the principal Act, as amended by sections 3 and 4 of this Act, had been in force at all
material times.
Explanation.-For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that no act or omission on the part of any person, before
the commencement of this Act, shall be punishable as an offence which would not have been so punishable if this Act
had not come into force.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2