
----- PAGE 1 -----
University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications Required For The Appointment And Care...
University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications Required For
The Appointment And Career Advancement Of Teachers In
Universities And Institutions Affiliated To It) Regulations, 2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/45428997/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications Required For The Appointment And Career Advancement Of
Teachers In Universities And Institutions Affiliated To It) Regulations, 2000
UNION OF INDIA
India
University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications Required For The Appointment And Career Advancement Of
Teachers In Universities And Institutions Affiliated To It) Regulations, 2000
Rule
UNIVERSITY-GRANTS-COMMISSION-MINIMUM-QUALIFICATIONS-REQUIRED-FOR-THE-APPOINTMENT-AND-CA
REER-ADVANCEMENT-OF-TEACHERS-IN-UNIVERSITIES-AND-INSTITUTIONS-AFFILIATED-TO-IT-REGULATIONS
-2000 of 2000
Published on 13 June 1983
Commenced on 13 June 1983
[This is the version of this document from 13 June 1983.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications Required For The Appointment And Career Advancement Of
Teachers In Universities And Institutions Affiliated To It) Regulations, 2000
Page 1/10
----- PAGE 2 -----
University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications Required For The Appointment And Care...
To be published in the Gazette of India Part III, Sector 4
1887.
No. F.3-1/2000(PS)
March, 2000
Notification. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (e) and (g) of sub-section (1) of Section 26 read with Section
14 of University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956), and in supersession of the Regulations issued under
University Grants Commission letter No.F. 1-93/74 (CPP) Part (v) dated 13th June, 1983 and No.F.1-11/87 (CPP-II)
dated 19th September, 1991 and Notification No. 1-93/74 (CP) dated 19th February, 1985, 26th November, 1985 and
No.F3-1/94 (PS) dated 24th December, 1998, the University Grants Commission hereby makes the following
regulations, namely :-
1.
Short Title, application and commencement.
- (i) These regulations may be called the University Grants Commission (minimum qualifications required for the
appointment and career Advancement of teachers in Universities and institutions affiliated to it) Regulations, 2000.
(ii)
They shall apply to every university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act, Provincial Act or a State Act,
every institution including a constituent or an affiliated college recognised by the Commission, in consultation. with the
university concerned under Clause (f) of Section 2 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 and every institution
deemed to be a university under Section 3 of the said Act.
(iii)
They shall come into force with immediate effect.
2.
Qualifications.
- No person shall be appointed to a teaching post in university or in any of institutions including constituent or affiliated
colleges recognised under clause (f) of Section 2 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 or in an institution
deemed to be a university under Section 3 of the said Act in a subject if he/she does not fulfil the requirements as to the
qualifications for the appropriate subjects as provided in the Annexure.
Provided that any relaxation in the prescribed qualifications can only be made by the University Grants Commission in a
particular subject in which NET is not being conducted or enough number of candidates are not available with NET
qualifications for a specified period only. (This relaxation, if allowed, would be given based on sound justification and
would apply to affected Universities for that particular subject for the specified period. No individual applications would
be entertained.)
Provided further that these regulations shall not be applicable to such cases where selections of the candidates having
had the then requisite minimum qualification as were existing at that time through duly constituted Selection Committees
for making-appointments to the teaching posts have been made prior to the enforcement of these regulations.
3.
Consequences of failure of universities to comply with recommendations of the Commission, as per provisions of
Section 14 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956:
If any university grants affiliation in respect of any course of study to any college referred to in sub-section (50 of Section
12-A in contravention of the provisions of that sub-section or fails within a reasonable time to comply with any
recommendations made by the Commission under Section 12 or Section 13,or contravenes the provisions of any rule
made under clause (f) or clause (g) of sub-section (2) of Section 25 or of any regulations made under clause (e) or
clause (g) of sub-section (1) of Section 26, the Commission after taking into consideration the clause, if any, shown by
the university for such failure or contravention, may withhold from the university the grants proposed to be made out of
the Fund of the Commission.
..........................................
Secretary
To
The Assistant Controller
Publication Division
Government of India,
Page 2/10
----- PAGE 3 -----
University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications Required For The Appointment And Care...
Urban Development Ministry,
Civil Lines,
Delhi - 110054
ANNEXURE
Minimum qualifications for the post of Professors, Principals, Readers and lecturers in subjects other than Fine Arts,
Management, Engineering and Technology in Universities or Colleges for appointment of persons through open
advertisement and for their Career Advancement.
1.0.0
DIRECT RECRUITMENT
1.1.0
Principal (Professor's Grade)
1. A Master's Degree with at least 55% of the marks or its equivalent grade of B in the 7 point scale with latter grades O,
A, B, C, D, E and F.
2. Ph. D. or equivalent published work.
3. Total experience of 15 years of teaching/Research in Universities/Colleges and other institutions of higher education,
1.2.0
Principal (Reader's Grade)
1. A Master's Degree with at least 55% of the marks or its equivalent grade of B in the 7 point scale with latter grades O,
A, B, C, D, E and F.
2. Ph. D. or equivalent published work
3. Total experience of 10 years of teaching/Research in Universities/Colleges and other institutions of higher education
1.3.0
HUMANITIES, SOCIAL SCIENCES, SCIENCES, COMMERCE, EDUCATION, PHYSICAL EDUCATION, FOREIGN
LANGUAGES AND LAW.
1.3.1
Professor
An eminent scholar with published work of high quality, actively engaged in research, with 10 years of experience in
postgraduate teaching, and/or experience in research at the University/National Level institutions, including experience
of guiding research at doctoral level.
OR
An outstanding scholar with established reputation who has made significant contribution to knowledge.
1.3.2
Reader
Good academic record with a doctoral degree or equivalent published work. In addition to these, candidates who join
from outside the university system, shall also possess at least 55% of the marks or an equivalent grade of B in the 7
point scale with latter grades O, A, B, C, D, E and F at the Master's degree level.
Five years of experience of teaching and/or research excluding the period spent for obtaining the research degrees and
has made some mark in the areas of scholarship as evidenced by quality of publications, contribution to educational
innovation, design of new courses and curricula.
1.3.3
Lecturer
Good academic record with at least 55% of the marks or, an equivalent grade of B in the 7 point scale with latter grades
0, A, B, C, D, E and F at the Master's degree level, in the relevant subject from an Indian University, or, an equivalent
degree from a foreign university.
Besides fulfilling the above qualifications, candidates should have cleared the eligibility test (NET) for lecturers
conducted by the UGC, CSIR or similar test accredited by the UGC.
Note :- [NET shall remain the compulsory requirement for appointment as Lecturer even for candidates having Ph.D.
degree. However, the candidate who have completed M.Phil degree by 31st December, 1993 or have submitted Ph.D.
thesis to the university in the concerned subject on or before 31st December, 2002 are exempted from appearing in the
NET examination. In case such candidates fail to obtain Ph.D. degree, they shall have to pass the NET examination.]
[Substituted by Notification No. F-1-1/2002(PS) Exemp. Dated 31st July, 2002 with immediate effect.]
Page 3/10
----- PAGE 4 -----
University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications Required For The Appointment And Care...
1.4.0
JOURNALISM AND MASS COMMUNICATION
1.4.1
Professor
An eminent scholar with published work of high quality actively engaged in research with ten years of experience in post
graduate teaching and/or research at the university/national level institution including experience of guiding research at
doctoral level in Communication/Journalism.
1.4.2
Reader
Essential
1. P.H. degree in Communication/Mass Communication/Journalism from an Indian University or an equivalent degree
from a foreign university.
OR
Published work of doctoral standard or media production work of excellence.
2. Good academic record with at least 55% marks (or an equivalent grade) at Master's level in the subject.
3. Eight years experience of teachers and/or research including up to three years for research degree and having made
a mark in the area of scholarship as evidenced by quality of publications, contribution to education innovation, design of
new courses and curricula.
OR
10.
years full time work experience in any area of Mass Communication (News paper accredited with ABC, National News
Agencies, radio or television, film media, reputed advertising agencies, Public Relation Officers of the Government,
Public Sector Undertakings and established Industrial and Commercial Houses.)
1.4.3
Lecturer
Good academic record with, at least 55% marks (or a equivalent grade) at Master's degree level or an equivalent
qualification from an Indian or foreign university/recognised institution in Communication/Mass
Communication/Journalism. Candidates, besides fulfilling the above qualification, should have cleared the eligibility test
for lecturers-conducted by-UGC or similar test accredited by the UGC.
Note :- [NET shall remain the compulsory requirement for appointment as Lecturer even for candidates having Ph.D.
degree. However, the candidate who have completed M.Phil degree by 31st December, 1993 or have submitted Ph.D.
thesis to the university in the concerned subject on or before 31st December, 2002 are exempted from appearing in the
NET examination. In case such candidates fail to obtain Ph.D. degree, they shall have to pass the NET examination.]
[Substituted by Notification No. F-1-1/2002(PS) Exemp. Dated 31st July, 2002 with immediate effect.]
Desirable
1. Ph.D. degree in Communication/Mass Communications/Journalism from an Indian university or an equivalent
degree-from a foreign university.
2. Two years full time teaching/research/experience in any area of Mass Communication (News papers accredited with
ABC, National News Agencies, radio or television, film media, reputed advertising agencies, Public Relation officers of
the Governments, Public Sector Undertaking and established Industrial and Commercial Houses).
1.5.0
SOCIAL WORK
1.5.1
Professor
An eminent scholar with published work of high quality actively engaged in research with ten years experience in
post-graduate teaching and/or research at the.University/national level institution including experience of guiding
research at doctoral level in Social Work.
1.5.2
Reader
Good academic record with a doctoral degree or equivalent published work. Evidence of being activity engaged in (1)
research or (2) innovation in teaching method or (3) production of teaching materials. Possess at least 55% marks or an
Page 4/10
----- PAGE 5 -----
University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications Required For The Appointment And Care...
equivalent grade at Master's degree level.
About eight years experience of teaching and/or research provided that at least five of these years were as Lecturers or
in an equivalent position:
OR
10. years of experience in field practice and professional publication based on work experience, and experience in
training and/or field instruction. Experience in consultation and documentation.
1.5.3
Lecturer
Good academic record with at least 55% of the marks (or an equivalent grade) at Master's degree level or an equivalent
qualification from an Indian or Foreign University. Candidates, besides fulfilling the above qualification should have
cleared National Eligibility Test for lecturers (NET) conducted by UGC or similar test accredited by the UGC.
Note :- [NET shall remain the compulsory requirement for appointment as Lecturer even for candidates having Ph.D.
degree. However, the candidate who have completed M.Phil degree by 31st December, 1993 or have submitted Ph.D.
thesis to the university in the concerned subject on or before 31st December, 2002 are exempted from appearing in the
NET examination. In case such candidates fail to obtain Ph.D. degree, they shall have to pass the NET examination.]
[Substituted by Notification No. F-1-1/2002(PS) Exemp. Dated 31st July, 2002 with immediate effect.]
1.6.0
MUSIC
1.6.1
Lecturer
Good academic record with at least 55% of the marks, or an equivalent grade of B in the 7 point scale with latter grades
O, A, B, C, D, E and F at the Master's degree level, in the relevant subject or an equivalent degree from an
Indian/Foreign University.
Besides fulfilling the above qualifications, candidates should have cleared the eligibility test (NET) for lecturers
conducted by the UGC, CSIR, or similar-test accredited by the UGC.
OR
A traditional or a professional artist with a highly commendable professional achievement in the concerned subject.
Note :- [NET shall remain the compulsory requirement for appointment as Lecturer even for candidates having Ph.D.
degree. However, the candidate who have completed M.Phil degree by 31st December, 1993 or have submitted Ph.D.
thesis to the university in the concerned subject on or before 31st December, 2002 are exempted from appearing in the
NET examination. In case such candidates fail to obtain Ph.D. degree, they shall have to pass the NET examination.]
[Substituted by Notification No. F-1-1/2002(PS) Exemp. Dated 31st July, 2002 with immediate effect.]
2.0.0
CAREER ADVANCEMENT
2.1.0
Minimum length of service for eligibility to move into the grade of Lecturer (Senior Scale) would be four years for those
with Ph.D., five years for, those with M.Phil, and six years for others at the level of Lecturer. and for eligibility to move
into the Grade of Lecturer (Selection Grade)/Reader, the minimum length of service as Lecturer (Senior Scale) shall be
uniformly live years.
2.1.2
For movement into grades of Reader and above, the minimum eligibility criterion would be Ph.D. Those without Ph.D.
can go up to the level of Lecturer (Selection Grade).
2.1.3
A Reader with a minimum of eight years of service in that grade will be eligible to be considered for appointment as a
Professor.
SEVEN POINT SCALE
Grade
Grade Point
Percentage Equivalent
'O' = Outstanding
5.50-6.00
Page 5/10
----- PAGE 6 -----
University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications Required For The Appointment And Care...
75-100
'A' = Very Good
4.50-5.49
65-74
'B' = Good
3.50-4.49
55-64
'C' = Average
2.50-3.49
45-54
'D' = Below Average
1.50-2.49
35-44
'E' = Poor
0.50-1.49
25-34
'F' = Fail
0-0.49
0-24
2.1.4
The Selection Committees for Career Advancement shall be the same as those for Direct Recruitment for each
category.
2.2.0
LECTURER (SENIOR SCALE)
A Lecturer will be eligible for placement in a senior scale through a procedure of selection, if she/he has:
(i)
Completed 6 years of service after regular appointment with relaxation of one year and two years, respectively, for those
with M.Phil. and Ph. D.
(ii)
Participated in one orientation course and one refresher course of approved duration, or engaged in other appropriate
continuing education programmes of comparable quality as may be specified or approved by the University Grants
Commission. (Those with Ph.D. degree would be exempted from one refresher course).
(iii)
Consistently satisfactory performance appraisal reports.
2.3.0
Lecturer (Selection Grade)
Lecturers in the Senior Scale who do not have a Ph.D. degree or equivalent published work, and who do not meet the
scholarship and research standards, but fulfil the other criteria given above for the post of Reader, and have a good
record in teaching and, preferably, have contributed in various ways such as to the corporate life of the. institution,
examination work, or Through extension activities, will be placed in the Selection Grade, subject to the
recommendations of the Selection Committee which is the same as for promotion to the post of Reader. They will be
designated as Lecturers in the Selection Grade. They could offer themselves for fresh assessment after obtaining Ph.D.
and/or fulfilling other requirements for promotion as Reader and, if found suitable, could be given the designation of
Reader.
2.4.0
READER (PROMOTION)
2.4.1
A Lecturer in the Senior Scale will be eligible for promotion to the post of Reader if she/he has :
(i)
Completed 5 years of service in the Senior Scale;
(ii)
Page 6/10
----- PAGE 7 -----
University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications Required For The Appointment And Care...
Obtained a Ph.D.degree or has equivalent published work;
(iii)
Made some mark in the areas of scholarship and research as evidenced e.g. by self-assessment, reports of referees,
quality of publications, contribution to educational innovation, design of new courses and curricula and extension
activities.
(iv)
After placement in the Senior Scale participated in two refresher courses/summer institutes of approved duration, or
engaged in other appropriate continuing education programmes of comparable quality as may be specified or approved
by the University Grants Commission, and
(v)
possesses consistently good performance appraisal reports.
2.4.2
Promotion to the Post of Reader will be through a process of selection by a Selection committee to be set up under the
Statutes/Ordinances of the concerned University or other similar Committees set up by the appointing authorities.
2.5.0
PROFESSOR (PROMOTION)
In addition to the sanctioned position of professors, which must be filled in through direct recruitment through all India
advertisements, promotions may be made from the post of Reader to that of Professor after 8 years of service as
Reader.
2.6.0
The Selection Committee for promotion to the post of professor should be the same as that for direct recruitment. For
the promotion `from Reader to Professor, the following method of promotion may be followed.
The candidate should present herself/himself before the Selection Committee with some of the following :-
a) Self-appraisal reports (required).
b) Research contribution/books/articles published.
c) Any other academic contributions.
The best three written contributions of the teacher (as defined by her/him) may be sent in advance to the Experts to
review before coming for the selection. The candidate should be asked to submit these in 3 sets with the application.
d) Seminars/Conferences attended
e) Contribution to teaching/academic environment/institutional corporate life.
f) Extension and field outreach activities.
2.7.0
The requirement of participation in orientation/refresher courses/summer institutes, each of at least 3 to 4 weeks
duration, and consistently satisfactory performance appraisal reports, shall be the mandatory requirement for Career
Advancement from Lecturer to Lecturer (Senior Scale) and from Lecturer (Senior Scale) to Lecturer (Selection Grade).
Wherever the requirement of orientation/refresher courses has remained incomplete, the promotions would not be held,
up but these must be completed by the year 2000.
The requirement for completing these courses would be as follows :-
(i)
For Lecturer to Lecturer (Senior Scale), one orientation course would be compulsory for University and College
teachers. Those without Ph.D.would be required to do one refresher course in addition.
(ii)
Two refresher courses for Lecturer (Senior Scale) to Lecturer (Selection Grade).
(iii)
The senior teachers like Readers/Lecturers (Selection Grade) and Professors may opt to attend two
Seminars/Conferences in their subject area and present papers as one aspect of their promotion/selection to higher
level or attend refresher courses to be offered by ASCs for this level.
2.8.0
If the number of years required in a feeder cadre are less than those stipulated in this notification, thus entailing hardship
to those who have completed more than the total number of years in their entire service for eligibility in the cadre, may
be placed in the next higher cadre after adjusting the total number of years.
Page 7/10
----- PAGE 8 -----
University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications Required For The Appointment And Care...
This situation is likely to arise as in the earlier scheme, the number of years required in a feeder cadre were much more
than those envisaged under this notification.
3.0.0
SELECTION COMMITTEES RECOMMENDED BY THE UGC
3.1.0
Lecturer in a Private College
1.
) Chairperson of the Governing Body of the College or his/her nominee to be the Chairperson of the Selection
Committee.
2.
) The principal of the concerned College.
3.
) One senior teacher/Head of the Department (of the concerned subject) preferably having not less than 10 years of
services as a teacher.
4.
) Two nominees of the Vice Chancellor of the affiliating University of whom one should be a subject expert.
5.
) Two subject-experts not connected with the college to be nominated by the Chairperson of the governing body out of a
panel of names approved by the Vice Chancellor.
For Government Colleges, the State Public Service Commissions must invite three subject experts for which the State
Public Service Commissions will involve the University in the selection. The Principal and Head of the Department
should be necessarily included in the Selection Committee.
The quorum for the meeting should be five of which at least two must be from out of the three subject experts.
3.2.0
FOR THE POST OF UNIVERSITY LECTURER
At the University level, all selections must be done within the system with the Vice Chancellor as the Head of the
Selection Committee.
1. The Vice Chancellor to be the Chairperson of the Selection Committee.
2. Three experts in the concerned subject to be invited on the basis of the list recommended by the Vice Chancellor and
approved by the Executive Council/Syndicate.
3. Dean of the concerned Faculty/Head/Chairperson of the Department.
4. An academician nominated by the Visitor/Chancellor.
The quorum should be four, out of which at least two outside subject experts must be present.
3.3.0
FOR THE POST OF READER
The process of selection should involve inviting the bio-data and reprints of three major publications of the candidate
before interview and getting them assessed by the same three external experts, who are to be invited to interview the
candidate. The Selection Committee should have the following composition :
1. Vice Chancellor to be the Chairperson of the Selection Committee.
2. An academician who is the nominee of the Visitor/Chancellor.
3. Three experts in the concerned subject/field, out of the list recommended by the Vice Chancellor and approved by the
Executive Council/Syndicate.
4. Dean of the Faculty.
5. Head/Chairperson of the Department.
At least four members, including two outside experts, must constitute the quorum.
3.4.0
FOR THE POST OF PROFESSOR
The process of selection should involve inviting the bio-data and reprints of three major publications of which one could
be a book or research report, before the, interview, and getting them assessed by the same three external experts who
are to be invited for the interview. The assessment report must be placed before the Selection.Committee. The
composition of the Selection Committee for the post of a Professor will be the same as proposed for the post of a
Page 8/10
----- PAGE 9 -----
University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications Required For The Appointment And Care...
Reader.
It may be ensured that the process of selection in every case is transparent and credible.
In the case of posts of Readers and Professors in Colleges, besides the Chairperson Governing Body, the Principal of
the College, and the Head of the Department, there will be two University representatives, one of whom will be the Dean
of College or equivalent position in the University, who will substitute the Visitor's nominee and the VC should be
substituted by the VC's nominee.
3.5.0
FOR THE POST OF PRINCIPAL
1. Chairperson of the Governing Board as Chairperson.
2. One member.of the Governing Board to be nominated by the Chairperson.
3. Two Vice Chancellor's nominees, out of whom one should be an expert.
4. Three experts consisting of the Principal of a college, a Professor and an accomplished educationist not below the
rank of a professor (to be nominated by the Governing Board) out of a pane f experts approved by the Vice Chancellor.
At least four members, including two experts, should constitute the quorum.
The process of selection should involve the following :
a) Assessment of aptitude for teaching and research
b) Ability to communicate clearly and effectively
c) Ability to analyse and discuss.
d) Optional : Ability to communicate maybe assessed by requiring the candidate to participate in a group discussion or
by exposure to a class room situation/lecture, wherever it is possible.
Notes :
1.
) A relaxation of 5% may be provided from 55% to 50% of the *marks at the Master's level for the SC/ST category.
2.
) A relaxation of 5% may be provided from 55% to 50% of the marks to the Ph.D. degree holders who have passed their
Master's degree prior to 1911 September, 1991.
3.
) B in the 7 point scale with letter grade O, A, B, C, D, E and F shall be regarded as equivalent of 550 wherever the
grading system is followed.
4.
) [NET shall remain the compulsory requirement for appointment as Lecturer even for candidates having Ph.D. degree.
However, the candidate who have completed M.Phil degree by 31st December, 1993 or have submitted Ph.D. thesis to
the university in the concerned subject on or before 31st December, 2002 are exempted from appearing in the NET
examination. In case such candidates fail to obtain Ph.D. degree, they shall have to pass the NET examination.]
[Substituted by Notification No. F-1-1/2002(PS) Exemp. Dated 31st July, 2002 with immediate effect.]
5.
) The minimum requirement of 55% shall not be insisted upon for Principals professors Readers. Registrars, Deputy
Registrars, Librarians, Deputy Librarians, Directors of Physical Education and Deputy Directors of Physical Education,
for the existing incumbents who are already in the university system. However, these marks should be insisted upon for
those entering the system from outside and those at the entry point of Lecturers, assistant Registrars, Assistant
Librarians. Assistant Directors of Physical Education.
A relaxation of the minimum marks at the PG level from 55% to 50% for appointment as Lecturer may be provided to the
candidates who have cleared the JRF examination conducted by UGC/CSIR only prior to 1989, when the minimum
marks required to appear for JRF exam were 50%.
Additional Secretary
No. F-1-1/2002(PS) Exemp.
1. The Vice-Chancellor
All Universities
2. Secretary of Higher Education,
State Govt.
3. R.Os
Page 9/10
----- PAGE 10 -----
University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications Required For The Appointment And Care...
31st.
July, 2002
Subject : University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifications required for the appointment and Career Advancement
of teachers in universities and institutions affiliated to it (Ist Amendment) Regulations 2002.
Sir/Madam,
In partial modification in UGC Regulations issued vide office letter No.F.3-1/2000(PS) dated 4.4.2000 on the above
subject, please find enclosed a copy of the Notification No.F. I-1/2002(PS) Exemp. Dated 31.7.2002. This has been sent
to the Manager, Government of India Press, Civil Lines, Delhi, for publication in the Gazette of India.
It is requested that the amendments in the UGC Regulations, 2000 may also be brought to the notice of the
Institutions/Colleges affiliated to your University.
Yours faithfully
Sd/-
.........................................
Encl: as above.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 10/10