
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/104565262/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
Rule THE-SUGAR-DEVELOPMENT-FUND-RULES-1983 of 1983
Published on 27 September 1983
Commenced on 27 September 1983
[This is the version of this document from 27 September 1983.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R.  752(E), dated 27th September, 1983
Last Updated 18th September, 2018
Ministry of Food
(Department of Food and Public Distribution)
Chapter I
Preliminary
G.S.R. 752 (E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 9 of the Sugar Development Fund Act, 1982 (
4 of 1982
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Page 1/45
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a)
'Accounts Officer' means the Controller of Accounts, Department of Food, Government of India, New Delhi.
(b)
'Act' means the Sugar Development Fund Act, 1982 (
4 of 1982
).
(bb)
[ "bank rate", means the standard rate as made public by the Reserve Bank of India under section 49 of the Reserve
Bank of India Act, 1934 (
2 of 1934
) and prevailing on the date of disbursement of the instalment of the loan by the Government.]
[Inserted vide GSR 687(E) dated 21.10.04.]
(c)
'Central Government' unless otherwise specified, means the Government of India in the Department of Food and Public
Distribution;
(d)
'Cess' means the duty of excise levied and collected under section 3 of the Sugar Cess Act, 1982 (
3 of 1982
);
(e)
'Chief Director' means the Chief Director in the Directorate of Sugar, Department of Food and Public Distribution of the
Government of India and includes any Additional Chief Director in the said Directorate;
(f)
'Committee' means the Standing Committee constituted under rule 6;
(ff)
[ "Committee for rehabilitation" means the Committee constituted by the Central Government to consider and
recommend rehabilitation of a sugar undertaking in the co-operative sector that has eroded its net worth;]
[Inserted vide GSR 584(E) dated 19.8.02.]
(fff)
[ "Co-operative Bank" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (cci) of Section 56 of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949 (
10 of 1949
)]
[Inserted vide GSR 279(E) dated 10.4.08.]
;
(g)
'Financial Institution' means the 'Industrial Finance Corporation of India, the Industrial Development Bank of India or, the
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Limited referred to in sub-section (1) of section 4A of the
Companies Act, 1956 (
1 of 1956
), or any other financial institution as may be specified under sub-section (2) of the said section [or the Industrial
Reconstruction Bank of India established under section 3 of the Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India Act, 1984 (
62 of 1984
Page 2/45
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
)]
[Inserted vide GSR 838(E) dated 14.11.85.]
[or the National Cooperative Development Corporation, set up under the National Cooperative Development Corporation
Act, 1962 (
26 of 1962
)]
[Inserted vide GSR No. 551 (E) dated 6.5.1988.]
.
(h)
'Form' means anyone of the forms appended to these rules;
(i)
'grade' means the Indian Sugar Standard grade, represented by the Standard sealed samples of sugar in bottles issued
by the Director, National Sugar Institute, Kanpur conforming to the standards laid down by the Indian Standards
Institution referred to in clause (e) of section 2 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Act, 1952 (36 of
1952);
(ia)
[ "National Bank" means the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development established under Section 3 of the
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981 (61 of 1981)]
[Inserted vide GSR 279(E) dated 10.4.08.]
(j)
'occupier' in relation to any sugar factory, means the person who has ultimate control over the affairs of the sugar
factory, or the owner of the sugar factory in case he is not the occupier;
(jj)
[ "potentially viable sick sugar undertaking' means a sugar undertaking being in the Private or Public sector in respect of
which a scheme of rehabilitation has been sanctioned by the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR) or
being in the co-operative sector in respect of which a scheme of rehabilitation has been recommended by the
Committee for rehabilitation]
[Inserted vide GSR 584(E) dated 19.8.02.]
(jjj)
[ "Regional Rural Bank" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (f) of Section 2 of the Regional Rural
Banks Act, 1976 (
21 of 1976
)]
[Inserted vide GSR 279(E) dated 10.4.08.]
(k)
'Schedule' means the Schedule annexed to these rules;
(kk)
[ "scheduled bank" means a bank for the time being included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act,
1934 (
2 of 1934
)]
[Inserted vide GSR 67(E) dated 29.1.03.]
(l)
'sugar factory' means any premises (including the precincts thereof) in any part of which sugar is manufactured by
vacuum pan process;
(m)
'sugar' means any form of-sugar, including crushed sugar or sugar in crystallised or powder form containing ninety
percent or more of sucrose and produced by the vacuum pan process and includes raw sugar produced by the said
process;
(n)
[ sugar undertaking" means an undertaking which is engaged in the manufacture or production of sugar by means of
Page 3/45
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
vacuum pan and with the aid of mechanical power and includes a company incorporated under the Companies Act,
1956 or a Co-operative Society registered under the Co-operative Societies Act of any State, of which the sugar factory
is a part]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(o)
'sugar year' means the Period of twelve months commencing on the Ist day of October and ending with the 30th day of
September next following;
(oo)
[ - Omitted]
[Omitted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(p)
Words and expressions used in these rules and not defined herein, but defined in the Act, shall have the meaning
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
Chapter II
Credits to the Fund and maintenance of accounts
3.
Credits to the Fund.
(1)
The Central Government shall formulate, from time to time, necessary Demand for Grants, under [Major Head
"2408-Food, Storage and Warehouses", Sub-Major Head "01-Food", Minor-Head "797 - Transfer to or from Reserve
Funds and Deposit Accounts and Sub-Head "01 - Transfer to or from Sugar Development Fund" (Object Head
"63-Inter-Account Transfer") or any other Major Head or Head of Account that may be allocated for the purpose]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
, for withdrawal of amounts from the Consolidated Fund of India and, after appropriation by the Parliament, arrange
credit to the Fund of such amounts, not exceeding the proceeds of the cess collected, as reduced by cost of collection,
as may be specified by the Central Government;
Provided that until such cost of collection is specified, it shall be one per cent of the cess collected.
(2)
In addition to the amounts received under the provisions of sub-rule (1), amounts received on account of repayment of
loans, interest, realisation of securities for loans and penalty for any other amounts payable to the Central Government
for the purpose of the Act, shall be credited to the Fund by the sugar undertaking, person or authority concerned, [either
by electronic transfer to the Government account operated for this purpose in such manner as may be specified by the
Accounts Officer or]
[Inserted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
by means of a Demand Draft, drawn on the Reserve Bank of India or the State Bank of India, New Delhi in favour of the
Accounts Officer and shall be sent to him along with Form-I duly filled in. A copy of the Form-I shall also be sent to the
Central Government by such institution, sugar undertaking, person or authority.
(3)
[ The financial institution, person or authority concerned shall, within three working days of receipt of repayment of loan
or payment of interest thereon or any other receipt from the loanee sugar factory or undertaking, credit the said amount
to the Fund, failing which, interest provision applicable to sugar factories in default of such amount as specified in
sub-rule (3) of rule 25 shall apply to financial institution, person, or authority.]
[Inserted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
4.
Maintenance of accounts.
- The Accounts Officer shall maintain the accounts of the Fund.
5.
Manner of Accounting.
(1)
All amounts received into the credit of the Fund shall be accounted for under [Major Head "8229 - Development and
Welfare Fund", Minor Head "105 - Sugar Development Fund", or any other Major Head or Head of account that may be
Page 4/45
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
allocated for the purpose]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(2)
[ All expenditure incurred for the purposes of the Act and these rules shall be met initially from the Consolidated Fund of
India under the following Major Heads or Heads of Accounts or any other Major Head or Head of Account that may be
allocated for the purpose, and finally debited to the Fund under the Head of Account specified in sub-rule (1), namely:-
A. REVENUE SECTION
Major Head - 2408 - Food, Storage and Warehousing
Sub-Major Head - 01 - Food
Minor Head - 001 - Direction and Administration
(i)
Sub-Head - 02 - Other offices
Detailed Head - 02 - Administration of Sugar Development Fund (02.02.01 - Salaries and 02.02.50 - Other charges.
Minor Head - 800 - Other Expenditure;
(ii)
Sub Head - 01 - Subsidy for maintenance of buffer stock of sugar (01.00.33 - Subsidies);
(iii)
Sub Head - 02 - Grants in aid for Development of Sugar Industry (02.00.31 - Grants-in-aid General);
(iv)
Sub Head - 06 - Reimbursement of Internal Transport and Freight Charges to sugar factories on export shipments and
payment of other permissible claims (06.00.33 - Subsidies);
(v)
Sub Head - 08 - Scheme for Extending Finance Assistance to Sugar Undertakings 2007 (08.00.33 - Subsidies).
B. CAPITAL SECTION
Major Head - 6860 - Loans for Consumer Industries
Sub-Major Head - 04 - Sugar
Minor Head 190 - Loan to Public Sector and other undertakings.
(i)
Sub Head - 03 - Rehabilitation/Modernization of Sugar mills (03.00.55 - Loans and Advances);
(ii)
Sub Head - 04 - Sugar Mills for Cane Development (04.00.55 - Loans and Advances);
(iii)
Sub Head - 06 - Sugar Factories for bagasse based cogeneration power project (06.00.55 - Loans and Advances);
(iv)
Sub Head 07 - Sugar factories for production for Anhydrous Alcohol or Ethanol from Alcohol (07.00.55 - Loans and
Advances).]
Chapter III
Committee and Sub-Committees, their constitution and function
6.
[ Standing Committee.
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
- As soon as may be after the coming into force of these rules, the Central Government may constitute a Standing
Committee consisting of the following members, namely:-
(1)
Secretary, Department of Food and Public Distribution - Chairman;
(2)
Finance Secretary, Ministry of Finance or his representative not below the rank of Director - Member;
(3)
Secretary, Department of Agriculture and Cooperation or his representative not below the rank of Director - Member;
(4)
Secretary in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Expenditure) or his representative not below the rank of Director -
Page 5/45
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
Member;
(5)
Secretary, Planning Commission or his representative not below the rank of Director - Member;
(6)
Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance (Department of Financial Services) or his representative not below the rank of
Director - Member;
(7)
Joint Secretary, Department of Food and Public Distribution - Member;
(8)
Chief Director, Directorate of Sugar Department of Food and Public Distribution - Member;
(9)
Director or Deputy Secretary in the Sugar wing of the 'Department of Food and Public Distribution - Member Secretary:
Provided that the Central Government may nominate not more than two officers of that Government or of an educational
or research institute, autonomous body or an undertaking of that Government having special knowledge of any aspect of
sugar industry as additional members of the Committee as experts:
Provided further that the Central Government may invite representatives from the industry or knowledge groups or
financial institutions, to the meetings of the Standing Committee.]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
7.
Functions of the Committee.
(1)
The Committee shall consider from time to time applications received for purposes covered under "[rule 16A, 17, 17A,
18, 18A, 20, 21,22 and 23]
[Substituted vide GSR 67(E) dated 29.1.03 for rules 16, 17,18 and 18A.]
for payment of loan assistance and grants and such other matters as may be referred to it by the Central Government;
Provided that in the case of any reference made by the Central Government, the Committee shall make its
recommendations within two months from the date they are referred to it.
(2)
The Committee may also be entrusted with such other functions connected with the Act as may be decided by the
Central Government from time to time.
(3)
The Committee may appoint one or more sub-committees whenever it considers it necessary so to do for facilitating
efficient and speedy discharge of its functions. 'The sub-committees shall consist of only members of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee may nominate anyone of' the members of the sub-committee as its convener and
where no such nomination has been made, the members of the sub-committee may themselves elect a convener.
Chapter IV
Procedures relating to meetings of Committee, and Sub-Committees.
8.
Meetings.
- The Committee may hold meetings as often as may be deemed necessary by it, but shall meet at least once in each
quarter of a year;
Provided that in a quarter during which no application, or any other matter referable to it under sub-rule (2) of rule 7, has
been received by the Committee, it shall not be necessary to hold a meeting in that quarter.
9.
Quorum:
[Five members in the case of the Committee and three members]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
in the case of a sub-committee shall constitute the quorum.
10.
Presiding over the meetings of the Committee and sub-committee.
- The Chairman of the Committee and the convener of a sub-committee respectively shall preside over the meetings of
Page 6/45
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
the Committee or the sub-committee as the case may be. In the event of the Chairman or, as the case may be, the
convener being unable to attend the meeting for any reason, the members present may elect one amongst themselves
to preside over the meeting.
11.
Power to call a meeting:
(1)
The Chairman of the Committee or the convener of a sub-committee may at any time, call a meeting of the Committee
or a sub-committee.
Provided that the Chairman or the Convener, as the case may be, shall call a .meeting if a requisition for that purpose is
presented to him by at least three members in the case of the Committee and two members in the case of a
sub-committee.
(2)
At least 14 clear days notice indicating the time and place of a proposed meeting, signed by the Member Secretary of
the committee shall be sent to the members of the Committee or the sub-committee.
Provided that in case of urgency, a special meeting of the Committee or sub-committee may be called at any time by
chairman or the convener, who shall inform the members at least one clear day in advance of the subject matter for
consideration at the meeting and the reasons for which he considers meeting urgent:
Provided further that no other business shall be transacted at such a meeting.
(3)
The Chairman or the convener, as the case may be, may invite any person to attend any meeting of the Committee or
sub-committee as a special invitee but such person shall not be entitled to vote.
12.
Agenda:
(1)
At least seven clear days, before any meeting Committee of the Committee or a sub-committee, except meetings
referred to in proviso to sub-rule (2) to rule 11, a list of business proposed to be transacted at the meeting signed by he
Member-Secretary of the Committee, shall be sent to the members of the Committee or as the case may be, of a
sub-committee.
(2)
No business, not included in the list of business, shall be transacted at a meeting without the permission of the person
presiding over the meeting.
13.
Business by circulation.
(1)
Any business which is not of an urgent nature and which is to be transacted by the Committee or sub-committee, if the
Chairman of the Committee or convener of the sub-committees so directs, shall be referred to members by circulation of
papers and any proposal so circulated and approved by the majority of the members who have given their approval in
writing shall be deemed to be the recommendation of the Committee or the sub-committee as if the proposal had been
approved by a majority of the members at a meeting.
Provided that at least [five members in the case of the Committee and three members]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
in the case of a sub-committee have given their approval to the proposal.
Provided further that when a proposal is referred to members by circulation of papers, any [five members of the
committee or three members]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
of a sub-committee may require that the proposal be referred to members at a meeting and thereupon such reference
shall be made to members at a meeting of the Committee or sub-committee, as the case may be.
(2)
When any business is referred to members by circulation, a period of not less than 14 clear days shall be allowed for
receipt of replies from members, such period being reckoned from the date on which the said business is so referred by
the Secretary to the members.
Page 7/45
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
(3)
If any business is transacted by circulation the result thereof shall be communicated to all the members of the
Committee or sub-committee by the Secretary of the Committee.
14.
Voting
. - (1) Every question brought before any meeting of the Committee or sub-committee shall be decided by a majority of
members present and voting at the meeting before which the matter is brought. No member shall vote by proxy.
(2)
In the case of equality of votes at a meeting, the Chairman, the convener or the person presiding, as the case may be,
shall have a second or casting vote.
15.
Travelling, daily allowance etc. of members of Committee/Sub-committees, special invitees etc:
(1)
Any journey performed by a member of the Committee or sub-committee or a special invitee in connection with the work
of the committee or sub-committee within the city limits of his headquarters shall be performed by such person making
use of the facility available to him from his employer provided that a person other than Government Officer or an
employee of an undertaking owned or controlled by the Central or, State Government shall be entitled to reimbursement
of taxi hire charges at actual rates.
(2)
For journeys performed by a member of the Committee or a sub-committee or a special invitee in connection with the
work of the committee or a sub-committee, outside the city limits of his head-quarters, the member or special invitee
shall be entitled to the travelling allowance, daily allowance and other allowances at the rates applicable for such
journeys if performed for purposes in connection with the work of his employer provided that in a case where it is not
possible to ascertain the applicable rate, he shall be entitled to the rates applicable to a Grade I Officer of the Central
Government while performing such journeys:
Provided that when the person undertaking the journey is not governed by any rules, the travelling expenses may be
allowed at rates as may be decided by the Committee having regard to the status of the person and the mode of the
journey normally employed by him for his own work, provided that daily allowance to be allowed shall not exceed the
rates admissible to First Grade Officer of the Central Government.
16.
(1)
[A sugar undertaking shall ordinarily be eligible for a loan under this rule]
[Inserted vide GSR 27(E) dated 12.1.96.]
. -
(a)
if it is approved by a financial institution or a scheduled bank for financial assistance for the purpose of rehabilitation or
modernization of plant and machinery of its sugar factory or any of its sugar factories; and
(b)
the rehabilitation or modernization project has been duly appraised by a financial institution or a scheduled bank
[omitted]
[The words or sponsored by the Technology Information, Forecasting and Assessment Council in respect of the Scheme
Mission Mode Project on Sugar Production Technologies of the Department of Science and Technology shall normally
be eligible for a loan under this rule omitted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
[Provided that a sugar undertaking that has availed of a loan in respect of a sugar factory under this rule shall not be
eligible for any further loan under this rule during the period in which the previous loan under this rule or a loan under
sub-rule (1) of rule 21 in respect of that factory, along with interest thereon, has not been fully repaid]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
Provided that Committee may, with the previous approval of the Central Government make any class or classes of sugar
factories or sugar undertaking ineligible for such assistance.
Provided further that where the Committee decides that an applicant is not eligible, reasons therefor shall be recorded in
writing.
Page 8/45
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
(1A)
[ A sugar undertaking shall not be eligible to apply for a loan under this rule for one or more of the following reasons or
purposes, namely:-
(a)
a second hand project, equipment or machinery:
Provided that a sugar undertaking shall be eligible to apply for a loan for a project where second hand equipment or
machinery has been used or is proposed to be used, subject to the following conditions, namely:-
(i)
use of such second hand machinery or equipment shall not change the overall character of the project, which shall
essentially consist of new plant, machinery and equipment;
(ii)
it shall technically be certified that the use of the second hand machinery or equipment shall not affect the overall
efficiency and life of the project;
(iii)
the useful life of the second hand machinery or equipment so used shall not be less than the term of repayment of sugar
development fund loan;
(iv)
subject to fulfilment of conditions specified in clauses (i) to (iii), the estimated or actual cost of machinery or equipment
which are not new shall be deducted from the estimated or actual cost of the project before arriving at the eligible project
cost for the purpose of sugar development fund loan;
(b)
refinancing;
Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause, the term 'refinancing' includes availing of loan for repayment of loan taken
from any financial institution or scheduled bank before applying to a financial institution or bank for appraisal in which
Sugar Development Fund component is proposed, but shall not include a 'bridge loan' taken in lieu of Sugar
Development Fund component after submitting an application to the Standing Committee on Sugar Development Fund.
(c)
financing of cost over run;
(d)
project commissioned prior to the date of application under these rules;
(e)
if such sugar undertaking is a defaulter in respect of repayment of loan availed under Sugar Development Fund or in
payment of any dues under the Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund in respect of any of its sugar factories.]
(2)
Any eligible sugar undertaking under sub-rule (1); may make an application to the Committee in, Form-II, along with
[two]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
certified copies thereof.
(3)
The Member-Secretary of the Committee shall, as soon as may be, after the receipt of an application referred to in
sub-rule (2), place the application before the Committee along with his comments, if any, for the Committee's
consideration.
(4)
It shall be open to the Committee before taking a final decision on an application to,
(a)
call for, any further information from the applicant; or
(b)
appoint a sub-committee or expert to make an investigation and report on any aspect relating to the application.
[* * *]
[Omitted '(5) The final decision of the committee on any application shall be submitted to the Central Government in the
form of a recommendation' by Notification No. G.S.R. 23 (E), dated 13.1.2016 (w.e.f. 27.9.1983).]
Page 9/45
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
(6)
[ The Central Government may, after taking into consideration recommendations made by the Committee or any other
relevant factor, authorise payment to a sugar undertaking of such amount of loan, not exceeding the amount required by
the financial institution or a scheduled bank, as the case may be, to be contributed by such sugar undertaking as
promoter's contribution, as may be determined by the Central Government:
Provided that the loan from the Fund shall be granted if the sugar undertaking contributes a minimum of ten percent of
the loan applied for from its own resources as promoter's contribution:
Provided further that the Central Government shall authorise payment of the said loan under this sub-rule only to such
sugar undertaking who have fully repaid all the sums which have become due in respect of Sugar Development Fund
and Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund.]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(7)
The amount of loan authorised under sub-rule (6) shall be disbursed by the Central Government to the sugar
undertakings or paid by it to the [financial institution or a scheduled bank, as the case may be]
[Substituted vide GSR(E) dated 15.9.06 for 'financial institution'.]
for disbursement, to the sugar undertaking, either in lump sum or in two or-more instalments as may be considered
necessary by the Central Government.
(8)
The [financial institution or a scheduled bank, as the case may be]
[Substituted vide GSR 558(E) dated 15.9.06 for 'financial institution'.]
shall treat the amount paid to it under sub-rule (7) as the promoter's contribution or as part thereof, required to be raised
by the sugar undertaking for availing of the loan under its relevant scheme for modernisation and rehabilitation,
(9)
(i)
Every disbursement of a loan referred to in sub-rule (7) shall be preceded by a bilateral agreement between the Central
Government and the sugar undertaking concerned or, as the case may be, by a tripartite agreement between the
Central Government, the sugar undertaking concerned and the [nodal agency so appointed by the Central Government
on its behalf]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(ii)
The bilateral agreement, or as the case may be, the tripartite agreement referred to in sub-clause (1) shall contain the
terms and conditions with regard to the period of repayment including the number and amount of instalments, payment
of interest, the manner of such repayment/payment and any other matter incidental to the loan. [omitted]
[The words [and shall, as far as possible, be identical to the terms and conditions of the agreement relating to the
relevant scheme for modernisation and rehabilitation of the financial institution and all other terms and conditions
including rate of interest and the form of agreement for grant of loans shall, as far as possible be on the lines of the
terms and conditions of the agreement relating to the said scheme] omitted vide GSR 838(E) dated 14.11.85.]
[(ii-A) and (iii)] Omitted
[Inserted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
Deleted vide GSR188(E) dated 9.3.07"The sugar undertaking shall, after the execution of the agreement referred to ill
clause (i) above, and before the disbursement of the loan under sub-rule (7), furnish security for the loan to the
satisfaction of the Central Government.]"
(b) The security shall cover the amount of loan and interest thereon for the full period of repayment as provided ill clause
(iv), and shall be furnished in any of the following manners, namely :
(1) Bank Guarantee from a Scheduled Bank, or
(2) A mortgage or all immovable and movable properties of the sugar undertaking on pari passu charge basis failing
which on the basis of an exclusive second charge.]inserted vide GSR 953(E) dated 17.12.03
(iii) [ The loan from the Sugar Development Fund will carry a concessional rate of simple interest of [two per cent below
the bank rate]substituted vide GSR 687(E) dated 21.10.04for [9 per cent]substituted vide GSR 235(E) dated 24.4.91for
"6 per cent" per annum [in respect of the projects approved by a [financial institution or a scheduled bank, as the case
may be]substituted vide GSR 558(E) dated 15.9.06for "financial institution" and for the projects sponsored by the
Page 10/45
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
Technology Information, Forecasting and Assessment Council [two per cent below the bank rate]inserted vide GSR
687(E) dated 21.10.04for six per cent per annum]inserted vide GSR 27(E) dated 12.1.96In case of any default in
repayment of the amount of loan, or payment of any instalment thereof or interest thereon, an additional interest at the
rate of two and half percent per annum on the amount of default shall be payable by the sugar undertaking.]deleted vide
GSR 188(E) dated 9.3.07.
(iv)
[The repayment of loan under this rule together with interest thereon shall commence after the expiry of one year from
the date of repayment/ payment of institutional loan and interest thereon in full or on the expiry of [a period of five years
reckoned from the date of disbursement of fund loan, whichever is earlier, and loan from the fund along with interest due
thereon shall be recoverable in half yearly instalments not exceeding ten.]
[Inserted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
[Proviso - omitted]
[Omitted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(10)
[Omitted] [[[Repayment of the loan granted under this rule and payment of interest thereon shall, if the terms and
conditions of the agreement so provide, be made by the sugar undertaking through the financial institution and such
repayment and payment shall run concurrently with the repayment and payment to the financial institution of the loan
paid by that institution under its relevant scheme for modernisation and rehabilitation:
Provided that the amount of each instalment of repayment of the loan under this rule shall bear the same proportion to
the corresponding instalment payable to the financial institution as the amount of loan granted from the Fund has to the
amount of the loan granted under the relevant scheme of that institution for modernisation and rehabilitation.]]]
(11)
[Omitted]
[Omitted vide GSR 559 dated 30.07.2012.]
16A.
[
[Inserted vide GSR 508(E) dated 7.7.09.]
(1)
The Central Government, having regard to the availability of sugar and such other factors as it may consider necessary,
and after consultation with the Committee, may sanction and notify schemes, to give loans for modernisation of sugar
factories to purchase and install machinery and equipment required for simultaneous processing of raw sugar with
crushing of cane for the manufacture of sugar.
(2)
under sub-rule (1) the schemes may provide for the following, namely:
(i)
the amount of loan that may be disbursed to various categories of sugar factories;
(ii)
the manner and form in which applications may be made under this rule;
(iii)
the manner in which such loans may be disbursed including the condition regarding signing of contractor agreement and
monitoring of utilisation of the loan;
(iv)
the period during which such scheme for grant of loans will be operative;
(v)
any other matter which is required to be made or notified in the scheme.
(3)
Only such sugar undertakings as have fully repaid all sums, which have become due in respect of sugar development
fund and levy sugar price Equalisation fund will be eligible to apply for loan under the schemes notified under sub-rule
(1).
(4)
The repayment of loans sanctioned under any scheme under sub-rule (1) together with interest shall be made in [eight
Page 11/45
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
equal half yearly instalments] and shall commence on expiry of one year from the date of disbursement of the loan.]
Please see Notification dated 20.7.09 for the scheme
Chapter VI
Loan for sugarcane Development.
17.
(1)
The Central Government may, after taking into consideration the recommendations of the Committee and any other
relevant factor, accord sanction to the payment of a loan from the Fund to a sugar undertaking in connection with the
development of sugarcane [in the area in which its sugar factory or any of its sugar factories is situated]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
for the purposes of -
(a)
Setting up of heat treatment plants;
(b)
rearing of nurseries;
(c)
pest control measures;
(d)
incentives to cultivators to switch over to improved varieties of sugarcane;
(e)
irrigation schemes;
(ea)
[ purchase of mechanical planters and harvesters;]
[Inserted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(f)
any other scheme or project as may be approved by the Central Government.
[Provided that loans from the Fund shall be granted only if the Central Government is satisfied on the basis of the
information given in Form III that no financial assistance is available for the purpose from any other agency, and if
available, the amount thereof is, in the opinion of the Central Government, inadequate and needs to be supplemented
by loans from the Fund.
Provided further that the loan from the Fund shall be granted only if the Sugar Undertaking or the State Government
contributes a minimum of ten per cent of the loan applied for from its own resources as margin money:
Provided also that the Central Government may accord sanction for a loan under this rule to a sugar undertaking in
respect of a sugar factory only on one occasion and no further loan under this rule shall be sanctioned during the period
in which the previous loan under this rule or a loan under sub-rule (2) of rule 21 in respect of that sugar factory, along
with interest thereon, has not been fully repaid:
Provided also that a sugar undertaking shall not be eligible to apply for the loan under this rule if it is a defaulter in
respect of repayment of Sugar Development Fund loan or payment of Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund in respect of
any of its sugar factories:
Provided also that where a sugar undertaking has not availed the loan sanctioned under this rule in respect of any of its
sugar factories, it shall not be eligible for grant of loan under this rule for a period of five years from the date of such
sanction.]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(2)
Loan to a sugar undertaking under this rule shall be disbursed only through the Government of the State in which the
sugar factory is located, upon the sugar undertaking executing an agreement on such terms and conditions as the
Central Government may decided in consultation with the Government of the state, including a provision for monitoring
by the State Government of utilisation of the loan, the progress of the scheme for which the loan is advanced,
repayment of the loan with interest and remittance to the credit of the Fund.
[Provided that the Central Government may appoint any agency for monitoring of utilisation, progress of the
implementation of the scheme and achievement of physical and financial targets of the scheme for which the loan is
Page 12/45
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
advanced and such agency shall give its report directly to the Central Government]
[Inserted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(3)
[[(a)]
[Substituted vide GSR 838(E) dated 14.11.85 for The amount of loan advanced under this rule shall carry such rate of
interest as may be decided by the Central Government from time to time.]
The repayment of the loan shall commence on the expiry of moratorium. of three years reckoned from the date of
disbursement of the said loan and shall be repaid in equal [half yearly instalments not exceeding eight in number and
the interest on the loan shall be paid half yearly]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
after the expiry of one year from the date of drawal of loan]
(b)
[Omitted]
[Deleted vide GSR 188(E) dated 9.3.07.]
(4)
An application for loan under this rule shall be submitted in Form-III, with [three copies]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
thereof to the Government of the State in which the applicant sugar undertakings is located and the State Government
may, after scrutiny of the application forward the same and [two copies]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
thereof with its comments and recommendations to the Member Secretary of the Committee.
17A.
(1)
The Central Government, having regard to the availability of sugarcane for crushing by the sugar undertaking (s),
situation of sugar production in the country and such other factors as it may consider necessary, and after consultation
with the Committee, may sanction and notify schemes to give loans to sugar undertaking (s) for the development of
sugarcane [in the area in which its sugar factory or any of its sugar factories is situated]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
for the following purposes, namely,
(a)
purchase of seeds,
(b)
purchase of fertilisers,
(c)
purchase of pesticides.
(2)
under sub-rule (1) the schemes may provide for the following, namely,
(i)
the amount of loan that may be disbursed for various categories of sugar undertaking (s);
(ii)
the manner and form in which. applications may be made under this rule;
(iii)
the manner in which such loans may be disbursed including the conditions regarding signing of contract and monitoring
of utilisation of the loan;
(iv)
the period during which such scheme for grant of loans will be operative;
(v)
any other matter which is required to be made or notified in the scheme.
(3)
Only such sugar undertaking (s) as have fully repaid all sums, which have become due in respect of sugar development
fund and levy sugar price equalisation fund [in respect of all the sugar factories or units thereof under it]
Page 13/45
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
[Inserted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
will be eligible to apply for loan under sub rule (1).
(4)
The repayment of loans sanctioned under any scheme notified under sub-rule (1), together with interest shall be made in
[eight equal half-yearly instalments]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
and shall commence on expiry of one year from the date of disbursement of the loan.
Substituted vide GSR 508(E) dated 7.7.09 for the old rule 17 A as given below.
"Loan for providing inputs for Sugarcane Development inserted vide GSR 656(E) dated 21.11.97.
17. [A (1) The Central Government may, after taking into consideration the recommendations of the Committee and any
other relevant factor, accord sanction to the payment of a loan for a period of two years from the Fund to a Sugar
undertaking in connection with the development of sugarcane in its area for the following purposes namely :
(a) Purchase of Seeds;
(b) Purchase of fertilisers;
(c) Purchase of Pesticides,
(2) The application for loan under this rule shall be submitted by the sugar undertaking in Form III-A to the Committee.
(3) The sanctioned loan shall be passed on to the sugarcane growers in the command area of the mill under a scheme
formulated by the mills. The terms and conditions of the loan, as  specified by the Central Government, applicable to the
mills, shall without modification apply to the beneficiary sugarcane farmers.
(4) The loan under this rule shall be of the following order:-
(i) Upto Rs. 50.00 Lakhs for factories upto 2500 Tonnes Crushed Per Day (Installed Capacity)
(ii) Upto Rs.75.00 lakhs for factories with capacity between 2501-3500 Tonnes Crushed Per Day (Installed capacity)
(iii) Upto Rs.l.00 crore for factories with capacity between 3501-5000 Tonnes Crushed Per Day (Installed capacity)
(iv) Upto Rs. 1.50 crores for factories with capacities beyond 5001 Tonnes Crushed Per Day and upto 10,000 Tonnes
Crushed Per Day (Installed Capacity).
(5) The loan shall be granted only if the sugar undertaking contributes a minimum of ten percent of the loan applied for
from its own resources as margin money.
(8) [, (11)] deleted vide GSR 188(E) dated 9.3.07 earlier substituted vide GSR 687(E) dated 21.10.04
(12) [ In case of default in repayment of principal or interest due, the Central Government may deduct the said over dues
from any claim of the sugar mill pending with the Central Government."] deleted vide GSR 188(E) dated 9.3.07.
Please see Notification Dated 20.7.09 for the scheme.
Chapter VII
Grants for research
18.
(1)
The Central Government may, after consultation with the Committee, authorise payment of grants to established
institutions connected with the sugar industry for carrying out research aimed at the promotion and development of any
aspect of sugar industry;
Provided that only such research schemes shall be considered for grant as are recommended by [the sub committee for
Grant-in-aid for Research project constituted under the Committee through an order to be issued by the Central
Government.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 23 (E), dated 13.1.2016 (w.e.f. 27.9.1983).]
[Second proviso (Omitted)]
[Omitted vide GSR 551(E) dated 6.5.88] ['Provided further that disbursement of grant authorised under this rule shall be
made through the said Development Council for Sugar Industry]']
(2)
Payment of grants shall be subject to the provisions contained in the Schedule.
Chapter VII
A
18A.
Defrayment of other expenses for development of sugar industry;
Page 14/45
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
The central Government may, after consultation with the Committee, defray expenses and authorise payment of
amounts for establishment and maintenance of Institutions at the national level for training, extension and research
programmes connected with the development of Sugar Industry.
Chapter VIII
Buffer Stock
19.
(1)
The Central Government, may having regard to the stock of sugar held with the sugar undertakings, the prospects of
sugar production, the requirement of sugar for consumption within the country and exports and such other relevant
factors as may be considered necessary, decide from time to time, the quantity of sugar to be maintained as buffer
stock.
(2)
The sugar maintained in the buffer stock shall conform to the grade laid down from time to time by the Indian Standards
Institution referred to in clause (e) of section 2 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Act, 1952 (36 of
1952) and shall be of such grade as may be decided by the Central Government.
(3)
The Central Government or the Chief Director may, from time to time, require an occupier of the sugar factory to set
apart such quantity and grade of sugar, pertaining to such sugar year or years, as may be necessary for purpose of
buffer stock;
[Provided that the share of each occupier shall be determined on the basis of production of the sugar factory in a
particular sugar year and the stock of sugar held with that sugar factory on a particular day and such other criterion.
Explanation :- In this sub-rule, the expression "a particular day" means the date of share determination made on or alter
the commencement of 2002-2003 sugar year or such year in which buffer stock is created.]
[Substituted vide GSR 241(E) dated 25.3.03 for the following proviso 'Provided that the share of each occupier shall be
on the basis of the production of the sugar undertaking in a particular sugar year.']
(4)
Every occupier of a sugar factory shall set apart sugar so required, and shall store it in separate and distinctly
identifiable stocks and lots and in separate godowns within the premises of the sugar factory:
Provided that the Central Government may, in exception at cases and for reasons to be recorded in writing, grant
exemption to an occupier of a sugar factory from the operation of this rule.
(5)
[Omitted]
[Omitted vide GSR 817(E) dated 20.12.84 [Every occupier of a sugar factory shall, within fifteen days of the date of
issue of the communication under clause(3), furnish a compliance report, in triplicate, in Form-IV to the Central
Government]
]
(6)
Every occupier of a sugar factory shall provide safeguards against damage, loss and deterioration in the quality of sugar
stored as buffer stock, and against mixing of other stock with the buffer stock.
(7)
Every occupier of a sugar factory shall insure the buffer stock so set apart, against such risks as may be required by the
Bank with which the buffer stock is pledged for the purpose of securing loan, as also from floods where the premises of
the sugar undertaking are ordinarily exposed to the risk of floods:
[Provided that where the occupier of a sugar factory has not pledged the buffer stock with a Bank, he shall insure the
buffer stock against destruction or damage by:
(a)
Fire;
(b)
Explosion of boiler used for domestic purposes only;
(c)
Lighting;
Page 15/45
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
(d)
Explosion of gas used for domestic purposes or for lighting, heating in a building not forming part of any gas works at
any time;
(e)
Floods where the premises of the sugar factory are ordinarily exposed to the risk of floods]
(8)
In case of any deterioration, damage or loss to the buffer stock, every occupier of a sugar factory shall send to the
Central Government a full and detailed report in writing indicating the reasons therefor and the extent of such damage,
deterioration or loss.
(9)
Every occupier of a sugar factory shall make available to the Central Government or the Chief Director or an Officer
deputed by the Central Government, access to the buffer stock of sugar for purposes of inspection as regards its
manner of maintenance, its quantity and quality including grade and sugar year relevant to its production and also all
books, records and accounts relating to the buffer stock.
(10)
No occupier of a sugar factory shall except for the purposes provided under this rule, remove, despatch or replace or
dispose of any buffer stock without obtaining prior written permission of the Central Government or the Chief Director.
(11)
The Central Government or the Chief Director may, at any time, require an occupier of a sugar factory to release such
quantity and quality/grade of sugar out of the buffer stock for sale, consumption, replacement of old or damaged stock of
sugar or sugar not conforming to the Indian Sugar Standards as laid down by the Indian Standards Institution as may be
specified.
(12)
[Omitted]
[Omitted vide GSR 817(E) dated 20.12.84. '[Every occupier of a sugar factory shall, within fifteen days of issue by the
Central Government or by the Chief Director of the permission or communication referred to in sub rule(10 )or (11),
furnish a compliance report, in triplicate, in Form-V to the Central Government and the Chief Director]'.]
(13)
Maintenance of funds received by way of additional credit and utilisation thereof;
(a)
Every occupier of a sugar factory shall set apart the amount, if any, received from his bankers by way of additional credit
on the quantity of buffer stock of sugar and credit the amount so set apart to a separate account with the same banker,
for the purposes provided in clause (b)
(b)
The amount credited to the separate account shall not be used by the said occupier for any purpose other than for
payment of price, including arrears of price, payable for the sugarcane purchased by the sugar factory;
(13A)
[ Maintenance of funds received by way of subsidy towards interest, storage and insurance and utilisation thereof;
(a)
Every occupier of a sugar factory shall set apart the amount, if any received from the Central Government by way of
subsidy towards interest, storage and insurance on the quantity of buffer stock of sugar and credit the amount so set
apart to a separate account with his banker with whom he has a separate account under clause (a) of sub-rule (13), for
the purpose provided in clause (b) of this sub-rule.
[Provided that where the occupier of a sugar factory has credited such amount for the buffer stock maintained for the
period 18th December, 2002 to 17th December, 2004 or a part thereof in an account with the bank or a bank other than
the bank referred to in clause (a) of sub-rule (13) and the Central Government is satisfied that such amount has been
utilised for the purposes of clause (b) of this sub-rule, it may exempt such sugar factory from the stipulation of crediting
such amount with the bank referred to in clause (a) of sub-rule (13)]
[Inserted vide GSR 886(E) dated 6.12.01.]
(b)
The amount credited to the separate account shall not be used by the said occupier for any purpose other than for
Page 16/45
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
payment of price payable for the sugarcane purchased by the sugar factory;
Provided that where the State Government Authority/officer furnishes a certificate in Form VI to the banker referred to in
clause (a) above to the effect that the concerned sugar factory has no sugarcane price dues including arrears of price
outstanding against it on the date of credit of the amount of subsidy towards interest, storage and insurance into the
separate account, the bank may allow the said occupier to use the said amount for any other purpose under intimation
to the Central Government.]
[Substituted vide GSR 817(E) dated 20.12.84 for Every occupier of a sugar factory shall insure a buffer stock so set
apart against fire, theft, including burglary, and also from floods where the premises of the sugar undertaking are
ordinarily exposed to the risk of floods.]
(14)
Subsidy towards interest, storage and insurance:
The Central Government may authorise payment for every quarter year or part thereof [to every sugar undertaking in
respect of a sugar factory or such sugar factories which have]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(a) set apart the required quantity of sugar [or a part thereof]
[Inserted vide GSR 817(E) dated 20.12.84 for as buffer stock.]
[Provided also that where the occupier of a sugar factory has utilised the advance buffer stock subsidy received from the
Central Government for the period from 18th December, 2002 to 17th December, 2004, as provided In clause (b) of
sub-rule (13A), such sugar factory may submit the remaining documents required to complete the claim within three
months from the date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette.
Provided also that the Central Government may, for the reasons to be recorded in writing, permit all such sugar factories
to submit the remaining documents required to complete the claims, within such further period not exceeding three
months.]
[Inserted vide GSR 365(E) dated 28.5.09.]
(b)
pledged [the buffer stock]
[Substituted vide GSR 817(E) dated 20.12.84 for the words 'by it'.]
with any scheduled bank for the time being included in the second schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (
2 of 1934
) or any State Co-operative bank Central Co-operative bank 'as defined in the National Bank for Agricultural and Rural
Development Act, 1981 (61 of 1981);
(c)
[maintained the buffer stock]
[Substituted vide GSR 817(E) dated 20.12.84 for 'maintained it'.]
in accordance with these rules, and to the satisfaction of the Central Government, of an amount calculated in the
manner provided in sub-rule (15), towards subsidy for the storage, insurance and interest charges:
[Provided that where a sugar factory has not pledged the buffer stock with any scheduled bank, subsidy on account of
storage and insurance charges may be authorised for payment by the Central Government as admissible under sub-rule
(15) if the buffer stock has otherwise been sequestered, maintained and insured in accordance with the provisions of
this rule,]
[Inserted vide GSR 817(E) dated 20.12.84.]
Provided [further]
[Inserted vide GSR 817(E) dated 20.12.84.]
that the amount of subsidy payable on account of interest charges shall be the amount calculated under sub-rule (15) or
the amount of interest charges actually paid or payable by the sugar undertaking for the quarter or part thereof on the
loan or advance received by it on pledging with the bank, the quantity of sugar maintained by it as buffer stock,
whichever is less [subject to the condition that where the amount of interest charges actually paid or payable by the
sugar undertaking is lower, it shall where necessary, further be restricted to the amount calculated at the maximum rate
of bank interest fixed by the Reserve Bank of India hi this behalf but not exceeding the rate of 18 percent per annum]
[Inserted vide GSR 817(E) dated 20.12.84;]
Provided further that no payment shall be authorised, unless the Central Government in exceptional circumstances
Page 17/45
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
decides otherwise) [to the occupier of a sugar factory]
[Substituted vide GSR 817(E) dated 20.12.84 for to the occupier of every sugar factory.]
which has not-
(a)
Paid the cess on sugar under section 3(3) of the Sugar Cess Act, 1982 (
3 of 1982
);
(b)
Furnished the return(s)/information required rule 4 of the Sugar Cess Rules, 1982;
(c)
Complied with the provisions of sub-rule (13); and
(d)
furnished to the Central Government or the Chief Director the monthly return of the quantity of non-levy sugar sold and
the amount of the sale-proceeds.
Explanation: (1) For the purpose of this rule, the months January to March, April to June, July to September: and
October to December of a calendar year shall form the quarterly periods.
(2)
At the commencement of these rules, the buffer stock shall be deemed to have come into being not earlier than the 1st
day of October, 1982.
(14A)
[ Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (14), the Central Government may, in exceptional circumstances, authorise an
advance payment of seventy five percent of the amount payable as subsidy towards storage, insurance and interest
charges for a period as that Government may decide, calculated in the manner provided [in sub-rule (15) to a sugar
undertaking in respect of its sugar factory]
[Inserted vide GSR 787(E) dated 6.10.03.]
that has set apart the required quantity of sugar as buffer stock provided the sugar factory has furnished the following in
writing to the Central Government, namely -
(i)
the rate of interest at which advance has been obtained by it on pledging the buffer stock of sugar with any scheduled
bank or any State Co-operative Bank or Central Co-operative bank referred to in sub-rule (14);
(ii)
the average actual realization per quintal of sugar on the sale of non-levy sugar in the open market for a three month
period ending on the date from which the buffer stock is required to be held; and an undertaking in Form-VI-A:
Provided that in respect of the buffer stock being maintained for a year with effect from 18th December, 2002, the
Central Government may authorise payment to a sugar undertaking in respect of sugar factory that has set apart the
required quantity of sugar as buffer stock and furnished an undertaking in Form VI-A an advance payment of seventy
five per cent of the amount payable as subsidy towards storage, insurance and interest charges for a year, calculated in
the manner provided in sub-rule (15) on the basis of the information furnished in columns 7 and 8 of Form V in respect
of the claim preferred by it for the period 18th December, 2002 to 31st March 2003:
Provided further that the amount so paid as advance shall be adjusted, against the amounts that may become due on
the basis of claims preferred by the sugar undertaking in respect of sugar factory in Form V referred to in sub-rule (16),
at the end of the period for which the advance had been paid:
Provided also that where complete claims for the entire period for which the buffer stock is required to be maintained,
are not preferred within a period of one month after such period, the entire amount of advance paid or an amount as
decided by the Central Government shall be refunded by the sugar undertaking in respect of sugar factory:
Provided also that if, during the period for which advance has been paid, a sugar factory has not:-
(a)
paid the cess on sugar under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Sugar Cess Act, 1982 (
3 of 1982
);
(b)
Page 18/45
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
furnished the returns and information required under rule 4 of the Sugar Cess Rules, 1982;
(c)
complied with the provisions of sub-rule (13); and
(d)
furnished to the Central Government or to the Chief Director the monthly return of the quantity of non-levy sugar sold
and the amount of sale proceeds then, the amount paid as advance shall be recovered forthwith.]
(15)
Manner of calculation of subsidy-(i) the Central Government may specify, from time to time, the rate per annum at which.
the subsidy towards interest, storage and insurance charges shall be calculated:
Provided that till such rates are specified, they shall be eighteen per cent per annum towards interest charges and one
and half per cent per annum towards subsidy on storage and insurance charges of the value of sugar set apart as buffer
stock determined with reference to the average of the tariff value fixed by the Central Government in the Ministry of
Finance for the purpose of levy and collection of excise duty on sugar for the three months immediately proceeding the
commencement of the quarter or the period for which the payment is to be authorised under sub-rule (14):
Provided further that the payment of subsidy in respect of a quarter subsequent to the one ending on the 31st March,
1983, or a pan thereof, the value of the buffer stock shall be determined with reference to the average actual realisation
per quintal of sugar made by the claimant sugar undertaking on the sale of non-levy sugar in the open market during the
relevant quarter/period to which the claim relates.
Explanation - 'Non-levy' sugar means the sugar which is outside the purview of the Levy Sugar Supply (Control) Order,
1979 or an order made under clause (f) of sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (
10 of 1955
).
(ii)
Subject to first proviso to sub-rule (14), the claim for subsidy for a quarterly period or part thereof shall be based upon
the amounts computed in accordance with the following formula, namely:-
(a)
subsidy towards interest (Rs.)
B x V x l x N365/366
(b)
Subsidy towards storage and insurance charges (Rs.)
B x V x S x N365/366
(c)
Total of (a) and (b) in rupees, rounded off to the nearest
rupee.
Explanation to the letters used in the formula:-
'B' is the quantity, in quintals of sugar maintained as buffer stock.
'V' is the value per quintal of sugar determined under the clause (i)
3. 'I' is the rate of interest specified under clause (i)
4. 'S' means the rate of storage/insurance charges specified in clause (i)
5. 'N' is the number of days for which the quantity of buffer stock is maintained during the relevant period/ quarter
divided by 366 days in a leap year and by 365 days in other years.
The amount under clause (ii) (c) shall be rounded off to the nearest rupee by ignoring 1 to 50 paise and by treating 51 to
99 paise as one rupee.
[Provided also that where a sugar factory did not sell non-levy sugar during any quarter or quarters then the ex-factory
price of levy sugar for the relevant season of the sugar zone in which the sugar factory is situated, shall deemed to be
the average sales realization for that quarter and in the event of average sales realization of non-levy sugar for the
whole year being less than the ex-factory levy sugar price, the average sale realization of the whole year shall be taken
into account as the value (v) for the relevant quarter or any quarters.]
[Inserted vide GSR 365(E) dated 28.5.09.]
(16)
Manner of claiming the amount due towards subsidy on interest', storage and insurance:
Page 19/45
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
A claim for the amount due to a sugar undertaking under sub-rule (15) shall be preferred by the occupier in Form-V, [in
triplicate]
[Omitted vide GSR 817(E) dated 20.12.84.]
to the Central Government in, as soon as may be, after the end of the preceding quarterly period;
Provided that the Central Government may for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax the requirements of the
production of the certificate from the State Government referred to in Form V in an individual case of hardship, subject to
production by the claimant sugar undertaking of such other documentary evidence as may be considered satisfactory by
the Central Government.
[Provided further that once the Bank concerned and the State Government Officer concerned have certified payment of
additional bank credit to and deposit thereof by the sugar undertaking into a separate account and utilisation of full
amount thereof by the sugar undertaking for payment of cane price dues including arrears of cane price, it shall not be
necessary to furnish the certificate from the State Government officer in the subsequent claims so long as no further
additional bank credit is received by the sugar undertaking]
[Inserted vide GSR 817(E) dated 20.12.84.]
19A.
[]
[Inserted vide GSR 699(E) dated 8.11.07.]
Creation of buffer 'stock 'from 2006-2007 sugar season onwards.
(1)
The Central Government may having regard to the stock of sugar held with the sugar factories, the prospects of sugar
production, the requirement of sugar for consumption within the country and export and such other relevant factors as
may be considered necessary, decide from time to time the quantity of sugar to be maintained as buffer stock and the
period for which the buffer stock shall be maintained.
(2)
The Central Government shall determine the share of each sugar factory having regard to the production of the sugar or
the stock held by it or considering the both and the Chief Director (Sugar), Directorate of Sugar, Department of Food and
Public Distribution, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution shall make factory-wise allocation of
buffer stock on such basis as may be specified by the Central Government.
(3)
(a)
On allocation of buffer stock, every sugar factory shall set apart the quantity allocated as buffer, stock and store, it in a
separate and distinctly identifiable lots and stock within the factory premises;
Provided that the Chief Director (Sugar) may in exceptional circumstances and for the reasons to be recorded in writing,
grant exemption to an occupier of the sugar factory from storage of buffer stock within factory premises.
(b)
If an occupier contravenes the provisions of clause (a) of sub-rule (3) he shall be ineligible for buffer subsidy for the
entire period and the buffer subsidy already paid shall be recovered with due interest thereon at the rate notified by the
Department of Economic Affairs to be charged from private companies plus penal interest of 2.5% per annum.
(4)
Every occupier of the sugar factory shall provide necessary safeguards against the damage, loss and deterioration in
the quality of the sugar stored as buffer and against mixing it with other stocks:
(5)
Every occupier of the sugar factory shall insure the buffer stock so set apart against such risk as may be required by the
bank with which the buffer stock is pledged for the purpose of securing loan.
(6)
(a)
Every occupier shall maintain the allocated buffer stock in good condition and in case of any damage or loss to the
buffer stock, the occupier of that sugar factory shall replace the same with new stock at his own cost within thirty days of
such damage or loss and shall furnish a certificate from the concerned Central Excise Authority for such replacement in
Annexure-I of the Form-X, along with the claim.
(b)
Page 20/45
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
If an occupier fails to adhere to the time limit referred in clause (a) of sub-rule (6), he shall be deemed to have
dismantled the buffer stock and shall be ineligible for buffer subsidy for subsequent period including the relevant quarter.
(7)
(a)
No occupier of a sugar factory shall sell, remove, dispatch or dispose of any quantity of buffer stock without obtaining
prior written permission of the Chief Director (Sugar).
(b)
If an occupier contravenes the provisions of clause (a) of sub-rule (7), he shall be ineligible for buffer subsidy for the
entire period and the buffer subsidy already paid shall be recovered with due interest thereon at the rate as notified by
the Department of Economic Affairs to be charged from private companies plus penal interest of 2.5% per annum:
(8)
(a)
An occupier shall be free to replace the allocated buffer stock with the production of the subsequent sugar season,
without any break, to maintain the quality of the buffer stock and shall furnish a certificate from the concerned Central
Excise Authority for such replacement in the Annexure-I of the Form-X along with the claim.
(b)
If an occupier contravenes the provisions of clause (a) of sub-rule (8), he shall be ineligible for buffer subsidy for the
entire period and the buffer subsidy already paid shall be recovered with due interest thereon at the rate as notified by
the Department of Economic Affairs to be charged from private companies plus penal interest of 2.5% per annum.
(9)
The Chief Director (Sugar) or any officer authorised by the Chief Director (Sugar) may inspect the maintenance of buffer
stock in the factory and on inspection, if it is found that the sugar factory has violated any provision of these rules, the
sugar factory shall be deemed not to have maintained the buffer stock during the entire period for which the buffer stock
has been created and the buffer subsidy if any, paid shall be recovered with due interest thereon at the rate as notified
by the Department of Economic Affairs to be charged from private companies plus penal interest of 2.5% per annum and
the sugar factory shall become ineligible for buffer subsidy for subsequent period including the relevant quarter.
(10)
All those sugar factories who have-
(a)
maintained allocated buffer stock either in full or in part for the entire period for which the buffer stock has been created,
unless permitted to dismantle under sub-rule (7);
(b)
availed the additional credit where there are cane price arrears against the sugar factory, and utilised the same for the
payment of the cane price arrears provided the bank has not declined to extend such credit to the sugar factory;
(c)
submitted the utilisation certificates in respect of buffer subsidy, disbursed for earlier quartets as per time schedule
specified in sub-rule (20) and the buffer subsidy disbursed including the advance buffer subsidy for buffer stock created
vide notification number G.S.R S.O. 1326 (E) dated the 17th December, 2002; and
(d)
not been specifically declared ineligible by the Chief Director (Sugar) for such buffer subsidy.
Provided that, a sugar factory shall be ineligible under clause(d) till the time the Chief Director (Sugar) declares it as
eligible through a speaking and reasoned order.
(11)
The interest, insurance and storage subsidy payable to sugar factories for maintenance of buffer stock shall be
admissible at the following rates, namely:-
(a)
interest (R) at the rate as specified by the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, to be charged from the
private companies or actual rate of interest for the quarter (excluding additional or penal Interest) charged by the bank
on advance given to sugar factory against the buffer stock, whichever is less.
Explanation. - The rate of interest specified by the Department of Economic Affairs Ministry of Finance, as on the date of
creation of buffer stock shall be taken into account and shall remain the same during the period for which the buffer
Page 21/45
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
stock has been created or extended.
(b)
Storage and Insurance (S) at the flat rate of 1.5% per annum on the value of stock as may be notified by the Central
Government.
(c)
The buffer stock subsidy towards storage and insurance shall be payable only for the period during which the sugar
factory has obtained the insurance coverage of the buffer stock as the storage and insurance subsidy are clubbed
together.
(d)
The value of the stock (V), zone-wise, shall be as may be notified by the Central Government and shall remain the same
during the period for which the buffer stock has been created or extended irrespective of the replacement of the buffer
stock with production of subsequent sugar seasons.
Please see Notification GSR 738(E) dated 29.11.07 for value of stock for calculation of buffer stock subsidy
Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that the valuation of the buffer stock (V) by the Central
Government is only for the purpose of calculation of buffer subsidy so as to simplify the procedure and the valuation of
the stock would continue to be done by the banks at market rates as per their banking practices.
(12)
The buffer subsidy shall be calculated in the following manner, namely:-
(1)
(a)
Interest subsidy on normal credit:
I (a)=| V x R x B x N1 x P1100 x 365 (366 for leap year)
(1)
(b)
interest subsidy on additional credit.
I (b)=| V x R x B x N2 x P2100 x 395 (366 for leap year)
The total interest subsidy payable shall be I (a) plus 1 (b) OR the interest actually paid by the sugar factory, whichever is
less.
(II) Insurance and Storage subsidy =| V x S x B x N3100 x 365 (366 for leap year)
Total buffer subsidy payable = (I) + (II)
Where B is the buffer stock maintained by the sugar factory, N1 is the number of days for which the buffer stock has
been maintained as certified by the Central Excise Authority in the relevant quarter, N2 is the number of days with effect
from the actual date on which the bank credits the account of the sugar factory with additional credit till the end of the
relevant quarter, N3 is the number of days for which the Insurance cover was taken for the maintained buffer stock and
P1 is the percentage of normal advance relating to buffer stock and P2 percentage of additional credit.
Explanation - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that during the 1st quarter of the creation of buffer stock,
the buffer subsidy shall be payable from the date of creation of buffer stock as notified by the Central Government
provided the allocated quantity was available with the sugar factory.
(13)
The duly filled proforma as per Form-X for payment of the buffer stock subsidy shall be submitted to the Chief Director
(Sugar) on quarterly basis starting from the 1st day of creation of the buffer stock.
(14)
The admissible buffer subsidy shall be payable to the sugar factory for the purpose of making payment for the cane
price including cane price arrears for the sugar season in which the buffer stock has been created and of the
subsequent sugar season in the following order of preferences, namely:-
(a)
If the sugar factory has cane price arrears for any of the said sugar seasons as per the cane price arrears position
available on the date of processing of the claim or on the date of financial concurrence, whichever is less, for that
quarter as also Sugar Development Fund or Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund over dues, then the buffer subsidy to
the extent of cane price arrears for the said sugar season shall be paid to sugar factory notwithstanding the Sugar
Development Fund or Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund over dues and if the buffer subsidy amount is higher than the
Page 22/45
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
cane price arrears at that point of time then the buffer subsidy amount in excess of cane price arrears shall be adjusted
against the Sugar Development Fund over dues and the balance against Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund over dues.
(b)
If the sugar factory has no cane price arrears for the said sugar seasons as per the cane price arrears position available
on the date of processing of claim of that quarter but it has Sugar Development Fund or Levy Sugar Price Equalisation
Fund over dues then the buffer subsidy amount payable to sugar factory shall be adjusted against the Sugar
Development Fund over dues and the balance against Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund over dues.
(15)
The sugar factory shall have a separate bank account for crediting the buffer subsidy amount received and the subsidy
shall be utilised as provided in these rules.
(16)
(a)
The buffer subsidy received by the sugar factory shall be utilised for making payment of cane price including cane price
arrears for the sugar season in which the buffer stock has been created and of the subsequent sugar season.
(b)
The payment towards cane dues shall be made within one month of receipt of the buffer subsidy:
Provided that if the sugar factory does not have cane price arrears of any of the said sugar seasons as on the date of
receipt of buffer stock subsidy claim or the buffer subsidy received by the sugar factory is in excess of the Cane price
including cane price arrears pertaining to the said sugar seasons then buffer subsidy amount or the amount in excess of
the cane price including cane price arrears may be utilised for any other purpose.
(17)
(a)
Every occupier shall avail additional credit on creation of buffer stock, when there are cane price arrears at any time
during the period for which the buffer stock has been created or extended and the additional credit so given by the
banks shall be utilised only for the purpose of making payment of the cane price including cane price arrears of sugar
season in which the buffer stock has been created and of the subsequent sugar season within one month of crediting
such amount.
(b)
If any Bank authority which is the principal banker of the sugar factory for extending loan towards working capital,
declines to extend the additional credit for whatsoever reason, the sugar factory shall be eligible to get the Buffer
subsidy to the extent of normal credit calculated in accordance with item (1) (a) of sub-rule (12) and such sugar factory
shall submit a certificate from the concerned bank in this regard as per Annexure-III to Form-X.
(18)
Every occupier shall furnish the following documents in Form-X to work out the admissible claim of the sugar factory,
namely:-
(a)
certificate from the Central Excise Authority certifying the quantity as per Annexure-I to the Form-X and the period for
which buffer stock has been maintained and its replacement, if any;
(b)
certificate from the bank certifying the rate of interest charged by it on amount of loan extended against hypothecated
buffer stock and the amount of interest paid or payable by the sugar factory to the bank and amount of additional credit
extended by the bank as per Annexure-II to the Form X.
(c)
certificate from the concerned State Government Officer responsible for enforcement of payment of price of sugarcane
by the sugar factories certifying utilisation of buffer subsidy paid for earlier quarters and the buffer subsidy disbursed for
buffer stock created vide notification number G.S.R. S.O. 1326 (E) dated the 17th December, 2002 and utilisation of
additional credit extended by the bank as per Annexure-IV of the Form-X;
(d)
a self certified photocopy of the insurance policy of the concerned Insurance agency along with a certificate from that
insurance agency certifying that the buffer stock of this sugar factory is covered under the insurance policy as per
Annexure-V of the Form X;
Page 23/45
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
(e)
certificate from the bank certifying crediting of buffer subsidy amount in a separate bank account as per Annexure-III of
the Form-X;
(f)
any other document in addition to documents referred to in clauses (a) to (e), which the Central Government may
require.
(19)
The time limit for submission of the claims and requisite documents along with duly filled form-X for making admissible
claim for the relevant quarter shall be three months from the end of the relevant quarter but within permissible extended
period of another three months subject to the following deduction in their admissible claim for the relevant quarter,
namely:
(i)
0 to 3 months - Nil
(ii)
3 to 6 months - 10% of the subsidy amount payable and thereafter no claim shall be admissible:
Provided that the Central Government may for a valid reason to be recorded in writing, extend the period of submission
of claims by such period as it deems fit.
Explanation - For removal of doubts it is hereby clarified that the relevant date for determining the date of receipt of the
claim shall be the date on which the claim in the form - X along with the requisite documents is received by the Chief
Director (Sugar) and any document or clarification or revision, furnished by the sugar mill subsequent to the submission
of the claim shall be deemed to have been received on the date on which the original claim was received.
(20)
Every occupier of the sugar factory shall submit the utilisation certificate for buffer subsidy disbursed to him within three
months of the disbursal of the buffer subsidy from the concerned State Government Officer who is responsible for
enforcement of payment of cane price by the sugar factories and the concerned bank, certifying that the buffer subsidy
amount has been utilised for making payment of cane price including cane price arrears for the sugar season in which
the buffer stock has been created and of the subsequent sugar season or the buffer subsidy amount has been utilised
as referred to in sub-rule (16) and also the utilisation certificate of the last amount of buffer subsidy disbursed in respect
of last buffer stock, failing which the buffer subsidy for the relevant quarter shall become inadmissible and shall be
recovered from such sugar factory with interest at the rate as notified by the Department of Economic Affairs plus penal
interest of 2.5% per annum:
Provided that the Central Government may extend the period of submission of utilisation certificate by a further
maximum period of three months, if it is satisfied there is sufficient cause for the delay in submission of utilisation
certificate.
(21)
If any sugar factory fails to adhere to these rules and the Central Government decides to recover the buffer subsidy
amount paid to the sugar factory, then the buffer subsidy amount shall be recovered from the concerned sugar factory
along with interest at the rate as notified by the Department of Economic Affairs plus penal Interest of 2.5% per annum
either from the levy sugar price differential payable to the sugar factory or any other claim or subsidy payable to the
sugar factory by the Central Government in accordance with law.
(22)
The Central Government may order dismantling of the buffer stock in phases or in one go and the buffer stock subsidy
shall cease to be payable to the extent of dismantling of the buffer stock.
(23)
This rule shall be applicable for the buffer stock created for the sugar season 2006-07 and onwards.
(24)
Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may by order and for
reasons to be recorded in writing relax any of the provisions of this rule.
Explanatory Memorandum. - Under these rules, the Central Government reimburses the interest, insurance and storage
charges to the sugar factories for the quantity taken on buffer as subsidy. The subsidy amount is to be used primarily for
the payment of cane price including the cane price arrears of the sugar season in which the buffer stock is created and
Page 24/45
----- PAGE 25 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
the subsequent sugar season. These rules will not adversely affect any person on account of being admissible for buffer
subsidy for buffer stock created from 2006-07 sugar season onwards.
[Chapter-IX]
[Inserted vie GSR 443(E) dated 21.6.02.]
Defraying Expenditure on Internal Transport and Freight Charges to the sugar factories on export shipments of sugar.
20.
(1)
The Central Government may, having regard to the stock of sugar held by the sugar factories, prospects of sugar
production and requirement of sugar for consumption in the country, domestic and international prices of sugar and such
other factors as may be considered necessary, and after consultation with the Committee, decide from time to time to
defray expenditure on internal transport and freight charges to sugar factories on export shipments of domestically
manufactured sugar with a view to promoting its export for such period as it deems proper.
(2)
Subject to the decision of the Central Government under sub-rule (1), the expenditure on internal transport and freight
charges on export shipment shall be defrayed from the Fund.
(3)
Any sugar factory which after obtaining release order issued under clause 5 of the Sugar (Control) Order, 1966, has
transported its manufactured sugar for export shipments, and the same has been exported either by the sugar factory or
through an exporter shall be eligible to apply for reimbursement of expenditure incurred on the internal transport and
freight charges on such export shipments of sugar.
Explanation I Where a sugar factory has delivered the export consignment of sugar ex-factory to an exporter and the
exporter has, after complying with the legal requirements exported the sugar, it shall be construed to be an export of
sugar by that sugar factory through an exporter [and that sugar undertaking in respect of a sugar factory shall be eligible
for reimbursement of expenditure incurred on internal transport and freight charges on such export shipments of sugar,
provided that the agreement entered into by the sugar undertaking in respect of a sugar factory]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
with the exporter of sugar stipulates that the expenditure on internal transport and freight charges shall be borne by that
sugar factory.
[Explanation II. - Where a sugar undertaking in respect of a sugar factory has exported sugar through an exporter, the
customs attested Export Promotion copy of the Shipping Bill shall indicate the name of the exporter and of the sugar
undertaking in respect of a sugar factory]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
Explanation III - An exporter means a person who holds an Importer-Exporter Code number allotted to him by the
Director General of Foreign Trade of the Central Government.
(4)
A sugar factory eligible under sub-rule (3) shall prefer a claim for reimbursement of expenditure incurred on the internal
transport and freight charges on export shipments of sugar in [Form VI-B]
[Substituted vide GSR 787 (E) dated 06.10.03.]
within thirty days of the issue of Bank Certificate of Export and Realisation as given in Appendix 22 of the Handbook of
Procedure (Vol.I) for the period 1st April, 2002 - 31st March 2007 issued by the Central Government in the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry, Department of Commerce.
Provided that if a sugar [undertaking in respect of a sugar]
[Inserted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
factory fails to prefer the claim within the thirty days, such sugar factory may submit the claim in another thirty days but
there shall be late cut at the rate of 10% on the entitlement and no claim shall be entertained after expiry of sixty days
from the issue of the said Bank Certificate.
[Provided further that ill respect of export shipments made on or after the 21st day of June 2002 against Release Orders
issued up to 20th day of June 2004, the claims may be preferred within ninety days of the issue of the Bank Certificate
and in case the factory fails to prefer the claims within the said period of ninety days, then it may submit the claims in
another ninety days. In case the claim is submitted after the first ninety days from the date of issue of the Bank
Certificate but within the next ninety days, there shall be deduction of 10% of the amount admissible under this rule and
Page 25/45
----- PAGE 26 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
the resulting .amount shall be paid to the sugar factory. No claim shall be entertained after a period of one hundred and
eighty days from the date of issue of Bank Certificate mentioned above.]
[Inserted vide GSR 739(E) dated 9.11.04.]
(5)
The claim referred to in sub-rule (4) shall be accompanied by the following documents failing which the claim, in the
absence of valid reason, shall to be disallowed:
(a)
a certified copy of the release order issued under clause 5 of the Sugar (Control) Order, 1966;
(b)
a certified copy of the contract entered into by the sugar [undertaking in respect of a sugar]
[Inserted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
factory with the exporter where the sugar factory itself is not the exporter;
(c)
a certified copy of the Application made for Removal of Excisable Goods (FORM A.R.E. 1) certifying that the
consignment of sugar has been shipped of;
(d)
a certified copy of customs attested Export Promotion (EP) copy of the Shipping Bill;
(e)
a certified copy of the Bank Certificate of Export and Realization as given in Appendix 22 of the Handbook of Procedure
(Vol.I) for the period 1st April, 2002 - 31st March 2007 issued by the Central Government in the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry, Department of Commerce.
(f)
a certified copy of the distance Certificate issued under in sub-rule (8) regarding the distance between the sugar factory
and the loading railhead;
(g)
a certified copy of the railway freight receipt from loading railhead to railhead nearest to the port;
(h)
a certified copy of the certificate of railway freight chargeable as specified in sub-rule (9);
(i)
a certified copy of the certificate issued by the port authorities certifying the distance between the railway station nearest
to the port and loading point at the port as specified in sub-rule (10);
(j)
a certified copy of the receipt and challan of the road transporter indicating the vehicle number and quantity transported
where the sugar [undertaking in respect of a sugar]
[Inserted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
factory has transported the export consignment of sugar by road.
(6)
A sugar [undertaking in respect of a sugar]
[Inserted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
factory shall be free to transport export consignment of sugar either by rail or road or both but the reimbursement of
expenditure shall be restricted in the manner prescribed in sub-rule (7),
(7)
The reimbursement of expenditure on internal transport and freight shall be restricted as under:
(i)
for the distance from sugar factory to the nearest loading railhead, the transportation rate as specified in the Sugar (price
Determination for Production) Order of the relevant sugar season;
(ii)
for the distance from loading railhead nearest to the sugar factory to the railhead nearest 10 the port, the railway freight
by the shortest route;
(iii)
for the distance from railhead nearest to the port to the point of loading at port, the transportation rate as specified in the
Page 26/45
----- PAGE 27 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
Sugar (Price Determination for Production) Order of the relevant sugar season;
(iv)
[ where a sugar undertaking in respect of a sugar factory has preferred to transport export consignments of sugar by
road instead of railway, the claim for reimbursement of expenditure on internal transport and freight charges shall be
restricted to the total of transportation charges and railway freight charges as specified in clauses (i) to (iii) or the actual
transportation charges by road incurred by the sugar undertaking in respect of a sugar factory, whichever is less.]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
Explanation - The restriction imposed in the Sugar (Price Determination for Production) Order of any relevant sugar
season, as regards the transportation charges, shall not apply for the purpose of this sub-rule and the sugar
[undertaking in respect of a sugar]
[Inserted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
factory shall get reimbursement for the full distance between the sugar factory and the nearest railhead.
(7A)
[ For the purposes of reimbursement of expenditure incurred on internal transport and freight charges on export
shipments of sugar, a sugar factory may be allowed to claim and may be paid the following
(i)
An amount calculated at the rate of three hundred and fifty rupees per tonne, in respect of the quantity of sugar exported
by it by sea from an Indian Port, on or after the 14th day of February 2003; and
(ii)
Handling and marketing charges at the rate of five hundred rupees per tonne on the quantity of sugar exported by it on
or after the 3rd day of October, 2003.]
[Explanation - For the purposes of this Sub-rule, "reimbursement" means the amount payable in respect of clauses (i)
and (ii) irrespective of the actual expenditure incurred by the sugar factory or anyone else on behalf of such sugar
factories in actual expert shipment of sugar.]
[Inserted vide GSR 149(E) dated 2.3.05.]
(8)
A sugar [undertaking in respect of a sugar]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
factory claiming reimbursement of expenditure in respect of sub-rule 7(i) above shall produce a distance certificate from
the District Collector or any officer authorised by him in this behalf of the District where the sugar factory is situated, as a
proof of distance between the sugar factory and the nearest loading railhead.
(9)
A sugar [undertaking in respect of a sugar]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
factory claiming reimbursement of expenditure in respect of sub-rule 7(ii) above shall produce a certificate from the
concerned Railway authorities specifying the railway freight chargeable from the railhead nearest to the sugar factory to
the railhead nearest to the port by the shortest route for the quantity of sugar transported.
(10)
A sugar [undertaking in respect of a sugar]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
factory claiming reimbursement of expenditure in respect of 7(iii) above shall produce a distance certificate from the
concerned Port authorities specifying the distance between railhead nearest to the port and the point of loading at the
port.
(11)
[ The reimbursement claim of the sugar undertaking in respect of a sugar factory shall be settled within forty-five days of
the receipt of the complete documents from the sugar undertaking in respect of that sugar factory unless the Central
Government has communicated in writing to the sugar undertaking in respect of that sugar factory to furnish any
requisite document within the said period.]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(12)
In a case where it is found at any time that a sugar undertaking has wilfully suppressed the facts or concealed some
Page 27/45
----- PAGE 28 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
material information or furnished false information or forged documents, then-
(a)
the reimbursement claim of that sugar undertaking shall be rejected;
(b)
its future claim shall not be entertained, and
(c)
if the claim has already been settled, the sugar undertaking shall be liable to refund the amount along with such interest
as the Committee may decide.
20A.
[]
[Inserted vide GSR 697(E) dated 7.11.07.]
Defraying Expenditure on Internal Transport and Freight Charges on Export Shipment of Sugar.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the Central Government may, from time to time decide to defray
expenditure for the purposes of internal transport and freight charges which would include ocean freight, handling and
marketing charges on exports of domestically manufactured sugar.
(2)
Any sugar factory, which has exported its manufactured sugar under Open General Licence but not under advance
licence either itself or through an exporter or through any third party exporter within the time period announced by the
Central Government, shall be eligible for payment from the Central Government, the amounts as specified hereunder
(a)
for the sugar manufactured by the sugar mills located in the coastal states in India, the payment shall be rupees 1350
per tonne of sugar exported; and
(b)
for the sugar manufactured by the sugar mills located in other than the coastal States of India, the payment shall be at a
rate of rupees 1450 per tonne of sugar exported:
Provided that the payment for the exports made to neighbouring countries solely by road or rail or by both, not involving
movement by sea or ocean, shall be the actual expenditure incurred on the charges referred to in sub - rule (1)
calculated as per Appendix annexed hereto or shall be as referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-rule (2) whichever
is less:
Provided further that any refined sugar exported under Open General Licence by a sugar factory or a sugar refinery or
through an exporter by way of value addition to raw sugar obtained as input from a domestic sugar manufacturer, shall
be considered to be export of domestically manufactured sugar, and the sugar factory which had originally manufactured
the raw sugar shall be eligible to receive the payment referred to in this rule in respect of the quantity of sugar so
exported.
Provided also that the raw sugar manufacturer and the sugar refinery shall enter into an agreement, a copy of which
shall also be submitted with the claim, which should be in addition to other requisite documents specified in Form IX,
clearly indicating the quantity of raw sugar to be supplied and the quantity of refined sugar which shall be produced from
the same for exports.
(3)
(a)
The claim should be submitted within ninety days from the date of issue of last bank certificate of export and realization
by the bank for the exports made during the month under consideration.
(b)
Delayed submissions beyond ninety days but upto a maximum of one hundred eighty days from the date of issue of last
bank certificate of export and realization would be allowed, subject to a deduction of 10 per cent of the admissible
amount.
(c)
No claim shall be admissible after one hundred eighty days from the date of issue of last bank certificate of export and
realization with respect to exports made during the particular month under consideration.
Provided that for the payment of claims for exports which have taken place before issue of this notification, the time limit
Page 28/45
----- PAGE 29 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
of one hundred eighty days shall be from the date of issue of this notification or the date of last bank certificate of export
and realization for the month of claim, whichever is later.
(4)
The admissible amount shall be payable to the sugar factory for the purpose of making payment for the cane price
arrears for the sugar season for which export assistance has been announced by the Central Government and of the
subsequent sugar season in the following order of preferences, namely :-
(a)
If the sugar factory has cane price arrears for any of the said sugar seasons as per the cane price arrears position
available with the Central Government on date of submission of the claim or the latest information available with the
Central Government at the time of finance concurrence, whichever is less, as also Sugar Development Fund or Levy
Sugar Price Equalisation Fund over dues, then the above payment shall be made to the sugar factory to the extent of
cane price arrears for the said sugar seasons notwithstanding the Sugar Development Fund or Levy Sugar Price
Equalisation Fund over dues and if the amount payable is higher than the cane price arrears at that point of time then
the payable amount in excess of cane price arrears shall be adjusted against the Sugar Development Fund over dues
and the balance against Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund over dues.
(b)
If the sugar factory has no cane price arrears for the said sugar seasons as per the cane price arrears position available
with the Central Government on the date of submission of the claim or the latest information available with the Central
Government at the time of finance concurrence, whichever is less, but it has Sugar Development Fund or Levy Sugar
Price Equalisation Fund over dues, then the above amount payable to sugar factory shall be adjusted against Sugar
Development Fund over dues and the balance against Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund over dues.
(5)
(a)
The amount received by the sugar factory shall be utilised for making payment of cane price arrears for the sugar
season for which export assistance has been announced by the Central Government and of the subsequent sugar
season.
(b)
The payment towards cane dues shall be made within one month of receipt of the payment.
(c)
If the sugar factory does not have cane price arrears of any of the said sugar seasons or the amount so received by the
sugar factory is in excess of the cane price arrears pertaining to the said sugar seasons, as on the date of submission of
the claim to the Central Government or the latest information available with the Central Government at the time of
finance concurrence, whichever is less, then the amount in excess of the cane price arrears may be used for any other
purpose.
(6)
(a)
The sugar factory shall open a separate exclusive bank account and furnish details of the same at the time of
submission of the claim and the authority making such payments to the factory shall do so in such a manner that the
same is deposited into this account.
(b)
The separate exclusive account shall be utilised by the factory to make payments of cane price dues of the sugar
season for which export assistance has been announced by the Central Government and the subsequent sugar season.
(7)
The sugar factory shall submit a utilisation certificate in the specified proforma Annexure - 3) to the Department of Food
and Public Distribution, New Delhi, to this effect within a period of three months from the date of cheque or demand draft
or electronic payment of the payment referred to in sub-rule (2).
Provided that the Central Government may extend the period of submission of the utilisation certificate by a maximum
period of another three months if it is satisfied, that there is a sufficient cause for the delay in submission of the
utilisation certificate.
(8)
If any sugar factory, which has received the payments referred to in sub-rule (2) for exports of sugar, fails to adhere to
Page 29/45
----- PAGE 30 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
the provisions of these rules or in case the payment so received is not utilised for payment of cane price dues, if
outstanding, within the specified time referred to in sub-rule (7), and the factory does not have any valid reason for the
same, the Department of Food and Public Distribution, New Delhi may declare the sugar factory ineligible for such
payments and the amount so paid to the factory may be recovered from the concerned sugar factory along with interest
at the rate as notified by the Department of Economic Affairs as applicable to private parties, on the date of payment of
the claim, plus penal interest of 2.5 per cent per annum either from the differential levy sugar price payable to the sugar
factory or any other claim or subsidy payable to the sugar factory by the Central Government in accordance with law.
(9)
The sugar mill shall submit its claim for payment referred to in sub-rule (2) separately for each calendar month of export
in Form IX duly filled in, along with the documents specified therein, to the Department of Food and Public Distribution,
New Delhi.
(10)
For the purposes of this rule, the export incentives for exports of sugar announced by the Government of India,
Department of Food and Public Distribution vide its order No. 1 - 2/2007-SPF dated the 27th July, 2007 and any order
the Central Government may make from time to time shall apply.
(11)
Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may by order and for
reasons to be recorded in writing relax any of the provisions of this rule.
[Explanation: For the purposes of this rule, the provision regarding clearance of cane price arrears shall apply only to the
amounts payable and paid to a sugar factory during the sugar seasons 2006-07 and 2007-08]
[Inserted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
[Chapter X]
[Inserted vide GSR 584(E) dated 19.8.02.]
Loans for potentially viable sick sugar undertaking
21.
(1)
A potentially viable sick sugar undertaking shall be eligible for a loan for the modernization or rehabilitation of plant and
machinery:
Provided that the loan from the Fund has been recommended in the rehabilitation scheme for the potentially viable sick
sugar undertaking by the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction or the Committee for rehabilitation, as the
case may be:
Provided further that the scheme or project for such modernization or rehabilitation of its plant and machinery is
approved for financial assistance by a financial institution or a scheduled bank under its relevant scheme [omitted]
[The words or sponsored by the Technology, Information, Forecasting and Assessment Council in respect of Scheme
Mission Mode Project on Sugar Production Technologies of the Department of Science and Technology for
modernization and rehabilitation of its plant and machinery omitted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
Provided also that a sugar undertaking shall not be eligible for a loan under this rule if more than one loan under rule 16
remains to be fully repaid
(2)
A potentially viable sick sugar undertaking shall be eligible for a loan for the sugarcane development:
Provided that for a scheme or project for sugarcane development in the rehabilitation scheme for the potentially viable
sick sugar undertaking sanctioned by the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction or recommended by the
Committee for rehabilitation, a loan from the Fund has been recommended:
Provided further that a sugar undertaking shall not be eligible for a loan under this rule if more than one loan under rule
17 remains to be fully repaid.
(3)
A sugar undertaking, which has availed a loan under sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2), shall not be eligible to apply for a loan
under this rule on any subsequent occasion.
(4)
Any eligible sugar undertaking under sub-rule (1) shall make an application for the loan for modernization or
rehabilitation to the Committee [Omitted]
Page 30/45
----- PAGE 31 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
[Omitted vide GSR 67 (E) dated 29.01.03 [for rehabilitation]
] in Form II-A along with [two]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
certified copies thereof.
(5)
Any eligible sugar factory in connection with which the loan has been applied for under sub-rule (2) shall make an
application for the loan for sugarcane development in form III-B along with [two]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
certified copies thereof to the State Government in which the sugar undertaking is located and the State Government
may forward the application after such scrutiny as it deems necessary, with its comments and recommendations to the
Member-Secretary of the Committee [****]
[The words 'for rehabilitation' omitted vide GSR 67 (E) dated 29.01.03.]
(6)
The Member-Secretary of the committee [****]
[The words 'for rehabilitation' omitted vide GSR 67 (E) dated 29.01.03.]
shall, as soon as may be, after receipt of an application referred to in sub-rule (4) or sub-rule (5), place the application
before the said Committee along with his comments if any, for the Committee's consideration.
(7)
The Committee [****]
[The words 'for rehabilitation' omitted vide GSR 67 (E) dated 29.01.03.]
, before making a final decision on an application, shall satisfy itself that adequate reliefs, or concessions from the
Central Government, State Government, any scheduled bank or other bank, financial institutions or donations from the
employees of the undertaking and other agencies, if any, have-been provided in the rehabilitation scheme and such
reliefs or concessions or donations have been accepted by the concerned agencies to be provided to the sugar
undertaking.
(8)
It shall be open to the committee [****]
[The words 'for rehabilitation' omitted vide GSR 67 (E) dated 29.01.03.]
before making a final decision on an application, to call for any further information from the applicant or any other
concerned agency, if necessary.
(9)
The final decision of the Committee [****]
[The words 'for rehabilitation' omitted vide GSR 67 (E) dated 29.01.03.]
on any application under this rule shall be submitted to the Central Government in the form of recommendation.
(10)
The Central Government may, after consideration of the recommendation of the Committee [****]
[The words 'for rehabilitation' omitted vide GSR 67 (E) dated 29.01.03.]
and any other relevant fact in respect of a project for modernization or rehabilitation, authorise payment to a sugar
undertaking of such amount of loan, not exceeding the amount required by the financial institution or the scheduled bank
to be contributed by such sugar undertaking as promoter's contribution, Provided that the loan from the Fund under this -
rule shall not exceed sixty per cent of the eligible project cost:
Provided further that the loan from the Fund shall be granted only if the sugar undertaking contributes a minimum of
twenty percent of the project cost from its own resources as promoter's contribution:
Provided also that a loan from the Fund shall not be granted for the purpose of repayment of any loan in any form
availed by the sugar undertaking or interest on any such loan in any form, whether availed from the Fund or from
financial institutions, banks or any other agency including Government:
Provided also that the loan from the Fund shall be granted only if, the sugar undertaking has repaid all the sums, which
have become due in respect of the Fund and the Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund.
(11)
(i)
The loan for modernization or rehabilitation shall be disbursed by the Central Government to the concerned sugar
Page 31/45
----- PAGE 32 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
undertaking or paid by it to the financial institutions for disbursement to the concerned sugar undertaking, either in lump
sum or in two or more instalments as may be considered necessary by the Central Government, after an agreement is
executed between the Central Government, the concerned State Government, the participating financial institutions or
scheduled banks and the sugar undertaking concerned.
(ii)
The agreement referred to in clause (i) of this sub-rule shall contain the terms and conditions with regard to the period of
repayment including the number and amount of instalments, payment of interest, the manner of such repayment or
payment and any/other matter incidental to the loan.
(iii)
[ Omitted]
[Deleted vide GSR 188(E) dated 9.3.07.]
(iv)
The repayment of the loan for modernization or rehabilitation together with interest thereon, shall commence after the
expiry of such period as may be decided by the Central Government after due verification by financial institution subject
to a maximum of five years, reckoned from the date of disbursement of the loan from the Fund and the loan from the
Fund along with the interest due thereon, shall be recoverable in half-yearly instalments not exceeding ten in number.
(v)
[Omitted]
[Omitted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(12)
The Central Government may, after consideration of the recommendation of the Committee [****]
[The words 'for rehabilitation' omitted vide GSR 67 (E) dated 29.01.03.]
and any other relevant fact in respect of a project for sugarcane development authorise payment to a sugar undertaking
of such amount of loan not exceeding ninety per cent of the eligible project cost and not exceeding the amount, if any,
specified under rule 17;
Provided that the loan from the Fund shall be granted only if the sugar undertaking or the concerned State Government
contributes a minimum of ten per cent of the project cost from its own resources:
Provided further that the loan from the Fund shall not be granted for the purpose of repayment of any loan in any form
availed by the sugar undertaking or interest on any such loan in any form, whether availed from the Fund or from
financial institutions, banks or any other agency including Government:
Provided also that the loan from the Fund shall be granted only if the sugar undertaking has repaid all the sums, which
have become due in respect of the Fund and the Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund.
13. (i) The loan for sugarcane development shall be disbursed to the concerned sugar undertaking after a tripartite
agreement is executed between the Central Government, the concerned State Government and the sugar undertaking.
(ii)
The tripartite agreement referred to in clause (i) of this sub-rule shall contain the terms and conditions as the Central
Government may decide in consultation with the state government such as monitoring of the progress of the project by a
research institute or any other organization as may be decided by the Central Government, repayment of the loan with
interest, remittance to the credit of the Fund, utilisation certificate by the concerned State Government and any other
matter incidental to the loan.
(iii)
[] [[Deleted vide GSR 188(E) dated 9.3.07
[the loan from the Fund shall carry a concessional rate of simple interest of [two per cent below the bank rate]
substituted vide GSR 687(E) dated 21.10.01 for 'six per cent per annum and in case of any default in repayment of the
amount of loan, or payment of any instalment therof or interest thereon, an additional interest at the rate of two and a
half cent per annum on the amount of default shall be payable by the sugar undertaking.'.]]
(iv)
The repayment of loan for sugarcane development together with interest thereon shall commence on the expiry of
moratorium period of one year reckoned from the date of disbursement of the loan and shall be repaid in equal
half-yearly instalments not exceeding eight in number and interest thereon shall be paid half-yearly after the expiry of
one year from the date of disbursement of the loan.
Page 32/45
----- PAGE 33 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
[Chapter-XI]
[Inserted vide GSR 67(E) dated 29.1.03.]
Loan for production of Anhydrous Alcohol or Ethanol from Alcohol [or from Molasses]
[Inserted vide GSR 72(E) dated 23.1.04.]
22.
[(1) Any sugar factory of an undertaking having an installed capacity of 2500 Tonnes Crushed per Day or higher to
which financial assistance has been approved by a financial institution or a scheduled bank for it to implement a project
for production of anhydrous alcohol or ethanol from alcohol or molasses by installing the required plant and machinery
shall be eligible to apply for loan under this rule:
Provided that at least ten percent of the project cost is being met by the sugar factory of an undertaking from its own
internal generation of fund as part of the promoters contribution required by the financial institution or the scheduled
bank.]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(2)
[ A sugar undertaking that has availed of a loan in respect of a sugar factory under this rule shall not be eligible for
another loan for the same sugar factory during the period in which the previous loan under this rule along with interest
thereon has not been fully repaid.]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(3)
[ A sugar undertaking which is in default of payment that has become due in respect of the Sugar Development Fund
and the Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund relating to any of the sugar factories or units under it shall not be eligible to
apply for a loan under this rule.]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(4)
[ A sugar undertaking shall not be eligible to apply for a loan under this rule for one or more of the following reasons or
purposes, namely:-
(a)
a second hand project, equipment or machinery:
Provided that a sugar undertaking shall be eligible to apply for a loan for a project where second hand equipment or
machinery has been used or is proposed to be used, subject to the following conditions, namely:-
(i)
use of such second hand machinery or equipment shall not change the overall character of the project, which shall
essentially consist of new plant, machinery and equipment;
(ii)
it shall technically be certified that the use of the second hand machinery or equipment shall not affect the overall
efficiency and life of the project;
(iii)
the useful life of the second hand machinery or equipment so used shall not be less than the term of repayment of sugar
development fund loan;
(iv)
subject to fulfilment of conditions specified in clauses (i) to (iii), the estimated or actual cost of machinery or equipment
which are not new shall be deducted from the estimated or actual cost of the project before arriving at the eligible project
cost for the purpose of sugar development fund loan;
(b)
refinancing.
[Explanation. - For the purposes of this clause and clause (b) of sub-rule (3) of rule 22A,-
(A)
"refinancing" includes availing of loan for repayment of loan taken from any financial institution or scheduled bank before
applying to a Financial Institution or bank for appraisal in which Fund component is proposed, but shall not include a
`bridge loan' taken in lieu of Fund component after submitting an application to the Standing Committee on Fund;
(B)
Page 33/45
----- PAGE 34 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
"bridge loan" means a short loan from any Financial Institution in lieu for Fund loan and the same shall be repaid on
disbursement of the same.]
(c)
financing of cost over run;
(d)
project commissioned prior to the date of application under these rules;
(e)
if such sugar undertaking is a defaulter in respect of repayment of loan availed under Sugar Development Fund or in
payment of any dues under the Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund in respect of any of its sugar factories.]
(5)
The Committee may, with the previous approval of the Central Government make any class or classes of sugar
undertaking ineligible for loan under this rule.
Provided that where the Committee decides that an applicant is not eligible, reasons therefore shall be recorded in
writing:
(6)
An eligible sugar undertaking under this rule, shall make an application to the Committee in Form VII in duplicate along
with a copy each of its balance sheet and profit and loss account for the last three consecutive years preceding the year
in which the application is made.
(7)
(i)
All applications made under sub-rule (6) shall first be placed before the sub-committee constituted by the Committee for
this purpose.
(ii)
The Member Secretary of the Committee, who shall be the convener of the sub-committee, shall call a meeting of the
sub-committee at least once in-every month, provided that in a month in which the Committee has received no
application, it shall not be necessary to hold the meeting.
(iii)
The sub-committee shall consider the application and all other relevant factors and give its recommendation for the
consideration of the Committee in its next meeting.
(8)
It shall be open to the Committee and the sub-committee to call for any further information from the applicant or refer the
matter to an expert or group of experts to make an investigation and report on any aspect relating to the application
before making their recommendations,
(9)
(a)
The Committee shall after taking into account the recommendations of the sub-committee, and after considering the
information or report obtained by the Committee tinder sub-rule (8), if any, and all relevant aspects, make its
recommendations as to the amount of loan that may be made to the sugar undertaking.
(b)
The Committee may also, with the previous approval of the Central Government; issue directions to the sub-committee
to make a recommendation directly to the Central Government on the amount of loan that may be made to the sugar
undertaking.
(10)
(a)
In respect of a sugar undertaking that has applied for a loan, falling [under this rule]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
, the Central Government may after consideration of the recommendation of the Committee and any other relevant
factor with view to improving its viability, authorise payment of such amount of loan not exceeding the amount required
by the Financial Institution or the scheduled Bank, as the case may be, to be contributed by such sugar undertaking as
promoters' contribution as may be determined by the Central Government.
(b)
Page 34/45
----- PAGE 35 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
[ - omitted]
[Omitted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(c)
[ - omitted]
[Omitted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(11)
[ The amount of loan authorised under sub-rule (10) shall be disbursed by the Central Government to the sugar
undertaking or paid by it to the Financial Institution or the Scheduled Bank, as the case may be, for disbursement to the
sugar undertaking either in lump sum or in instalments as may be considered necessary by the Central Government.]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(12)
The Financial Institution or the Scheduled Bank, as the case may be, shall treat the amount authorised [omitted]
[The words under clause (a) [or clause (c)] of sub-rule (10) omitted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
as a part of the promoters' contribution.
(13)
[ Omitted]
[Deleted vide GSR 188(E) dated 9.3.07 'The loan from the Fund under this rule shall carry a rate of simple interest of
[two per cent below the bank rate] substituted vide GSR 687(E) dated 21.10.04 for six per cent per annum, which may
be revised' by' the Central Government from time to time.']
(14)
(a)
The loan from the Fund along with the interest due thereon shall be recovered in half-yearly instalments not exceeding
eight in number.
(b)
the repayment of the loan with interest thereon shall commence after the expiry of one year reckoned from the date of
each disbursement of the loan from the Fund.
(15)
(a)
The disbursement of the loan authorised by the Central Government under sub-rule (10) shall be preceded by a tripartite
agreement between the Central Government, the sugar undertaking and the Financial Institution or the Scheduled Bank,
or a bilateral agreement between the Central Government and the sugar undertaking, as the case may be.
(b)
The agreement referred to in clause (a) above, shall contain the terms and conditions with regard to the utilisation of the
loan including monitoring of the implementation of the project by an agency designated by the Central Government in
this behalf, the period of repayment including the number and amount of instalment, payment of interest, the manner of
such repayment or payment, security to be provided for the loan and any other matter incidental to the loan.
(16)
[ - Omitted] [[Deleted vide GSR 188(E) dated 9.3.07
(a)
'The sugar factory shall, after the execution of the agreement referred to in sub-rule (15) above, furnish a Bank
Guarantee from a Scheduled Bank as security for the loan to the satisfaction of the Central Government. (b) The Bank
Guarantee shall cover the amount of loan and the interest thereon for the full period of repayment as provided in
sub-rule (14).]']]
(17)
[ - omitted]
[Omitted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(18)
[ - Omitted] [[Deleted vide GSR 188(E) dated 9.3.07 'In case of any default in repayment of the amount of loan, or
payment of any instalment thereof, or payment of interest thereon, an additional interest at the rate of two and a half per
cent per annum on the amount and the period of default shall be payable by the sugar factory:
Provided that in case of two consecutive defaults in repayment of the loan or instalment thereof, the Central Government
Page 35/45
----- PAGE 36 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
shall realize the entire amount of loan along with the interest thereon from the Bank Guarantee furnished under sub-rule
(16) or any claim of the sugar factory against the Central Government or any other security provided for the loan.]']]
[Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, the expression "sugar factory" includes any unit thereof (which may or may
not be within the premises of the sugar factory) used for production of anhydrous alcohol or ethanol from alcohol or from
molasses for which raw material is supplied by such sugar factory in accordance with the norms specified by the
Standing Committee in this behalf.]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
22A.
[ Loan for conversion of existing ethanol plant into zero liquid discharge plant.
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 847(E), dated 9.11.2015 (w.e.f. 27.9.1983).]
(1)
Any sugar factory of an undertaking having an installed capacity of two thousand five hundred Tonnes crushed per day
or higher to which financial assistance has been approved by a Financial Institution or a scheduled bank for it to
implement a project for conversion of existing ethanol plant into zero liquid discharge plant by installing the required
plant and machinery shall be eligible to apply for loan under this rule:
Provided that ten per cent of the project cost shall be met by the sugar factory of an undertaking from its own internal
generation of fund as part of the promoters contribution required by the Financial Institution or the scheduled bank.
(2)
A sugar undertaking which is in default of payment that has become due in respect of the Fund and the Levy
Sugar Price Equalisation Fund relating to any of the sugar factories or units under it shall not be eligible to apply for a
loan under this rule.
(3)
A sugar undertaking shall not be eligible to apply for a loan under this rule for any of the following reasons or purposes,
namely; -
(a)
if loan is with respect to a second hand project, equipment or machinery:
Provided that a sugar undertaking shall be eligible to apply for a loan for a project where second hand equipment or
machinery has been used or is proposed to be used, subject to the following conditions, namely:-
(i)
use of such second hand machinery or equipment shall not change the overall character of the project, which shall
essentially consist of new plant, machinery and equipment;
(ii)
it shall technically be certified that the use of the second hand machinery or equipment shall not affect the overall
efficiency and life of the project;
(iii)
the useful life of the second hand machinery or equipment so used shall not be less than the term of repayment of sugar
development fund loan;
(iv)
subject to fulfilment of conditions specified in sub-clauses (i) to (iii), the estimated or actual cost of machinery or
equipment which are not new shall be deducted from the estimated or actual cost of the project before arriving at the
eligible project cost for the purpose of Fund loan;
(b)
refinancing;
(c)
financing of cost over run;
(d)
project commissioned prior to the date of application under these rules;
(e)
if such sugar undertaking is a defaulter in respect of repayment of loan availed under Fund or in payment of any dues
under the Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund in respect of any of its sugar factories.
(4)
Page 36/45
----- PAGE 37 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
(i)
The Committee may, with the previous approval of the Central Government make any class or classes of sugar
undertaking ineligible for loan under this rule:
(ii)
The sub-committee or Committee shall record the reasons in writing if it decides that an applicant is not eligible for loan.
(5)
An eligible sugar undertaking under this rule, shall make an application to the Committee in Form VII-A in duplicate
along with a copy each of its balance sheet and profit and loss account for the last three consecutive years preceding
the year in which the application is made.
(6)
(i)
All applications made under sub-rule (5) shall first be placed before the sub-committee;
(ii)
The Member-Secretary of the Committee, who shall be the Convener of the Committee, shall call a meeting of the
sub-committee once in a month where there is application for loan.
(iii)
The sub-committee shall consider the application and all other relevant factors and give its recommendation for the
consideration of the Committee in its next meeting.
(7)
It shall be open to the Committee and the sub-committee to call for any further information from the applicant or refer the
matter to an expert or group of experts or expert organisations to make an investigation and report on any aspect
relating to the application before making their recommendations.
(8)
(i)
The Committee shall after taking into account the recommendations of the sub-committee, and after considering the
information or report obtained by the Committee under sub-rule (7), if any, and all relevant aspects, make its
recommendations as to the amount of loan that may be made to the sugar undertaking.
(ii)
The Committee may also, with the previous approval of the Central Government; issue directions to the subcommittee to
make a recommendation directly to the Central Government on the amount of loan that may be made to the sugar
undertaking.
(9)
In respect of a sugar undertaking that has applied for a loan, falling under this rule, the Central Government may after
consideration of the recommendation of the Committee and any other relevant factor with view to improving its viability,
authorise payment of such amount of loan not exceeding the amount required by the Financial Institution or the
scheduled bank, as the case may be, to be contributed by such sugar undertaking as promoters' contribution as may be
determined by the Central Government.
(10)
The amount of loan authorised under sub-rule (9) shall be disbursed by the Central Government to the sugar
undertaking or paid by it to the Financial Institution or the scheduled bank, as the case may be, for disbursement to the
sugar undertaking either in lump sum or in instalments as may be considered necessary by the Central Government.
(11)
The Financial Institution or the scheduled bank, as the case may be, shall treat the amount authorised as a part of the
promoters' contribution.
(12)
(i)
The loan from the Fund along with the interest due thereon shall be recovered in half-yearly instalments not exceeding
eight in number.
(ii)
The repayment of the loan with interest thereon shall commence after the expiry of one year reckoned from the date of
each disbursement of the loan from the Fund.
Page 37/45
----- PAGE 38 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
(13)
(i)
The disbursement of the loan authorised by the Central Government under sub-rule (9) shall be preceded by a tripartite
agreement between the Central Government, the sugar undertaking and the Financial Institution or the scheduled bank,
or a bilateral agreement between the Central Government and the sugar undertaking, as the case may be.
(ii)
The agreement referred to in clause (a), shall contain the terms and conditions with regard to the utilisation of the loan
including monitoring of the implementation of the project by an agency designated by the Central Government in this
behalf, the period of repayment including the number and amount of instalment, payment of interest, the manner of such
repayment or payment, security to be provided for the loan and any other matter incidental to the loan.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, the expression "sugar factory" includes any unit thereof (which may or may
not be within the premises of the sugar factory) used for production of anhydrous alcohol or ethanol from alcohol or from
molasses for which raw material is supplied by such sugar factory in accordance with the norms specified by the
Committee in this behalf.]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
[Chapter - XII]
[Inserted vide GSR 67(E) dated 29.1.03.]
Loan for bagasse-based co-generation power projects
23.
(1)
Any sugar factory of a sugar undertaking having an installed capacity of 2500 Tonnes Crushed Per-Day or higher to
which financial assistance has been approved by a Financial Institution or, a Scheduled Bank for it to implement a
project of bagasse-based cogeneration of power by installing the required plant and machinery shall be eligible to apply
for a loan from the Fund under this rule for implementing the project provided that the project envisages marketable
surplus of co-generated power and provided further that at least ten per cent of the cost of the project is being met by
the sugar factory of a sugar undertaking from its own internal generation of funds as part of the promoters contribution
required by the Financial Institution or the Scheduled Bank.
(2)
A sugar factory of a sugar undertaking that has availed of a loan under this rule shall not be eligible to apply for a loan
during the period in which that loan along with interest thereon has not been fully repaid.
(3)
A sugar factory of a sugar undertaking, which is in default of payment that has become due in respect of the Fund and
the Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund, [in respect of any of the sugar factories or units thereof]
[Inserted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
shall not be eligible to apply for a loan under this rule.
(4)
[ A sugar undertaking shall not be eligible to apply for a loan under this rule for one or more of the following reasons or
purposes, namely :-
(a)
a second hand project, equipment or machinery:
Provided that a sugar undertaking shall be eligible to apply for a loan for a project where second hand equipment or
machinery has been used or is proposed to be used, subject to the following conditions, namely:-
(i)
use of such second hand machinery or equipment shall not change the overall character of the project, which shall
essentially consist of new plant, machinery and equipment;
(ii)
it shall technically be certified that the use of the second hand machinery or equipment shall not affect the overall
efficiency and life of the project;
(iii)
the useful life of the second hand machinery or equipment so used shall not be less than the term of repayment of sugar
development fund loan;
Page 38/45
----- PAGE 39 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
(iv)
subject to fulfilment of conditions specified in clauses (i) to (iii), the estimated or actual cost of machinery or equipment
which are not new shall be deducted from the estimated or actual cost of the project before arriving at the eligible project
cost for the purpose of sugar development fund loan;
(b)
refinancing;
Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause, the term 'refinancing' includes availing of loan for repayment of loan taken
from any financial institution or scheduled bank before applying to a financial institution or bank for appraisal in which
Sugar Development Fund component is proposed, but shall not include a 'bridge loan' taken in lieu of Sugar
Development Fund component after submitting an application to the Standing Committee on Sugar Development Fund.
(c)
financing of cost over run;
(d)
project commissioned prior to the date of application under these rules;
(e)
if such sugar undertaking is a defaulter in respect of repayment of loan availed under Sugar Development Fund or in
payment of any dues under the Levy Sugar Price Equalisation Fund in respect of any of its sugar factories.]
(5)
The Committee may, with the previous approval of the Central Government, make any class or classes of sugar factory
of a sugar undertaking ineligible to apply for loan under this rule:
Provided that where the Committee decides that an applicant is not eligible, the reasons therefore shall be recorded in
writing.
(6)
An eligible sugar factory of a sugar undertaking under this rule, shall make an application to the Committee in Form VIII
in duplicate along with a copy each of its balance sheet and profit and loss account for the last three consecutive years
preceding the year in which the application is made.
(7)
(i)
All applications made under sub-rule (6) shall first be placed before the sub-committee constituted by the Committee for
this purpose.
(ii)
The Member Secretary of the Committee, who shall be the convener of the sub-committee, shall call a meeting of the
sub-committee at least once in every month, provided that in a month in which the Committee has received no
application, it shall not be necessary to hold the meeting.
(iii)
The sub-committee shall consider the application and all other relevant factors and give its recommendation for the
consideration of the Committee in its next meeting.
(8)
It shall be open to the Committee and the sub-committee to call for any further information from the applicant or refer the
matter to an expert or group of experts to make an investigation and report on any aspect relating to the application
before making their recommendations.
(9)
The Committee shall after taking into account the recommendations of the sub-committee, and after considering the
information or report obtained by the Committee under sub-rule (8), if any, and all relevant aspects, make its
recommendations to the Central Government as to the amount of loan that may be made to the sugar factory of a sugar
undertaking.
(10)
The Central Government may, after consideration of the recommendations of the Committee and any other relevant
factor with a view to improving the viability of the sugar factory, authorise payment to a sugar factory, of such amount of
loan not exceeding the amount required by the Financial Institution or the Scheduled Bank, as the case may be, to be
contributed by such sugar factory of a sugar undertaking as promoters' contribution, as may be determined by the
Page 39/45
----- PAGE 40 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
Central Government.
(11)
The amount of loan authorised under sub-rule (10) shall be disbursed by the Central Government to the sugar factory of
a sugar undertaking or paid by it to the Financial Institution or the Scheduled Bank, as the case may be, for
disbursement to the sugar factory of a sugar undertaking, either in lump sum or in two or more instalments, as may be
considered necessary by the Central Government.
(12)
The Financial Institution or the Scheduled Bank, as the case may be, shall treat the amount paid to it under sub-rule (11)
as the promoters' contribution or as part thereof required to be raised by the sugar factory of a sugar undertaking for
availing of the loan under the relevant scheme of the Financial Institution or the Scheduled Bank for bagasse-based
cogeneration power projects.
(13)
[ - Omitted]
[Omitted vide GSR 388(E) dated 19.5.08 'The loan from the Fund under this rule shall carry a rate of simple interest of
[two percent below the bank rate] substituted vide GSR 687(E) dated 21.10.04 for six per cent annum, which may be
revised by the Central Government from time to time.]']
(14)
(a)
The repayment of the loan shall commence after the expiry of three years reckoned from the date of each disbursement
of the loan and shall be repaid in half yearly instalments not exceeding ten in number.
(b)
The interest on the said loan shall be paid [half yearly]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
for the first three years from the date of each disbursement of the loan after which it shall be paid half yearly along with
the instalment of the repayment of the principal.
(15)
[ - Omitted] [[Deleted vide GSR 188(E) dated 9.3.07
'(a) The disbursement of the loan authorised by the Central Government under sub-rule (11) shall be preceded by a
tripartite agreement between the Central Government, the sugar factory and the Financial Institution or the Scheduled
Bank, as the case may be.
(b)
The agreement referred to in clause (a) above, shall contain the terms and conditions with regard to the utilization of the
loan including monitoring of the implementation of the project by an agency designated by the Central Government in
this behalf, the period of repayment including the number and amount of instalment, payment of interest, the manner of
such repayment or payment, security to be provided for the loan and any other matter incidental to the loan.]']]
(15)
[ (a) The disbursement of the loan authorised by the Central Government under sub-rule (1) shall be preceded by a
tripartite agreement between the Central Government, the sugar factory and the Financial Institution or the Scheduled
Bank, as the case may be.
(b)
The agreement referred to in clause (a) shall contain the terms and conditions with regard to the utilisation of the loan
including monitoring the implementation of the project by an agency designated by the Central Government in this
behalf, the period of repayment including the number and amount of instalment, payment of interest, the manner of such
repayment or payment, security to be provided for the loan and any other matter incidental to the loan.]
(16)
[ - Omitted] [[Deleted vide GSR 188(E) dated 9.3.07
'(a) 'the sugar factory shall, after the execution of the agreement referred to in sub-rule (15) above, and before the
disbursement of the loan under sub-rule (u), furnish security for the loan to the satisfaction of the Central Government.
(b)
The security shall cover the amount of loan and interest thereon for the full period of repayment as provided in sub-rule
(14) above, and shall be furnished in any of the following manners, namely:-
Page 40/45
----- PAGE 41 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
(i)
Bank Guarantee from a Scheduled Bank, or
(ii)
A mortgage on all immovable and movable properties of the sugar factory on pari passu first charge basis failing which
on the basis of an exclusive second charge.]']]
(17)
[ - Omitted]
[Omitted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(18)
[ - Omitted] [[Deleted vide GSR 188(E) dated 9.3.07 'In case of any default in repayment of the amount of loan, or
payment of any instalment thereof, or payment of interest thereon, an additional interest at the rate of two and a half per
cent per annum on the amount for the period of default shall be payable by the sugar factory:
Provided that in case of two consecutive defaults in repayment of the loan or instalment thereof, the Central Government
shall realize the entire amount of loan along with the interest and additional interest thereon from the security furnished
under sub-rule (16) or any claim of the sugar factory against the Central Government.]']]
[Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, the expression "sugar factory" includes any unit thereof (which may or may
not be within the premises of the sugar factory) used for bagasse based cogeneration power project for which raw
material is supplied by the said sugar factory in accordance with the norms specified by the Standing Committee in this
behalf.]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
[Chapter XIII]
[Inserted vide GSR 451(E) dated 4.7.05.]
Special provision relating to calculation of rate of interest in certain cases
24.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in rules 16, 17, 21, 22, [22A]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 847(E), dated 9.11.2015 (w.e.f. 27.9.1983).]
and 23, on and from the date of commencement of the Sugar Development Fund (Second Amendment) Rules, 2005,
the rate of interest on all loans outstanding on the date of commencement of the Sugar Development Fund (Second
Amendment) Rules, 2004 shall be two per cent below the bank rate as was prevailing on the 21st day of October, 2004.
(2)
In respect of loans outstanding as mentioned in sub-rule (1), the rate of interest during the period between the date or
commencement of the Sugar Development Fund (Second Amendment) Rules, 2004 and the commencement of the
Sugar Development Fund (Second Amendment) Rules, 2005 shall be two per cent below the bank rate prevailing as on
the 21st day of October, 2004, and any interest paid or charged in excess thereof for the said period shall be credited to
the account of the loanee sugar undertaking.
(3)
[ - Omitted]
[Omitted vide GSR 599 dated 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
[Chapter XIV]
[Inserted vide GSR 188(E) dated 9.3.07.]
Security, interest and additional interest on Sugar Development Fund loans
25.
(1)
The security, interest and additional interest for the loans given under [Sugar Development Fund Rules 16, 16A, 17,
17A, 21, 22, [22A]
[Substituted vide GSR 508(E) dated 7.7.09 for 'Sugar Development Fund Rules 16,17,21,22 and 23'.]
and 23]
[Inserted vide GSR 388(E), dated 19.5.08.]
from the Fund shall be governed as follows.
(2)
Page 41/45
----- PAGE 42 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
The loans shall carry a concessional rate of simple interest of 2% below the Bank Rate.
(3)
In case of any default in repayment of the amount of loan or payment of any instalment thereof or interest thereon, an
additional interest at the rate of [six percent per annum on the amount of default or at such rate as may be decided by
the Central Government shall be]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
payable by the sugar undertaking.
(4)
The sugar undertaking shall, after the execution of the agreement required to be entered into and before the
disbursement of the loan under Rules, furnish security for the loan to the satisfaction of the Central Government.
(5)
The security shall cover the amount of loan and interest thereon for the full period of repayment as provided in the Rules
and further additional interest on the amount of default as provided in sub-rule (3) above, and shall be furnished in any
of the following manners namely:-
(i)
Bank Guarantee from a Scheduled Bank; or
(ii)
A mortgage on all immovable and movable properties of the sugar factory on pari passu first charge basis failing which
on the basis of an exclusive second charge:
Provided that [in case of short term loans under Rules 16A and 17A, any sugar undertaking and]
[Inserted vide GSR 508(E) dated 7.7.09.]
in case of sugarcane development loan under Rules 17 and 21, a cooperative sugar undertaking can furnish the security
in the form of State Government Guarantee.
(6)
In case of two consecutive defaults in repayment of the-loan or instalment thereof, the Central Government shall realise
the entire amount of loan along with the interest and the additional interest thereon from any of the security provided for
the loan under sub-rule (5) above or any claim of [any sugar factory under the sugar undertaking]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
against the Central Government.
[Chapter XV]
[Inserted vide GSR 749(E) dated 5.12.07.]
[Restructuring of loans]
[Substituted 'Restructuring of loans of potentially viable sick sugar undertaking' by Notification No. G.S.R. 885(E), dated
17.9.2018 (w.e.f. 27.9.1983).]
26.
[Restructuring of loans of potentially viable sick sugar undertaking.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 885(E), dated 17.9.2018 (w.e.f. 27.9.1983).]
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the rules 16, 17, 21, 22, [22A]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 847(E), dated 9.11.2015 (w.e.f. 27.9.1983).]
23, 24 and 25, the Central Government may, after taking into consideration the scheme of rehabilitation circulated by the
Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction or the scheme recommended by the Committee for rehabilitation, as
the case may be, and any other relevant factor, restructure the loan, interest or additional interest on account of default
thereof of a potentially viable sick sugar undertaking,
[Provided that while so restructuring, no portion of the outstanding principal or simple interest at applicable rates at the
relevant time shall be waived off:
Provided further that the Central Government may, at its discretion, waive additional interest in full or in part, for reasons
to be recorded in writing.]
[Inserted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
(2)
A potentially viable sick sugar undertaking shall be eligible to apply for restructuring of loan, interest or additional interest
Page 42/45
----- PAGE 43 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
on account of default thereof.
Provided that the restructuring has been recommended in the Draft Rehabilitation Scheme circulated by the Board for
Industrial and Financial Reconstruction, or recommended by the Committee for Rehabilitation in the scheme for
rehabilitation for sugar undertakings, as the case may be :
Provided further that the sugar undertaking shall, during such period till such restructured loans are fully repaid, be
eligible for loans only if it is a part of the rehabilitation scheme under rule 21 for modernization or rehabilitation and cane
development schemes only:
Provided also that no undertaking shall be eligible for reliefs and concessions more than once.
(3)
Any eligible sugar undertaking referred to in sub-rule (2) shall make an application for restructuring to the Committee in
[Form XI]
[Substituted vide GSR 115(E) dated 28.2.08 for Form IX.]
(4)
The Member-Secretary of the Committee shall soon after receipt of the recommendations of Board for Industrial and
Financial Reconstruction or Committee for Rehabilitation, as the case may be, place the same before the said
Committee alongwith his comments if any, for the Committee's consideration:
(5)
The Committee, before making a final decision on the recommendations satisfies itself that adequate reliefs or
concessions from the other lenders namely, banks, financial institutions, State Governments and other agencies if any,
have been provided in the restructuring package and such reliefs or concessions have been accepted by the concerned
agencies to be provided to the sugar undertaking.
(6)
The Committee shall, before making a final decision on an application made to it for the purpose of rule 26,
(a)
call for any further information from the sugar undertaking or the recommending agency referred to in sub-rule (1).
(b)
appoint a sub-committee or expert to make an investigation and report on any aspect relating to the recommendations of
the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction or the Committee for rehabilitation.
(7)
The Committee shall submit its recommendations to the Central Government.
(8)
The Central Government may, after consideration of the recommendation of the Committee and any other relevant facts,
authorise restructuring subject to such terms and conditions as the Central Government may decide and communicate
to the sugar undertaking for acceptance of the same by the sugar undertaking in writing.
(9)
(a)
The restructured loan under this rule shall carry a rate of simple interest equivalent to the prevailing Reserve Bank of
India bank rate, from the date of implementation of the rehabilitation package.
(b)
In case of any default in repayment of the amount of loan or payment of any instalment thereof or interest thereon on the
restructured loan, an additional interest at the rate of [six percent per annum on the amount of default or at such rate as
may be decided by the Central Government shall be]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
payable by the sugar undertaking.
(10)
The rehabilitation scheme shall be implemented after a bipartite agreement is entered into between the Central
Government and the sugar undertaking:
Provided that in the case of cooperative or public sugar undertaking, if there are any reliefs and concessions required
from the State Government, the scheme shall be implemented after a tripartite agreement is executed amongst the
Central Government, the sugar undertaking and the Government of the State in which the sugar undertaking is situated.
(11)
Page 43/45
----- PAGE 44 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
(a)
The sugar undertaking shall after execution of the agreement, referred to in sub-rule (10), furnish security for the
restructured loan to the satisfaction of the Central Government.
(b)
The security shall cover the amount of loan and interest for the full period of repayment as provided for in the
rehabilitation scheme as accepted by the Central Government and additional interest on account of default as referred to
in clause (b) of rule 9 and shall be furnished in any of the following manners, namely:
(i)
bank guarantee from a Scheduled Bank; or
(ii)
a mortgage on all immovable and movable properties of the sugar undertaking on pari passu first charge basis.
(12)
The rehabilitation scheme shall become effective after the agreement referred to in sub-rule (10) is entered into and the
security as provided in sub-rule (11) is furnished by the sugar undertaking.
(13)
(a)
A monitoring agency, nominated by the Central Government, shall, carry out periodic reviews of the operation and
financial performance, including its cash flow, and progress of the undertaking regarding implementation of the
rehabilitation scheme.
(b)
The monitoring agency shall, from time to time, with the approval of the Central Government, advise the undertaking to
take corrective steps to' ensure that projected parameters of the scheme are met.
(14)
In Case of more than two consecutive defaults in repayment of the loan or instalment thereof, the Central Government
shall realize the entire loan, interest along with additional interest thereon from the bank guarantee furnished under
sub-rule (11) or any claim of the [any sugar factory under the sugar undertaking]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
against the Central Government or any other security provided for the loan.
26A.
[ Restructuring of loans affected by natural calamities.
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 885(E), dated 17.9.2018 (w.e.f. 27.9.1983).]
- Where, on occurrence of any natural calamity in a State, the Government of that State has declared such calamity in
the Official Gazette of the State, the Central Government may, on the request from that State Government, grant
moratorium for such period, as it deems fit, for repayment of loan, extend the period for repayment of loan and
accordingly restructure the repayment of the loan granted in accordance with these rules.]
[Substituted vide GSR 599 dated 30.07.2012.]
[Chapter XVI]
[Inserted vide GSR 279(E) dated 10.04.10.]
Provision of interest subvention to sugar factories towards interest on loans
27.
(1)
The Central Government may provide financial assistance to sugar factories towards payment of interest, in part or in
full, on loans given to the sugar factories by scheduled banks, financial institutions, co-operative banks and regional
rural banks, in terms of any scheme approved by the Government, from time to time:
Provided that such financial assistance shall be for such loans which have been utilised for clearance of cane price
arrears and cane price dues of the sugarcane farmers.
(2)
The Central Government shall provide financial assistance to the lending bank or financial institution through nodal
agencies appointed by it, from amongst the scheduled banks and the National Bank which shall be passed on by the
concerned bank or the financial institution to the appropriate sugar factories as a credit.
(3)
Page 44/45
----- PAGE 45 -----
The Sugar Development Fund Rules, 1983
The financial assistance to be given to the nodal agencies from the Sugar Development Fund, shall be specified in the
scheme referred to in sub-rule (1) and shall be subject to the following conditions, namely :-
(a)
the nodal agencies shall certify that the loans have been utilised by the sugar factories for clearance of cane price
arrears or cane price dues; and
(b)
the nodal agencies shall certify that the quantum of bank loans to the sugar factories have been disbursed in
accordance with the scheme:
Provided that in the event of the loan not being used by the factory for payment of sugarcane arrears or dues, the entire
interest subvention provided by the Central Government shall be recovered with twelve per cent interest per annum:
Provided further that in case the loanee sugar factory is not able to make repayment of the loan as per the repayment
schedule, it shall not be entitled for the interest subvention till it regularises the account and once the account is
regularised, the said loanee shall be entitled to get the subvention from the date of regularisation till the end of four year
period.
(4)
For the purposes of this rule, the scheme announced by the Central Government vide its notification number 1 (5)/2007 -
SPII, dated the 7th December, 2007 and any notification the Central Government may issue from time to time shall
apply.
[Inserted vide GSR 895(E) dated 19.11.03.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 45/45