
----- PAGE 1 -----
The National Oilseeds And Vegetable Oils Development Board (Executive Director) Recruitmen...
The National Oilseeds And Vegetable Oils Development Board
(Executive Director) Recruitment Rules, 1984
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/39742274/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The National Oilseeds And Vegetable Oils Development Board (Executive Director) Recruitment Rules, 1984
UNION OF INDIA
India
The National Oilseeds And Vegetable Oils Development Board (Executive Director) Recruitment Rules, 1984
Rule
THE-NATIONAL-OILSEEDS-AND-VEGETABLE-OILS-DEVELOPMENT-BOARD-EXECUTIVE-DIRECTOR-RECRUITM
ENT-RULES-1984 of 1984
Published on 3 April 1984
Commenced on 3 April 1984
[This is the version of this document from 3 April 1984.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The National Oilseeds And Vegetable Oils Development Board (Executive Director) Recruitment Rules, 1984
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, in G.S.R. 386 of dated 3rd April, 1984
1799.
[3rd April, 1984]
G.S.R. 386 dated 3rd April, 1984. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 18, read with
sub-section (1) of section 6 of the National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development Board Act; 1983 (29 of 1983), the
Central Government hereby makes the following rules regulating the method of recruitment to the post of Executive
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The National Oilseeds And Vegetable Oils Development Board (Executive Director) Recruitmen...
Director in the National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development Board under the Ministry of Agriculture (Department
of Agriculture and Cooperation), namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development Board (Executive Director)
Recruitment Rules, 1984.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Number of posts and scale of pay.
- The number of said posts and the scale of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in the columns 2 to 4 of the
schedule annexed to these rules.
3.
Method of recruitment, age limit and other qualifications etc.
- The method of recruitment, age limit, qualifications and other matters relating to the said post shall be as specified in
columns 5 to 13 of the said Schedule.
4.
Disqualifications.
- No persons,-
(a)
who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living; or
(b)
who, having a spouse living, has entered into or contracted a marriage with any peson.
shall be eligible for appointment to the said post :
Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the personal law
applicable to such person and the other party to the marriage and there are other grounds for so doing, exempt any
person from the operation of this rule.
5.
Power to relax.
- Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by order and for
reasons to be recorded in writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class or category of
persons.
6.
Saving.
- Nothing in these rules shall affect reservations, relaxation of age and other concessions required to be provided for the
candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of persons in
accordance with the orders issued by the Central Government from time to time in this regard.
Schedule
Name
of Post
Number
of Posts
Classification
Scale
of pay
Whether
selection or Non-selection Post
Age
limit for direct recruits
(1)
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The National Oilseeds And Vegetable Oils Development Board (Executive Director) Recruitmen...
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Executive
Director
One
Non
applicable.
Rs.2500-125/2-3000.
Non
applicable.
Preferable
below 50 years.
Educational
and other qualifications required for direct recruits
Whether
age and educational qualifications prescribed for direct recruits
will apply in case of promotees.
Period
of probation, if any
(7)
(8)
(9)
Essential :
Not Applicable,
Not applicable
(i) Master?s
degree in Agriculture or equivalent.
(ii)
Atleast 20 years? experience in agriculture
development/extension/research, including oilseeds crops, out of
which atleast 12 years should be in a senior supervisory
capacity.
Desirable :
Doctorate degree
in any branch of Agricultural Science.
Note
1. Qualifications relaxable at the discretion of Selection
Committee in the case of candidates otherewise well qualified.
Note
2. The qualifications regarding experience is relaxable at the
discretion of the Selection Committee, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, in the case of candidates belonging to the
Scheduled Caste and the Scheduled Tribes if, at any stage of
selection the Selection Committee is of the opinion that
sufficient number of candidates from these communities
possessing the requisite experience are not likely to be
available to fill up the vacancy (ies) reserved for them.
Method
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The National Oilseeds And Vegetable Oils Development Board (Executive Director) Recruitmen...
of recruitment - Whether by direct recruitment or by promotion
or transfer and percentage of vacancies to be filled by various
methods.
In
case of recruitment by promotion/deputation/transfer, grades
from which promotion/deputation/transfer to be made.
(10)
(11)
By transfer on
deputation/transfer/contract, failing which by direct
recruitment.
Transfer on
deputation (including short-term contract)/transfer :
(a)
Officers holding: (i.) analogous posts, or (ii.) with 2 years
service in pay-scale of Rs. 2250-2500 or equivalent, or (iii.)
with 5 years service in the pay scale of Rs.2000-2250 or
equivalent in the Central Government/State Governments
(including Union Territory Administrations)/Indian Council of
Agricultural Research/Agriculture Universities and other
recognised Research Institutions.
(b)
With at least 20 years experience in Agriculture
development/extension/research including oilseeds, crops, out
of which at least 12 years should be in Group ?A?
post.
(Period
of deputation/contract including period of deputation/contract
in the same organisation/department shall not exceed 5 years).
If a Selection
Committee exists, what is its composition
Circumstances in
which the Union Public Service Commission is to be consulted in
making recruitment
(12)
(13)
Selection
Committee consisting of :-
Not Applicable.
1. Secretary
(Agriculture and Cooperation) ? Chairman
2. Director ?
General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research ? Member
3.
Additional Secretary in-charge of the work relating to the
National Oilseeds and Vegetable Oils Development Board. ?
Member
4. Agriculture
Commissioner ? Member
5. Joint
Secretary (Administration) ? Member
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The National Oilseeds And Vegetable Oils Development Board (Executive Director) Recruitmen...
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5