
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Dowry Prohibition (Maintenance Of Lists Of Presents To The Bride And Bridegroom) Rules...
The Dowry Prohibition (Maintenance Of Lists Of Presents To The
Bride And Bridegroom) Rules,  1985
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/107050111/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Dowry Prohibition (Maintenance Of Lists Of Presents To The Bride And Bridegroom) Rules,  1985
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Dowry Prohibition (Maintenance Of Lists Of Presents To The Bride And Bridegroom) Rules,  1985
Rule
THE-DOWRY-PROHIBITION-MAINTENANCE-OF-LISTS-OF-PRESENTS-TO-THE-BRIDE-AND-BRIDEGROOM-RULE
S-1985 of 1985
Published on 19 August 1985
Commenced on 19 August 1985
[This is the version of this document from 19 August 1985.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Dowry Prohibition (Maintenance Of Lists Of Presents To The Bride And Bridegroom) Rules,  1985
Published vide G.S.R. 664(E), dated 19.8.1985, published in the Gazette of India, Ext.,  Pt.II, Section 3(i), dated
19.8.1985."
117.
The Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:
1.
Short title and commencement .(1) These rules may be called The Dowry Prohibition (Maintenance of Lists of Presents
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Dowry Prohibition (Maintenance Of Lists Of Presents To The Bride And Bridegroom) Rules...
to the Bride and Bridegroom) Rules, 1985 .
(2)
They shall come into force on the 2nd day of October, 1985 being the date appointed for the coming into force of the
Dowry Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1984 (63 of 1984).
2.
Rules in accordance with which lists of presents are to be maintained
(1)
The list of presents which are given at the time of the marriage to the bride shall be maintained by the bride.
(2)
The list of presents which are given at the time of marriage to the bridegroom shall be maintained by the bridegroom.
(3)
Every list of presents referred to in sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2)
(a)
shall be prepared at the time of the marriage or as soon as possible after the marriage,
(b)
shall be in writing,
(c)
shall contain,
(i)
a brief description of each present;
(ii)
the approximate value of the present;
(iii)
the name of the person who has given the present; and
(iv)
where the person giving the present is related to the bride or bridegroom, a description of such relationship;
(d)
shall be signed by both the bride and the bridegroom.
Explanation 1.Where the bride is unable to sign, she may affix her thumb-impression in lieu of her signature after having
the list read out to her and obtaining the signature, on the list, of the person who has so read out the particulars
contained in the list.
Explanation 2.Where the bridegroom is unable to sign, he may fix his thumb-impression in lieu of his signature after
having the list read out to him and obtaining the signature, on the list of the person who has so read out the particulars
contained in the list.
(4)
The bride or the bridegroom may, if she or he so desires, obtain on either or both of the lists referred to in sub-rule (1) or
sub-rule (2) the signature or signatures of any other person or persons present at the time of the marriage.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2