
----- PAGE 1 -----
University Grants Commission (Establishment And Maintenance Of Institutions) Regulations, ...
University Grants Commission (Establishment And Maintenance Of
Institutions) Regulations, 1985
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/50340930/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
University Grants Commission (Establishment And Maintenance Of Institutions) Regulations, 1985
UNION OF INDIA
India
University Grants Commission (Establishment And Maintenance Of Institutions) Regulations, 1985
Rule
UNIVERSITY-GRANTS-COMMISSION-ESTABLISHMENT-AND-MAINTENANCE-OF-INSTITUTIONS-REGULATIONS-
1985 of 1985
Published on 21 December 1985
Commenced on 21 December 1985
[This is the version of this document from 21 December 1985.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
University Grants Commission (Establishment And Maintenance Of Institutions) Regulations, 1985
To be published in the Gazette of India,, Part III, Section 4
1886.
No.F.181/84 (CPP)
Dated : 21 December, 1985.
Notification. - In exercise of the power conferred by Clause (h) of Sub Section (1) of Section 26, of the University Grants
Commission Act, 1956, the University Grants Commission makes the following regulations, namely :-
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
University Grants Commission (Establishment And Maintenance Of Institutions) Regulations, ...
1.
Short title, application and commencement.
- i. These regulations may be called the University Grants Commission (establishment and maintenance of Institutions)
Regulations, 1985.
ii. They shall apply to every institution established or caused to be established by the University Grants Commission
under this Act.
iii. They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Gazette of India.
2.
- i. The University Grants Commission may with the approval of the Government of India establish or cause to be
established an autonomous Organisation for purposes and functions to be specified in a Project Report which would,
amongst others, contain the-
a. rationale;
b. objectives and functions;
c. plan of development;
d. the structure of management including the membership of the Society, the Board of Management and other
concerned bodies, and their functions and powers, mechanism for its evaluation;
e. financial implications, including phasing of expenditure; and
f. the nature and mechanics for enforcement of accountability to University Grants Commission and Government.
ii. Each such institution shall be registered under the Societies Registration Act of 1860 or under the relevant Act of the
State Govt. in whose jurisdiction the institution is located.
iii. The Memorandum of Association and the Rules of the institution would, amongst others, provide for the following :-
a. Objects of the institution.
b. The membership of the Society, the Board of Management and other concerned bodies, and their functions and
powers.
c. The manner of appointment of the staff and the terms and conditions of service.
d. The manner of maintenance of the accounts and related matters, and the audit of the same.
Sd/-
...................................
Secretary
To
The Manager,
Government of India Press,
Faridabad.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2