
----- PAGE 1 -----
Agricultural And Processed Food Products Export Cess Act, 1985
Agricultural And Processed Food Products Export Cess Act, 1985
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/186974060/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
12
]
Union of India - Act
Agricultural And Processed Food Products Export Cess Act, 1985
UNION OF INDIA
India
Agricultural And Processed Food Products Export Cess Act, 1985
Act 3 of 1986
Published on 8 January 1986
Commenced on 8 January 1986
[This is the version of this document from 8 January 1986.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Agricultural And Processed Food Products Export Cess Act, 1985
Act
No. 3 of 1986
27.
/1379
Object and Reasons This Bill is complementary to the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development
Authority Bill, 1985. The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority Bill, 1985 seeks to
provide for the establishment of an authority to be called the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export
Development Authority and empower that Authority to promote export of agricultural and processed food products.
In order to ensure that the said Authority has necessary resources to discharge it functions, this Bill seeks to provide for
the levy by way of a cess of a duty of customs on all the scheduled products which are exported. The intention is to
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Agricultural And Processed Food Products Export Cess Act, 1985
make over, after due appropriation by Parliament by law, the proceeds of the cess to the said Authority to enable it to
discharge its functions effectively.
[8th January, 1986.]
An Act to provide for the levy and collection, by way of a cess, of a duty of customs on the export of certain agricultural
and processed food products for the development and promotion of their export and for matters connected therewith.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.-
(1)
This Act may be called the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Cess Act, 1985.
(2)
It extends to the whole of India.
(3)
It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
15th December, 1986 vide Notification No.S.O.914 (E), dated 15-12-1986, Gazette of India, Extraordinary, 1986 Part II,
Section 3(ii).
2.
Definitions.-
(1)
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Authority" means the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority established under
section 4 of the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority Act, 1985;
(b)
"Scheduled product" means any product for the time being included in the Schedule to the Agricultural and Processed
Food Products Export Development Authority Act, 1985.
(2)
All words and expressions used in this Act and not defined, but defined in the Agricultural and Processed Food Products
Export Development Authority Act, 1985 shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.
3.
Duties of customs on Scheduled products.-
(1)
There shall be levied and collected by way of a cess for the purposes of the Agricultural and Processed Food Products
Export Development Authority Act, 1985, a duty of customs at such rate not exceeding three per cent.ad valorem as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify, on all Scheduled products, which are exported.
(2)
The duties of customs levied under sub-section (1) on the Scheduled products shall be in addition to any cess or duty
leviable on such Scheduled products under any other law for the time being in force.
(3)
The provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) and the rules and regulations made thereunder including those
relating to refunds and exemptions from duty, shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to the levy and collection of the
duty of customs leviable under sub-section (1) as the apply in relation to the levy and collection of the duties of customs
under that Act or those rules and regulations.
4.
Credit of proceeds of duties to Consolidated Fund of India.-
The proceeds of the duties of customs levied under section 3 shall first be credited to the consolidated Fund of India and
the Central Government may, if Parliament, by appropriation made by law in this behalf, so provides.pay to the
Authority, from time to time, from out of such proceeds, after deducting the expenses on collection, such sums of money
as it may think fit for being utilised for the purposes of the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export
Development Authority Act, 1985.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Agricultural And Processed Food Products Export Cess Act, 1985
Translation
Page 3/3