
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/36623909/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
Rule THE-INDIAN-POSTAL-SERVICE-GROUP-A-RULES-1987 of 1987
Published on 1 January 1987
Commenced on 1 January 1987
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1987.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2, Section 3, Sub-Section (1)
In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the
following rules, namely:-
Part-I Preliminary
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
Page 1/12
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a)
"Commission" means the Union Public Service commission
(b)
"Department Promotion Committee", in relation to any grade, means a committee specified there against in column (3)
or, as the case may be, column (4) of schedule III to these rules,
(c)
"Examination" means a combined competitive Examination consisting of a preliminary examination and a main
examination for recruitment to the Service and such other Services as may be specified by the government from time to
time,
(d)
"Government" means the central Government;
(e)
"Grade" means any of the grades specified in sub-rule (1) of rule 3;
(f)
"Regular Service" in relation to any grade means the period or periods of service in the grade rendered after selection
according to the prescribed procedure for long-term appointment to that grade and includes any period or periods:-
(i)
during which an officer would have held that grade but for his being on leave or on training or on foreign assignment;
(ii)
taken into account for purposes of seniority in the case of these appointed at the initial constitution of the Service;
(g)
"Scheduled Castes" and "Scheduled Tribes" shall have the same meanings as are assigned to them by clauses (24) and
(25) respectively of article 366 if the constitution;
(h)
"Service" means the Indian Postal Service, Group 'A'
Part-II Composition, initial constitution and future maintenance of the service
3.
Composition of the Service.
- [(1) There shall be the following eight grades in the service, namely :-]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 761(E), dated 8.11.1999]
(i)
Junior
time scale
Rs. 8000-275-13500/-
(ii)
Senior
Time Scale
Rs. 10000-325-15200/-
(iii)
Junior
Administrative Grade
Rs. 12000-375-16500/-
(iv)
Selection
Grade of the Junior Administrative Grade
Rs. 14300-400-18300/-
(v)
Senior
Page 2/12
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
Administrative Grade
Rs. 18400-500-22400/-
(vi)
Senior
Deputy Director General & Chief Postmaster General
Rs. 22400-525-24500/-
(vii)
Principal
Chief Postmaster General
Rs. 22400-600-26000/-
(viii)
Member
of the Postal Service Board
Rs. 24050-650-26000/-
(2)
The authorized permanent and temporary strength of the various grades on the date of commencement of these rules
and the number of posts in each grade shall be as specified in Schedule I and [* * *]
[Omitted words 'Schedule II' by Notification No. G.S.R. 496(E), dated 23.9.1994]
to these rules.
(3)
After the commencement of these rules, the authorized permanent strength of the various grades shall be such as may,
from time to time, be determined by the Government.
(4)
The authority competent to make an appointment to a grade may make such temporary additions to the strength of a
grade may make such temporary additions to the strength of a grade as if may deem necessary fro time to time subject
to any central or special orders that may be issued by the Government.
4.
Initial Constitution.
(1)
The Service shall on the date of commencement of these rules consist of officers who have already been appointed on a
regular basis to the Indian Postal Service Group 'A' in the various grades, namely, Junior Time Scale, Senior Time
Scale, Junior Administrative Grade including the selection Grade and Senior Administrative Grade level-II and Level-I
and Members postal Service Board except Member(Finance) and the officers so appointed shall be deemed to have
been appointed to the respective grade at the initial constitution of the service.
(2)
The regular continuous service of officers mentioned in sub-rule (1) in the respective corresponding grade prior to their
appointment to the service shall count for the purpose of qualifying service for seniority, confirmation, promotion and
pension.
5.
Future Maintenance.
(1)
The recruitment to the Service, after the initial constitution thereof, shall be made by the following methods:-
(a)
[ Initial recruitment to the Service shall be made in the Junior Time Scale in the following manner.
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 185(E), dated 18.3.1997]
(i)
By direct recruitment on the basis of results of the Civil Services Examination conducted by the commission;
(ii)
By promotion in accordance with part-IV,
(iii)
The number of persons recruited in a year under clause (i) above shall not exceed 25% of the total regular posts in
Page 3/12
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
Junior Time Scale, the remaining posts being filled by promotion from Group 'B';
(iv)
Posts in the Senior Time Scale which cannot be filled on account of officers with requisite years of service in Junior Time
Scale not being available can also be added temporally to the Junior Time Scale and filled up by promotion in
accordance with part IV, provided that the total number of promottee officers in various grades of the Service shall not,
at any time, exceed 33-1/3% of the total cadre strength (excluding training reserve).]
(b)
Vacancies in all other grades of the service shall be filled by promotion in accordance with Part-IV.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of sub-rule(1), the Government shall determine, in consultation with the commission, the
method of recruitment to be employed for the purpose of filling any particular vacancies in the Service and the number of
candidates to be recruited by each method.
Part-III Recruitment by Competitive Examinations
6.
Holding of examination.
(1)
A competitive examination for appointment to the Junior Time Scale of the Service shall be held at such times and
places as may be prescribed in a notice issued by the commission for the purpose.
(2)
Every such notice shall, as far as possible specify the number of vacancies to be filled on the results of the examination.
7.
Conduct of examination.
- Every examination under this part shall be conducted by the commission in the manner notified by the Government of
India in the Department of personnel & Training from time to time.
8.
Combined Examination.
- If the examination held under this part is a combined Examination for the purpose of making appointment to more than
one service or post, the following provisions shall apply, namely:-
(a)
any person may apply to be admitted as a candidate for appointment to all or any of the services or posts for which he is
eligible,
Provided that if he wishes to be considered for appointment to more than one service or post, he shall state in his
application form the names of the Services and posts for which he wishes to be considered and the order of his
preferences for them and in such cases, only one application form and payment of the fees for examination for one
service as specified in rule 14. shall be sufficiently,
(b)
the Government of India in the Department of Personnel & Training shall assign successful candidates to each service
or post on a consideration of all circumstances including any preference expressed by the candidates in their
applications.
9.
Application for admission to the examination.
- A candidate shall apply for admission to the examination before such date, in such manner and in such form as the
commission may prescribe.
Provided that a candidate in Government service, whether in a permanent or in a temporary capacity or as work charged
employee, other than casual or daily rated employee, will be required to submit an undertaking to the effect that he has
informed in writing his Head of office or Department regarding his application for the examination.
10.
Nationality.
- A candidate must be a citizen of Indian or he must belong to such categories of persons as may, from time to time, be
notified by the Government.
11.
Page 4/12
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
Age limits.
- A candidate must have attained the age of 21 years and must not have attained the age of 26 years on the first day of
August of the year in which the examination is held;
Provided that the upper age limit may be relaxed in respect of candidates belonging to the scheduled castes and the
scheduled Tribe and such other categories of persons as may, from time to time, be notified in this behalf by the
Government of India in the Department of Personnel and Training to the extent and subject to the conditions notified in
respect of each category.
12.
Attempts of the examination.
- No candidates, who does not belong to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe, or who is not covered by any of the
specified exceptions notified by the Government of Indian in the Department of personnel and Training from time to time,
shall be permitted more than three attempts at the examination,
Provided that there shall be no restriction on the number of attempts for candidates belonging to the scheduled Castes
or Scheduled Tribes within the age relaxation referred to in the proviso to rule 11, in case they are otherwise eligible.
Note-I          A candidate shall be deemed to have made an attempt at the examination for all the services or posts
ordinarily covered by the examination if he competed for any one or more of the services or posts.
Note-II         An attempt at the preliminary examination shall deemed to include a attempt also a the main examination
within the meaning of this rule.
Note-III        If a candidate actually appears in any tone paper in the preliminary Examination, he shall be deemed to
have made an attempt at the examination.
13.
Educational qualifications.
- A candidate must held a degree a university established or incorporated by or under a control act or a provincial Act or
a State Act or other educational institution established by a Central Act or declared to be deemed as University under
section 3 of the University Grant Commission Act, 1956 (
3 of 1956
) or a foreign University approve by the Central Government from time to time, or possesses on equivalent qualification
which has been recognized by the Government for the purpose of admission to the examination, Provided that a
candidate who has appeared a an examination the passing of which would render him educationally qualified for the
examination but has not been informed of the result as also the candidate who intends to appear at such a qualifying
examination, shall be eligible for admission to the preliminary examination so long as the candidate produced by a date
to be notified by the commission, proof of having passed in the qualifying examination, for being eligible to take the main
examination during that year,
Provided further that in exceptional cases, the commission may treat a candidate as qualified, who though not
possessing the qualification prescribed in this rule has passed an examination conducted by an Institution, the standard
of which in the opinion of the commission justifies his admission to the examination;
Provided also that a candidate who is otherwise qualified but who has taken a degree from foreign University which is
not approved by Government may also be admitted to the examination at the discretion of the commission.
Note: Candidates possessing professional and technical qualifications which are recognized by Government as
equivalent to professional and technical degree would also be eligible for admission to the examination.
14.
Fee.
- A candidate shall pay the fees prescribed by the commission unless he has been exempted there from or granted
concession in accordance with the exemptions and concessions in this respect notified by the Government of India in
the Department of Personnel and Training from time to time.
15.
Decision of the commission to be final.
- The decision of the commission as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candidate for admission to the examination shall
be final and no candidate to whom a certificate of admission has not been issued by the commission shall be admitted to
the examination.
16.
Page 5/12
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
Penalty for misconduct.
- A candidate who is or has been declared by the commission to be quality of:
(i)
obtaining support for his candidature by any means.
or
(ii)
impersonating,
or
(iii)
procuring impersonating by any person;
or
(iv)
Submitting fabricated documents or documents which have been tempered with,
or
(v)
Making statements which are incorrect or false, or suppressing material information,
or
(vi)
Resorting to any other irregular or improper means in connection with his candidature for the examination,
or
(vii)
Using unfair means in the examination hall
or
(viii)
writing irrelevant matter, including obscene language pornographic matter, in the script,
or
(ix)
misbehaving in any other manner in the examination hall,
or
(x)
harassing or doing bodily harm to the staff employed by the commission for the conduct of the examination.
or
(xi)
attempting to commit or, as the case may be abetting the commission of all or any of the acts specified in the foregoing
clauses,
may, in addition to rendering himself liable to criminal prosecution, be liable:-
(a)
to be disqualified by the commission from the examination for which he is a candidate, or
(b)
to be debarred either permanently or for a specified period-
(i)
by the commission, from any examination or selection held by them,
(ii)
by the Government, from any employment under them; and
(c)
if he is already in services under the government, to a disciplinary action under the appropriate rules.
17.
Preparation of list of successful candidates.
(1)
After every examination, the names of candidates shall be arranged by the commission in the order of merit, as
disclosed by the aggregate marks finally awarded to each candidate and in that order so many candidates as are found
Page 6/12
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
by the commission to be qualified on the basis of the examination shall be recommended for appointment up to the
number of unreserved vacancies decided to be filled on the results of the examination.
(2)
Candidates belonging to the scheduled castes or the Scheduled Tribes, may, to the extent the number of vacancies
reserved for the scheduled castes and the Scheduled Tribes cannot be filled on the basis of the general standard, be
recommended by the commission by a relaxed standard, to make up the deficiency in the reserved quota, subject to the
fitness of these candidates for appointment to the service irrespective of their ranks in the order of merit at the
examination.
(3)
If sufficient number of candidates who are members of the scheduled castes or the scheduled Tribes, are not available
for filling all the vacancies so reserved, the vacancies not so filled shall be filled by appointing candidates not belonging
to the scheduled castes or the scheduled Tribes, qualified by the standard prescribed by the commission for the service,
an equivalent number of additional vacancies shall be reserved for candidates belonging to the scheduled castes or the
Scheduled Tribes to be filled on the results of the next examination.
(4)
If at the examination, sufficient number of candidates belonging to the scheduled castes or the scheduled Tribes is not
available for filling all the vacancies reserved for them including those carried forward under sub-rule(3), the vacancies
so remaining unfilled shall be filled by appointing candidates not belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled
Tribes, qualified by the standard prescribed by the commission for the Service, and an equivalent number of vacancies
shall be carried forward to the next examination and so on.
(5)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rules (3) and (1) no vacancies reserved for the Scheduled Castes or the
Scheduled Tribes shall be carried forward to any year of the examination.
(a)
to such an extent that the total number of vacancies so carried forward together with the vacancies reserved for
candidates who are members of the scheduled castes and Scheduled Tribes for that year exceeds 560% of the total
vacancies in that year, or
(b)
if such vacancies, which are to be carried forward, continuously remained unfilled for a period of three recruitment years,
Provided that in the third recruitment year vacancies reserved for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall
be filled by the Scheduled Tribes and the Scheduled Castes respectively, if candidates of respective communities are
not available.
18.
Inquiry of Character, etc.
- The inclusion of a candidate's name in the list confers no right to appointment unless the Government is satisfied, after
such inquiry as may be considered necessary, that the candidate, having regard to his character and antecedents, is
suitable in all respects for appointment to the service.
19.
Physical test.
(1)
No candidate who, after such physical examination as the Government may prescribed, is not found to in good mental or
bodily health and free from any mental or physical defect likely to interfere with the discharge of the duties of the service,
shall be appointed to the Service.
(2)
The fact that a candidate has been physically examined will not mean or imply that he shall be considered for
appointment.
Part-IV Recruitment by Promotion
20.
[ Appointment by promotion to various grades.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 496(E), dated 23.9.1994]
- [(1) Junior Time Scale. - (a) Appointment to the Junior Time Scale in the service shall be made by selection on merit
Page 7/12
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
from amongst officers regularly appointed to the Postal Service Group 'B' with three years of regular services in that
grade on the recommendations of a duly constituted Departmental promotion Committee in consultation with the
commission.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 29(E), dated 23.1.1996]
(b)
[ The officers appointed to the service by promotion shall be given two years weightage in seniority vise-a-vise the
officers appointed in the same year through competitive examination.
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 496(E), dated 23.9.1994]
(c)
Among the officers appointed through the competitive examination in a particular year and the promotee officers
assigned to that year after allowing weight ages in terms of rule(b) above, the latter shall be placed on ploc below junior
most direct recruit of the year.
(2)
Senior Time Scale. - Appointment to the Senior Time Scale in the Service shall be made by promotion of officers in the
Junior Time Scale with four years regular service in that grade in the order of seniority subject to the rejection of the unfit
on the recommendations of a duly constituted Departmental Promotion Committee.
(3)
Junior Administrative Grade. - Appointments to the Junior Administrative Grade in the service shall be made by selection
on merit from amongst officers of the Senior Time Scale of the service with five years regular services in the grade on
recommendations of a duly constituted Departmental Promotion Committee.
(4)
Selection Grade of the Junior Administrative Grade. - Appointments to the Selection Grade of the Junior Administrative
Grade of the service shall be made by promotion from amongst officers in the Junior Administrative Grade of the service
who have entered the 14the year of the service on the 1st July of the year calculated from the year following the year of
selection on the basis of which the officers was recruited. Selection shall be made on merit by a duly constituted
Departmental Promotion Committee in the order of seniority taking into the account the overall performance, experience
and other Central Government from time to time.
(5)
Senior Administrative Grade. - Appointments in the Senior Administrative Grade of the service shall be made on the
recommendations of a duly constituted Departmental Promotion Committee by selection on merit from amongst officers
of the Junior Administrative Grade of the service with eight years regular service in the grade(including service, if any, in
non-functional selection grade) or seventeen years regular services in Group 'A' posts out of which at least four years
regular service should be in the Junior Administrative Grade.
(6)
Senior Deputy Director General/Chief Postmaster General. - appointment to the Senior Deputy Director General/Chief
Postmaster General shall be made on the basis of selection on merit from amongst officers of Senor Administrative
Grade of the service with three years regular service in the grade.
[(6A) Principal Chief Postmaster General. - Appointment to the post of Principal Chief Postmaster General shall be
made on the basis of selection on merit from amongst Senior Deputy General/Chief Postmaster General holding posts
on regular basis in the grade.]
[(7) Members of the Postal Service Board. - Appointment to the post of Member, Postal Services Board shall be made
by selection by merit from amongst officers holding posts on regular basis in the grades of Principal Chief Postmaster
General, Senior Deputy Director General and Chief Post Master General.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 761(E), dated 8.11.1999]
[(8) Where juniors who have completed their qualifying/eligibility service are being considered for promotion, their
seniors would also be considered provided they are not short of the requisite qualifying/eligibility service by mores than
half of such qualifying/eligibility service or two years, whichever is less and have successfully completed their probation
period for promotion to the next higher grade along with their juniors who have already completed such
qualifying/eligibility service.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 185(E), dated 18.3.1997]
(9)
Page 8/12
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
The constitution of Departmental Promotion Committee for considering promotion and confirmation in different grades
shall be as specified in Schedule-II to these rules.]
Part-V General
21.
Disqualifications.
- No person-
(a)
who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living, or
(b)
who, having a spouse living, has entered into or contracted a marriage with any person, Shall be eligible for appointment
to the service;
Provided that the Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the personal law applicable to
such person and the other party to the marriage and that there are other grounds for so doing, exempt any person from
the operation of this rule.
22.
Requirement to service in the Army Postal Service.
- Any person appointed to the Service after the commencement of these rule shall be liable to serve in the Army Postal
Service in India or abroad, as required.
[23. Probation. - Every officer on appointed to the service, either by direct recruitment or by promotion to Junior Time
Scale shall be on probation for a period of two years:
Provided that the controlling officer may extend the period of probation in accordance with the instructions issued by the
Government from time to time.
Provided further that any decision for extension of the probation period shall be taken ordinarily within 8 weeks after the
expiry of the previous probationary period and communicated in writing to the concerned officer together with the
reasons for so doing within the said period.
(2)
On completion of the probation or any extension thereof, officer shall, if, considered fit, be confirmed against the post, if
not already confirmed in the entry grade.
(3)
If during the period of probation or any extension thereof, as the case may be, Government is of the opinion that an
officer is not fit for permanent appointment, Government may discharges or revert the officer to the post held by him
prior to his appointment in the service, as the case may be.
(4)
During the period of probation or any extension thereof, candidates may be recruited by the government to undergo
such courses of training and instructions and to pass examination and tests (including examination in Hindi) as the
Government may deem fit, as a condition to satisfactory completion of the probation.
(5)
As regards other matters relating to probation, the members of the service will be governed by the instructions issued by
the Government in this regard from time to time.
(6)
While fixing the interse seniority of direct recruit in the Junior Time Scale, the marks obtained by direct recruits in the
civil Services Examination and the marks obtained by them in the Probationary Training shall be taken into account.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 496(E), dated 23.9.1994]
24.
Reservations for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes etc.
- Nothing in these rules shall affect reservations, relaxation of age limit and other concessions required to be provided
for the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, Ex-servicemen and other special categories of persons in accordance
with the order issued by the government from time to time tin this regard.
25.
Power to relax.
- Where the Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may by order for reasons to be
Page 9/12
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
recorded in writing and in consultation with the commission relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any
class or category of persons.
26.
Interpretation.
- If any question relating to interpretation these rules arises it shall be decided by the government.
27.
Residues matters.
- In all matters not specifically provided in these rules, officers appointed to the service shall be Governed by the rules,
regulations and orders applicable to the Central Civil Services in general.
28.
Repeal and saving.
(1)
on and from the date of commencement of these rules, the Indian Postal Service, Class-I (Junior and Senior Time
Scales) Recruitment Rules, 1959 and the Indian Postal Services Class-I (Directors of Postal Services) Recruitment
Rules, 1959 in so for as they relate to the posts to which these rules apply, are hereby repealed.
(2)
Not-withstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the rules so repealed, shall be deemed to have
been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these rules.
[Schedule-I]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 761(E), dated 8.11.1999]
(See Rule 3(2))
Authorized Strength of the Service.
Grade
Authorized Strength
Scale of Pay
Member, Postal Services Board
03
Rs. 24050-650-26000
Principal Chief Postmaster General
03
Rs. 22400-600-26000
Senior Deputy Director General and Chief Postmaster General
20
Rs. 22400-525-24500
Senior Administrative Grade
58
Rs. 18400-500-22400
Junior Administrative Grade
including Selection Grade
91
Rs. 12000-375-16500
Senior Time Scale
226
Rs. 10000-325-15200
Junior Time Scale
67
Rs. 8000-275-13500
Deputation Reserve
70
Training Reserve
30
Page 10/12
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
Leave Reserve
5
[Schedule-II]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 496(E), dated 23.9.1994]
(See Rule 20(a))
SI.No
Name of the post
Group ?A? Departmental Promotion committee (for
considering promotion)
Group ?A? Departmental promotion Committee (for
considering confirmation
1
2
3
4
1.
Member of the Postal services Board
1. Chairman/ Member,
UPSC-Chairman2. Secretary - Member
N.A.
1A. [
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 761(E), dated 8.11.1999]
Principal CPMG
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 761(E), dated 8.11.1999]
1. Chairman/ Member,
UPSC-Chairman2. Secretary (Posts) - Member
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 761(E), dated 8.11.1999]
N.A.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 761(E), dated 8.11.1999]
2.
Sr. DDG/ Chief PMG
1. Chairman/Member, UPSC-Chairman2. Secretary - Member
N.A.
3.
Senior Administrative Grade
1. Chairman/Member, UPSC-Chairman2. Secretary - Member
N.A.
4.
Junior Administrative Grade
(Selection Grade)
1. Secretary - Chairman2. Member PSB - Member3. Member
PSB - Member[4 Joint Secretary/Additional
Secretary (S and V), Department of Personnel and Training
Representative of Department of personnel and Training-Member.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 428(E)]
N.A.
5.
Junior Administrative Grade
1. Chairman/Member, UPSC - Chairman2. Member PSB - Member3. Member PSB - Member
N.A.
6.
Page 11/12
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Indian Postal Service (Group 'A') Rules, 1987
Senior Time scale
1. Member PSB - Chairman2. Member PSB - Member3. Deputy
Director General(P) - Member
N.A.
7.
Junior Time Scale
1. Chairman/Member, UPSC - Chairman2. Member PSB -
Member3. Deputy Director General(P) - Member
1. Member Postal Service Board - Chairman2. Member Postal
Services Board - Member
Note: 1. The absence of a member, other than the Chairman or, a Member of the Commission shall not invalidate the
proceedings of the committee, if more than the half the members of the committee or where there are only two
members, both had attended its meetings.
Note: 2. The proceedings of the Departmental promotion committee relating to confirmation shall be sent to the
commission for approval, if, however, there are no approved by the commission a fresh meeting of the Departmental
promotion committee to be presided over by the chairman of a Member of the union public service commission shall be
held.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 12/12