
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bureau of Indian Standards (Powers and Duties of Director-General) Regulations, 1987
The Bureau of Indian Standards (Powers and Duties of
Director-General) Regulations, 1987
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/130723071/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Bureau of Indian Standards (Powers and Duties of Director-General) Regulations, 1987
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Bureau of Indian Standards (Powers and Duties of Director-General) Regulations, 1987
Rule
THE-BUREAU-OF-INDIAN-STANDARDS-POWERS-AND-DUTIES-OF-DIRECTOR-GENERAL-REGULATIONS-1987 of
1987
Published on 1 June 1987
Commenced on 1 June 1987
[This is the version of this document from 1 June 1987.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bureau of Indian Standards (Powers and Duties of Director-General) Regulations, 1987
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2, Section 3(2), dated 1st June, 1987
G.S.R. 536(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 38 of the Bureau of
Indian Standards Act, 1986 (63 of 1986), the Executive Committee of the Bureau of Indian Standards, with the previous
approval of the Central Government, hereby makes the following regulations, namely:
1.
Short Title and Commencement.
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bureau of Indian Standards (Powers and Duties of Director-General) Regulations, 1987
(1)
These regulations may be called the Bureau of Indian Standards (Powers and Duties of Director General) Regulations,
1987.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires -
(a)
"Act" means the Bureau of Indian Standards Act, 1986 (63 of 1986);
(b)
"employee" means officers and employees in the whole time service of the Bureau but does not include a person
employed on daily wages;
(c)
"rules" means the Bureau of Indian Standards Rules, 1987;
(d)
"post" means a post under the Bureau;
(e)
All other words and expressions used in the regulations and not defined but defined in the Act or the rules shall have the
meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act and the rules.
3.
Powers and Duties of Director General.
(1)
The Director General as Chief Executive of the Bureau shall -
(a)
convene with the approval of the President meetings of the Bureau;
(b)
administer and co-ordinate various activities of the Bureau;
(c)
assign duties of employees;
(d)
issue instructions to employees for carrying out activities of the Bureau;
(e)
[ exercise powers vested with the Head of the Department in the Central Government under the General Financial
Rules, 1963; Delegation of Financial Powers Rules, 1978; the Fundamental Rules and the Supplementary Rules, 1922;
Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972; Central Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1944; General Provident
Fund (Central Services) Rules, 1960; Central Civil Services (Leave) Rules, 1972; Central Civil Services (Conduct)
Rules, 1964; Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal)Rules, 1965; Contributory Provident Fund Rules
(India), 1962, as amended from time to time and the powers specified in the Schedule appended to these regulations.]
[Inserted vide GSR No. 69(E), dated 9 February, 1990.]
(f)
undertake such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be delegated to him by the Executive Committee.
(2)
[ For administrative efficiency, the Director General may delegate any of his powers or duties under these regulations to
any of the officers not below the rank of Deputy Director of the Bureau subject to report to the Executive Committee.]
[Inserted vide GSR No. 1031 (E), dated 31 December, 1987.]
Schedule
Sl No.
Power
Extent
1. []
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Bureau of Indian Standards (Powers and Duties of Director-General) Regulations, 1987
[Inserted vide GSR No. 69(E), dated 9 February, 1990.]
To permit a permanent employee to retain lien on a post under
the Bureau:
(a) In case of employment in Central/State Government
Department, Public Sector Undertaking or autonomous body.
Initially upto two years extendable by one more year in
exceptional cases.
(b) In case of deputation to developing countries on
Government basis.
Initially upto two years extendable by another three years.
2.
To transfer an employee from one post to another.
Full powers.
3.
To sanction, grant and to permit acceptance of honorarium.
Up to a maximum of Rs 1,000 in each case.
4.
To allow mileage allowance by a route other than the
shortest.
Full powers, provided selection of the route is in Bureau's
interest.
5.
To decide the shortest of two or more routes.
Full powers.
6.
To decide whether a particular absence is absence on duty.
Full powers.
7.
To sanction recurring and non-recurring expenditure.
Full powers within the budget provision.
8.
To sanction purchase of working stores and equipment.
Full powers within the budget provision.
9.
To sanction permanent advances.
Full powers up to a limit of Rs 15000 subject to report to
the Executive Committee.
10.
To sanction municipal or cantonment taxes.
Full powers.
11.
To sanction the renting of ordinary office accommodation.
Full powers within the budget provision.
12.
To sanction expenditure for repairs and alterations to hired
and requisitioned buildings.
Full powers within the budget provision.
13.
To sanction expenditure on original petty works and special
and ordinary repairs to the building owned by the Bureau.
Full powers within the budget provision.
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Bureau of Indian Standards (Powers and Duties of Director-General) Regulations, 1987
14.
To sanction advance of pay to an officer under transfer.
Full powers.
15.
To sanction the purchase of typewriters, calculating
machines, accounting machines, etc.
Full powers.
16.
To order destruction of records.
Full powers.
17.
To write off irrecoverable losses of stores, or of public
money (including loss of stamps), etc, provided that (i) the
loss does not disclose a defect in rules or procedure the
amendment of which requires the orders of higher authority and
(ii) there has not been any serious negligence on the part of
any employee of the Bureau which may call for disciplinary
action by a higher authority.
As under subject to report to the Executive Committee.a)
Rs.10000/- for losses of stores not due to theft, fraud or
negligence; andb) Rs.2500/- for other cases
18.
To order sale, by auction or otherwise of unserviceable
stores or perishable articles in the interest of the Bureau.
Full powers.
19.
To sanction tours and to counter-sign TA bills of employees
including his own.
Full powers.
20.
To grant any leave including special disability leave to the
employees.
Full powers.
21. []
[Inserted vide BIS/EC/REG.5, dated 23 September, 1994.]
To fill substantively all vacant posts upto the scale of pay
of Rs.4500-5700. (This power includes the power to appoint, to
confirm and terminate.)
Full powers.
22. []
[Inserted vide BIS/EC/REG.5, dated 23 September, 1994.]
To make officiating appointment.
Full powers, In case officiating appointment for all the
posts in the pay scale of Rs 5100-5700 and above is for a period
exceeding six months the approval of the Central Government
shall be required to be obtained.
23.
To withhold increments.
Full powers in respect of posts with scale of pay the maximum
of which does not exceed Rs. 5000/- per month.
24.
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Bureau of Indian Standards (Powers and Duties of Director-General) Regulations, 1987
To allow an employee to count extraordinary leave for
increments.
Full powers in respect of posts with scale of pay the maximum
of which does not exceed Rs. 5000/- per month.
25.
To grant subsistence allowance to an employee under
suspension.
Full powers in respect of posts with scale of pay the maximum
of which does not exceed Rs. 5000/- per month.
26.
To allow travel by air to employees.
Full powers in the case of employees entitled to first class
railway fare.
27.
To sanction telephone installations.
Full powers.
.[28.]
[Inserted vide GSR No. 69(E), dated 9 February, 1990]
To nominate delegations to international meetings after
consulting the concerned Division Council/Sectional Committee of
the Bureau and other interests concerned with the subject matter
under discussion.
Full powers within the budget provision subject to report to
Executive Committee.
29.
To sanction expenditure on entertainment and light
refreshments.
Full powers within the budget provision.
30.
To sanction expenditure on grants-in-aid for welfare of
employees in accordance with Central Government practice.
Full powers within the budget provision.
31.
To sanction grants-in-aid for research and testing.
Full powers within the budget provision.
32.
To sanction TA and DA to Bureau and committee members as
admissible under the regulations.
Full powers.
33.
To decide the scope and extent of insurance of Bureau's
property and sanction expenditure.
Full powers.
34.
To sponsor an employee for undergoing a specialized course of
training in India and to sanction expenditure therefor.
Full powers within the budget provision.
35.
To grant special pay to employees.
In confirmity with the orders of the Central Government on
the subject.
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Bureau of Indian Standards (Powers and Duties of Director-General) Regulations, 1987
36. []
[Inserted vide GSR No. 389(E), dated 26 May, 1999.]
To sanction payment of honorarium/fee to outside experts for
special service or advice.
Up to Rs. 2000/- in each case.
37.
To sanction demurrage/wharfage charges.
Full powers subject to report to the Executive Committee
where expenditure exceed Rs 1000/- in each case.
38.
To grant pre-mature increments to employees.
Full powers subject to guidelines laid down by the Central
Government, if any.
39.
To sanction loans and advances to employees in accordance
with the Central Government orders.
Full powers.
40.
To appoint officers as inspecting officers and furnish them
with a certificate of appointment.
Full powers.
41.
To authorize an officer or officers to authenticate orders
and decisions of, and other instruments issued, by the Bureau.
Full powers.
42.
To exempt use of any name, mark or trade-mark referred to in
section 12 of the Act from the operation thereof in accordance
with the provisions of rule 14.
Full powers.
43.
To obtain from licensees any information and samples of any
material or substance used in relation to any article or
process.
Full powers.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6