
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Commission Of Sati (Prevention) Rules, 1988
The Commission Of Sati (Prevention) Rules, 1988
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/62792864/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
Union of India - Act
The Commission Of Sati (Prevention) Rules, 1988
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Commission Of Sati (Prevention) Rules, 1988
Rule THE-COMMISSION-OF-SATI-PREVENTION-RULES-1988 of 1988
Published on 21 March 1988
Commenced on 21 March 1988
[This is the version of this document from 21 March 1988.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Commission Of Sati (Prevention) Rules, 1988
Published vide G.S.R. 360(E), dated 21.3.1988, published in the Gazette of India, Ext.,  Pt.II, Section 3(i), dated
21.3.1988.
106.
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 of the Commission of Sati (Prevention) Act, 1987, the Central
Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.- (1) These rules may  be called The Commission Of Sati (Prevention) Rules, 1988.
(2)
. They shall come into force on the date  of their
publication in the Officail Gazette.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Commission Of Sati (Prevention) Rules, 1988
Published on 21.3.1988.
2.
Definitions.-(1) In these rules, unless the context  otherwise requires,-
(a "Act" means the Commission of Sati (Prevention) Act, 1987 (
3 of  1988
);
(b)
prohibitory order means an order issued under section 6;
(c)
section means section of the Act.
(2)
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules and defined in the Act shall have the same meanings as are
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Delegation of power to prohibit certain acts
(1)
The State Government may, by order and subject to such conditions as it may deem fit to impose, direct that the powers
of the Collector or the District Magistrate under section 6 may also be exercised by such other officers, not below the
rank of the village officers.
4.
Prohibitory orders under section 6, how made
(1)
Every prohibitory order under section 6 shall be made by beat of drum or other customary mode, in the concerned
village, or in case of town or city, in the locality in which the act prohibited is likely to occur or has taken place.
(2)
The prohibitory order shall be displayed at some conspicuous place in the area or areas to which such acts relates and
a copy thereof shall also be displayed in the office of the officer issuing the prohibitory order and such display shall be
taken as a sufficient notice to all persons concerned in the area or areas to which such order relates.
5.
Manner of making order for removal of temples or structures under sub-section (1) of section 7
(1)
Before making any order under sub-section (1) of section 7 for removal of any temple or structure, the State
Government or any other officer authorised by the State Government in this behalf, shall give at least 90 days notice to
the person or persons involved in the acts complained of, and also to the owners and occupiers of the temple or
structure proposed to be removed.
(2)
The notice under sub-rule (1) shall specify
(1)
the temple/structure proposed to be removed, its location and other particulars,
(2)
the owners/occupiers of the temple/structure, and
(3)
the specific instance or instances of worship or ceremony contravening the provisions of section 7.
(3)
The State Government or the officer authorised by the State Government in this behalf shall, after giving reasonable
opportunity of being heard to the persons specified in the notice, order the removal of the temple or structure through a
police officer not below the rank of the Sub-Inspector.
6.
Manner of making order for removal of temples or structures under sub-section (2) of section 7
(1)
After issue of a prohibitory order under section 6, the Collector or the District Magistrate, or such other officer as directed
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Commission Of Sati (Prevention) Rules, 1988
by the State Government by order under rule 3, shall, before making any order for removal of any temple or structure
under sub-section (2) of section 7, give at least 90 days notice to the person or persons involved in the acts complained
of, and also to the owners and occupiers of the temple or structure proposed to be removed.
(2)
The Collector or the District Magistrate, or such other officer as directed by the State Government by order under rule 3,
shall follow the provisions of sub-rules (2) and (3) of rule 4 in the case of orders made under this rule.
7.
Inventory and forfeiture of the property of temple or structure
.As soon as the order of removal of the temple or structure is executed, the State Government or the Collector or the
District Magistrate, or as the case may be, the officer as directed by the State Government by order under rule 3, shall
prepare an inventory of all the material and other property obtained after removal of such temple or structure specifying
in it the place where it is lodged or kept, and shall forward the intimation thereof to the Special Court for declaration of
forfeiture of the said material or property to the State under section 13, if the Special Court considers it necessary so to
do, and shall also give a copy of the inventory to the owners/occupiers of the temple/structure removed.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3