
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Electrical Appliances (Quality Control) Order, 1988
The Electrical Appliances (Quality Control) Order, 1988
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/189479946/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Electrical Appliances (Quality Control) Order, 1988
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Electrical Appliances (Quality Control) Order, 1988
Rule THE-ELECTRICAL-APPLIANCES-QUALITY-CONTROL-ORDER-1988 of 1988
Published on 18 March 1988
Commenced on 18 March 1988
[This is the version of this document from 18 March 1988.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Electrical Appliances (Quality Control) Order, 1988
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 346 (E), dated March 18, 1988 published in the Gazette of India, (Extraordinary),
dated 18th March, 1988 pages 3-5
Last Updated 26th July, 2019
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (
10 of 1955
), the Central Government hereby makes the following Order, namely,-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Order may be called the Electrical Appliances (Quality Control) Order, 1988.
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Electrical Appliances (Quality Control) Order, 1988
(2)
It shall come into force on the 1st day of July, 1988 for electrical appliances mentioned at Serial Nos. 1 to 4 in the
Schedule attached to this Order and on the 1st day of September, 1988, for electrical appliances mentioned at Serial
Nos. 5 to 7 in the said Schedule.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
"Appropriate Authority" means any officer not below the rank of Director in the Department of Industrial Development or
Civil Supplies or Director of Industries of the State Government or any other officer of equivalent rank appointed by the
Central or the State Governments or the Bureau of Indian Standards to implement the provisions of this Order;
(b)
"Bureau" means Bureau of Indian Standards;
(c)
"Dealer" in relation to electrical appliances means a person who or a firm or a Hindu undivided family which, carries on,
directly or otherwise, the business of buying, selling, supplying or distributing any such appliance, whether in cash or for
deferred payment or for commission, remuneration or other valuable consideration;
(d)
"Electrical" Appliances" means the electrical appliances specified in column (2) of the Schedule;
(e)
"Manufacturer" in relation to electrical appliances means a person who, or a firm or a Hindu undivided family which,
produces, makes, assembles or manufactures any such appliances and includes a person who or a firm or Hindu
undivided family which claims such appliances to be produced, made assembled or manufactured by such person or
firm or Hindu undivided family, as the case may be; .
(f)
"Schedule" means the Schedule annexed to this Order;
(g)
"Specified Standard" in relation to an electrical appliance mentioned in column (2) of the Schedule, means the standard
as specified in the corresponding entry in column (3) of the said Schedule;
(h)
"Standard Mark" means the Bureau of Indian Standards Certification Mark specified by the Bureau to represent a
particular Indian Standard and also includes any Indian Standards Institution Certification Mark specified by the Indian
Standards Institution;
(i)
"State Government" includes a Union Territory Administration.
3.
Prohibition regarding manufacture, sale, etc. of electrical appliances specified, in column (2) of the Schedule.
(1)
No person shall by himself or by any person on his behalf manufacture or store for sale, sell or distribute any Electrical
Appliance which does not conform to the specified standard and it shall be with Standard Mark of the Bureau. Provided
that nothing in this Order shall apply in relation to export of Electrical Appliances which do not conform to the specified
standard by conform to any specification required by the foreign buyer and such specification shall not in any case be
less than the specified standard.
(2)
The sub-standard or defective electrical appliances or raw material or components which do not conform to the specified
standard shall be deformed beyond use and disposed of as scrap.
4.
Certification of manufacturers.
(1)
All manufacturers of electrical appliances shown in Column (2) of the Schedule shall make an application to the Bureau
for obtaining licence for use of the Standard Mark, within 45 days of the issue of this Order.
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Electrical Appliances (Quality Control) Order, 1988
(2)
The grant of licence by the Bureau for use of the Standard Mark shall be as per provisions under the Bureau of Indian
Standard Act, 1986, and the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder.
(3)
When any person himself or by any person on his behalf proposes to manufacture electrical appliances shown in
Column (2) of the Schedule, he shall make an application to the Bureau within 45 days of commencement of production
and obtain licence before the coming into force of this Order.
(4)
Consequent to the lapsing/cancellation of any licence or closure of application by the Bureau for one or more of the
electrical appliance shown in Column (2) of the Schedule, the appropriate authority shall also be informed.
5.
Prohibition of storage, sale and distribution.
- No. person shall himself or by any person acting on his behalf store for sale, sell or distribute any electrical appliance
shown in Column (2) of the Schedule which does not bear the Standard Mark of the Bureau and manufactured by a
person who has obtained a Certification Mark Licence for the purpose.
6.
Power to call for information, etc.
- The appropriate authority may with a view to securing compliance with this Order,-
(a)
require any person engaged in the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution of any electrical appliance to give
such information as it deems necessary in relation to the manufacture, storage, for sale, sale or distribution of any
electrical appliance for the implementation of this Order or require any such person to furnish to it samples of any
electrical appliance or any component of any electrical appliance;
(b)
inspect or cause to be inspected any books or other documents or any electrical appliance or the components of any
electrical appliance kept by or belonging to or in the possession or under the control of any person engaged in the
manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution of any electrical appliance;
(c)
cause an officer authorised under clause (9) to enter and search any premises and seize any electrical appliance in
respect of which it has reason to believe that a contravention of this Order has been committed or the said electrical
appliance is not of the specified standard.
(d)
the provisions of Section 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1973 (2 of 1974) relating to search and seizure shall,
so far as may be, apply to search and seizure under this clause.
7.
Testing of samples.
- Samples of any electrical appliance bearing the Standard Mark and drawn by the Appropriate Authority, for
ascertaining whether it is of the specified standard, shall be tested in the laboratory approved by the Bureau and in the
manner as determined by the Bureau.
8.
Delegation of power.
- The appropriate authority may by general or special order in writing authorise any officer specified in clause (a) of
paragraph 2 to exercise on its behalf all or any of its functions under this Order:
Provided that no officer who is not of a gazetted rank, and in the case of Bureau who is not of a rank equivalent to
gazetted officer, shall be authorised by the appropriate authority to exercise the powers of search and seizure under
clause (c) of paragraph 6.
9.
Power to issue direction to manufacturers and dealer.
- The appropriate authority may issue such directions to manufacturers and dealers, consistent with the provisions of
this Order, as may be necessary in carrying out the purposes of this Orders.
10.
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Electrical Appliances (Quality Control) Order, 1988
Compliance of direction.
- Every person engaged in the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution of any electrical appliance, to whom
any direction is issued under this Order, shall comply with such direction.
11.
Obligation to furnish information.
- No manufacturer or dealer shall with intent to evade the provisions of this Order, refuse to give any information lawfully
demanded from him under Clause 6 or conceal, destroy, mutilate or deface any books or documents or any electrical
appliance shown in column (2) of the Schedule kept by such person or in the possession or control of such person.
12.
Penalty.
- Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this Order or fails to carry out any direction or requisition made
thereunder shall be punishable and the property in respect of which the order has been contravened, shall be liable to
forfeiture under Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (
10 of 1955
).
13.
Appeal.
(1)
Any manufacturer or dealer aggrieved by any decision of the appropriate authority may prefer an appeal in writing to the
Central Government, within 30 days from the date of receipt by him of the copy of the Order communicating such
decision:
Provided that the Central Government may admit any appeal after the expiry of the period aforesaid if it is satisfied that
the appellant was prevented sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.
(2)
On receipt of the appeal under sub-clause (1), the Central Government may, after giving the appellant an opportunity of
being heard, pass such order as it may deem fit.
of Electrical Appliance
SI. No.
Electrical Appliances
Standard
1
2
3
1.
Electric Immersion Water Heater
IS :
368
2.
Electric Iron
IS :
366
3.
Electric Stoves
IS :
2994
4.
Electric Radiators
IS :
269
5.
Switches for domestic and similar purposes
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Electrical Appliances (Quality Control) Order, 1988
IS :
3854
6.
2 Amps. switches for domestic and similar
purposes
IS :
4949
7.
3 Pin plugs and socket outlets
IS :
1293
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5