
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (Determination of Conditions of Service of Employee) ...
Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (Determination of Conditions
of Service of Employee)  Act, 1988
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/38492624/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (Determination of Conditions of Service of Employee)  Act, 1988
UNION OF INDIA
India
Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (Determination of Conditions of Service of Employee)  Act, 1988
Act 44 of 1988
Published on 3 September 1988
Commenced on 3 September 1988
[This is the version of this document from 3 September 1988.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (Determination of Conditions of Service of Employee)  Act, 1988
No. 44 of 1988
1437.
Object and Reasons.- Prior to 1976, Burmah Shell had two companies in  India, namely, the Burmah Shell Refineries
Limited  (Burmah Shell Refineries) and the Burmah Shell Oil Storage and Distributing Company of India Limited
(Burmah  Shell). While the former was exclusively concerned,with  the refining of crude as its only activity, the latter was 
concerned with the sale, supply and distribution of petroleum products in the country. These two companies had 
common shareholders,
2. In 1976, the undertakings of Burmah Shell were  acquired by the Central Government by the provisions of  the
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (Determination of Conditions of Service of Employee) ...
Burmah Shell (Acquisition of Undertakings in India)  Act, 1976. Subsequently, by a process of share transfer,  all the
shares of Burmah Shell Refineries were transferred  to the President of India thereby making it a Government  company.
The assets and liabilities of Burmah Shell which  were acquired by the Act of 1976, were vested in the said  Government
company in accordance with the powers conferred under section 7 of the 1976 Act and the officers  and employees of
Burmah Shell were also transferred to  the said Company by section 9 of that Act. Thus, from  1976, the Burmah Shell
Refineries (which had then become a Government company) were not only engaged in  refining activities but also in the
sale, supply and distribution of petroleum products in the country. The name of  the company was also changed to
Bharat Refineries Limited and then to Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited  (Bharat Petroleum) from 1977.
3. The Bharat Petroleum now consists, therefore, of three  categories of employees. They are the employees of  Burmah
Shell Refineries who continued to serve In that  company even after it became a Government company; the,  employee
of Burmah Shell whose services wereransferred  to Burmah Shell Refineries under the provisions of the 1976  Act and
the employees recruited by Bharat Petroleum after  it became a Government company.
4. Out of the first two categories of employees mentioned above, a few have not agreed to abide by the public  sector
wage policy and therefore continue to enjoy the  emoluments and other conditions of service to which they  were entitled
to under the aforesaid companies even after  Burmah Shell Refineries became a Government company.  or. as the case
may be, after the nationalisation of Burmah  Shell. The emoluments and other conditions of service of  the third category
of employees mentioned above and who  were recruited by Bharat Petroleum were, however, sought  to be regulated
after taking into consideration the conditions of service applicable to employees in other public sector companies in
accordance with the wage policy of  the Government for public sector that there should as far  as possible, be parity in
the conditions of service of public sector companies. But as these conditions of service  are less favourable, this
category of employees claimed  that their emoluments and other conditions of service  should also he on the same lines
as are applicable to the  employees of Burmah Shell Refineries and Burmah Shell.
5. On a dispute being taken to the Industrial Tribunal  it was held that in view of the provisions of section 18(3)  of the
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, these employees are  also entitled to the same conditions of service as are applicable to
the other two categories of employees. An appeal had been preferred to the Bombay High Court against  the award of
the Tribunal and the same is pending. The  award of the Industrial Tribunal, if given effect to in Bharat  Petroleum, will
amount to giving a higher wage structure  in this Corporation alone and other employees in similar  undertakings may
demand that they should also get the  benefits of the higher scales of pay on the principle of  "equal pay for equal work".
This may eventually result in  high wage islands and depart radically from the public  sector wage policy. It is, therefore,
necessary that the conditions of service of the employees of Bharat Petroleum  should be made comparable with the
conditions of service prevalent in other public sector companies in accordance with Government of India's wage policy.
As the continuance of the conditions of service of the employees of  the former companies is due to historical reasons
and as  the conditions of service of the employees of Bharat Refineries were arrived at as a result of settlements made
by  the company and its workmen, and the demand of the  post-nationalisation employees for parity with the employees
of the former companies may have to be conceded in  view of the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and  the
award of the Industrial Tribunal, any attempt to make  the conditions of service of the officers and employees of  Bharat
Petroleum comparable with conditions of service  of other public sector companies can only be done by legislation. Such
a legislation could provide for determination of comparable conditions of service for all the categories of employees of
Bharat Petroleum, but at the same  time, provide for protection to those pre-nationalisation  employees of their
conditions of service.
6. The Bill accordingly seeks to achieve this object by  empowering the Central Government to frame one or more 
schemes for determination of the conditions of service of  the officers and employees of Bharat Petroleum. - Gaz.  of
Ind.. 10-5-1988. Pt. II. Section 2. Ext., p. 4 (No. 27).
[3rd September, 1988.]
An Act to empower the Central Government to determine the conditions of service of the officers and employees of
Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited and for matters connected therewith.
WHEREAS for the purpose of making the conditions of service of this officers and employees of the Bharat Petroleum
Corporation Limited comparable with the conditions of service of the officers and employees of other public sector
companies, it is necessary to empower the Central Government to determine the conditions of service of the officers and
employees of the said Corporation.
BE  it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (Determination of Conditions of Service of Employee) ...
1.
Short title and Commencement.-
(1)
This Act may be called the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (Determination of Conditions of Service of Employees)
Act, 1988.
(2)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 2nd day of July, 1988.
2.
Definitions.-
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Burmah Shell" means the Burmah Shell Oil Storage and Distributing Company of India Limited, a foreign company
within the meaning of section 591 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)as it existed immediately before the appointed
day under the Burmah Shell (Acquisition of Undertakings of India) Act, 1976 (2 of 1976.);
(b)
"Burmah Shell Refineries" means the Burmah Shell Refineries Limited, a company registered under the Indian
Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913.), as it existed immediately before it became a Government company;
(c)
"Corporation" means the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited, a Government company, as defined in section 617 of
the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956.);
(d)
"officers and employee of the Corporation" includes,-
(i)
the officers and employees who were in the service of the Burmah Shell Refineries and who continued to be in the
service of the said company after it became a Government company; and
(ii)
the officers and employees who were in the service of Burmah Shell and whose services were transferred to the
Corporation by section 9 of the Burmah Shell (Acquisition of Undertakings in India) Act,  1976 (2 of 1976.);
(e)
"public sector company" means any corporation established by or under any Central Act or a Government company as
defined in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956.).
3.
Power of Central Government to frame schemes to determine conditions of service of officers and employees.-
(1)
Where the Central Government is satisfied that for the purpose of making the conditions of service of the officers and
employees of the Corporation comparable with the conditions of service of the officer and employee of other public
sector companies, it is necessary so to do, it may, notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial Disputes Act,
1947 (34 of 1947.) or any other law or any agreement, settlement, award or other instrument for the time being in force,
and notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court, tribunal or other authority, frame one or more schemes
for the purpose of determination of the conditions of service of the officers and employees of the Corporation.
(2)
While framing any scheme under sub-section (1), it shall be competent for the Central Government to provide for the
continuance, after the commencement of any such scheme, of such of the emoluments or other benefits as were
payable to, or, entitled to be received by, the officers and employees of the Corporation referred to in sub-clause (i)
Burmah Shell Refineries became a Government company, or as the case may be, immediately before the appointed day
under the Burmah Shell (Acquisition of Undertakings in India ) Act, 1976 (2 of 1976.).
(3)
The Central Government may make a scheme to amend or vary any scheme made under sub-section (1).
(4)
The power to make any scheme under sub-section (1) or sub-section (3) shall include,-
(a)
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (Determination of Conditions of Service of Employee) ...
the power to give retrospective effect to any such scheme or any provision thereof; and
(b)
the power to amend, by way of addition, variation or repeal, any existing provisions determining the conditions of service
of the officers and employees of the Corporation in force immediately before the commencement of this Act.
(5)
Every scheme made under sub-section (1) or sub-section (3) shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before
each House of Parliament, while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session
or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the scheme, or both Houses agree that
the scheme shall not be made, the scheme shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything
previous done under that scheme.
4.
Repeal and saving.-
(1)
The Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (Determination of Conditions of Service of Employee) Ordinance, 1988 (6 of
1988.)  is hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have
been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4