
----- PAGE 1 -----
The National Housing Bank General Regulations, 1988
The National Housing Bank General Regulations, 1988
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/3156823/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The National Housing Bank General Regulations, 1988
UNION OF INDIA
India
The National Housing Bank General Regulations, 1988
Rule THE-NATIONAL-HOUSING-BANK-GENERAL-REGULATIONS-1988 of 1988
Published on 8 October 1988
Commenced on 8 October 1988
[This is the version of this document from 8 October 1988.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The National Housing Bank General Regulations, 1988
Published S.O. 935(E), dated 8.10.1988, published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2, Section 3(ii),
dated 8.10.1988.
18.
/801
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 55 of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 (53 of
1987), the Reserve Bank of India, in consultation with the Central Government, hereby makes the following regulations,
namely:-
Chapter I
Introductory
1.
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
The National Housing Bank General Regulations, 1988
Short title and commencement
.-(1) These regulations may be called The National Housing Bank General Regulations, 1988.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions
.-In these regulations, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,-
(a)
"Act" means the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 (53 of 1987);
(b)
"Member" means a member of the Executive Committee constituted under sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Act and
includes a member of any other committee constituted under sub-section (3) of that section.
Chapter II
Meetings Of The Board And Committees
3.
Meetings of the Board
.-(1) The Board shall ordinarily meet once a quarter in each year.
(2)
Meetings of the Board shall be convened by the Chairman, or in his absence, by the Managing Director or in the
absence of both, by any other director nominated by the Chairman or the Managing Director, as the case may be, and
shall be held at Delhi or at such other place in India as may be directed by the Board.
(3)
Any five directors may, for the purpose of the consideration of the business to be specified in their requisition, require
the Chairman or the Managing Director to convene a meeting of the Board and the Chairman or the Managing Director
as the case may be, shall, on receipt of such requisition, convene a meeting of the Board giving sufficient notice:
Provided that the date of the meeting so convened shall not be later than 21 days from the date of the requisition.
(4)
Ordinarily, not less than one clear fortnight's notice shall be given of each meeting of the Board and such notice shall be
sent to every director to his registered address. Should it be necessary to convene an emergency meeting, sufficient
notice shall be given to every director who is at that time in India.
(5)
No business other than that for which the meeting was convened shall be discussed at a meeting of the Board, except
with the consent of the person presiding at the meeting.
(6)
Five directors, of whom one shall be a director nominated under clause (d) or clause (e) of sub-section (1) of section 6 of
the Act, shall form a quorum for the transaction of business.
(7)
A copy of the minutes of each meeting of the Board shall be signed by the person presiding and circulated for the
information of the directors as soon as possible after the meeting and shall be signed by the person presiding at the next
succeeding meeting by way of confirmation.
4.
Resolution without meeting of Board valid
.-A resolution in writing circulated to all the directors in India and approved and signed by a majority of such directors
who are then in India (of whom one shall be the Chairman or a director nominated by the Reserve Bank) shall be valid
and effectual and shall be deemed to be the resolution passed by the Board on the date on which it is approved and
signed by the last signatory to the resolution:
Provided that if any dissenting director requires in writing that any resolution so passed shall be placed before a meeting
of the Board, the resolution shall not be deemed to be valid and effectual as aforesaid, unless the same is passed at
such a meeting.
5.
The Executive Committee
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
The National Housing Bank General Regulations, 1988
.-(1) The Executive Committee of the National Housing Bank shall consist of the Chairman, the Managing Director and
[not more than five directors]
[ Substituted by S.O. 1041(E), dated 10.9.2003.]
of the Board to be nominated by the Board of whom at least one shall be a director other than the directors nominated
under clause (d) and clause (e) of sub-section (1) of section 6 of the Act.
(2)
The Executive Committee shall have full powers to transact all the usual business of the National Housing Bank except
in such matters as are specifically reserved to the Board by the Act or regulation 9 of these regulations.
(3)
Meetings of the Executive Committee shall be convened by the Chairman, or in his absence, by the Managing Director
or, in the absence of both, by any other director nominated by the Chairman or the Managing Director, as the case may
be, and shall be held at New Delhi or at such other place as may be specified by the person convening the meeting.
(4)
Any three of the directors referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall form a quorum for the transaction of business by the
Executive Committee.
(5)
A resolution in writing and circulated to the members of the Executive Committee referred to in sub-regulation (1) and
[approved by any four of them]
[ Substituted by S.O. 1041(E), dated 10.9.2003.]
shall be valid and effectual and shall be deemed to be the resolution passed by the Executive Committee on the date on
which it is signed by the last signatory to the resolution.
(6)
The provisions of the Act and save as otherwise provided herein, these regulations shall apply to the meetings of the
Executive Committee as if they were meetings of the Board.
6.
Other Committees
.-(1) Any Committee (other than the Executive Committee) constituted under sub-section (3) of section 12 of the Act
shall, in exercise of the powers entrusted to it, be bound by such general or special directions as the Board may give
from time to time.
(2)
Meetings of such Committee shall be called from time to time by the person appointed as the convenor of the
Committee by the Board at Delhi or at such other place in India as may be specified by him.
(3)
The quorum for the meeting of any such Committee shall be one-third of its strength (any fraction contained in that one
third being rounded off as one) or two members, whichever is higher.
(4)
The provisions of the Act and save as otherwise provided herein, these regulations shall apply to meetings of such a
Committee as if they were meetings of the Board.
Chapter III
Fees And Allowances Of Directors And Members
7.
Fees and allowances
.-(1) Subject to the provisions of the proviso to sub-section (5) of section 7 of the Act, every director shall be entitled to
receive a fee of [Rs. 5,000]
[ Substituted by No. NHB-Regulation/2004, dated 15.1.2004.]
for each meeting of the Board which he attends.
(2)
Unless he is in receipt of any remuneration, including honorarium (other than casual remuneration) from the National
Housing Bank, every member shall be entitled to receive a fee of [Rs. 2,500]
[Substituted by No. NHB-Regulation/2004, dated 15.1.2004. ]
for each Committee meeting which he attends.
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
The National Housing Bank General Regulations, 1988
(3)
In addition to such fees, directors and members shall be reimbursed their travelling, halting and other expenses
including accommodation on such scales as may be fixed from time to time by the Reserve Bank of India.
Chapter IV
General Provisions
8.
Manner and form in which contracts binding on the National Housing Bank may be executed
.-(1) Contracts on behalf of the National Housing Bank may be made as follows:-
Any contract which, if made between private persons, would, by law, be required to be in writing, signed by the parties to
be charged therewith, may be made on behalf of the National Housing Bank in writing signed by any person acting
under its authority, express or implied, and may be in the same manner be varied or discharged.
(2)
All contracts made according to the provisions of this regulation shall be valid and binding on the National Housing
Bank.
9.
Certain powers to be exercised by the Board only
.-Save as otherwise provided in the Act the following powers on behalf of the National Housing Bank shall be exercised
only by the Board namely:-
(a)
approval of the balance sheet relating to the General Fund referred to in sub-section (1) of section 37 of the Act.
(b)
approval of appropriation of profits and other usual and necessary provisions relating to the said General Fund.
(c)
approval of write-off of losses/bad debts in excess of rupees one lakh.
10.
Accounts, receipts and documents of Bank by whom to be signed
.-The Chairman, the Managing Director or such of the officers of the National Housing Bank as are authorised in this
behalf by the Board by notification in the Gazette of India shall have power to execute, on behalf of the National Housing
Bank, lease deeds, transfers, conveyances, charges and all other deeds relating to or affecting rights to or in immovable
property, to endorse and transfer promissory notes, stock receipts, stocks, debentures, shares, securities and
documents of title to goods standing in the name of or held in the name of or held by the National Housing Bank, and to
draw, accept and endorse bills of exchange and other instruments in the current and authorised business of the National
Housing Bank and to sign all other accounts, receipts and documents connected with or incidental to such business.
11.
Plaints, etc., by whom to be signed
.-Plaints, written statements, affidavits and all other documents connected with legal proceedings may be signed and
verified on behalf of the National Housing Bank by any officer empowered by or under regulation 10, to sign documents
for and on behalf of the National Housing Bank.
12.
Issue of bonds
.-(i) The bonds or debentures of the National Housing shall be issued over the signature of the Chairman or the
Managing Director which may be printed, engraved or lithographed or impressed by such other mechanical process as
the National Housing Bank may directs;
(ii)
A signature so printed, engraved, lithographed or impressed shall be as valid as if it had been inscribed in the proper
hand writing of the signatory himself.
13.
Common seal of the Bank
.-The common seal of the National Housing Bank shall be affixed to any instrument only in the presence of at least three
directors including the Chairman or the Managing Director, who shall sign their names to the instrument in token of their
presence, and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any person who may sign the instrument as a
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
The National Housing Bank General Regulations, 1988
witness. Unless so signed as aforesaid, such instrument shall be of no validity.
14.
Annual statement of accounts
.-The annual accounts of the National Housing Bank shall be prepared and set out in,-
(a)
a balance-sheet as on the 30th June of the year as specified in Form A annexed hereto or as near thereto as
circumstances admit;
(b)
a profit and loss account for the year ended 30th June as specified in Form B annexed hereto or as near thereto as
circumstances admit.
Form 'A'
National Housing Bank
Balance Sheet as at 30th June
General Fund
Previous year
This year
Rs.
Rs.
Liabilities
Schedules
1.Capital
I
2.Reserves
II
3.Profit & Loss Account
III
4.Bonds & Debentures
5.Deposits
6.Borrowings
IV
7.Gifts, Grants, Donations & Benefactions
8.Current Liabilities & Provisions
9.Other Liabilities
Assets
1.Cash & Bank Balances
V
2.Investments
VI
3.Loans & Advances
VII
4.Bills Purchased, Discounted, Rediscounted
5.Fixed Assets
VIII
6.Other Assets
IX
7.Profit & Loss Account
Contingent Liabilities
Form 'B'
National Housing Bank
Profit & Loss Account for the year ended 30th June
General Fund
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
The National Housing Bank General Regulations, 1988
Previous year
This year
Rs.
Rs.
Expenditure
1. Interest
2. Staff Salaries, Allowances etc. and Terminal Benefits
3. Directors' and Committee Members' fees and Expenses
4. Audit Fees
5. Rent, Taxes, Electricity and Insurance
6. Postage, Telegrams, Telex and Telephones
7. Law' Charges
8. Stationery, Printing, Advertisement etc.
9. Depreciation
10. Other expenditure
11. Profit carried to Balance Sheet
Income
1. Interest & Discount
2. Income from Investments
3. Commission, Brokerage and Fees
4. Other Income
5. Loss carried to Balance Sheet
To The Balance Sheet
As at 30th June
General Fund
Previous year
This year
Rs.
Rs.
Schedules
Capital
I
1.Authorised
2.Issued and Paid-up (wholly subscribed by the Reserve Bank
of India)
Reserves:
II
1.Reserve Fund
2.Special Fund
3.Other Reserves
Profit & Loss Account:
III
1. Balance as per annnexed accounts
2. Less: Appropriations:
3. Balance of the net profits
Borrowings:
IV
1.From Reserve Bank of India
(i) Out of National Housing Credit (Long Term Operations)
Fund
(ii) Others
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
The National Housing Bank General Regulations, 1988
2. From Government of India
3. From Other Sources
(i) In India
(ii) Outside India
Cash & Bank Balances
V
1. Cash in Hand
2. Balance with Reserve Bank of India
3. Balance with other Banks
(i) In India
(ii) Outside India
Investments
VI
1. Secu rities of Central and State Govts.?at cost or
market value whichever is less
2. Stocks, shares, bonds, debentures and securities of
Housing Finance Institutions
3. Stocks, shares, bonds, debentures and securities of other
institutions
Loans & Advances
VII
1. Housing Finance Institutions;
(i) Housing Finance Companies
(ii) Cooperative Housing Finance Societies
(iii) Others
2. Scheduled Banks:
(i) Commercial Banks
(ii) State Cooperative Banks
(iii) Regional Rural Banks
(iv) Urban Cooperative Banks
(v) Others.
Fixed Assets
VIII
(At cost less depreciation)
1. Premises
2. Others?
Other assets
IX
(Broad break-up may be given)
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7