
----- PAGE 1 -----
The General Service Electric Lamps (Quality Control) Order, 1989
The General Service Electric Lamps (Quality Control) Order, 1989
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/69693103/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The General Service Electric Lamps (Quality Control) Order, 1989
UNION OF INDIA
India
The General Service Electric Lamps (Quality Control) Order, 1989
Rule THE-GENERAL-SERVICE-ELECTRIC-LAMPS-QUALITY-CONTROL-ORDER-1989 of 1989
Published on 24 April 1989
Commenced on 24 April 1989
[This is the version of this document from 24 April 1989.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The General Service Electric Lamps (Quality Control) Order, 1989
Published vide Notification No. 463 (E), dated 24th April, 1989, published in the Gazette of India, (Extraordinary), Part 2,
Section 3 (1), dated 24.4.1989
Last Updated 26th July, 2019
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (
10 of 1955
), the Central Government hereby makes the following Order, namely-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Order may be called the General Service Electric Lamps (Quality Control) Order, 1989.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The General Service Electric Lamps (Quality Control) Order, 1989
(2)
It shall come into force on the date of its publication in the official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"Appropriate Authority" means any officer not below the rank of Director in the Department of Industrial Development or
Civil Supplies or Director, Industries of the State Government or any other officer of equivalent rank appointed by the
Central or the State Government or by the Bureau of Indian Standards to implement the provisions of this Order;
(b)
"Bureau" means Bureau of Indian Standard;
(c)
"Dealer" in relation to General Service Electric Lamps means a person who, or a firm or a Hindu undivided family which,
carries on, directly or otherwise, the business of buying, selling, supplying or distributing any such lamps, whether in
cash or for deferred payment or for commission, remuneration or other valuable consideration;
(d)
"General Service Electric Lamps" means a tungsten filament general service electric lamps up to 100 watts in which light
is produced by means of body heated to incandescence by the passage of electric current and intended for use for
general lighting purpose;
(e)
"Manufacture" in relation to general service electric lamps means a person so, or a firm or a Hindu* undivided family
which, produces, makes, assembles or manufactures any such lamps and includes a person who or a firm or a Hindu
undivided family which claims such lamps to be produced, made, assembled or manufactured by such person or firm or
Hindu undivided family, as the case may be;
(f)
"Specified" means the following:
Indian Standard/Specification
IS No.
Title
IS : 418 : 1978
Specification for General Service Electric Lamps(Tungsten
Filament General Service Electric Lamps).
(g)
"Standard Mark" means the Bureau of Indian Standards Certification Mark specified by the Bureau to represent a
particular Indian Standard as stated in clause (f) of paragraph 2 above.
(h)
"State Government" includes a Union Territory Administration.
3.
Prohibition regarding manufacture, sale etc. of general service electric lamps specified in paragraph 2 (f).
(1)
No person shall by himself or by any person on his behalf manufacture or store for sale, sell or distribute any general
service electric lamp which does not conform to the specified standard and it shall bear the Standard Mark of the
Bureau:
Provided that nothing in this Order shall apply in relation to export of general service electric lamps which do not
conform to the specified standard but conform to any specification required by the foreign buyer and such buyer's
specification shall not in any case be less than the specified standard.
(2)
The sub-standard or defective general service electric lamps or raw-material or components which do not conform to the
specified standard shall be deformed beyond the use and disposed of as scrap.
4.
Certification of manufacturers.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The General Service Electric Lamps (Quality Control) Order, 1989
(1)
All manufacturers of general service electric lamps shown in clause (f) of paragraph 2, shell make an application to the
Bureau for obtaining licence for use of the standard mark, within 45 days of the issue of this Order.
(2)
The grant of Licences by the Bureau for use of the standard mark shall be as per provisions under the Bureau of Indian
Standards Act, 1986, and the Rules and Regulations, framed, thereunder.
(3)
When any person himself or by any person on his behalf proposes to manufacture general service electric lamps shown
in clause (f) of paragraph 2, he shall not commence production without first obtaining a valid licence from the Bureau for
use of the standard mark.
(4)
Consequent to the lapsing/cancellation of any licence by the Bureau for general service electric lamps shown in clause
(f) of paragraph 2, other appropriate authorities other than the Bureau shall also be informed.
5.
Prohibition of storage, sale and distribution.
- No person shall himself or by any person acting on his behalf store for sale, or distribute any general service electric
lamp shown in clause (f) of paragraph 2 above which does not bear the standard mark of the Bureau and manufactured
by a person who has obtained a Certification Mark Licence for the purpose.
6.
Power to call for information, etc.
- The appropriate authority may with a view to securing compliance with this Order-
(a)
require any person engaged in the manufacture, storage for sale, sales or distribution of any general service electric
lamp to give such information as it deems necessary in relation to the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution
of any general service electric lamp for the implementation of this Order or require any such person to furnish to it
samples of any electric lamp or any component of any electric lamp.
(b)
inspect or cause to be inspected any books or other documents or any general service electric lamp or the components
of any such lamp kept by or belonging to or in the possession or under the control of any person engaged in the
manufacture, storage for sale sale or distribution of any general service electric lamps.
(c)
cause an officer authorised under paragraph (8) to enter and search any premises and seize any general service electric
lamp in respect of which it has reason to believe that contravention of this Order has been committed or the said general
service electric lamp is not of the specified standard.
(d)
the provisions of Section 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) relating to search and seizure shall so
far as may be, apply to searches and seizure under this clause.
7.
Testing of samples.
- Samples of any general service electric lamp bearing the standard mark and drawn by the appropriate authority, for
establishing whether it is of the specified standard, shall be tested in the laboratory approved by the Bureau and in the
manner as determined by the Bureau.
8.
Delegation of powers.
- The Appropriate Authority may by general or special order in writing authorise any officer to exercise on its behalf all or
any of its functions under this Order provide that no officer who is not a Gazetted Officer, shall be authorised by the
appropriate authority to exercise the powers of search and seizure under clause (c) of paragraph 6.
9.
Power to issue direction to manufactures and dealers.
- The appropriate authority may issue such directions to manufacturers and dealers, consistent with the provisions of
this Order, as may be necessary in carrying out the purpose of this Order.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The General Service Electric Lamps (Quality Control) Order, 1989
10.
Compliance of direction.
- Every person engaged in the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution of any general service electric lamps, to
whom any direction is issued under this Order, shall comply with such direction.
11.
Obligation to furnish information.
- No manufacturer or dealer shall with intent to evade the provisions of this Order, refuse to give any information lawfully
demanded from him under paragraph 6 or conceal, destroy, mutilate or deface any books or documents or any general
service electric lamp shown in clause (f) of paragraph 2 kept by such person or in the possession or control of such
person.
12.
Penalty.
- Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this Order or fails to carry out any direction or requisition made
thereunder shall be punishable and property in respect of which the Order has been contravened, shall be liable to
forfeiture under Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (
10 of 1955
).
13.
Appeal.
(1)
Any manufacturer or dealer aggrieved by any decision of the appropriate authority may prefer an appeal in writing to the
Central Government, within 30 days from the date of receipt by him of the copy of the order communicating such
decision:
Provided that the Central Government may admit any appeal after the expiry of the period aforesaid if it is satisfied that
the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.
(2)
On receipt of the appeal under sub-clause (1) the Central Government may, after giving the appellant an opportunity of
being heard, pass such order as may deem fit.
14.
Repeal and Saving.
- The General Service Electric Lamps (Quality Control) Order, 1986, is hereby repealed, except in respect of things done
or omitted to be done thereunder before such repeal.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4