
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect)
Rules, 1989
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/3843881/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
Rule THE-BORDER-SECURITY-FORCE-CEREMONIALS-AND-MARKS-OF-RESPECT-RULES-1989 of 1989
Published on 10 August 1989
Commenced on 10 August 1989
[This is the version of this document from 10 August 1989.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
Published vide G.S.R. 661, dated 10-8-1989, published in the Gazette of India, Pt.II, Section 3(i), dated 9-9-1989.
320.
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) read with clause (l) of sub-section (2) of section 141 of the Border
Security Force Act, 1968 (
47 of 1968
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely : -
Chapter I
1.
Page 1/24
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called the Border Security Force (Ceremonials and Marks of
Respect) Rules, 1989.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions
.-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Appendix "means Appendix to these rules;
(b)
"armed party "means a party armed with swords, guns or rifles or bearing side arms;
(c)
"senior officers "means the Director-General, Additional Director-General, Inspector-General, Additional
Inspector-General, Deputy Inspector-General and Additional Deputy Inspector-General of the Border Security Force;
(d)
All other words and expressions used in these rules and defined in the Border Security Force Act, 1968 shall have the
meaning respectively assigned to them in the Act.
Chapter II
National Anthem And National Salute And General Salute
3.
National Anthem
.-Two versions of the National Anthem, viz. , the full version comprising the first stanza of the song "Jana Gana Mana
"(playing time approximately 52 seconds) and a short version consisting of the first line of the same stanza (playing time
approximately 20 seconds) shall be played on the following occasions, namely: -
(a)
Full version:
(i)
On all ceremonial occasions when the President pays a visit to the Border Security Force installation.
,(ii) On all ceremonial occasions when the Governor or the Lieutenant Governor attends Ceremonial Parade within his
State or his Union Territory, as the case may be.
(iii)
At Republic Day and Independence Day Parades when the National Flag is unfurled.
(b)
Short version: On all other ceremonial occasions.
4.
National Salute
.-The Salute is given to the accompaniment of National Anthem. It is to be given to the President and to the Governors
or the Lieutenant Governors within their (respective) States or the Union Territories, as the case may be.
5.
General Salute
.-In all other cases, the General Salute is given for which the band plays the prescribed tune.
6.
Courtesy call on Governors
.-When the Governor of a State is officially in a station, the officers of the rank of Commandant and above, stationed and
visiting that station, will pay a courtesy call on him.
7.
Courtesy call by Inspectors-General/Deputy Inspectors-General or the Chief Minister of the State
.-On the occasion of their first visit to a State after assumption of charge, the Inspector-General and Deputy
Inspector-General of the concerned Frontier/State shall call on the Chief Minister of the State. Such calls are not
necessary during such officer 's subsequent visits to the State Capital, unless in the meantime, a new Chief Minister has
assumed office.
Page 2/24
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
Chapter III
Guard Of Honour
8.
General
.-The strength and composition of Guard of Honour shall depend on the status of the personage and shall be laid down
in accordance with orders issued from time to time in this regard by the Central Government. A Guard of Honour may be
drawn from Border Security Force alone, or in conjunction with other Police Forces.
9.
Time of Guard mounting
.-No Guard of Honour shall be mounted between retreat and reveille. It shall also not be mounted during the period of a
State Mourning.
10.
Composition and strength
.-The composition of the Guard of Honour of one hundred and fifty personnel shall consist of such ranks/files as
specified in the Appendix A.
11.
Band/Pipes .-The Guard of Honour shall be accompanied by a band/pipes and drums.
12.
Entitlement and occasions .-The personages entitled to Guard of Honour, Gun Salute and the occasions on which these
shall be presented shall be such as are specified in the following appendices:- -
(a) Civilian  VIPs
-Appendix B
(b) Military  VIPs
-Appendix C.
(c) VIPs or  D.G. Security, or Force or Border Guards of the Foreign Countries
-Appendix D.
13.
Layout of Guards of Honour
.-(1) The Guard of Honour will be formed up:
(a)
in one division when the Guard of 50 rank and file is being provided by the Border Security Force as per Appendix E;
(b)
in two equal divisions when being provided by two Police Forces or when 100 rank and file are being provided by the
Border Security Force as per Appendix F;
(c)
in three equal divisions when three Police Forces are participating or when 150 rank and file are being provided by the
Border Security Force as per Appendix G.
(2)
The Guard will be in two ranks with a distance of 4 paces between the front and rear ranks, and will be dressed at
intervals of 24 inches. The distances between each division, shall be 3 paces. As far as possible, the Guard of Honour
when formed up, will face the direction from which the personage for whom it is mounted, will approach. The Border
Security Force Guards of Honour shall be sized and equalised in a Company.
14.
Position of officers for the Border Security Force Guard
.-The position of officers, subordinate officers and under officers for the Border Security Force Guard of Honour shall be
as follows:-
(a)
the Commander shall be 8 paces in front of the centre of the front rank,
(b)
the next senior officer/subordinate officer shall be 2 paces in front of the second file from the right, the junior
officer/subordinate officer shall be 2 paces in front of the second file from the left,
Page 3/24
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
(c)
the next senior officer/subordinate officer shall be 2 paces in front of the second file from the right, the junior
officer/subordinate officer shall be 2 paces in front of the second file from the left.
15.
Position of officers for Inter Force Guard .-The position of officers, subordinate officers and under officers in an Inter
Police Force Guard of Honour shall be as follows: -
(a)
The Commander shall be 8 paces in front of the centre of the Guard of Honour.
(b)
The Commander of the Central Division shall be in the centre of his division and 2 paces from the front rank. Right
division Commanders shall be 2 paces in front of the second file from the right and left of the Division Commanders and
2 paces in front of the second file from the left.
(c)
The senior under officers of the Force concerned shall be the right guide and the junior shall be the left guide of their
respective divisions.
16.
Position of band
.-The band shall form up on the right rank in the line with the Guard at 7 paces from the Rights guide of the Guard. It
shall be in Column in four files, with 2 paces between each file. The Drum-Major shall be 2 paces in front of the front
rank of the bank and the bandmaster shall be 3 paces in front of the Drum-Major.
17.
Saluting dais and Flags
.-The diagrammatic layout of the Guard of Honour shall be such as specified in Appendix E.
18.
Position of orderly officers
.-There shall always be two officers (orderly officers) who shall stand on either side of the dais, 2 paces to the right and
left of the front edge of it.
19.
Position of conducting officers
.-The conducting officer from the Defence Services/Civil/Border Security Force/Central Police Organisation/State Police,
who receives the VIP and conducts him to the saluting dais, shall, after conducting the VIP to the dais, position himself
in the rear centre of the dais and 3 paces from the dais. The VIP alone will stand on the dais.
20.
Procedure for flying Flag .-When Flag(s) is/(are) required to be flown in conjunction with a Guard of Honour (e.g. ,
National Flag for the President, or our National Flag and the Flag of the country of the visiting head of the State, viz. ,
President and Prime Minister) the following procedure shall be adopted: -
(a)
When only one Flag is required to be flown, it shall be flown from a mast positioned at a suitable distance in the rear
centre of the dais.
(b)
When our National Flag and a Foreign National Flag are both required to be flown, they will be flown from separate
masts of equal height positioned at a distance from and to the near of the dais. Both Flags shall be of the same size, our
National Flag being on the right hand side of the VIP as he faces the Guard of Honour.
21.
Salutes
.-When the VIP has mounted the dais and is in a position to receive the Salute, the Guard of Honour shall give the
Salute (National/General as the case may be) with the band playing the appropriate tune. Orderly officers shall not
Salute, when either the National or General Salute is given to the VIP.
22.
Inspection
.-The procedure for inspection shall be as follows: -
Page 4/24
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
(a)
The Guard Commander shall march forward and report to the VIP. The report shall be in Hindi as under: -
(i)
for the Inter-Forces Guards of Honour: " Unter dal samman Guard Nirikshan Ke liey hazir hai Shariman/Shrimati Ji . "
(ii)
for the Border Security Force Guard of Honour: (name of unit) " Samman Guard Nirikshan Ke liey hazir hai
Shriman/Shrimati Ji . "
(b)
The Guard Commander taking his position on the VIP 's left, shall conduct him to the end. On reaching the right hand
man of the band, the Guard Commander shall move to the VIP 's right and in line with him. He shall walk and not do the
slow march.
(c)
The orderly officer shall not precede the VIP during the inspection except in the case of the President of India. They
shall, on such occasion, do the slow march during the inspection.
(d)
The VIP shall inspect the band, passing in front of the Drum-Major. The band shall not turn their head and eye towards
the VIP during the inspection of the band but shall look straight to the front.
(e)
As soon as the VIP passes the left hand man of the band, the Bandmaster shall turn about and get the band ready and
start playing, taking the time from the first beet of the drum, every officer and men of the Guard will also move their
heads and eyes towards the VIP and will look at the VIP. As the VIP moves on, the officers and men will also move their
heads and eyes looking at him all the time. If the VIP stops during inspection, the movement of heads shall also stop.
(f)
The band shall stop playing as soon as the VIP has finished the inspection and the Guard, taking the time from the last
note of the music, shall turn their heads and eyes to the front.
(g)
Only the front rank of the Guard shall be inspected. The VIP will move in front of the officers, i.e. , he will inspect the
Guard from a distance of 3 or 4 paces from the front rank.
(h)
The VIP shall be conducted by the Guard Commander towards the conducting officer, who shall have moved from his
position behind the dais to a new position suitable to escort the VIP for the inspection. When the VIP has been received
by conducting officer, the Guard Commander shall Salute the VIP. The Guard Commander must be prepared to shake
hand with the VIP, if the VIP so desires.
23.
Marching off the Guard .-The Guard Commander shall return to his post, and after the VIP has proceeded some
distance away from the Guard of Honour he may then stand the Guard at Ease ( Vishram ). The Guard shall, however,
not march off or "Stand Easy "( Aram se) until the VIP for whom it is mounted, has left the place of reception.
24.
Reduction in strength
.-When any local circumstances preclude the provisions of the Guard of Honour of required strength, the number may
be reduced, subject to the condition that any diminution in number shall not affect the honour to which personage is
entitled.
(a)
The Unit Commander should not move with the VIP at the time of inspection of Guard of Honour by the VIP.
(b)
Guard of Honour should only be arranged with prior approval of Senior Headquarters.
Chapter IV
Ceremonial Guards
25.
Forms of Guard
.-There are two forms of Guards, the purposes and functions of which are quite different. These are Ceremonial Guards
Page 5/24
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
and Technical Guards.
26.
Selection of form of Guard
.-Having regard to the functions to be performed, the form of Guard which is to be mounted will be at the discretion of
the Unit or Detachment Commanders, as the case may be.
27.
Ceremonial Guards
.-The Ceremonial Guards shall be mounted for one of the following purposes: -
(a)
To exercise troops in ceremonial drill and to instil in them in highest standards of smartness, cleanliness, discipline and
arms drill so that they have the highest sense of pride in Force.
(b)
To pay compliments, to high ranking officers, or other distinguished persons, between reveille and retreat.
28.
Time for mounting Ceremonial Guard
.-(a) A Ceremonial Guard shall be mounted only between reveille and retreat. It shall not be given any form of protective
task other than the security of its own arms, equipment and the treasure chest.
(b)
On conclusion of its ceremonial functions, or at retreat, a Ceremonial Guard may take over the duties of a tactical Guard
immediately and vice versa.
(c)
A Ceremonial Guard is to be considered at all times the symbol of pride and efficiency of the Unit.
(d)
Its drill, smartness, and turn out shall be of the highest standard. When turned out it shall fall in at attention, and as such
no cautionary words of command are necessary.
29.
Dress for Ceremonial Guard
.-The dress for the Ceremonial Guard both at Quarter Guard and at other places will be as per pattern laid down by the
Inspector-General contained in FHQ Circular No. 2/4/68-P/BSF, dated 31st January, 1969 and such other instructions
as may be issued from time to time by the Director-General.
30.
Procedure for fall in of Guard
.-Ceremonial Guards of strength under five shall fall in, in single line and Guards of strength five to nine will fall in, in two
ranks as specified in the Appendix H. For Guard mounting turning out of inspection, relieving Ceremonial Guards,
posting and relieving of sentries and compliments paid by Guards/sentries, "the Border Security Force Drill Pamphlet
1973 "and such other pamphlets as may be issued from time to time, will be referred.
Chapter V
31.
Object of ceremonial parades
.-The objects of Ceremonial Drill are to promote "Esprit-de-corps "and by attaining a high standard of steadiness and
cohesion in the parade ground to assist in the development of the normal qualities which are essential for sources in
field operations.
32.
Rehearsal .-These objects will be attained only by careful preparation and exact execution on all ceremonial occasions.
To this end practice and rehearsal shall be held at all levels, but units shall not carry out any form of ceremonials other
than covered under these rules.
33.
Procedure
.-(a) This Chapter deals with the Drill formations procedure applicable to normal ceremonial occasion and provides
details of the procedure upto a Battalion level. These could easily be adopted for lower formations upto a company level.
(b)
Page 6/24
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
Officers are expected to interpret these instructions reasonably and intelligently, bearing in mind that slight alterations
may be made to suit the personnel, ground and other exceptional circumstances.
34.
Review and inspections
.-Review and inspections will follow generally, the procedure laid down in the Chapter XIII of the Drill Pamphlet 1973 as
modified from time to time.
35.
Arrival time of officers senior to parade Commander
.-Officers who are senior to the officer commanding the parade, when attending such a parade, should arrive at the
parade ground after the Commander has taken the Salute and not before. (Time of arrival should therefore be shown in
programme).
36.
Saluting at the time of National Salute
.-When the National Salute is given to the personage taking the parade all officers including spectators, shall Salute at
the first note of "Jana Gana Mana "and shall bring down their hands as the last bar ends. The personage for whom the
Salute is given alone will acknowledge the "Present Arm ".
37.
Band Tunes
.-The band must always play the tune appropriate to the type of Salute which may be given, viz : -
National Salute
"Jana Gana  Mana"
General Salute
"General Salute".
38.
Forms of parade
.-The following shall be the procedure of parade: -
(a)
Troops drawn up ready for inspection.
(b)
Parade Commander arrives, is given the appropriate Salute/ compliments and takes over the parade. The officers of the
rank of Additional Deputy Inspector-General and above will be entitled to a General Salute by troops under his
command.
(c)
The reviewing or inspecting officer arrives and is given due honour.
(d)
The parade Commander then moves forward reports to the Inspecting Officer and accompanies him on his inspection.
(e)
After the inspection the Inspecting Officer returns to the saluting base and the parade Commander returns to his position
in front of the troops.
(f)
The troops form map, march past and disperse.
39.
Formation for inspection
.-The formation for inspection may be in line if space permits, otherwise in column. It may sometimes be best to have
dismounted troops in line mechanised units/animal units in the close column.
40.
Points for special attention
.-When the inspection is not on "foot, the parade Commander will stand in the same vehicle (Jeep) behind the Inspecting
Officer, suitable supports will be provided.
41.
Special arrangements when the inspection is on foot .-(a) The orderly officer will accompany the Inspecting Officer as
Page 7/24
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
given in rule 22. In order to ensure that the party moves off in the correct order and relative position, the parade
Commander, when reporting to the Inspecting Officer, must come right upto him. The staff can then position themselves
correctly and the whole party moves off smoothly. (If the Inspecting Officer goes forward to meet the parade
Commander, the staff get out of position).
(b)
The band or bands shall begin to play for the inspection when the Inspecting Officer arrives opposite right hand man of
the front rank.
42.
Participation by other Government forces
.-The question of participation in the parade of detachments of other forces should always be considered where these
are available and it should be arranged wherever possible.
43.
General arrangements
.-In order to avoid confusion all arrangements in connection with an inspection or review of a large body of troops,
necessitate careful preparation under the following headings: -
(a)
Arrangements before the ceremony.
(b)
Arrangements for the ceremony.
(c)
Arrangements for dispersal.
(d)
Arrangements for spectators.
44.
Arrangements before the ceremony
.-These should normally include instructions on the following: -
(a)
The formation in which units are to form up on the inspection line, including any special directions regarding distance
and intervals.
(b)
The method by which units are to adjust their dressing on the inspection line, including details as to markers.
(c)
The massing of bands both the inspection and to the march past.
(d)
When the bands are to play.
(e)
General administrative arrangement, such matters as the preparation of the ground, representatives of the press, traffic
control.
45.
Arrangement for the ceremony
.-These should include -
(a)
An outline of various phases of the ceremonies to be executed.
(b)
The method of signalling words of command and the exact procedure to be adopted on each signal. Loud speakers are
the best means, but they must be reliable and be suitably sited. An alternative method, e.g. , visual signalling must be
laid down to be used in the event of loud speaker breaking down or the words of command not reaching the troops and
the audience particularly those in the rear.
(c)
Any special instructions regarding distance and intervals.
(d)
Page 8/24
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
Any special instructions that may be necessary relating to the actions of the bands and drums.
(e)
The action to be taken by the various units and formations after the march past.
(f)
The method of notifying a cancellation of the parade, e.g. , who takes the decision, who informs and who are informed,
including the means of informing.
(g)
As far as possible Mechanised units should march past on a different axis than those on foot. Former 's axis should be
parallel to the latter 's but further away from saluting base.
(h)
Mechanised units which march past at greater speed behind units on foot, should be allowed to regulate their distances
so that they can pass the saluting point at the correct speed.
(i)
After advancing in review order, an interval should be allowed for engines of mechanical vehicles to be switched off, so
as to allow units on the ranks to hear the commands given.
46.
Arrangements for dispersal .-Special attention must be paid to "Traffic Control "which must be well co-ordinated.
Spectators should be asked to remain in their places till the troops are cleared of the parade ground.
47.
Cordoning of route
.-In addition, it is suggested that cordoning of the route by which the troops march off or the parade remaining at ease
after the march past till the crowd has dispersed will assist in Traffic control.
48.
Arrangements for spectators
.-(a) It is essential that adequate arrangements are made for officials of all forces and for the general public. There
should be the minimum of seats reserved by name and they should be restricted to the highest officials and most
prominent local notables. The remainder of the officials of the civil services and armed forces officers and people of
similar status in non-official life, should be allotted tickets to general enclosures for them all. They should not be
segregated from each other.
(b)
Proper arrangements must also be made for the general public.
(c)
The issue of invitations to those given either individual reserved seats or access to seats in reserved enclosures, should
be done in good time and assistance of local civil officials should be sought so that there are no omissions.
49.
Programmes
.-It is useful to issue a programme of the parade, with notes for spectators as to when they stand up, Salute, take off
their hats, so on. There should also be loud speakers on all large parades commenting on the parade for the benefit of
the spectators, particularly the general public who do not have copy of the programme.
50.
Arrangement
.-There is a tendency in units to have unnecessary ostentation at Ceremonial Parades/functions specially when such
parades/ functions are in connection with the visit of the VIPs. All arrangements for parade functions will be simple and
appropriate, befitting to the occasion.
51.
Ceremonial- "TEEN JAI " .-Whenever it is desired to give "Teen Jai "on ceremonial parades it will take the form of a
personal greeting to the individual concerned. No form of improvised "National Cry "will be used.
"Teen Jai "may be given on ceremonial parades to the President, Vice-President, the Prime Minister and the Home
Minister in the following manner:
Commander-Parade
Name of the personage ....................ki Jai (Repeated 3 times).
Page 9/24
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
52.
Words of command and drill procedure
.-For the words of command and drill procedure, "The Border Security Force Drill Pamphlet, 1973 "and such other
pamphlets, as may be issued from time to time, shall be referred to.
Note .-(a) Around the dais only people in uniform shall be present. Broadcasters or radio recorders shall have their
tables at some distance behind the dais. Microphones when brought up to the person taking the Salute shall be brought
by a person in uniform.
(b)
While the parade is on, persons in plain clothes shall not be permitted to wander about in front of spectators. The Press
and Photographers shall be properly controlled by an officer.
Chapter VI
53.
Commemoration parade
.-A Commemoration Parade is done annually by the Border Security Force and all other Police Organisations for paying
Tributes to the Martyrs, which should be attended to the maximum number of personnel.
54.
Procedure
.-The procedure for holding Border Security Force Commemoration Parade shall be as follows: -
(a)
The parade shall fall in a hollow square facing the saluting basel/ memorials wherever exists.
(b)
On arrival of the Senior Officers/VIP, the parade will give present arms, after which the parade will be brought to
"Vishram ".
(c)
The Senior Officer shall then read out the names of those who have laid down their lives/killed in action during the last
twelve months.
(d)
After the names of the martyrs have been read out, the Parade Commander shall bring the parade to "Savdhan " ,
"Salami Shastra " and "Shok Shastra " .
(e)
Then the Buglers shall sound "Last Post ". All officers and Subordinate Officers shall Salute. On completion of the Last
Post all officers and subordinate officers bring down their hands and all those taking part in the parade bow down their
heads.
(f)
On completion of two minutes 'silence the parade Commander brings the parade to alert by saying "Parade "-All raise
their heads.
(g)
The parade Commander then orders "Salami Shastra " and the Buglers sound "Rouse ". All officers and subordinate
officers Salute.
(h)
On completion of the Rouse, the parade commander orders "Bazu Shastra Vishram " .
(i)
The parade shall be brought to "Savdhan " and the senior officer shall leave. The parade then is marched off.
Note .-
(i)
Spectators shall come to attention when the highest ranking officer arrives and parade Commander orders "Parade
Savdhan " .
(ii)
On Command.- "Vishram " they stand-at-ease.
(iii)
When the parade is in Mourning Arm all spectators shall come to attention. Officers and subordinate officers shall Salute
Page 10/24
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
and other shall remain standing in attention position.
Chapter VII
55.
BSF funerals
.-The Border Security Force funerals shall be accorded on the death of serving members of the Forces as under: -
(a)
While on duty irrespective of the place and circumstances of death.
(b)
While not on duty, only in the event of death occurring in a Station where troops are available and subject to the
discretion of local Border Security Force Commander.
56.
BSF funerals in case of recruits, boys, non-combatant personnel
.-The recruits, boys and non-combatant personnel will not be entitled to Border Security Force Funerals.
57.
Escorts
.-Escorts will be provided on the occasion of the Border Security Force funerals at the scale mentioned below subject to
the following conditions: -
(1)
(a)
the entitlement will be only for paid ranks;
(b)
the prescribed scale of escorts are in ceilings, not compulsory requirement;
(c)
the various scales of escorts will be inclusive of all personnel, e.g. , pall bearers, carriers, relatives and friends,
bandsmen, buglers, drummers, religious teachers, firing party escort and Guards;
(d)
the escort shall not in any circumstances be provided by movement of troops from outstation,
(e)
subject to (d) above, only locally available Force transport is to be used in the minimum extent necessary to meet the
requirement of escorts for Border Security Force funerals as provided in this para; and
(f)
the next of kin or near relatives of the deceased are authorised to use Border Security Force transport provided for the
escort at a Border Security Force funeral. No separate transport will, however, be provided to them exclusively for this
purpose.
(2)
Scale of Escorts.-The Director-General/Additiona.l
Director-General
600
Inspector-General/Additional  Inspector-General
400
Inspector-General/Commandants
(Selection  Grade)Commandants
250
Deputy  Commandants
200
Assistant  Commandants
150
Subordinate  Officers
100
All other  ranks/grades
20
Page 11/24
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
58.
Transport
.-In addition to the transport authorised in rule 57 two Border Security Force vehicles will be provided at Government
cost for the funeral of Force personnel entitled to Border Security Force funerals as under: -
(a)
one service vehicle for traction of gun carriage carrying the dead body; and
(b)
one vehicle for miscellaneous duties connected with the funeral such as making arrangements for cremation or burial of
the dead body.
59.
Border Security Force funeral to retired Force personnel
.-The retired Force personnel are not entitled to a Security Force Funeral with the exception of a retired
Director-General, Border Security Force. In such cases, the scale and the conditions prescribed for serving officers will
apply.
60.
Detailed procedure .-The detailed instructions on procedure and drills shall be followed as in the Chapter XV of the
Border Security Force Drill Pamphlet, 1973 and such other pamphlet as may be published from time to time by the
Director-General.
Chapter VIII
Attestation Parade
61.
General .-An attestation is a ceremony at which recruits take oath of allegiance in accordance with tenets of the
individual 's religion, in the following manner: -
(a)
before the ceremony, all recruits to be attested shall be instructed in the meaning and importance of the occasion both
by religious teachers and sub-unit Commanders;
(b)
whatever the detailed procedure, it must be worthy of an occasion which should be recollected by the newly attested
men through their service;
(c)
the recruits to be attested will be formed up in a prominent position;
(d)
the religious teachers with their holy books shall be present on the parade;
(e)
the rifle or other personal armament of recruit to be attested shall be so placed to keep his both hands free;
(f)
the oath (all rank being at attestation) shall be administered by the religious teachers in suitable groups of recruits who
shall place their hands on the holy book and each shall repeat the oath.
62.
Address by officer taking Salute .-The officer taking Salute shall address the newly attested soldiers who shall then
march past in front of the parade to symbolise their entering to ranks as trained Constables.
63.
Departure of religious teachers
.-After the completion of the attestation ceremony the religious teachers with their books shall leave the parade.
64.
Conclusion.
-The parade will be concluded.
Chapter IX
Honours And Salute
65.
General instructions
Page 12/24
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
.-The honours and Salute to be given by troops on parade and by Guard of Honours shall be as follows: -
(a) To the  President National Salute
-Present arms.  The band will play the full score of the National Anthem.
(b). To  Governor of State, Lieutenant Governor of a Union Territory within their  jurisdiction.National Salute
-Present arms. The  band will pay the full score of the National Anthem.
(c) To the  National Flag National Salute
-Present arms.  The band will play the full score of the National Anthem on Republic Day and  Independence Day and
the shorter version on all other occasions.
(d). To Heads  and Prime Minsters of Foreign States and Commonwealth Countries
-Same as for  the President,except that both the Foreign National Anthenm of the country  concerned and Indian
National Anthem shall be played. The National Anthem of  the Foreign Country shall be played first.
(e). To the  Vice-President, the Prime Minister, the Home Minister (including Minister of  State and Deputy Home
Minister in Ministry of Home Affairs) and other VIPs,  with the approval of Force HQ.General Salute.
-Present arms.  The band playing the first part of the slow march; when no band is available  the trumpets or bugles
sounding the salute on drum beating a ruffle.
(f).  Director-General/Inspector General/Deputy Inspector General/Additional Deputy  Inspector General.General Salute
-By troops  under their command/present arms. Bands playing the first part of slow march  and drums beating when no
band is available the trumpet or bugle beating a  ruffle.
66.
Salute and National Anthem
.-(a) Whenever the National Anthem is played, all ranks in the Border Security Force in uniform not under the orders of
parade Commander shall Salute.
(b)
Officers in attendance on the President or the personal staff of Governor (when such Governor of a State represent the
President on official occasions) will not Salute when the National Anthem is played for the National Salute but will stand
to attention. The exception to the above is on the occasions of unfurling of the National Flag on the Republic Day and
Independence Day when the National Anthem is played on the presentation of arms to the National Flag. All officers
including officers in attendance on the personage mentioned above shall Salute.
(c)
Except on the Independence Day and Republic Day, on a parade, after the National Salute has been given the
Commander of the unit forming the parade shall be regarded as in attendance and shall take his position in rear of the
President/Officer taking the Salute.
(d)
During the presentation of a Guard of Honour, (AIDS De-CORPS) shall not Salute, when either the National or General
Salute in played.
67.
Compliments to officers in service of any other country
.-The compliments directed in these regulations shall also be paid to officers in the service of the Government, of any
country formally recognised by the Central Government, according to their respective ranks.
68.
Two minutes 'silence-commemoration of particular day/event
.-A two minutes 'silence shall be observed at 11 a.m. on the 30th January every year in the memory of those who laid
down their lives in the struggle for freedom of the country. The procedure for the observance of two minutes 'silence
shall be notified by the local authorities. A commemoration of any other particular day/event shall be observed only
under orders of the Central Government and according to the procedure prescribed in such orders.
69.
Salute to funeral
.-The officers, subordinate officers and other ranks passing a Military, Navy,Air Force, Border Security Force and other
Armed Forces and Civil funeral shall Salute the body.
70.
Compliment by armed parties while marching .-The armed parties while paying compliments on the march, shall be
Page 13/24
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
cautioned and shall "BAGGAL SHASTER "and the command "Eyes right or left "shall be given.
71.
Returning of Salute by officer commanding
.-An officer commanding of an armed or an unarmed party shall return the Salute with the right hand as he gives the
command "Eyes right (or left) ". The constables in command or parties shall also conform to the rules laid down for
officers.
72.
Salute by officers while on duty, parade and boarding a ship .-All officers shall Salute their senior officers before
addressing them on duty or on parade in the following manner: -
(a)
A Salute made to two or more officers shall be returned by the senior only. When not on duty or parade but in uniform,
officers under the rank of Deputy Commandants shall Salute all officers of the rank of Deputy Commandants and
upwards. The senior officers, Commandants and Deputy Commandants shall Salute their superiors in rank.
(b)
The cadets (Trainees/Officers) shall Salute all officers in uniform, and the officers of their Academy whether in uniform or
not.
(c)
The Officers in uniform shall Salute their seniors in rank in the Defence Services, Central Police Organisations and other
Police Forces.
(d)
All ranks boarding any of the Indian Naval ships or a foreign vessel shall Salute on entering and leaving the ship. The
Naval Customs of saluting on entering the quarter deck shall also be adhered to by all ranks.
73.
Saluting by subordinate officers and other ranks .-(a) The subordinate officers, under officers and men shall Salute all
officers whom they know to be such, whether in uniform or not including officers of Defence services and other Police
Forces when in uniform. Subordinate officers and other ranks shall Salute with the right hand. Where due to physical
incapacity a right hand Salute is impossible the Salute shall be given with the left hand.
(b)
The under officers and men when in uniform shall Salute the subordinate officers whether in uniform or not and also
address them in the same manner as they do to officers.
(c)
A person junior in rank, when on duty shall come to attention when addressing or addressed by a person holding a
senior rank.
74.
Salutation by civilian VIPs .-The position of Staff Officers Stick Orderlies, the parade Commander and the senior most
officer at the time of salutation by civilian VIPs shall be as under: -
(a)
The VIP stands centrally on the dais with the senior most Border Security Force and the conducting officer behind him
(senior most on the right and the conducting officer on the left) if he has staff officers attending on him, they may stand
on the sides of the saluting dais, a little to the rear of the VIP. The parade Commander after he has Saluted and passed
in front of the VIP as the head of the parade may leave the column and take up a position next to the VIP below the dais,
on the flank from which the parade marches on.
(b)
At the Ceremonial parades held on the Republic Day and the Independence Day the Salute shall ordinarily be taken by
the senior most civil representative of Government, e.g. , the Governor, Chief Minister, Cabinet Minister, Commissioner,
Collector or Deputy Commissioner, as the case may be.
(c)
In the State capitals where the Border Security Force also participates in the march past on the Republic Day, the senior
most Border Security Force official may also stand behind the VIP along with the senior most officers of the three
services and police.
Chapter X
Page 14/24
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
Flying Of Flag
75.
National Flag .-The National Flag shall be flown at Border Out Posts, Mobile Border Out Posts in Boats/Crafts and
Headquarters Director-General Border Security Force.
76.
Border Security Force Flags
.-The Border Security Force Flags shall be flown at:-
(a)
the Frontier Head Quarters;
(b)
the Head Quarters of Senior Deputy Inspector-General;
(c)
the Training Institutions;
(d)
the Unit Quarter Guards;
(e)
the occasion of Inter-Frontier-Games/Athletic Meets or any other Sports Occasion. The Frontier Flags will be flown at
the time of Frontier Sports function.
77.
Flags for motor vehicles (Car/Jeeps)
.-The Flags for officers, shall be as specified in Appendix.
78.
The officers shall fly their entitled Flags as under
.-(a) Within India except in Delhi- On staff cars or private cars, whether dressed in uniform or mufti on duty, including
functions being attended in an official capacity, use of mufti on such occasion must be correct and permitted under the
rules for the time being in force.
(b)
In Delhi-
(i)
Director-General, Additional Director-General and Inspector-General at Headquarters Border Security Force may fly
Flags on staff and private cars when attending officer and official functions including functions held at Rashtrapati
Bhavan.
(ii)
Inspector-General, Additional Inspector-General/Deputy Inspector-General, Additional Deputy Inspector-General may fly
Flags as follows: -
,(1) While on duty in uniform travelling in Government transport.
,(2) When travelling in Government transport whether in uniform or mufti, for attending Force functions.
Chapter XI
79.
Star plates
.-(1) Distinguishing metal plates, denoting the rank of the occupant of the vehicle, shall be carried on vehicles in addition
to the Flag authorised for the occupant. The plates, which shall be 18 "(0.457 m) long and 4 1 / 2 "silver coloured
permanently fixed, five pointed raised metal stars in accordance with the rank of the officers, viz. : -
(i)
Director-General/Additional Director-General-3 Stars.
(ii)
Inspector-General/Additional Inspector-General-2 Stars.
(iii)
Deputy Inspector-General/Additional Deputy Inspector-General-1 Star.
(2)
Whenever Flags are authorised to be flown as above star plates be displayed in addition to the Flags. On other
Page 15/24
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
occasion, when officers are not entitled to fly Flags but are travelling in uniform in Government or private cars, they may
display star plates only.
80.
Star plate
.-An officer officiating in a higher appointment shall display the star plate of his own rank.
81.
Dress of Border Security Force Drivers
.-The Border Security Force Drivers where authorised for private cars, shall not wear uniform when officers are travelling
in a car in mufti or when their families only are using the car.
Chapter XII
Guards And Sentries
82.
Compliment by Guards of the President and entitled VIPs
.-Guards including Guards of Honour, mounted on the occasion of the visit of the President shall pay compliments only
to the President. Guards including Guards of Honour, mounted for other entitled VIPs including Military VIPs within their
own charges, shall pay no compliments to the officers and persons of lower rank. Any such Guard, when visited by the
officers on duty, shall turn out with "Bazu Shastr. "
83.
Compliments by Guards-between reveille and retreat
.-(a) At all times between reveille and retreat, Guards shall turn out and pay the compliments specified in rule 66(b ) and
(f)in Chapter IX of the rules.
(b)
Unit Guards shall turn out, and present arms, once a day to their Commandants, of whatever rank he may be.
84.
Turn out of Guards to armed parties
.-The Guards shall turn out at all times when armed parties of any Force approach their posts; to armed corps they shall
present arms and before other armed parties they shall stand with "Bazu Shastr ". They shall not pay compliments
between the sounding of "Retreat "and "Reveille "except to grand rounds. They shall not turn out to unarmed parties.
85.
Compliments where not entitled .-An officer under the rank of an Additional Deputy Inspector-General is not entitled to
the compliment of the bugle sounding the Salute or the drum beating a ruffle, when Guards "present arms "to him. An
officer not in uniform is not entitled to the compliments of a Guard turning out except the President or his representatives
in their official capacity entitled to a Guard of Honour.
86.
Salute to general officer
.-When a senior officer in uniform or a person entitled to a Salute, passes in rear of a Guard, the commander shall
caution his Guard to fall in and stand with "Bazu Shastr ", facing the front, but no drum shall beat or bugle sound. When
such officers pass Guards while in the act of relieving, both Guards shall Salute as they stand, receiving the word of
command from senior Commander.
87.
Honour paid by sentries to the President, dignitaries and armed parties/unit
.-Honours shall be paid by sentries as follows: -
Post of sentry
Present arms
Salute.
(a)
(b)
(c).
(i) Rashtrapati  Bhawan or any other provided except to the President's Body Guard  own/visiting.Armed Corps
The President
The Vice-President  own/visting.The Prime Minister
Page 16/24
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
Officers of  all ranks (in uniform) unarmed parties.
(ii). Residence  of the Prime Minister,Home Minister and Governors of States.
The personages  mentioned in column(a).Armed Corps
Officers of all  ranks (in uniform).
(iii) Residence  of a senior officer
Senior  officers armed parties
Officers below  the rank of senior officers.
Unarmed  parties.
(iv). Other  posts
Deputy  Commandants and above armed parties
Officers below  Deputy Commandants rank Unarmed parties.
88.
Compliment to officers of other Forces
.-All Guards and sentries shall pay the same compliments to the Defence Services Officers, Gazetted Officers or other
Central Police Organisations, State Police Officers and Home Guards when in uniform as are directed to be paid to the
officers of the Border Security Force.
Chapter XIII
89.
Guards at residence
.-The following shall be authorised a Guard at their residence as per the strength mentioned below: -
(i)
Director-General/Additional Director-General-2 under officers and 8 rifles.
(ii)
Inspector-General/Additional Inspector-General-1 under officer and 3 rifles.
(iii)
Deputy Inspector-General/Additional Deputy Inspector-General-1 under officer and 3 rifles. CHAPTER XIV
90.
Border out post Guard at reveille
.-Hoisting of National Flag by Guards of both countries.
(1)
Daily at reveille one jawan each of the Guard from both the countries hoist their National Flag. While hoisting National
Flag the Indian Jawan shall stand under counter parts 'National Flag and the Jawan from the other side shall stand
under Indian National Flag.
(2)
Fall-in of the Guards of both countries.
(a)
At reveille National Flags of both the countries are hoisted at one time. First day Indian Guard shall fall into the right side
of counter parts 'Guard and the next day it shall be vice versa. The Guard Commander of the Guard standing on the
right shall order "Present Arms ". On this word of command the jawans of both the countries who are standing near the
Flag post shall start hoisting the Flag gradually by putting the strings across each other. Bugler shall blow the reveille
and Guards shall "Present Arms. "
(b)
The speed for pulling up the Flags shall be with the sound of the bugle. After hoisting, the jawans shall smartly move to
their respective Flags and shall tie the strings with the poles, and will fall in on the left of their respective Guards.
91.
Posting of the sentry at the Border out post first sentry
.-(a) After completing all formalities at reveille, the Commander of the right Guard will command "First Detail Fall in ".
(b)
On this word of command the first sentries of both the countries will march smartly and halt at boundary line keeping 24
inches shoulder distance between each other.
92.
Page 17/24
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
On the word of command "sentry check "by the right Guard Commander
.-The sentries of both the countries will check/search the pockets of each other to ensure that they are not carrying any
grenades/knives, etc.
93.
Position of sentries
.-(a) After having checked/searched pocket by both the sentries the right Guard Commander will command "sentry
attention ".
(b)
On this the sentries will stand in attention position facing the respective Guards.
94.
The right Guard Commander order Guard march off .-The Guard Commander of both the countries will march off their
Guards, to their respective lines, where they will be dismissed.
95.
Arms and ammunition carried by sentries .-(a) The sentries of both the countries will carry prescribed automatic
weapons or Sten guns with one magazine full of ammunition. The safety catch of the weapons will be at safe.
(b)
Sentries will keep their weapons at sling Arm position.
(c)
Sentries will not discuss any matter which is against the norms of discipline. (d) All the sentries must be trained in
security matters.
96.
Movement on beat by sentries
.-The sentries of both the countries will move on their respective beats together. They will halt at their fixed place and
stand at case.
97.
Compliments by the sentries
.-(a) If any officer is coming from Indian side, the Indian sentry shall immediately stand on the right of own Guard.
(b)
When the officer approaches, the sentry shall speak gently "UP "and both the sentries shall Salute together.
(c)
If the officer is coming from opposite side the sentry of the other country will stand at the right side and action will be the
same as given in sub-rule (b) above.
98.
Ceremonial Guard at Border Out Post
.-(1) If any officer from India or any other country is coming or going the following drill shall be followed: -
The Border Out Post sentry shall shout "GUARD FALL IN-GUARD FALL IN ".
On hearing this, all the Guard personnel of both the countries will fall-in with "Bazu Shastr ". On arrival of the officer the
Guard Commander will pay compliment as per his rank and Guard will be made to stand in "Order Arms ". Then the
Guard Commander will take his position and will report, "Ceremonial Guard is ready for your inspection, Sir ".
(2)
The inspecting officer will inspect the Guard. When he has inspected the Guard Commander will come to "Baggal Shastr
"and will follow him. After the inspection is over the Guard Commander will Salute the inspecting officer and will come
back to his original position.
(3)
The inspecting officer will order.- "Guard Dismiss ". On this the Guard Commander will give the word of command "
Guard Baggal Shastr. "Sentry stand past, remainder dismiss.
The sentry will stand past and other will dismiss, Guard Commander will turn left and Salute the VIP and move to his
place.
99.
Guard of Honour at Border Out Post for VIP
.-If any VIP is either passing through from/to India or visiting the Border Out Post as per programme, a Guard of Honour
Page 18/24
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
shall be arranged for him.
100.
Fall-in of Guard .-Before the arrival of the VIP the Guard shall fall-in with arms in line for alignment.
101.
Fall-in of band
.-If the band is available with the Guard, they shall fall in at 8 paces to the right of Guard. If the space is not available on
the right the band master shall stand at a distance of 6 paces and the rest 3 paces behind him. The bugler shall fall at 9
paces to the right of the Guard.
102.
Procedure .-When the VIP is approaching, the Guard Commander shall command.
(a)
Guard "Attention "-
(i)
When the VIP has reached the saluting base the Guard Commander shall order- "Guard National Salute Salami Shastr.
"The band shall play National Anthem/General Salute. If band is not available the bugler shall sound the bugle.
(ii)
At the end of this tune the Guard Commander shall order -
" Guard Bazu Shastr. "
103.
Reporting by Guard Commander
.-The Guard Commander moves in quick time towards the VIP, and shall Salute halt at place facing the VIP, and shall
report -
(a)
"Guard of Honour is ready for your inspection, Sir ", again Salutes the VIP and follows him to his left in slow march.
During inspection he shall be on the right and little behind the VIP. When the inspection starts the drum shall beat (dum)
thrice and on the third beat, all the jawans shall turn their eyes towards the VIP and as the VIP inspects they shall turn
eyes and head to the left. The band shall play the appropriate tune. When the inspection is over, the drummer shall
again beat the drum (dum) thrice and all the jawans shall look to their front at the last drum (dum). The VIP shall come to
the saluting base and the Guard Commander after saluting the VIP shall return to his original position.
(b)
Guard National/General Salute "Present Arms "on this the band or bugle shall play. Guard Commander shall command
"Guard Bazu Shastr " , when the VIP leaves the Guard Commander again order Guard dismiss. "
104.
Border Out Post at the time of retreat
.-A few minutes before the retreat the Guard Commander shall bring the Guard at fall-in position and shall inspect the
Guard. He shall order " Guard Baggal Shaster "and shall march the Guard in quick time upto the National Boundary line.
He shall keep the Guard at place where it was standing in the morning in "Baggal Shaster "position.
105.
Position of Guard Commander of the other country .-(a) The Guard Commander of the opposite side will also keep his
Guard standing at the place where it was standing in the morning.
(b)
Jawans detailed to remove the Flag will untie the string from poles and will put the string across each other. Indian
Jawan will be standing below the opposite country 's Flag and vice versa.
106.
Procedure .-When the right Guard Commander orders "Guard Present Arms "the bugler will sound the retreat. The same
time Flag will be pulled down with sound of retreat. Immediately after this the jawan will move smartly to their Flag and
will untie the Flags from the string. The string will be kept with poles. The Indian jawan shall fold the Flag in such a way
that the tri-colours are visible.
Both the jawans will raise their Flags and will march smartly at a distance of 2 paces from their respective Guards. Now
all other sentries will join their Guards to the left.
107.
Page 19/24
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
Joint briefing of Guards by Guard Commander of both countries
.-The Guard Commander of both the countries will jointly brief the Guards and will order-Guard will move right in file
"Right Turn ", Guard quick march. After reaching their respective lines the Guard Commander will halt the Guard and will
command:
(a)
Guard will turn to the front "Left turn ":
(b)
"Guard dismiss ".
108.
Flag
.-The Flag shall be kept at proper place with due honour.Action in the Border Out Post at the visit of VIP
company/Border Out Post Commander will welcome the VIP at the given time. Before reporting to the VIP the
company/Border Out Post Commander will ensure that the troops are in stand to position and all personnel are in their
respective trenches/bunkers.
109.
Reporting by company/Border Out Post Commander to VIP
.-The Company/Border Out Post Commander will report to VIP as under:-
"Sir Alfa Company, 73 Battalion Border Security Force, 1 Officer, 1 subordinate officer and 32 other ranks ready for your
inspection "(The present strength of the Border Out Post is to be reported).
110.
Tasks .-(a) The company/Border Out Post Commander explains the task and the area of responsibility: left and right
flanking border Out Posts and similarly about the opposite Border Out Posts.
(b)
The VIP will then be led to each trench/bunker for inspection, each jawan will explain his task and area of responsibility.
When the VIP finishes the inspection of the picquet, the Company/Border Out Post Commander will stand-down
personnel.
111.
Stand-down
.-After the stand-down the jawans shall fall-in in open order and their arms/ammunition shall be inspected by
Company/Border Out Post Commander. All correct report shall be given to VIP in attention position. If the VIP wants to
speak to the men, the jawans shall keep standing there otherwise, under the orders of Company/Border Out Post
Commander, the personnel shall dismiss.
112.
Visit to cook house, stores by VIP
.-The company or Border Out Post Commander will then take the VIP to Cook house, Magazine and Stores for his
inspection.
113.
Departure of VIP
.-After the inspection of VIP, the company/Border Out Post Commander shall see off the VIP from the post.
APPENDIX A (See rule 10)
Guard Of Honour-Composition And Strength
Personnel
BSF alone strength
In conjunction with other Force strength
150
100
50
150
100 Remarks
(a) Commander
1 DC
Page 20/24
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
1 DC/AC
1 Officer
1 Commandant
1 DC or equivalent rank in other Forces, 3 officers
(b) Officers
1 DC/AC
1 AC/SO
1 SO
3 officers
1 DC and 2 officers of the equivalent rank from other Forces taking part.
1 AC of officer oftheequivalent rank from the Force taking part.
(c) UO
4-2Hav
Maj
2 Hav
4-2 Hav
Maj
2 Hav
4-2 Hav
Maj
2 Hav
6-2 BHM/CHM/ Head Constable from each Force.
6-2 BHM/CHM/Head Constable from each Force.
(d) Rank and file
144
94
44
140
(Equal No. from each Force)
90 Equal No. from each Force.
Notes.-
1. Guard of Honour of 50 will, without exception, be provided by one Force only.
2. Where only two Forces participate, it will be formed in two divisions, the senior Force being on the right.
3. Where all three Forces participate, it will be formed up in three divisions, the senior Force being on right.
APPENDIX B [See rule 12(a)]
Guard Of Honour-Civilian Vips
Entitlement and occasions
S. No.
VIP
Strength
Occasions
Salute
Gun Salute
Remarks
1.
The President
150
(a) On assumption and relinquishment of office.
(b) When arrival or departure is public, or official and is notified as such to appropriate military/BSF authorities.
National Salute. The band will play the full version of the National Anthem.
21 Guns
Page 21/24
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
Single or Inter Force as ordered by Central Government
2.
The Vice-President
The Prime Minister
100
(a) At ceremonial occasions directly concerned with the Force.
(b) On such exceptional occasions as may in each case be hold by the Central Govt. to require the presentation of a
Guard of Honour.
General Salute. The band playing the first 8 bars of a slow march (without the introduction) and drum beating. Any unit
not having a Band, the trumpets or Bugles will sound the Salute or the drums beat the ruffle.
Nil
3.
Governors
100
(a) Within their jurisdiction on arrival to take over the appointment and departure on relinquishing such appointments.
As in 1(a) above
17 Guns (within their jurisdiction on appointment and relinquishing of office provided Arty Units available locally or within
a distance of 50 miles).
Outside their jurisdiction they are only entitled to a General Salute
(b) On ceremonial occasions concerned with the BSF within their own State.
(c) On such exceptional occasion as may be held by the Central Government to be appropriate.
4.
The Home Minister (incl.
Minister of State MHA)
50
On ceremonial occasions As in 2(a) above Nil directly concerned with the Force.
As in 2(a) above
Nil
APPENDIX C [See rule 12(b)]
Guard Of Honour-Military/ Bsf Vip
Entitlement and occasions
S. No.
VIP
Strength
Occasions
Salute
Remarks
1.
DG, BSF, Addl. DG, BSF Head of other CPOs,Chief of Defence Servicesand Officers of rank of Lt.
General /equivalent andDG / IGs of Police Servicewithin their States.
50
On official visits both on arrival and departure.
General Salute, band playing the first 8 bars of a slow march (without the introduction) and drums beating. By units not
having a band, the trumpets or the bugles will sound the Salute or drums beat the ruffle.
Guard of Honour will be given only within unit lines.
Note.-In operational area, guard of honour will not be provided.
APPENDIX D [See rule 12(c)]
Force/boder Guard
Entitlement and occasions
S. No.
VIP
Page 22/24
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
Strength
Occasions
Salute
Remarks
1.
Director-General Foreign Countries Security Forces / Border Guard or Officers of equivalent rank Lt. General /
equivalent and DG/IGs of Police Service within their States.
50
On landing at a BSF Station arrival and departure.
General Salute, band playing the first part of a slow march and drums beating. By Units not having a band, trumpets or
bugles sounding the Salute and drums beating the ruffle.
APPENDIX E LAYOUT OF GUARD OF HONOUR
50. RANK AND FILE
APPENDIX F LAYOUT OF GUARD OF HONOUR
100. RANK AND FILE
(a)
100 RANK AND FILE WITH COLOUR
APPENDIX G LAYOUT OF GUARD OF HONOUR
150.
RANK AND FILE
(A)
150 RANK AND FILE WITH COLOUR
APPENDIX H
CEREMONIAL GUARDS
Strength Five To Nine
APPENDIX I
(See rule 77)
Flag For Motor Vehicle (Car/jeeps)
S. No.
Officers
Shape, size and colour
1.
Director-General BSF
The Flag flown by the Director-General shall be rectangular 15 cms in the hoist and 22.5 cms in the fly.The top half will
be red and bottom half will be in navy blue colour. The BSF crest for the Flag of the Director-General shall be so made
as to be contained just within circle prescribed with 4 cms as radius with its centre at a point 7.25 cms from the pole of
the Flag an equi-distant from the upper and lower edge. In addition to above a FHQ formation sign of the size
4cms(horizontal) by 5 cms (vertical) on the top of halfred of Flag will be so placed that its centre must fall onthe centre of
the square 7.5 cms leaving a distance of1.75 cms from the Flag red side edge and 1.25 cmsfrom the top.
2.
Addl.
Director-General BSF
The Flag flown by the Addl. Director-General shall be rectangular 15 cms in the hoist and 22.5 cms in the fly.The top half
will be red and bottom half will be in navy blue colour. The BSF crest for the Flag of the Addl. Director-General shall be
so made as to be contained Just ithin circle prescribed with 4 cms as radius with its w centre at a point 7.25 cms from
the pole of the Flag an equi-distant from the upper and lower edge.
3.
Inspector-General BSF
The Flag flown by the Inspector-General shall he swallow tail. The cloth will be 15 cms in the hoist and 22.5 cms. in the
fly. The cut of the swallow tail will be 7.5 cms deep. The top half will be red and bottom half will be in navy blue colour.
The BSF crest for the Flag of the Inspector-General shall be so made as to contain just within a circle prescribed within
Page 23/24
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Border Security Force (Ceremonials And Marks Of Respect) Rules, 1989
4 cms as radius from the centre at a point 7.5 cms from the pole of the Flag and equi-distance from the upper and lower
edge.
4.
Dy.
Inspector-General BSF
The Flag to be flown by the DIG of Police shall be "penant triangular and pointed with the hoist (15 cmsinlength) as the
base of an isosceles triangle with alength of 22.5 cms in the fly from which point theangle meeting with the ends of the
hoist must bedetermined". he top half of the Flag will be red andthe bottom half of the navy blue colour. The BSF crest of
the Flag of the DIG shall be so made as to be to be contained within a circle of 4 cms radius.
5.
Addl. Dy. Inspr.-General BSF
The Flag to be flown by the Addl. DIG shall be "penant triangular and pointed with the hoist (15 cmsinlength) as the base
of an isosceles triangle with alength of 22.5 cms in the fly from which point theangle meeting with the ends of hoist must
bedetermined." The top half of the Flag will be red andthe bottom half of the navy blue colour. Theformation sign of the
frontier will be so made as to becontainedjust within a circle of 4 cms radius.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 24/24