
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Railways (Extent Of Monetary Liability And Prescription Of Percentage Charge) Rules, 1...
The Railways (Extent Of Monetary Liability And Prescription Of
Percentage Charge) Rules, 1990
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/145017301/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Railways (Extent Of Monetary Liability And Prescription Of Percentage Charge) Rules, 1990
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Railways (Extent Of Monetary Liability And Prescription Of Percentage Charge) Rules, 1990
Rule
THE-RAILWAYS-EXTENT-OF-MONETARY-LIABILITY-AND-PRESCRIPTION-OF-PERCENTAGE-CHARGE-RULES-1
990 of 1990
Published on 7 June 1990
Commenced on 7 June 1990
[This is the version of this document from 7 June 1990.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Railways (Extent Of Monetary Liability And Prescription Of Percentage Charge) Rules, 1990
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extra, Part 2, Section 3(i), dated 7.6.1990
1557.
G.S.R. 557(E), dated 7th June, 1990.- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) and clause (c) of
sub-section (2) of Section 112 of the Railways Act, 1989 (
24 of 1989
) read with Section 2 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Railways (Extent Of Monetary Liability And Prescription Of Percentage Charge) Rules, 1...
10 of 1897
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
These rules may be called the Railways (Extent of Monetary Liability and Prescription of Percentage Charge) Rules,
1990.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of commencement of the Act.
2.
Definitions.-
In these Rules unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"Act" means the Railways Act, 1989 (
24 of 1989
).
(b)
"Baggage" means personal effects of a passenger entrusted to a railway administration for carriage.
(c)
"Excess value" in respect of any consignment means the amount by which the value declared by a consignor exceeds
the amount of liability of a railway administration as specified or calculated under sub-rule (1) of Rule 3.
(d)
"Percentage charge" means the percentage charge payable on excess value calculated in accordance with the rate
specified in Column 2 of Schedule II.
(e)
"Schedule" means the Schedule to these rules.
(f)
Words and expressions used and not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Monetary Liability of a railway administration.-
(1)
Where a railway administration is responsible for loss, damage, destruction, deterioration or non-delivery of any
consignment, the amount of liability of such railway administration in respect of such loss, damage, destruction,
deterioration or non-delivery shall not, unless the consignor has declared its value and paid percentage charge on
excess value of such consignment, exceed,-
(i)
in the case of any consignment consisting of animals, the amount specified in Schedule I; or
(ii)
in the case of any consignment consisting of baggage, an amount calculated at rupees one hundred per kilogramme ; or
(iii)
in the case of any consignment other than those referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above, an amount calculated at rupees
fifty per kilogramme.
(2)
Where a railway administration is responsible for loss, damage, destruction, deterioration or non-delivery of any
consignment and the consignor has at the time of entrustment for carriage declared the value of such consignment and
paid percentage charge on excess value at the rate specified in Part I or Part II as the case may be of Schedule II, the
amount of liability of a railway administration for loss, damage, destruction, deterioration or non-delivery of such
consignment shall not exceed the value of declared.
Explanation 1.- Where in respect of carriage of any consignment, the freight is chargeable on any basis, other than its
actual weight, the amount of liability of a railway administration shall be determined with reference to the actual weight of
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Railways (Extent Of Monetary Liability And Prescription Of Percentage Charge) Rules, 1...
such consignment.
Explanation 2.- Where the loss, damage, destruction, deterioration or non-delivery is only with respect to part of a
consignment, the weight to be taken into consideration for determining the amount of liability of a railway administration
is the weight of the goods lost, damaged, destroyed, deteriorated or non-delivered unless such loss, damage,
destruction, deterioration or non-delivery affects the value of the entire consignment.
4.
Certain goods not to be accepted for carriage unless percentage charge paid.-
No railway administration shall accept for carriage, the goods specified in Part I of Schedule II unless the consignor
declares the value of such goods and pays the percentage charge applicable to such goods as indicated in Column 2 of
Schedule II.
I
(1)
(2)
Description of animals
Extent of responsibility of Railway Administration (Per head) (Rs.)
Elephants
6000
Horses
3000
Mules, horned cattle or camels
800
Dogs, donkeys, goats, pigs, sheep or other animals not mentioned above, or birds
120
II
(1)
(2)
Description of goods
Rate of percentage charge
Part I
1. Gold
13 paise per 100 rupees or part thereof on excess value per 160 kilometres or part thereof subject to a maximum of 1%
of excess value.
2.
Silver
3. Pearls
4.
Precious stones
5.
Jewellery
5A. [
Scooter/ Motor Cycle]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 24(E), dated 13.1.1999 (w.e.f. 7.6.1990)]
6.
Currency notes and coins
7.
Government stamps
Goods other than those specified in Part I
25 paise per 100 rupees or part thereof on excess value per 160 kilometres or part thereof subject to a maximum of 1%
of excess value.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3