
----- PAGE 1 -----
Passengers (Change Of Names) Rules, 1990
Passengers (Change Of Names) Rules, 1990
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/120515060/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Passengers (Change Of Names) Rules, 1990
UNION OF INDIA
India
Passengers (Change Of Names) Rules, 1990
Rule PASSENGERS-CHANGE-OF-NAMES-RULES-1990 of 1990
Published on 16 August 1990
Commenced on 16 August 1990
[This is the version of this document from 16 August 1990.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Passengers (Change Of Names) Rules, 1990
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 708(E), dated 16th August, 1990.
1564.
G.S.R. 708(E), dated 16th August, 1990.- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of sub-section (2) of Section
60 of the Railways Act, 1989 (
24 of 1989
) read with Section 22 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), the Central Government hereby makes the
following rules namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Passengers (Change Of Names) Rules, 1990
These rules may be called the Passengers (Change of Names) Rules, 1990.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of the commencement of the Act.
2.
Definitions.-
In these rules unless the context otherwise requires :-
(a)
"Act" means the Railways Act, 1989 (
24 of 1989
) ;
(b)
'Appropriate authority' means an authority approving the official tours of the Government servant concerned ;
(c)
'Government servant' means any person serving under the Central or State Government ;
(d)
'Member of the family' means father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, husband or wife ;
(e)
'Passenger' means a person travelling on a ticket or on a valid pass;
(f)
'Reserved ticket' means a journey ticket on which a berth or seat has been reserved;
(g)
Words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
(1)
Save as otherwise provided in sub-rule (2) a berth or a seat reserved in the name of a person shall be used only by that
person and shall not be transferable to any other person.
(2)
Any railway servant authorised in this behalf by a railway administration may permit the change of name of a passenger
having a seat or berth reserved in his name in the following circumstances, namely:-
(a)
Where the passenger is a Government servant proceeding on duty and appropriate authority makes a request in writing
24 hours before the scheduled departure of the train that the reservation made in the name of the Government servant
be transferred to another Government servant proceeding on duty;
(b)
Where the passenger makes a request in writing 24 hours before the scheduled departure of the train that the
reservation' made in his name be transferred to another member of his family ;
(c)
Where the passengers are students of a recognised educational institution and the Head of the institution makes a
request in writing 48 hours before the scheduled departure of the train, that the reservation made in the name of any
student be transferred to any other student of the same institution :
Provided that any such request for change shall be granted only once : Provided further that in no case such request for
change in excess of ten per cent of the total strength of the group shall be granted;
(d)
Where the passengers are members of a marriage party and any person deemed to be the Head of such party, makes a
request in writing 48 hours before the scheduled departure of the train that the reservation made in the name of any
member of the marriage party be transferred to any other person :
Provided that any such request for change shall be granted only one :
Provided further that in no case such request for change in excess of ten per cent of the total strength of the group shall
be granted.
(e)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Passengers (Change Of Names) Rules, 1990
[ Where the passengers are a group of cadets of National Cadet Corps and any officer who is the Head of the group
makes a request in writing at least twenty four hours before the Scheduled departure of the train that the reservation
made in the name of any cadet be transferred to any other cadet;
[Inserted by G.S.R. 704(E), dated 12.12.1997]
Provided that any such request for change shall be granted only once:
Provided further that in no case such request for change in excess of ten per cent of the total strength of the group shall
be granted.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3