
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Central Advisory Committee On Equal Remuneration Rules, 1991
The Central Advisory Committee On Equal Remuneration Rules, 1991
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/108104693/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Central Advisory Committee On Equal Remuneration Rules, 1991
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Central Advisory Committee On Equal Remuneration Rules, 1991
Rule THE-CENTRAL-ADVISORY-COMMITTEE-ON-EQUAL-REMUNERATION-RULES-1991 of 1991
Published on 1 January 1991
Commenced on 1 January 1991
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1991.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Central Advisory Committee On Equal Remuneration Rules, 1991
10.
/542
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 13 of the Equal Remuneration Act, 1976 (
25 of 1976
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called The Central Advisory Committee on Equal Remuneration
Rules, 1991.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Central Advisory Committee On Equal Remuneration Rules, 1991
2.
Definitions .-(1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Committee" means the Central Advisory Committee constituted by the Central Government under sub-section (1) of
section 6 of the Equal Remuneration Act, 1976 (
25 of 1976
);
(b)
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Committee.
3.
Composition of the Committee .-The Committee shall consist of not less than ten persons and not more than twenty
persons excluding the Chairman, to be nominated by the Central Government, of which one-half shall be women.
Nomination shall be made from amongst the representatives of the Central Government, State Governments/Union
Territory Administrations, Members of Parliament "Employers" Organisations, Employees" Organisations and
Non-Governmental Organisations engaged in the study and welfare activities of women labour. The composition of the
Committee shall not be invalid for the reason that representative belonging to any of the aforesaid categories has not
been included in the Committee.
4.
Term of office of members of the Committee .-(1) Save as otherwise expressly provided in these rules, the term of office
of a non-official member of the Committee shall be two years from the date of his nomination:
Provided that such member shall, notwithstanding the expiry of the said period of two years, continue to hold office until
his successor is nominated.
(2)
A non-official member of the Committee nominated to fill a casual vacancy shall hold office for the remainder period of
the term of office of the number in whose place he is nominated.
(3)
The official members of the Committee shall hold office during the pleasure of the Central Government.
5.
Allowances of members .-(1) The travelling allowances of an official member shall be governed by the rules applicable
to him for journey performed by him on official duties and shall be paid by the authority paying his salary.
(2)
The non-official members of the Committee shall be paid travelling allowance for attending the meeting of the
Committee, at such rates as are admissible to Group "A" officers of the Central Government and daily allowances shall
be calculated at the maximum rate admissible to Group "A" officers of the Central Government in their respective places.
6.
Cessation of membership .-If any member of the Committee not being an ex officio  member of the Committee, fails to
attend three consecutive meetings of the Committee, without obtaining the leave of the Chairman for such absence, he
shall cease to be a member of the Committee:
Provided that the Chairman may, if he is satisfied that such member was prevented by sufficient cause from attending
three consecutive meetings of the Committee without obtaining such leave, direct that such cessation shall not take
place and on such direction being made, such member shall continue to be member of the Committee.
7.
Disqualification of membership .-(1) A person shall be disqualified on being nominated as, and for being, a member of
the Committee if he-
(i)
is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent Court; or
(ii)
is an undischarged insolvent; or
(iii)
has been or is convicted of an offence which, in the opinion of the Central Government involves moral turpitude.
(2)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Central Advisory Committee On Equal Remuneration Rules, 1991
If a question arises as to whether a disqualification has been incurred under sub-rule (1), the Central Government shall
decide the same.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3