
----- PAGE 1 -----
Overall Dimensions of Motor Vehicles (Prescription of Conditions for Exemption) Rules, 199...
Overall Dimensions of Motor Vehicles (Prescription of Conditions for
Exemption) Rules, 1991
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/152304695/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Overall Dimensions of Motor Vehicles (Prescription of Conditions for Exemption) Rules, 1991
UNION OF INDIA
India
Overall Dimensions of Motor Vehicles (Prescription of Conditions for Exemption) Rules, 1991
Rule
OVERALL-DIMENSIONS-OF-MOTOR-VEHICLES-PRESCRIPTION-OF-CONDITIONS-FOR-EXEMPTION-RULES-199
1 of 1991
Published on 12 September 1991
Commenced on 12 September 1991
[This is the version of this document from 12 September 1991.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Overall Dimensions of Motor Vehicles (Prescription of Conditions for Exemption) Rules, 1991
Published vide Notification G.S.R. 583(E), dated 12.9.1991, published in the Gazette of India, Extra., Part.2, Section 3(i),
dated 12.9.1991 (w.e.f. 1991).
199.
In exercise of thepowers conferred by section 110(3)( b) of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, the Central Government
hereby makes the followingrules, namely:
1.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Overall Dimensions of Motor Vehicles (Prescription of Conditions for Exemption) Rules, 199...
-Short title and commencement
(1)
These rules may be called The Overall Dimensions of Motor Vehicles (Prescription of Conditions for Exemption)Rules ,
1991.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of theirpublication in the Official Gazette.
2.
-Conditions for the grant of exemption from rule 93
.The State Government may exempt any motorvehicle or any class of description of motor vehicles from the provisions
ofrule 93 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, subject to the fulfilment of any or all of the conditions specified
inthese rules which that Government may deem fit to impose, namely:-
(1)
Such motor vehicle or class of description of motorvehicles shall
(a)
observe such loadrestrictions as the State Government may by order specify in this behalf,
(b)
obtain the previouspermission of such authority as may be specified by the State Government inthis behalf before
putting such vehicles on the load;
(c)
not, if they areloaded, travel over such bridges and cross-drainage structures on the road,which the State Government
may having regard to the safety of the roadstructures specify;
(d)
where prohibited under clause (c) totravel over the structure referred to in that clause, the owner or transportershall at
his cost make arrangements to cross the rivers in accordance with thedirections given by the authority specified by the
State Government in thisbehalf;
(e)
give advanceintimation to such authority or officer specified in this behalf by the State Government regarding the
movement of such vehicle;
(f)
equip with necessarywarning signals such as red flags in the day time, red light and reflectors in the night so as to
indicate the extreme positions of the vehicle clearly;
(g)
move without anyhindrance to the normal flow of traffic;
(h)
not exceed the speedlimit of 16 kms. per hour.
(2)
Where any damage is caused to the roads or roadstructures directly or indirectly due to the movement of such vehicles,
theoperator of the vehicle or the transporter shall be liable to pay such amountto the State Government as may be
assessed by the authorities in this behalf.
(3)
The State Government shall not be liable for any damagethat may be caused to such vehicles or their contents through
their transits;
(4)
Any grant of exemption under these rules shall bewithout prejudice to the right of the authorities specified in this behalf
by the State Government to regulate or stop the movement of such vehicles havingregard to the safety of roads,
bridges, structures and other road users;
(5)
The State Government may, in consultation with theoperator of the vehicle or the owner conduct route survey to assess
the fitnessof the roads for movement of such vehicles, feasibility of negotiating thecurves more particularly in built-up
areas, sufficiency of road width, adequacyof vertical clearance and any deficiencies identified in the assessment shallbe
rectified by the operators or owners of the vehicles;
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Overall Dimensions of Motor Vehicles (Prescription of Conditions for Exemption) Rules, 199...
(6)
Exemption granted under these rules shall be applicableonly for operating such vehicles on roads lying in the jurisdiction
of the Public Works Department of the respective State Government and operators of the vehicles or their owners
thereof shall make their own arrangements to obtain the approval of the other Departments of local body authorities for
plying on the roads lying within their jurisdiction.
3.
[ Removal of doubts
[Sub-Rule (3) substituted by G.S.R. 634(E), dated 23.6.1992 (w.e.f. 23.6.1992).]
.For removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that anyexemption granted under these rules in any State shall be valid
throughout India .]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3