
----- PAGE 1 -----
The University Grants Commission (Qualifications Required Of A Person To Be Appointed To T...
The University Grants Commission (Qualifications Required Of A
Person To Be Appointed To The Teaching Staff Of The University And
Institutions Affiliated To It) Regulations, 1991
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/34624019/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The University Grants Commission (Qualifications Required Of A Person To Be Appointed To The Teaching Staff Of
The University And Institutions Affiliated To It) Regulations, 1991
UNION OF INDIA
India
The University Grants Commission (Qualifications Required Of A Person To Be Appointed To The Teaching Staff Of
The University And Institutions Affiliated To It) Regulations, 1991
Rule
THE-UNIVERSITY-GRANTS-COMMISSION-QUALIFICATIONS-REQUIRED-OF-A-PERSON-TO-BE-APPOINTED-TO-
THE-TEACHING-STAFF-OF-THE-UNIVERSITY-AND-INSTITUTIONS-AFFILIATED-TO-IT-REGULATIONS-1991 of
1991
Published on 5 October 1991
Commenced on 5 October 1991
[This is the version of this document from 5 October 1991.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The University Grants Commission (Qualifications Required Of A Person To Be Appointed To The Teaching Staff Of
The University And Institutions Affiliated To It) Regulations, 1991
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The University Grants Commission (Qualifications Required Of A Person To Be Appointed To T...
To be Published in the Gazette of India on 5th October, 1991, Part III Section 4
1885.
No.F.111/87(CPP), 19th Sept. 1991.
Notification. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (e) of subsection (1) of Section 26 read with Section 14 of
University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (
3 of 1956
), and in supersession of the Regulations issued under University Grants Commission letter No.F.193/74 (CPP) Part (v)
dated 13th June, 1983 and Notifications No. 193/74(CP) dated 19th February, 1985 and 26th November, 1985, the
University Grants Commission hereby makes the following regulations, namely :-
1.
Short Title, application and commencement.
- i. These regulations may be called the University Grants Commission (Qualifications required of a person to be
appointed to the teaching staff of the University and institutions affiliated to it) Regulations, 1991.
ii. They shall apply to every University established or incorporated by or under a central Act, Provincial Act or a State
Act, every institution including a constituent or an affiliated college recognised by the Commission, in consultation with
the University concerned under Clause (f) of Section 2 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 and every
institutions deemed to be a University under Section 3 of the said Act.
iii. They shall come into force with immediate effect.
2.
Qualifications.
- No person shall be appointed to a teaching post in university or in any of institutions including constituent or affiliated
colleges recognised under clause (f) of Section 2 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 or in an institution
deemed to be a University under Section 3 of the said Act in a subject if he does not fulfil the requirements as to the
qualifications for the appropriate subjects as provided in the Schedule 1. Provided that any relaxation in the prescribed
qualifications can only be made by a University in regard to the posts under it or any of the institutions including
constituent or affiliated colleges recognised under clause (f) of Section 2 of the aforesaid Act or by an institution deemed
to be a university under Section 3 of the said Act with the prior approval of the University Grants Commission.
Provided further that these regulations shall not be applicable to such cases where selections through duty constituted
selection committees for making appointments to the teaching posts have been made prior to the enforcement of these
regulations.
3.
Consequences of failure of Universities to comply with recommendations of the Commission; as per provisions of
Section 14 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 :
If any University Grants affiliation in respect of any course of study to any college referred to in subsection (5) of Section
12A in contravention of the provisions of that sub section of fails within a reasonable time to comply with any
recommendations made by the Commission under Section 12 or Section 13, or contravenes the provisions of any rule
made under clause (f) of clause (c) of subsection (2) of Section 25 or of any regulations made under clause (c) or clause
(f) or clause (g) of section 26, the Commission after taking into consideration the clause, if any, shown by the University
for such failure or contravention, may withhold from the University, the grants proposed to be made out of the Fund of
the Commission.
Sd/-
........................................
Secretary
To
The Manager,
Govt. of India Press,
Faridabad.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2