
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Destructive Insects and Pests (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1992
The Destructive Insects and Pests (Amendment and Validation) Act,
1992
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/63661695/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
4
]
Union of India - Act
The Destructive Insects and Pests (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1992
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Destructive Insects and Pests (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1992
Act 12 of 1992
Published in Gazette of India on 31 March 1992
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 31 March 1992.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
An Act further to amend the Destructive Insects and Pests Act, 1914.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Forty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
This Act may be called the Destructive Insects and Pests (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1992.
(2)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 27th day of October, 1989.
2.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Destructive Insects and Pests (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1992
[Amendment of section 3 of Act 2 of 1914.]-
Rep. by the Repealing and Amending Act, 2001 (30 of 2001), s. 2 and Sch. (w.e.f. 3-9-2001).
3.
Validation.-
(1)
Notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court, tribunal or other authority,-
(i)
the notification No.S.O.867(E), dated the 27th October, 1989 issued under sub-section (1) of the section 3 of the
principal Act, and
(ii)
any fees levied or collected or purported to have been levied or collected for making an application for a permit to
import, or for making inspection, fumigation, disinfection, disinfestation or supervision of, any article or class of articles or
any insect or class of insects under the principal Act or the said notification, shall, for all purposes, be deemed to be and
to have always been validly issued or, as the case may be, levied or collected in accordance with the provisions of
section 3 of the principal Act as amended by this Act, and accordingly-
(a)
no suit or other proceeding shall be maintained or continued in any court for the refund of any fees so collected;
(b)
no court or other authority shall enforce any decree or order directing the refund of any fees so collected;
(c)
any fees levied or purported to have been levied but not collected, may be recovered under the principal Act as
amended by this Act; and
(d)
anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken under or for the purposes of the principal Act
shall be deemed to have been validly done or taken in accordance with law as if the provisions of section 3 of the
principal Act, as amended by this Act, had been in force at all material times.
(2)
For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that nothing in sub-section (1) shall be construed as preventing any
person-
(a)
from questioning in accordance with the provisions of the principal Act, as amended by this Act, or the notification issued
under section 3 of the principal Act, the levy or collection of such fees; or
(b)
from claiming refund of any fees paid by him in excess of the amount due from him under the principal Act, as amended
by this Act, or the said notification.
4.
Repeal and saving.-
(1)
The Destructive Insects and Pests (Amendment and Validation) Ordinance, 1992 (Ord. 4 of 1992) is hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the principal Act, as amended by the said
Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the principal Act, as amended by this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2