
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/20462835/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
Union of India - Act
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
Rule THE-REGISTRATION-OF-FOREIGNERS-RULES-1992 of 1992
Published on 10 March 1992
Commenced on 10 March 1992
[This is the version of this document from 10 March 1992.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
Published vide Notification G.S.R. 318(E), dated 10.3.1992, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2,
Section 3(i), dated 10.3.1992.
21.
/946
Whereas the draft of the Registration of Foreigners Rules, 1990 in supersession of the Registration of Foreigners Rules,
1939 were published, as required by section 3 of the Registration of Foreigners Act, 1939 (
16 of 1939
) in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, section 3, sub-section (1), dated 15th January, 1991 under the
Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No. G.S.R. 37(E), dated 15th January, 1991,
inviting objections and suggestions from all persons likely to be affected thereby, within a period of 45 days from the
Page 1/15
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
date of publication of that notification in the Official Gazette.
And, whereas the copies of the said Official Gazette were made available to the public on the 15th January, 1991;
And, whereas no objections and suggestions on the said draft have been received, from the persons likely to be affected
thereby by the Central Government;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the said Act [and in supersession of the Registration
of Foreigners Rules, 1939, except as respects things done or omitted to be done before such supersession,]
[ Inserted by G.S.R. 55(E), dated 29.1.1999 (w.e.f. 29.1.1999).]
the Central Government hereby makes the following rules [* * *]
[ The words " further to amend the Registration of Foreigners Rules, 1939"  omitted by G.S.R. 55(E), dated 29.1.1999
(w.e.f. 1999).]
, namely:-
1.
Short title, commencement and extent
.-(1) These rules may be called The Registration of Foreigners Rules, 1992.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
(3)
They extend to the whole of India.
2.
Definitions
.-In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant to the subject or context,-
(a)
"Act" means the Registration of Foreigners Act, 1939 (
16 of 1939
);
(b)
"Certificate of Registration" means a Certificate of Registration issued in pursuance of rule 7;
(c)
"Master of the Vessel" includes the pilot of an Aircraft and any person authorised by such master or pilot to discharge on
his behalf any of the duties imposed upon him by these rule;
(d)
"Form" means one of the Forms appended to these rules;
(e)
"Passenger" means any person travelling or seeking to travel on vessel who is not a  bona fide seaman;
(f)
"Registered Address" means a foreigner's address in India as reported under rule 6 and recorded in item 11 of his
Certificate of Registration;
(g)
"Registration Officer" means a Registration Officer appointed by the Central Government under rule 3 and includes an
authority authorised in writing by a Registration Officer with the approval of the Central Government to perform the
duties of the Registration Officer on his behalf;
(h)
"Residence" means ordinary dwelling place in India;
(i)
"Seaman" means a person employed on, or engaged in the working of a vessel;
(j)
"tourist" means a foreigner having no residence or occupation in India whose stay in India does not ordinarily exceed six
months, who has no other object in visiting India than recreation, sight-seeing or attending, in a representative capacity,
meetings convened by the Government of India or International bodies or any other meeting or conference cleared by
the Government of India;
(k)
Page 2/15
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
"Vessel" includes aircraft but does not include a vessel travelling solely between ports or places in India.
3.
Registration Officers
.-(1) The Central Government may appoint Registration Officers for the purposes of these rules for such areas as it
thinks fit.
(2)
A Registration Officer may, with the approval of the Central Government, authorise in writing any authority to perform
any or all of his functions under these rules.
4.
Passengers on vessels to report arrival in India
.-Every passenger who arrives in India on board any vessel shall on being required so to do by or on behalf of, the
master of the vessel, furnish true particulars as to his name and nationality, his age, sex, place of birth, and address or
intended address in India, the purpose of his visit and the proposed length of his stay in India.
[5. Report by Foreigners on arrival in India - Every Foreigner who enters India shall, on being required so to do by the
Registration Officer of the place of arrival, furnish to him a true statement of the particulars set out in Form D.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 598(E) dated 4.9.2013 (w.e.f. 10.3.1992)]
6.
Report by a foreigner of his address in India, etc
.-(1) Every foreigner entering India or resident in India shall present in person or through an authorised representative to
the appropriate Registration Officer specified in rule 7, a report (hereinafter referred to as a registration report) within the
time specified in that rule:
Provided that no such report shall be necessary in the case of a foreigner who enters India on a visa valid for a period of
not more than one hundred and eighty days and who does not remain in India beyond the said period.
(2)
Every registration report shall be made in writing in English or in Hindi language and in quadruplicate and shall contain a
true statement of the foreigner's address in India and of the other particulars specified in Items 2 to 10 in Para IV of
Form A and such of the particulars specified in Items 12 to 16 thereof, as may be appropriate.
(3)
For the purpose of sub-rule (2), a foreigner's address in India, shall be-
(a)
the place of his residence; or
(b)
if he has no residence, the place at which, at the time of making his registration report he is for the time being living or at
which he first intends to live after his arrival in India:
Provided that, subject to the approval of the Registration Officer, any foreigner who has no residence in India may, with
the consent previously obtained of an Indian citizen residing in India, being a banker or a person having the
management of hotel or of a tourist or travel agency, report as his address in India the name and address of the said
Indian citizen and such name and address shall, for so long as the provisions of sub-rule (4) are complied with, be
deemed to be the foreigner's address in India:
Provided further that in the case of a foreigner who has no residence in India, whose occupation is such as to
necessitate frequent travelling, who is not likely to return within a reasonable time to the district in which he is at any
time living and who is unable to avail himself of the provisions of the foregoing proviso, the office of the Registration
Officer of the district in which he has first registered upon his arrival in India shall be deemed to be his address in India.
(4)
In any case to which the proviso to sub-rule (3) applies, it shall be the duty,-
(a)
of the foreigner to keep the Indian citizen informed of his current address; and
(b)
of the Indian citizen to furnish all such information in his possession relating to the foreigner as may be demanded for
any of the purposes of the Act or of these rules by any Registration Officer, Magistrate or Police Officer not below the
rank of Head Constable.
Page 3/15
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
(5)
Copies of Form A may be obtained on application from any Registration Officer.
7.
Procedure for registration
.-(1) The registration report shall be presented-
(a)
in the case of a foreigner who enters India on a visa valid for a stay in India for a period of one hundred and eighty days
or less and who wishes to stay in India beyond a period of one hundred and eighty days, to the Registration Officer
having jurisdiction in the place where the said foreigner is present at the time of presentation of such report;
(b)
in the case of foreigner who enters India on a visa valid for a stay in India for a period of more than one hundred eighty
days to such Registration Officer as may be specified in this behalf by the Registration Officer of the port or other place
of arrival with the approval of the Central Government;
(c)
in the case of foreigner who enters India otherwise than on a visa, to the Registration Officer having jurisdiction in the
place where the said foreigner is present at the time of the presentation of such report;
(d)
in the case of a person who has become a foreigner by reason of his having ceased to be a citizen of India while
resident in India to the Registration Officer having jurisdiction in the place where the said person is ordinarily resident;
(e)
[in the case of a foreigner who enters India with a Persons of Indian Origin Card, to the Registration Officer having
jurisdiction in the place where the said foreigner is ordinarily resident.
[ Inserted by G.S.R. 483(E), dated 1.7.1999 (w.e.f. 1.7.1999).]
Explanation .-In this clause, the expression "Persons of Indian Origin" means a person who is a foreign citizen of Indian
Origin settled outside India and to whom such card has been issued by the Central Government, subject to such
conditions, as it may specify in this behalf;]
(f)
[ in the case of a foreigner who enters India on a visa valid for a stay in India for a period of more than one hundred and
eighty days with a stipulation that "each stay shall not exceed one hundred and eighty days", and who wishes to stay in
India beyond the period of one hundred and eighty days on any single occasion, to the Registration Officer having
jurisdiction in the place where the said foreigner is present at the time of presentation of such report.]
[ Inserted by G.S.R. 70(E), dated 30.1.2002 (w.e.f. 31.1.2002).]
(2)
The Registration report shall be presented-
(a)
in the case of a foreigner referred to in clause (a) of sub-rule (1), within two weeks after the expiry of one hundred and
eighty days of his arrival in India;
(b)
in the case of foreigner referred to in clause (b) of sub-rule (1), within two weeks of his arrival in India;
(c)
in the case of a foreigner referred to in clause (c) of sub-rule (1), immediately after the expiry of the authorised period of
stay in India;
(d)
in the case of foreigner referred to in clause (d) of sub-rule (1), within fifteen days of his ceasing to be citizen of India.
(e)
[ in the case of a foreigner referred to in clause (e) of sub-rule (1), within thirty days after the expiry of the period of one
hundred and eighty days of his arrival in India;]
[ Inserted by G.S.R. 483(E), dated 1.7. 1999 (w.e.f. 1.7.1999).]
(f)
[ in the case of a foreigner referred to in clause (f) of sub-rule (1), any time before the expiry of the period of one
hundred and eighty days of his arrival in India.]
Page 4/15
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
[ Inserted by G.S.R. 70(E), dated 30.1.2002 (w.e.f. 31.1.2002).]
Explanation .- For  the purpose of sub-rule (1) and sub-rule (2), the date on which the person concerned shall be
deemed to have ceased to be a citizen of India shall be,-
(a)
where he has voluntarily acquired the citizenship of another country by naturalisation or registration, the date of such
naturalisation or registration;
(b)
where he has obtained a passport from the Government of any other country, the date on which such passport was
obtained:
Provided that in the case of a person in respect of whom an order has been made under sub-section (2) of section 9 of
the Citizenship Act, 1955 (
57 of 1955
), holding that, he had acquired the citizenship of a foreign country such date shall be the date of the order aforesaid.
(3)
Every foreigner presenting a registration report shall furnish to the Registration Officer such information as may be in his
possession for the purpose of satisfying the said officer as to the accuracy of the particulars specified therein and shall,
on being required to do sign the registration report in the presence of the said officer and shall thereupon be entitled to
receive from the said officer a certificate of registration in Part III of Form A:
Provided that, in any case in which the registration report is presented, in accordance with clause (b) of sub-rule (1), by
a foreigner whose address in India is not within the jurisdiction of the Registration Officer of the port or other place of
arrival in India, temporary certificate in Form B shall be issued and the said foreigner shall thereafter comply with the
conditions set out in Form B:
Provided further that any foreigner whose passport or other documents of identification do not, in the opinion of the
Registration Officer, provide adequate proof of identity, shall be required to furnish to the Registration Officer, within
such period of presenting his registration report as such officer may fix, either four copies of a photograph of himself of
passport size, one of which shall be affixed to Part III of Form A and over stamped with the Stamp of Registration Officer
or four complete sets of his finger impressions, one of which shall be made on Part III of Form A, whichever the
Registration Officer may require. The finger impressions shall be made in the presence of the Registration Officer and
each set attested by him.
8.
Period of validity of certificate of registration
.-The certificate of registration issued in respect of any foreigner shall be valid for so long as the foreigner does not
depart from India.
9.
Production of proof of Identity
.-(1) Every foreigner shall within twenty-four hours of demand being made of him by any Registration Officer, magistrate
or police officer, not below the rank of a head constable, produce, at such place as may be specified in his passport or
such other proof of his identity as may be required for any purpose connected with the enforcement of these rules:
Provided that the said Registration Officer, magistrate or police officer may, on sufficient cause being shown, extend the
aforesaid period of twenty-four hours to such period as, in the circumstances, may be necessary for the production of
the said passport or other proof of identity.
(2)
Every foreigner entering India shall, on demand being made of him by the Registration Officer, deliver his passport or
other proof of identity to that officer and shall thereafter attend at such time and place as the Registration Officer may
direct for the purpose of receiving back his passport.
(3)
Where in pursuance of sub-rule (2) a foreigner surrenders his passport or other proof of identity, he shall be entitled to
receive a receipt for it from the Registration Officer.
10.
Production of certificate of registration
.-Every registered foreigner shall, within twenty-four hours of demand being made of him by any Registration Officer,
Page 5/15
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
any magistrate or any police officer not below the rank of a Head Constable, produce or cause to be produced his
certificate of registration for his inspection of such registration officer, magistrate or police officer:
Provided that the Registration Officer, magistrate or police officer may, on sufficient cause being shown, extend the
aforesaid period of twenty-four hours to such period as, in the circumstances may be reasonably necessary for the
production of the said certificate:
Provided further that if the Registration Officer, magistrate or police officer, not being below the rank of an Inspector is of
the opinion that the passport or other documents of identification produced by the foreigner do not furnish adequate
proof of identity and if the registration certificate does not bear the photograph or finger impressions required by the
second proviso to sub-rule (3) of rule 7 the Registration Officer, magistrate or police officer not being below the rank of
an Inspector may require the foreigner either to produce, four copies of a photograph of himself of passport size, one of
which shall be affixed to the registration certificate and over stamped with the stamp of the officer or to furnish four
complete sets of his finger impressions one of which shall be made on the registration certificate. The finger impression
shall be made in the presence of the Registration Officer and each set attested by him.
11.
Report of absence from address
.-(1) If at any time a foreigner proposes to be absent from his registered address for a continuous period of eight weeks
or more or he is changing his registered address or he is finally departing from India, he shall, before he leaves, inform
in person or through an authorised representative or by registered post his Registration Officer of his intention to leave
either temporarily or permanently the jurisdiction of the Registration Officer. In case he is returning he should inform the
Registration Officer of the date of return and in the case he is moving away, the change of address. Any changes made
subsequently should also be intimated to the Registration Officer:
Provided that nothing in this sub-rule shall apply in the case of any foreigner in respect of whom, in pursuance of the
proviso to sub-rule (3) of rule 6, the address of Indian citizen is deemed to be his registered address.
(2)
Every foreigner, who stays for a period of more than eight weeks at any place in any district other than the district in
which his registered address is situated, shall inform the Registration Officer of that district of his presence.
(3)
The information required under sub-rule (2) may be made in writing and the requirements of the said sub-rule shall be
deemed to have been fulfilled if, prior to his arrival in a district other than that in which his registered address is situated,
the foreigner furnishes to the Registration Officer of the said district intimation of the dates of his proposed arrival in and
departure from the said district.
12.
Change in registered address
.-A foreigner shall be deemed to have changed his registered address-
(a)
if he departs from India;
(b)
if he changes his residence from one place to another place in India;
(c)
if, having no residence, he leaves his registered address knowing that he is not likely thereafter to return thereto within
six months of leaving it; or
(d)
in any case to which the first proviso to sub-rule (3)  of rule 6 applies, if either he or the Indian citizen whose address is
deemed to be his registered address applies to the Registration Officer to be absolved from or fails at any time to
discharge the obligations laid down upon them by sub-rule (4) of that rule:
Provided that clause (c) of this rule shall not apply in any case in which in accordance with the second proviso to
sub-rule (3) of rule 6 the foreigner's registered address is the office of the Registration Officer of the district in which he
first registered upon his arrival in India.
13.
Reports of change other than of address
.-Without prejudice to the provisions of rules 11 and 12 every foreigner shall furnish to the Registration Officer of the
Page 6/15
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
district in which his registered address is situated particulars of any circumstances affecting in any manner the accuracy
of the particulars recorded in his certificate of registration within fourteen days after the circumstance has occurred, and
generally shall supply to the Registration Officer all such information as may be necessary for maintaining the accuracy
of the certificate.
14.
[* * *]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 324(E), dated 18.3.2016 (w.e.f. 10.3.1992).]
14. Report to be made to and by hotel keepers.-(1) Every keeper of a hotel shall require every visitor to the hotel to
furnish the particulars necessary for recording, and sign, on his arrival at the hotel, his name and nationality in a register
maintained for the purpose in Form F and, if any such visitor is a foreigner shall further require him,-
(a) on his arrival at such a hotel to furnish the other particulars specified in Items 4 to 10 of the said register; and
(b) at the time of his departure from such a hotel to furnish the particulars necessary for recording in the said register,
the date and time of his departure and the address to which he is proceeding.
(2) The register prescribed by sub-rule (1) shall at all time be made available for inspection, on the demand of any
Registration Officer, any Magistrate or any Police Officer not below the rank of head constable.
(3) Every visitor to any hotel shall, on being required so to do by the keeper of the hotel, furnish the particulars
necessary for recording, and sign, his name and nationality, in the register referred to in sub-rule (1), and if such visitor
is a foreigner, shall also,-
(a) on his arrival at such a hotel furnish the other particulars specified in Items 4 to 10 of the said register; and
(b) at the time of his departure from such hotel, furnish the particulars necessary for recording, in the said register, the
date and time of his departure and the address to which he is proceeding.
(4) Every particulars, other than the signature of the keeper of a hotel or a visitor, which is required by this rule to be
recorded in the said register shall be recorded by the keeper of the hotel and in the English language, if he is so able, or
otherwise, in an Indian language.
(5) If a visitor does not understand the English language it shall be duty of the keeper of the hotel, if so requested to
explain to the visitor the requirements of this rule and Form F.
(6) The keeper of the hotel shall, as soon as may be but not more than twenty-four hours, after the arrival of any
foreigner, transmit a copy of Form C, duly completed from the particulars furnished by such a foreigner, to the
Registration Officer.
(7) For the purpose of this rule,-
(a) "hotel" includes any boarding-house, club, dak-banglow, rest house, paying guest house,saraior other premises of
like nature;
(b) "keeper of a hotel" means the person having the management of a hotel and includes any person authorised by him,
and competent to perform the duties of the keeper of the hotel under this rule;
(c) "sign" includes, in respect of a visitor who is unable to write, the making of a thumb-impression or other mark by
means of which he is accustomed to attest a document; and
(d) "visitor" means a person for whom accommodation is provided at a hotel.
(8) Copies of Form C may be obtained, on application from any Registration Officer.
15.
Surrender of certificates of registration on departure
.-(1) Every foreigner who is about to depart finally from India shall surrender his certificate of registration either to the
Registration Officer of the place where he is registered or of the place from where he intends to depart or to the
Immigration Officer at the port/checkpost of exit from India.
If the certificate is surrendered other than to the Immigration Officer of the port or checkpost of exit, a receipt indicating
such surrender of the document may be obtained and shown to the Immigration Officer.
(2)
Every passenger other than a passenger for whom a berth has been engaged by or on behalf of Government, who is
about to depart from India on board any vessel shall, on the request of a person having the engagement of such vessel,
furnish or cause to be furnished in writing a true statement of the particulars set out in Form D.
(3)
[ The Central Government shall, publish on the reverse of Form D, by way of General or Special instructions, the
Page 7/15
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
requirements of any other law or the rules made thereunder, which are applicable to the passengers.]
[ Inserted by G.S.R. 55(E), dated 29.1.1999 (w.e.f. 29.1.1999)]
16.
Obligations of masters of vessels, etc
.-(1) The master or the person having management of any vessel arriving at or leaving any place in India shall-
(a)
require any person who intends to disembark from or embark on any such vessel for the purpose of entering or leaving
India, to furnish in writing a true statement of the particulars set out in Form D, as the case may be;
(b)
cause Form D to be delivered to the Registration Officer at the place of arrival or departure;
(c)
take steps to ensure that no foreigner disembarks or embarks until authorised so to do by the Registration Officer;
(d)
if so requested by the Registration Officer require any foreign passenger about to depart from India to surrender his
certificate of registration and deliver such certificate to Registration Officer;
(e)
if so required by the Registration Officer, furnish on arrival at the said place a true statement in writing showing the name
and nationality of every seaman employed on such vessel, and at the time of departing from such place take such steps
as the Registration Officer may specify to ascertain whether or not any such seaman as aforesaid who is a foreigner is
about to depart on board such vessel; and
(f)
generally render to the Registration Officer such assistance as he may reasonably require for carrying out the purpose
of the Act and these rules.
(2)
The master or the person having the management of any vessel arriving at, or leaving any place in India by Sea shall
also furnish, before any passenger disembarks or embarks, to the Registration Officer of any such place, a passenger
manifest in Form E.
(3)
Every particular, other than the signature of a foreign passenger, which is required by this rule to be recorded in Form D,
as the case may be, shall be recorded;
(a)
if the passenger is able to write in English language, by the passenger and in the English language;
(b)
if the passenger is unable to write in English language, by the passenger in an Indian language; or
(c)
if the passenger is unable to write either in English language or in an Indian language by the master of the vessel or by
any person having the management of such vessel or by any seaman authorised in this behalf by such master or
person, in the English language or in an Indian language.
(4)
If a foreign passenger does not understand the English language or Indian language it shall be the duty of the master of
the vessel, if so requested, to explain to the foreign passenger the requirements of this rule.
(5)
Form E shall be completed in the English language or in an Indian language.
(6)
Copies of Forms D and E may be obtained, on application from any Registration Officer.
17.
Duplicate certificate of registration
.-If any certificate of registration, issued under these rules is lost or destroyed, the foreigner to whom it was issued, shall
make or send to the Registration Officer of the district of his registered address a report of circumstances in which it was
so lost or destroyed together with an application in writing for the issue of a duplicate copy of the certificate of
registration.
Page 8/15
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
18.
[* * *]
[Omitted 'Report to be made by Universities/Educational Institutions. - Every University/Educational Institution shall
furnish to the Registration Officer, information in respect of foreign students enrolled in the University/Educational
Institution in Form G.' by Notification No. G.S.R. 324(E), dated 18.3.2016 (w.e.f. 10.3.1992).]
Forms
FORM A
(See rule 6)
(To be completed in quadruplicate)
Part I ? .-Registration report.
Part II ? .-Duplicate registration report.
Part III ? .-Certificate of registration (vide rules 2, 5, 6, 7, 9, 12, 13, 15, 16 and 17).
Part IV ? .-Triplicate of registration report.
1. Serial Number.
2. Name in full (block capitals, surname first).
3. Sex .......................Height.......................Colour of eyes.......................
4. Date and place of birth.
5.
Present nationality.
6. Previous nationality (if any).
7. Mariner and date of acquiring present nationality.
8. Occupation or profession, and purpose of visiting India.
9. If a member of any country's naval, military or air-force, or its reserve, state which country's and rank held.
10. Number, date and office of issue of passport or particulars of other proof of identity.
11. Address or intended address in India.
12. Post or place of embarkation or departure for India.
13. Date and place of arrival in India.
14. Name of vessel on which or how arrived in India.
15. Address of last residence outside India.
16. Name of husband/wife and children and their nationalities (if accompanying the visitor).
17. Signature of registree.
18. Date of expiry of registration.
(only for tourists)*
(Signed)
...................
(Seal)
Signed
(Registration Officer)
Registered at ..................on....................20..................
Registration transferred to:
DistrictA
Date
Signature and seal of Registration Officer of district in
Column 1
1
2
3
1
2
3
4
Page 9/15
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
NOTICE
1. Every registered foreigner is required:
(I)
On the demand of any Registration Officer or Magistrate or any Police Officer not below the rank of Head Constable to
produce this Certificate and his passport or such other proof of identity as may be required of him by such Magistrate or
officer.
(II)
to surrender his certificate of registration, if he is about to depart finally from India either to the Registration Officer of the
place where he is registered or of the place from where he intends to depart or to the Immigration Officer at the
port/checkpost of exit from India.
(III)
to intimate in person or through an authorised representative or by post under certificate of posting the Registration
Officer of the district in which his registered address is situated-
(a)
before he leaves his registered address, if he proposes to be absent from his registered address for a continuous period
of eight weeks or more, the address or addresses at which he proposes to stay and the date on which he expects to
return to his registered address;
(b)
if he proposes to change his registered address or to leave India, the particulars of his new address and the date of the
proposed change or departure; and
(c)
any circumstances which in any way affect the accuracy of any of the particulars set out in his Certificate of Registration.
(IV)
If he stays for more than eight weeks at any place (other than a hotel or other premises where travellers are
accommodated) in any district other than the district in which his registered address is situated to report his presence in
that other district to the Registration Officer thereof within seven days of his arrival.
2. Failure to comply with the foregoing provisions will render the holder of this certificate liable to be punished with
imprisonment or fine or both, under Section 5 of the Registration of Foreigners Act, 1939 (XVI of 1939).
Form B
Temporary Certificate of Registration
(Rule 7)
Serial Number-
Mr.......................a Foreigner of....................nationality who arrived in India on the .....................20.................. is directed
to report to the....................at...............within seven days for the purpose of registration.
2. For a period of one week or until the report prescribed above has been made, whichever, is less, this Form will be
deemed to be a Certificate of registration in Part III of Form A and must be produced on the demand of any Registration
Officer, Magistrate, or police officer not below the rank of head constable.
3. If for any reason that report prescribed in paragraph 1 cannot be made within one week the holder of this Form is
directed to report in person at the office of the under-signed or of the nearest Registration Officer and to comply with
such directions as to registration as may then be given.
4. The contents of this Form have been explained to the holder thereof.
(Signed)
Registration Officer
[Form C]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 324(E), dated 18.3.2016 (w.e.f. 10.3.1992).]
(Rule 14)
Hotel Arrival Report
(To be completed in duplicate)
1. Name of hotel
2. Name of foreign visitor
(in full in block capitals, surname first)
Page 10/15
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
3. Nationality
4. Number, date and place of issue of passport
5. Address in India
6. Date of arrival in India
7. Arrived from
8. Whether employed in India-Yes or No.
9. Proposed duration of stay in India
10. Number, date and office of issue of certificate of registration, if any
Manager's Signature
[FORM D
(See rules 5 and 15)
ARRIVAL CARD FOR PASSENGERS
Please write in CAPITALS only. One character in one box as shown below. Do not write across the lines. Leave one box
blank for space.
A
B
C
D
E
1
2
3
4
5
1. Name (as in passport) Leave one box blank after every part of the name/initial.
2. Sex (tick ? appropriate box)| 3. Nationality
MaleFemale|
{|
|}
4. Date of Birth (DD/MM/YYYY)| 5. Country of  Residence|-
{|
|
|}
6. NRI/PIO/OCI Status (tick ? appropriate box)| 7. PIO/OCI Card NO. If any
| NRI| | PIO| | OCI| | NOne|
{|
|}
8. Passport Number| 9. Date of issue(DD/MM/YYYY)|-
{|
|
|
|}
10. Flight Number| 11. Port of Boarding|-
{|
|
|}
12. Date of Arrival (DD/MM/YYYY)| 13. Countries visited in last 6 days
{|
|
|}
14. Address in India
Page 11/15
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
15. Telephone No.
To be filled in by Indians only
16. Does your passport carry an ECR stamp?(tick ? appropriate box )| 17.Whether employed overseas?(tick ?
appropriate box)
YesNo| YesNo
18. If answer is yes to 17, reason for return (tick ? appropriate box)
Completion of Employment| Others|
To be filled in by Foreigners (including PIO/OCI) and NRIs
*19. Visa Number| *20. Date of Expiry(DD/MM/YYYY)|-
{|
|
|
|}
*21. Type of Visa| 22. Expected Date of Departure(DD/MM/YYYY)|-
{|
|
|
|}
23. Purpose of visit (tick ? appropriate box)
| | | | | | | | | | |
Business| Transit| Official| Employment| Education| Conference|
| | | | | | | | | | |
Visit Friends/Relatives| Medical/Health| Religion/Pllgrimage| Leisure/Holiday| Sport| Others|
*Not to be filled by NRIsSignature of Passenger| | Immigration Stamp|
| | |
]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 113(E) dated 24.2.2011 (w.e.f. 1.3.1992)]
FORM E
(See rule 17)
Passenger Manifest
Name of shipping company ......................
Name of vessel ................................
Port and date of embarkation/disembarkation in India.......................
Sl. No.
Name of passenger
Nationality
Port of embarkation (abroad)
Port of disembarkation (abroad)
1
2
3
4
5
[FORM F]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 324(E), dated 18.3.2016 (w.e.f. 10.3.1992).]
(See rule 14)
Hotel Register
1. Serial No.
2. Name of visitor in full (in block capitals, surname first).
3. Nationality.
4. Number, date and place of issue of passport.
Page 12/15
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
5. Address in India.
6. Date of arrival in India.
7. Whether employed in India-Yes or No.
8. Proposed duration of stay in India.
9. Arrived from.
10. Number, date and place of issue of certificate of Registration, if any.
11. Purpose of visit.
12. Date and time of departure from hotel.
13. Address to which proceeding.
14. Signature of the visitor.
[Form G]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 324(E), dated 18.3.2016 (w.e.f. 10.3.1992).]
[(See Rule 18)
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 598(E) dated 4.9.2013 (w.e.f. 10.3.1992)]
Foreign Students Information System
DATASHEET
{|
Student
Information
Surname
Given Name
Date of Birth
Gender
Nationality
Parent Name
Father Name/Mother
Name
Parent Relation
Father/Mother
Address in India
Institution
Admission No.
Date of Joining in
Institution
Sponsoring Agency
Passport Number
Date of Issue of
Passport
Place of Issue of
Passport
Passport Issued
Country
Date of Expiry of
Passport
Visa Number
Visa Issued Date
Place of Issue of
Visa
Visa Issued
Country
Visa Expiry Date
Page 13/15
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
Visa Type
Visa Valid for
Purpose of Visit
Course
Details
Course Name
Course Pattern
Non-Semester/Semester/Short
term
Course Duration
From Date : To
Date :
Fee Structure
Registration
with FRRO/FRO
Registration
Certificate No.
RC Issued Date
RC Expiry Date
Change
of Course Details
Course Name
Course Pattern
None-Semester/Semester/Short
Term
Course Duration
From Date : To
Date :
Fee Structure
Academic
Performance Entry
Assessment Period
From Date : To
Date :
Attendance
Regular/Irregular
Examination
Conducted
Yes/No
Result
Pass/Fail
General Conduct of
Student
Good/Bad
Enter Details
about Conduct
Remark Entry
Eligible to
Continue Course
Yes/No
Exit
Page 14/15
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Registration Of Foreigners Rules, 1992
Entry (Details of Student Exit from Institution)
Student's Exit
Information
Date :
Reason to Exit
Course
Complete/Discontinued by student/Terminated]
|}
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 15/15