
----- PAGE 1 -----
Veterinary Council of India (fees and Allowances ) Regulations, 1992
Veterinary Council of India (fees and Allowances ) Regulations, 1992
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/152027705/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Veterinary Council of India (fees and Allowances ) Regulations, 1992
UNION OF INDIA
India
Veterinary Council of India (fees and Allowances ) Regulations, 1992
Rule VETERINARY-COUNCIL-OF-INDIA-FEES-AND-ALLOWANCES-REGULATIONS-1992 of 1992
Published on 1 April 1992
Commenced on 1 April 1992
[This is the version of this document from 1 April 1992.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Veterinary Council of India (fees and Allowances ) Regulations, 1992
Published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(i), dated 1st April, 1992
2037.
G.S. R. 394 (E), dated the 1st April, 1992 - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (2) of
section 66 of the Indian Veterinary Council Act, 1984 (52 of 1984) the Veterinary Council if India with the previous
approval of the Central Government hereby makes the following regulations, namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement
(1)
These regulations may be called the Veterinary Council of India (fees and Allowances ) Regulations, 1992.
(2)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Veterinary Council of India (fees and Allowances ) Regulations, 1992
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Gazette of India.
2.
Definitions
- In these regulations unless the context otherwise requires --
(a)
`Act' means the Indian Veterinary Council Act , 1984 (52 of 1984 )
(b)
`Council means 'the Indian Veterinary council of India constituted under the act;
(c ) `Executive Committee' `or committee' means the executive committee or Committee constituted under sub section ( i
) of the section 12 of the Act;
(d)
`President' means the President of the Council elected under sub section (4) of section 3 of the Act;
(e)
`Vice President means' the vice president of the council elected under sub section (4) of section 3 of the Act;
(f)
`Member 'means a member elected or nominated under section 3 of the act & the members of the committees co-opted
under sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Act;
3.
(1)
Fees to be paid to President and other Members and the Members of the Committee (other than the members of the
Council).
The president and other members and the members of the Committee (other than the members of the Council) (not
being the Secretary of officers for the council) shall be paid by the Council for attendance at any meeting of the Council
and its Committee, a fee per day for meeting at such rate as the Executive Committee of the Council may, from time to
time, decide :
Provided that in the case of a members who is an official of the Central or State Government, he/she may claim
travelling and halting expenses from the Veterinary Council for India to the extent that the he/She does not claim for the
relevant Government.
(2)
Payment of travelling and halting allowance to the President and other members and members of the committee (other
than the members of the Council).
The president and other members and the members of the Committees (other than the members of the Council) shall, in
addition to the fees, to which he/she may be entitled under Regulation 3(1) be paid his/her Travelling and Daily
Allowance at the highest rate applicable to Central Government employees of the first Grade under Travelling Allowance
Rules of the Central Government, as amended from time to time.
4.
The Secretary and other officers of the council shall be paid their travailing and daily allowances at the rates as
applicable to central government employees of the corresponding grade under Travailing Allowance rules of the Central
Govt. as amended from time to time.
5.
The President of Council shall be the self controlling authority .
6.
In other cases, the President shall be the authority competent to sanction air/air condition travel to entitled persons.
7.
Under special circumstances in regard to cases not covered under these regulations, the president shall be the authority
competent to sanction air/air conditioned travel if the work is in the council's interest:
Provided that such cases shall not be taken as president and be considered on individual merits.
8.
All other matters pertaining to Travelling and Daily Allowances not covered by these Regulations shall mutatis mutandis
be as per Travelling Allowance Rules of the Central Government, pending formulation of separate Travelling and Daily
allowances Rules of the Veterinary Council of India.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Veterinary Council of India (fees and Allowances ) Regulations, 1992
9.
The rates of Travelling and Daily Allowances shall be at the same rates as applicable to the Government employees of
corresponding grade and shall stand revised consequent upon the revision of these Rules by the Government of India.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3