
----- PAGE 1 -----
The National Waterway (Kollam-Kottapuram Stretch of West Coast Canal and Champakara and Ud...
The National Waterway (Kollam-Kottapuram Stretch of West Coast
Canal and Champakara and Udyogmandal Canals) Act, 1992
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/139675344/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The National Waterway (Kollam-Kottapuram Stretch of West Coast Canal and Champakara and Udyogmandal Canals)
Act, 1992
UNION OF INDIA
India
The National Waterway (Kollam-Kottapuram Stretch of West Coast Canal and Champakara and Udyogmandal Canals)
Act, 1992
Act 25 of 1992
Published in Gazette of India 25 on 18 August 1992
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 18 August 1992.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
An Act to provide for the declaration of the Kollam-Kottapuram Stretch of West Coast Canal and Champakaraand
Udyogmandal Canals to be a national waterway and also to provide for the regulation and development of the said
Stretch and the Canals for purposes of shipping and navigation on the said waterway and for matters connected
therewith or incidental thereto.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Forty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title and commencement.-
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The National Waterway (Kollam-Kottapuram Stretch of West Coast Canal and Champakara and Ud...
(1)
This Act may be called the National Waterway (Kollam-Kottapuram Stretch of West Coast Canal and Champakara and
Udyogmandal Canals) Act, 1992.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date1as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
2.
Declaration of Kollam-Kottapuram Stretch of West Coast Canal and Champakara and Udyogmandal Canals to be a
national waterway.-
The Kollam-Kottapuram Stretch of West Coast Canal and Champakara and Udyogmandal Canals, the limits of which
are specified in the Schedule, is hereby declared to be a national waterway.
1. 1st February, 1993 vide notification No. S.O. 806(E), dated 30th October, 1993, see Gazette of India, Extraordinary,
Part II, sec. 3(ii).
3.
Declaration as to expediency of control by the Union of Kollam-Kottapuram Stretch of West Coast Canal and
Champakara and Udyogmandal Canals for certain purposes.-
It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the Union should take under its control the regulation
and development of Kollam-Kottapuram Stretch of West Coast Canal and Champakara and Udyogmandal Canals for
purposes of shipping and navigation on the national waterway to the extent provided in the Inland Waterways Authority
of India Act, 1985.
The Schedule
[See Section 2]
Limits of The National Waterway (Kollam-Kottapuram Stretch of West Coast Canal and Champakara and Udyogmandal
Canals)
The northern limit of the West Coast Canal shall be a line drawn across the river Periyar parallel to Kottapuram road
bridge (NH-17) connecting Malinkara and ValiapanikanThuruthu at a distance of 1.0 kilometer upstream, and the
southern limit shall be a line drawn across the AshtamudiKayal at a distance of 100 meters south of Kollam jetty.
The Champakara Canal starting from the confluence with the West Coast Canal and ending at the railway bridge
(railway siding for Cochin Oil Refinery) near Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore Limited, boat basin. The
Udyogmandal Canal starting from the confluence with West Coast Canal and ending at the Padalam road bridge
(Eloor-Edayar).
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2