
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances and Accessories (Quality Control) Order, 1993
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances and Accessories (Quality
Control) Order, 1993
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/189590159/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances and Accessories (Quality Control) Order, 1993
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances and Accessories (Quality Control) Order, 1993
Rule THE-ELECTRICAL-WIRES-CABLES-APPLIANCES-AND-ACCESSORIES-QUALITY-CONTROL-ORDER-1993 of
1993
Published on 24 February 1993
Commenced on 24 February 1993
[This is the version of this document from 24 February 1993.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances and Accessories (Quality Control) Order, 1993
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2 Section 3(2), dated, 24th February, 1993 (w.e.f. 24th
February, 1993).
G.S.R. 83(E), dated 24th February, 1993. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential
Commodities Act, 1955 (
10 of 1955
), and in supersession of the order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Industry, No. G.S.R. 356 (E), dated the
18th March, 1988, except as respects things done or omitted to be done before such supersession of the Central
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances and Accessories (Quality Control) Order, 1993
Government hereby makes the following Order, namely :
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Order may be called the Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances and Accessories (Quality Control) Order, 1993.
(2)
It shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"Appropriate Authority" means an officer not below the rank of an Under Secretary to the Government of India or an
officer not below the rank of a General Manager, District Industries Centres or a State Government as may be appointed
by the Central Government or the State Government to implement the provisions of this order.
(b)
"Bureau" means the Bureau of Indian Standards ;
(c)
"Dealer", in relation to electrical wires, cables, appliances and accessories, means a person who, or a firm or a Hindu
undivided family which, carries on, directly or otherwise, the business of buying, selling, supplying or distributing any
such electrical wires, cables, appliances and accessories, whether in cash or for deferred payment or for commission,
remuneration or other valuable consideration ;
(d)
"Electrical wires, valves, appliances and accessories" means the electrical wires, cables, appliance and accessories
specified in column (2) of the Schedule ;
(e)
"Manufacturer", in relation to electrical wires, cables, appliances and accessories, means a person who, or a firm or a
Hindu undivided family which, produces, makes, assembles or manufactures any such electrical wires, cable, appliance
and accessories and includes a person who, or a firm or Hindu undivided family which, claims such electrical wires,
cables, appliances and accessories to be produced, made, assembled or manufactured by such person or firm or Hindu
undivided family, as the case may be.
(f)
"Schedule" means the Schedule annexed to this Order :
(g)
"Specified Standard", in relation to electrical wires, cables, appliances and accessories, means the standard as specified
in the corresponding entry in column (3) of the Schedule ;
(h)
"Standard Mark" means the Bureau of India Standard Certification Mark specified by the Bureau to represent a particular
Indian Standard, and also includes any Indian Standard specified by the Bureau; and
(i)
"State Government" includes a Union Territory Administration.
3.
Prohibition regarding manufacture, sale, etc. of electrical wires, cables, appliances and accessories.
(1)
No person shall by himself or through any person on his behalf manufacture or store for sale, sell or distribute any
electrical wires, cables, appliances and accessories which do not conform to the specified standards and they shall bear
standard mark of the Bureau :
Provided that nothing in this Order shall in relation to export of electrical wires, cables, appliances and accessories
required for export which conform to any specification required by the foreign buyer and such specification shall not in
any case be less than the specified standard.
(2)
The sub-standard or defective electrical wires, cables, appliances and accessories or raw-material or components,
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances and Accessories (Quality Control) Order, 1993
which do not conform to the specified standard shall be deformed beyond use and disposed of as scrap.
4.
Certification of manufacturers.
(1)
The manufacturer of electrical wires, cables, appliances and accessories shall make an application to the Bureau for
obtaining licence for use of the standard mark, within 45 days of the issue of this Order, if not already obtained.
(2)
The grant of licence by the Bureau for use of the standard mark shall be as per the provisions of the Bureau of Indian
Standards Act, 1986 (
63 of 1986
) and the rules and regulations made thereunder
(3)
When any person by himself or through any person on his behalf proposes to manufacture electrical wires, cables,
appliances and accessories, he shall make an application to the Bureau within 45 days of commencement of production.
(4)
Consequent to the lapsing or cancellation of any licence or closure of application by the Bureau for one or more of the
electrical wires, cables, appliances and accessories mentioned in column (2) of the Schedule, other appropriate
authority shall also be informed.
5.
Prohibition of storage, sale and distribution.
- No person shall by himself or through any person acting on his behalf store for sale, sell or distribute any electrical
wires, cables, appliances and accessories which do not bear the standard mark of the Bureau and which have not been
manufactured by a person who has obtained a Certification Mark Licence for the purpose.
6.
Power to call for information, etc.
- The appropriate authority may, with a view to securing compliance with this Order,-
(a)
require any person engaged in the manufacture, store for sale, sale or distribution of any electrical wires, cables,
appliances and accessories to give such information as it deems necessary in relation to the manufacture, storage for
sale, sale or distribution of any electrical wires, cables, appliances and accessories for the implementation of this Order
or require any such person to furnish to it samples of any such electrical wires, cables appliances and accessories or
any components of any such electrical wires, cabes, appliances and accessories;
(b)
inspect or cause to be inspected any books or other documents and other electrical wires, cables, appliances and
accessories or the components of any such electrical wires, cables, appliances and accessories kept by or belonging to
or in the possession or under the control of any person engaged in the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution
of any such electrical wires, cables, appliances and accessories ;
(c)
cause an officer authorised under Para. 8 to enter and search any premises and seize any electrical wires, cables,
appliances and accessories in respect of which it has reason to believe that a contravention of this Order has been
committed or the said electrical wires, cables appliances and accessories are not of the specified standard ; and
(d)
the provisions of Sec. 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) relating to the search and seizure under
this paragraph.
7.
Testing of samples.
- Samples of any electrical wires, cables, appliances and accessories bearing the Standard Mark and drawn by the
appropriate authority, for ascertaining whether they are of the specified standard, shall be tested in the laboratory
approved by the Bureau and in the manner as may be determined by the Bureau.
8.
Power to issue directions to manufacturers and dealers.
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances and Accessories (Quality Control) Order, 1993
- The appropriate authority may issue such directions to manufacturers and dealers, consistent with the provisions of
this Order, as may be necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Order.
9.
Compliance of direction.
- Every person engaged in the manufacture, storage for sale or distribution of any electrical wires, cables, appliances
and accessories, to whom any direction is issued under this Order, shall comply with such direction.
10.
Obligation to furnish information.
- No manufacturer or dealer with intent to evade the provisions of this Order, refuse to give any information lawfully
demanded from him under Para. 6 or conceal, destroy, multilate or deface any books or documents or any electrical
wires, cables, appliances and accessories kept by, or in the possession or control of, such person.
11.
Penalty.
- Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this Order or fails to carry out any direction or requisition made
thereunder shall be punishable, and the property in respect of which the order has been contravened shall be liable to
forfeiture, under Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (10 to 1955).
12.
Appeal.
(1)
Any manufacturer or dealer aggrieved by any decision of the appropriate authority may prefer an appeal in writing to the
Central Government, within 30 days from the date of receipt by him of the copy of the order, communicating such
decision:
Provided that the Central Government may admit any appeal after the expiry of the period aforesaid if it is satisfied that
the appellant was prevented from filing the appeal in time due to sufficient cause.
(2)
On receipt of the appeal under sub-paragraph (1), the Central Government may, after giving the appellant an opportunity
of being heard, pass such order as it may deem fit.
Schedule
Quality Control Order, 1993
Items covered under the above Order are as follow :-
Sl. No.
Item
Standard
1
2
3
1
Safety of household and similar electrical appliances?Electric
immersion water heaters.
IS : 302-2-201 (1992)
2
Safety of household and similar electrical appliances?Electric
iron.
IS : 302-2-3 (1992)
4
Safety of household and similar electrical appliances?Electric
radiators.
IS : 302-2-30 (1992)
5
Switches for domestic and similar purposes.
IS : 3854 : 1988
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances and Accessories (Quality Control) Order, 1993
6
2 Amps switches for domestic and similar purposes.
IS : 4949 : 1968
7
3 Pin plugs socket outlets.
IS : 1293 : 1988.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5