
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/54301749/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Rule THE-CENTRAL-ADMINISTRATIVE-TRIBUNAL-RULES-OF-PRACTICE-1993 of 1993
Published on 6 September 1993
Commenced on 6 September 1993
[This is the version of this document from 6 September 1993.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Published vide G.S.R. 591 (E), dated 6.9.1993, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(i),
dated 6.9.1993.
235.
Whereas it is expedient to frame unified and consolidated Rules of Practice, the Central Administrative Tribunal in
exercise of the powers conferred by section 22 of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 (Central Act
13 of 1985
) and all other powers thereunto enabling it to frame Rules to regulate its own practice and procedure, hereby makes the
following Rules of Practice in supersession of all the existing orders, regulations and notifications on the subject:-
Chapter I
Preliminary
Page 1/79
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
1.
Short title
.-These rules may be called The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules of Practice, 1993.
2.
Commencement
.-(a) These rules shall, after their publication in the Official Gazette, come into force on 1st November, 1993.
(b)
These rules shall apply, as far as may be, to all proceedings pending in the Central Administrative Tribunal on the date
of their commencement.
Chapter II
3.
Definitions
.-In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant to the subject or context,-
(i)
"Address for service" shall mean the address furnished by a party or his authorised agent, or his legal practitioner at
which service of summons, notices or other processes may be effected;
(ii)
"Application" means and includes Original Application O.A., Review Application R.A., Transferred Application T.A.,
Miscellaneous Application M.A. and Petition for Transfer P.T.;
(iii)
"Act" and "Procedure Rules" shall mean the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 (Central Act
13 of 1985
) and the Central Administrative Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 1987, as amended from time to time;
(iv)
"Code" means the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), as amended from time to time;
(v)
"Full Bench" means a Bench duly constituted consisting of three or more Members;
(vi)
"Legal practitioner" includes a Standing Counsel authorised to accept the service for any department or organisation of
the Central Government/State Government or any authority, a Corporation, a body owned or controlled by the Central
Government/State Government;
(vii)
"Pleadings" shall include original applications, reply statements, rejoinders and additional statements supplementing the
original applications and the reply statements, as may be permitted by the Tribunal;
(viii)
"Vacation Bench" means a Bench duly constituted for discharging the functions of the Tribunal during the vacation;
(ix)
Words not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning as assigned in the Act and the Procedure Rules.
Chapter III
Preparation And Presentation Of Pleadings And Other Papers
4.
Preparation of pleadings and other papers
.-(a) All pleadings, affidavits, memoranda and other papers filed in the Tribunal shall be fairly and legibly typewritten or
printed in English or Hindi language on durable white foolscap folio paper of Metric A-4 size (30.5 cms. long and 21.5
cms. wide) on one side only in double space with a left margin of 5 cms. and right margin of 2.5 cms. duly paginated,
indexed and stitched together in the paper-book form. The index shall be in Form No. 1.
(b)
English translation of documents/pleadings shall be duly authenticated by any legal practitioner.
5.
Date and signature
.-A party required to affix his signature shall also state his name in capitals near his signature and initial or sign at the
Page 2/79
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
bottom of each page.
Explanation.-The expression "signature" or "initial" includes thumb-mark.
6.
Attestation
.-(a) The attestation contemplated in Rule 9(2) of the Procedure Rules shall be made at the end of the document in the
form given below:
"This/Annexure..........is the true copy of the original document."
(Signature)
Name and Designation of the Attestor with date".
(b)
Sub-rule (a) above shall also govern production of xerox copies of the documents, provided they are clear and legible.
7.
Production of authorisation for and on behalf of an Association
.-Where an application/pleading or other proceeding purported to be filed is by an Association, the person or persons
who sign(s)/verify(ies) the same shall produce alongwith such application, etc., for verification by the Registry, a true
copy of the resolution of the Association empowering such person(s) to do so:
Provided the Registrar may at any time call upon the party to produce such further materials as he deems fit for
satisfying himself about due authorisation.
8.
Procedure on production of defaced, torn or damaged documents
.-When a document produced alongwith any pleading appears to be defaced, torn, or in any way damaged or otherwise
its condition or appearance requires special notice, a mention regarding its condition and appearance shall be made by
the party producing the same in the Index of such a pleading and the same shall be verified and initialled by the officer
authorised to receive the same.
9.
Receipt of papers
.-(a) All pleadings and papers shall be received in the Registry only during the office hours on the working days,
provided they are presented or sent in the manner provided in rule 4(1) of the Procedure Rules.
(b)
All pleadings and papers received before 3 p.m. in which urgent interim orders are sought, shall ordinarily be processed
immediately for being listed before the Bench on the next working day.
10.
Date of stamping of papers and maintenance of Inward Register
.-(a) The receiving branch of the Registry shall immediately on receipt of an application/petition or other pleadings or
papers, affix the date-stamp of the Tribunal in the following manner:-
(i)
Date-stamp shall be affixed on all pages on the main/first copy and on the first page of each other copy.
(ii)
Receiving Clerk shall affix his initials on the stamp affixed on the first page of the main/first copy and on the first page of
all other copies.
(b)
Receiving branch of the Registry shall on affixing the date-stamp, enter the details thereof in the Inward Register,
Register No. 1 and assign a Diary Number. The same Diary Number shall be entered immediately below the date-stamp
on the first page of the main/first copy and all other copies.
Chapter IV
Scrutiny, Registration, Number And Posting For Admission/orders
11.
Scrutiny of application/petition/other pleadings and papers
.-(a) The Scrutiny Branch of the Registry shall, on receipt of the application/petition pleadings from the receiving branch,
scrutinise the same as expeditiously as possible but not beyond two days from the date of receipt:
Provided if, for any reason, the scrutiny is not completed within the above period, the same shall be immediately
Page 3/79
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
reported to the Registrar, who shall take prompt steps to complete the scrutiny.
(b)
The report of the scrutiny of the application under section 19 of the Act shall be in Form No. 2 and of Contempt Petition
(C.P.) (Civil/Criminal) in Form No. 3 and the scrutiny report shall be annexed to the application/petition.
(c)
Report of scrutiny of all other pleadings and papers shall be recorded on the reverse side of the last page of such
pleadings/papers.
12.
Maintenance of Order Sheet
.-The Scrutiny Branch shall attach to every OA/RA/TA/PT/CP an order sheet in duplicate in Form No. 4. The column
"Notes of the Registry" in the order sheet shall be for the notings by the Registry and the column "Orders of the Tribunal"
is meant for the use of the Bench.
13.
Classification of papers
.-(a) The papers received in the Registry in all applications and C.Ps. except Miscellaneous Applications, shall be
classified and placed in files "A", "B" and "C" as provided in Form No. 5.
(b)
"A" File shall consist of two separate parts. Part I shall contain the order sheet and orders annexed thereto. Part II shall
contain the application with annexures, reply with annexures and rejoinder with annexures and arranged as far as
possible consecutively in the order of the parties.
(c)
"B" File shall contain the duplicate copy of the papers as in "A" File.
(d)
"C" File shall contain the remaining papers including vakalatnama, notices, postal acknowledgements, Miscellaneous
Applications, Replies and Rejoinders thereto and Supreme Court orders, etc., if any.
14.
Submission of case files to Registrar
.-On completion of the scrutiny, the Scrutiny Branch shall place the case file duly classified as "A", "B" and "C" alongwith
the report of scrutiny and the order sheet before the Registrar for his orders.
15.
Registration and Numbering
.-(a) The Registrar on examining the application/pleadings and the scrutiny report shall, if they are in order, direct
registration/acceptance.
(b)
Applications under section 19 of the Act ordered to be registered shall be numbered as O.A. No................/20................
(c)
Cases received on transfer under section 29 of the Act shall be numbered as T.A. No................/20................
Explanation:-Applications received from the Supreme Court, High Courts and other Courts purporting to be by transfer
but not covered by section 29 of the Act shall be numbered as Original Applications of the year during which they are
received.
(d)
Applications for review of any order of the Tribunal ordered to be registered shall be numbered as R.A.
No................/20................
(e)
Petitions under the Contempt of Courts Act ordered to be registered, shall be numbered as C.P. (Civil/Criminal)
No................/20................
(f)
Applications under section 25 of the Act ordered to be registered shall be numbered as P.T. No................/20................
(g)
Other application of Miscellaneous nature not covered by sub-rules (b) to (f) above, ordered to be registered shall be
numbered as M.A. No................/20................
Page 4/79
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
(h)
Applications/petitions referred to in this rule shall be entered in Register No. 2. Separate registers shall be used for each
category of applications/petition referred to in this rule. The Registers shall be maintained from 1st January to 31st
December of each calendar year.
16.
Maintenance of I.P.Os./D.Ds. Register
.-(a) I.P.Os./D.Ds. received in the Registry shall be entered immediately on their receipt in the Judicial Branch in
Register No. 3.
(b)
On every first working day of the week, the I.P.Os. D.Ds. received by the Judicial Branch during the previous week shall
be transmitted alongwith the I.P.Os./D.Ds. Register to the Section Officer incharge of Judicial Branch, who after scrutiny
shall affix his initials in the relevant column in the Register and transmit the same to the Cash Section. The official
incharge of Cash Section shall, after verifying the entries in the Register alongwith the I.P.Os./D.Ds. put his initials in the
relevant column in the Register in token of acknowledgement.
17.
Rectification of defects
.-(a) If on scrutiny any application or pleading filed in the Tribunal is found to be defective, the Registrar shall notify in
Form No. 6 on the Notice Board of the Tribunal fixing the time for rectifying the same.
(b)
The papers shall be returned to the party or his legal practitioner only after obtaining acknowledgement thereof in the
Inward Register.
(c)
The Registrar may, for good and sufficient reasons extend the time for rectifying the defects, provided the total period for
rectification including the extended period does not exceed thirty days.
(d)
If the party or his legal practitioner contests the office objection and the Registrar is not satisfied, the matter shall be
placed before the Bench for appropriate orders.
(e)
If the party/legal practitioner rectifies the defects and represents the application/pleading within the time granted, the
Registrar on being satisfied, may order for its registration/acceptance and numbering as provided in rule 15.
18.
Posting of cases for admission/orders before the Bench
.-(a) Subject to the orders of the Chairman/Vice-Chairman of the concerned Bench, all registered applications/petitions
shall be posted for admission/orders before the appropriate Bench on the next working day. The notice of posting shall
be given by notifying in the daily cause list for the day.
(b)
Before placing the records of the case for admission/order, the Registry shall state in brief in the column "Notes of the
Registry" of the Order Sheet, the date of presentation and registration, the subject-matter of the application and the date
of posting before the Bench and fill up the columns in file covers "A" and "B".
(c)
The category of cases specified in Appendix I to these Rules as may be amended by the Chairman from time to time,
may as far as possible be posted before the Single Member Bench and dealt with in accordance with the procedure
prescribed therein.
(d)
The constitution of Benches and distribution of work shall be as per the orders/directions given in Appendix II to these
Rules, as may be modified by the Chairman from time to time.
19.
Posting of urgent cases
.-(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 18, the Chairman/Vice-Chairman and in his absence the senior-most
Member of the Bench may order any case not included in the daily cause list to be listed on urgent basis for
admission/orders. Such directions shall be promptly carried out by the Registry after completing all the formalities.
Page 5/79
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
(b)
When a Division Bench is not available, urgent cases for admission and interim orders may be posted before a Single
Member Bench who shall deal with the same in accordance with the order of the Chairman as in Appendix III as may be
amended from time to time.
20.
Matters to be attended to prior to commencement of sitting
.-(a) Unless otherwise directed by the Members constituting the Bench, the Court officer shall ensure that records of the
cases listed for admission/orders before the Bench on the next working day are sent to the residence of the Members
before the evening of the day on which the cause list is published.
(b)
The Court Officer shall ensure that the case records so sent to the residence of the Members are brought back to the
concerned Court Hall before the commencement of the Court sitting. The Court officer shall verify the case records listed
for the day and arrange them in the serial order as given in the cause list well before the commencement of the sitting.
(c)
The Court officer of the Bench concerned shall ensure that the Court Hall is ready for commencement of the sitting at
the prescribed time for such sitting.
(d)
If for any reason, the Bench cannot sit or the sitting is delayed, the Registrar shall promptly obtain the orders of the
Chairman/Vice-Chairman and notify the same on the Notice Board and in the Court Hall through the Court Officer.
21.
Maintenance of Court Diary
.-(a) The Court Officer of the Bench concerned shall maintain legibly a Court diary in Register No. 4, wherein he shall
record the proceedings of the Court for each sitting day with respect to the applications/petitions listed in the daily cause
list.
(b)
The matters to be recorded in the Court diary shall include details as to whether the case is adjourned, or part-heard or
heard and disposed of or heard and orders reserved, as the case may be.
22.
Statutes/Citations for reference
.-The parties/legal practitioners shall before the commencement of the proceedings for the day, furnish to the Court
officer a list of law journals, reports, statutes and other citations, which may be needed for reference.
23.
Calling of cases in Court
.-Subject to the orders of the Bench, the Court officer shall call the cases listed in the cause list in the serial order.
24.
Regulation of Court work
.-(a) When the Court is sitting, the Court officer shall ensure-
(i)
that no inconvenience or wastage of time is caused to the Bench in making available the services of Court
master/Stenographer/Peon;
(ii)
that perfect silence is maintained in and around the Court hall and no disturbance whatsoever is caused to the
functioning of the Bench;
(iii)
that proper care is taken to maintain dignity and decorum of the Court.
(b)
When the Bench passes order directions, the Court officer shall ensure that the records of the case alongwith
proceedings/orders of the Bench are transmitted immediately to the Judicial Branch. The Judicial Branch shall verify the
case records received from the Court officer with reference to the cause list and take immediate steps to communicate
the directions/orders of the Bench.
Chapter V
Page 6/79
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Service Of Notice
25.
Issue of notice
.-(a) Unless otherwise ordered by the Tribunal, when notice is ordered, the applicant shall, in cases governed by rule
11(6) of the Procedure Rules, pay the prescribed fee for service of notice accompanied by a memo in Form No. 7 within
seven days from the date of order. In default, no notice shall be issued to any of the respondents and the matter shall be
placed immediately before the Bench for appropriate orders.
(b)
Where the notice is returned to the Tribunal with an endorsement of the postman regarding non-service owing to refusal
of the same by the party concerned, the Registrar shall declare that the notice has been duly served on the respondent.
(c)
Where the notice was properly addressed, prepaid and duly sent by registered post, acknowledgement due, the
declaration referred to in sub-rule (b) shall be made when for any reason the acknowledgement is not received by the
Tribunal within thirty days from the date of the issue of the notice.
26.
Steps for issue of fresh notice
.-If any notice is returned unserved in the circumstances not specified in sub-rules (b) and (c) of rule 25, that fact and the
reason therefor shall be notified immediately on the notice board of the Registry. The applicant/petitioner or his legal
practitioner shall within seven days from the date of such notification take steps for service of notice.
27.
Consequence of failure to take steps for issue of fresh notice
.-If the applicant/petitioner fails to take necessary steps in the time for service of notice on the respondent(s) and
consequently, the service remains incomplete, the Registrar shall post the case before the Bench for further directions.
28.
Service of notice, etc., on legal practitioners
.-A legal practitioner representing a party in any proceeding and any person authorised to accept notices on behalf of a
party, shall receive notices, orders, directions, pleadings, etc., required to be served on such party in connection with
such proceedings. Such service shall be deemed to be proper service on the party.
29.
Form of notice
.-Notice to show cause regarding admission shall be in Form No. 8. Notice ordered after admission shall be in Form No.
9.
30.
Entries regarding service of notice/process
.-The Judicial Branch of the Registry shall record in the column in the order sheet "Notes of the Registry", the details
regarding completion of service of notice on the respondents, such as date of issue of notice, date of service, date of
return of notice if unserved, steps taken for issuing fresh notice and date of completion of service, etc.
Chapter VI
Filing Of Reply Statement/rejoinder
31.
Case deemed to be ready on failure to file reply in time
.-When all or any of the respondent(s) fail(s) to file reply statement in the form and in the manner provided under rule 12
of the Procedure Rule within the time granted, the case shall be deemed to be ready for hearing and included in the
ready list for final hearing.
32.
Filing of rejoinder
.-(a) The applicant(s) intending to file rejoinder to the reply statement filed by all or any of the respondent(s) shall do so,
with the leave of the Bench/Registrar within the time granted. The rejoinder shall be filed within the time granted, duly
signed and verified in the manner prescribed for filing reply statement under rule 12 of the Procedure Rules.
(b)
After the expiry of the time granted for filing the rejoinder, the case shall be deemed to be ready for hearing and included
Page 7/79
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
in the ready list for final hearing.
33.
Papers not to form part of the records
.-(a) Except with the leave of the Tribunal, the following shall not form part of the records of the case:-
(i)
Reply statement filed after the expiry of the time granted for the purpose.
(ii)
Rejoinder filed without the leave of the Bench/Registrar or filed after the expiry of the time granted.
(iii)
Additional pleadings filed without the leave of the Bench/Registrar or filed after the expiry of the time granted.
(b)
The above papers treated as not forming part of the record shall be notified on the Notice Board of the Registry requiring
the party of take them back within four weeks from the date of the Notification, failing which the Registry shall take steps
to destroy the same.
34.
Incorporation of amendments, filing of additional reply, etc
.-When the Tribunal allows a prayer for a amendment of the pleadings or for addition of parties, the same shall be
carried out in red ink indicating the date of the order and duly signed by the party/legal practitioner, who has obtained
the order, within the time granted for the purpose by the order or if no time is thereby limited then, within 14 days from
the date of the order. If however, the Bench or the Tribunal has directed furnishing of a fresh copy incorporating the
amendments/addition of parties, the same shall be filed in triplicate and after serving a copy of the amended pleading on
the other party within the time granted by the Court or if no time is granted with 14 days from the date of the order. In
default, the Registry shall place the matter before the Bench for orders.
Chapter VII
Proceedings Before Registrar's Court
35.
Matters to be listed before the Registrar's Court
.-Once an application/petition is admitted and notice ordered, the same shall be posted before the Registrar for
completion of pleadings.
36.
Cause List for Registrar's Court
.-Cases required to be dealt with by the Registrar shall be notified in a separate Daily Cause List. The cases so notified
shall be taken up in the Registrar's Court in the serial order as indicated in the cause list.
37.
Recording of proceedings
.-On hearing the parties/their legal practitioners and on perusing the records the Registrar may record his decisions in
the column "Notes of the Registry" in the order sheet and put his initials with date.
38.
Inclusion of cases in the ready list when pleadings are complete
.-If the pleadings are complete or if the case is deemed to be ready for hearing, the Registrar shall record the same in
the order sheet for inclusion in the list of cases ready for final hearing.
Chapter VIII
Preparation Of Ready List, Warning List, Daily Cause List And Posting Of Cases
39.
Maintenance of Ready List
.-The Judicial Branch of the Registry shall maintain separate registers in register Form No. 5 for each category of cases
which are ready for hearing. The registers shall contain separate sections for each year. Inclusion of cases in the
Register shall be yearwise and in the order in which they become ready for hearing.
40.
Preparation of Warning List
.-(a) From the Ready List, the Registry shall prepare for each category of cases, a separate list called "Warning List"
Page 8/79
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
consisting of such number of cases as may be sufficient in the opinion of the Registrar, for being posted for hearing for a
period of two weeks.
(b)
Cases in the Warning List shall be arranged according to the year and number of registration and not on the basis of
their serial number in the Ready List. Oldest among the cases be included first followed by the next oldest and so on.
41.
Publication of Warning List
.-(a) The Judicial Branch of the Registry shall publish the warning list on the Notice Board of the Registry on the last
working day previous to the 1st and 15th of every month.
(b)
The total number of cases to be included in each Warning List as fixed by the Registrar shall, as far as possible, be
maintained by adding at the bottom of the list, such number of cases as are required to make good the deficiency,
having regard to the number of cases transferred to the Daily Cause List.
(c)
From the Warning List so published, sufficient number of cases shall be taken for inclusion in the Daily Cause List in the
order in which they appear in the Warning List, subject to the orders of the Chairman/Vice-Chairman/Bench.
42.
Preparation and publication of Daily Cause List
.-(a) The Judicial Branch of the Registry shall prepare and publish on the Notice Board of the Registry before 5.30 p.m.
on each working day the Cause List for the next working day. Subject to the directions of the
Chairman/Vice-Chairman/Bench listing of cases in the Daily Cause List shall be in the following order:-
(i)
Cases for "Pronouncement of Orders".
(ii)
Cases "For being spoken to".
(iii)
Cases for "Admission".
(iv)
Cases for "Orders/Directions".
(v)
Contempt Petitions.
(vi)
Part-heard cases, latest part-heard having precedence.
(vii)
Cases posted as per directions of the Court.
(viii)
Cases from the "Warning List".
(b)
The title of the Daily Cause List shall consist of the name of the Bench, the day, date and time of the Court sitting, Court
Hall number and the quorum indicating the names of the Chairman/Vice-Chairman/Member constituting the Bench with
abbreviations in brackets (J) for Judicial and (A) for Administrative.
(c)
Against the number of each case listed in the Warning List and in the Daily Cause List, the following shall be shown:-
(i)
Names of legal practitioners appearing on both sides, giving in brackets the rank of the parties whom they represent.
(ii)
Names of the parties, if unrepresented with their ranks in brackets.
(d)
Office objections and special directions, if any, shall be briefly indicated in the Daily Cause List below the case number.
43.
Carry forward of Cause List and adjournment of cases on account of non-sitting of a Bench
Page 9/79
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
.-(a) If by reason of declaration of holiday or for any other reason, the Bench does not function for the day, the Daily
Cause List for that day shall unless otherwise directed be treated as the Daily Cause List for the next working day in
addition to the cases already posted for that day.
(b)
When the sitting of a particular Bench is cancelled for the reason of absence of Member(s) of the Bench, the Registrar
shall, unless otherwise directed, adjourn the cases posted before that Bench to a convenient date. The
adjournment/posting/directions shall be notified on the Notice Board.
44.
Supply of Cause List
.-(a) Two copies of fortnightly Warning List and Daily Cause List shall be furnished to the Advocates/Bar Association of
Central Administrative Tribunal for publication on their Notice Board.
(b)
Copies of the Warning List/Daily Cause List may be furnished to the legal practitioners on payment of fees at the rate
specified below:-
I. Daily Cause List:
Per Bench (consisting of two members) Rs. 240 p.a.
II. Warning List:
Per Bench (consisting of two Members) Rs. 100 p.a.
(c)
Application for supply of Warning/Daily Cause List shall be made in writing to the Registrar accompanied by one year's
subscription by way of Demand Draft or Indian Postal Orders drawn in favour of the Registrar of the concerned Bench
not less than a week before the date from which supply is to commence.
(d)
The rates specified above shall be subject to such modifications as may be made by the Chairman from time to time.
45.
Request for adjournments
.-Unless the Bench otherwise permits, requests for adjournments of the cases listed in the Daily Cause List shall be
entertained only at the beginning of the session.
46.
Maintenance of Stage Register and Posting Register
.-(a) The Judicial Branch of the Registry shall maintain a Stage Register in Form Register No. 6 for each category of
applications/petitions from the stage of first posting till disposal.
(b)
Posting Register shall be maintained in Form Register No. 7.
(c)
All orders regarding clubbing at cases shall be entered in the order sheets of all the cases required to be clubbed
together and posted accordingly.
(d)
The Section Officer concerned shall ensure that the aforesaid registers are promptly and properly maintained and the
directions of the Bench faithfully carried out.
47.
Early hearing of cases
.-If early hearing of a case out of turn is required, the party/legal practitioner shall make an application stating the
reasons therefor in Form No. III of the Procedure Rules, after serving copy thereof to the other parties. The application
shall, if in order, be listed before the Chairman or in his absence the Vice-Chairman nominated by him in the case of the
Principal Bench and before the Vice-Chairman and in his absence before the senior-most available Member in the case
of other Benches.
48.
Vacation Bench Sittings and Posting of cases
.-(a) When the Tribunal is closed for vacation, the Vacation Bench shall sit on such days as the Chairman in the case of
Principal Bench and Vice-Chairman in the case of other Benches and in his absence the senior-most Member available,
Page 10/79
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
may specify.
(b)
During the vacation only matters which are required to be immediately or promptly dealt with, shall be received in the
Registry. The Registrar, on being satisfied about the urgency, shall order registration and posting of such cases.
(c)
During the vacation, the Registrar may accept replies, rejoinders to O.As., R.As., etc., provided a copy of the same has
been served on all the other parties/legal practitioners.
(d)
Inspection of records may be permitted during the vacation according to the Rules.
(e)
Certified copies may also be supplied during the vacation according to the Rules.
Chapter IX
Posting Of Review Applications
49.
Posting of Review Applications
.-Posting of Review Applications shall be governed by the order made by the Chairman as contained in Appendix IV
subject to such modifications as may be made by the Chairman from time to time.
Chapter X
Full Bench Matters
50.
Preparation and filing of paper books on reference to the Full Bench
.-When a Division Bench of the Tribunal makes an order referring the case/issues to a Full Bench, the applicant or such
other party, as the Bench directs shall furnish in Paper Books form duly indexed and continuously paginated three/five
sets (depending upon the number of members of the Full Bench) for the use of the Bench and one set to each of the
parties/or their legal practitioner on the other side, within two weeks or such other time as the Bench may direct,
arranging the papers in the following orders:-
Page No
(i)
Index
(ii)
Written chronology of events/orders relevent to the case.
(iii)
Order of Reference.
(iv)
Momo of Parties.
(v)
Application/Petition.
(vi)
Annexures to the application/petition.
(vii)
Reply by each respondent in the order of their ranking.
(viii)
Annexures at the end of reply of each respondent.
(ix)
Rejoinder, if any.
(x)
Annexures to Rejoinder, if any.
(xi)
Other relevent papers with description and date :
Provided that if the same legal practitioner appears for more than one party, only one set of paper book need be
furnished to him.
Page 11/79
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
51.
Circulation of order of Reference to other Benches
.-The Registrar of the Referring Bench shall send a copy of the order of reference to all the other Benches of the
Tribunal for information.
52.
Seeking orders of Chairman for constitution of Full Bench and fixing date of hearing
.-The Registrar of the Referring Bench shall forward a copy of the Order of Reference to the Registrar of the Principal
Bench for securing orders of the Chairman for constitution of the Full Bench and fixing the date of hearing.
53.
Conveyance of the orders of the Chairman
.-The Registrar of the Principal Bench shall, on receipt of the request as aforesaid, obtain the orders of the Chairman
and convey the same to the Registrar of the Referring Bench.
54.
Notification regarding Full Bench hearing
.-The Registrar of the Referring Bench shall, immediately on receipt of orders of the Chairman, notify the parties/legal
practitioners the date of hearing of the case by the Full Bench.
55.
Circulation of Full Bench decision/opinion
.-The Registrar of the Referring Bench shall circulate the opinion/decision rendered by the Full Bench to all other
Benches of the Tribunal.
Chapter XI
Inspection Of Records
56.
Grant of Inspection
.-Inspection of records of a pending or decided case before the Tribunal shall be allowed only under the orders of the
Registrar.
57.
Application for grant of Inspection
.-(a) Application for inspection of records as provided under sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) of rule 23 of the Procedure
Rules, shall be in Form No. 10 and presented at the filing counter of the Registry between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. on any
working day, two days before the date on which inspection is sought, unless otherwise permitted by the Registrar.
(b)
The Judicial Branch of the Registry shall submit the application with its remarks before the Registrar, who on
consideration of the same pass appropriate orders.
(c)
Inspection of records of a pending case shall not ordinarily be permitted on the date fixed for hearing of the case or on
the preceding day.
58.
Fee payable for Inspection
.-(a) No fee shall be charged for inspection of records of a pending case by a party to the case or his legal practitioner.
(b)
A fee of Rs. 5 shall be payable by way of DD/IPO drawn in favour of the Registrar on any application for inspection of
records of a decided case by a party to the case or his legal practitioner.
(c)
A fee of Rs. 5 shall be payable by way of a DD/IPO drawn in favour of the Registrar on any application for inspection of
records of a pending or decided case by a person other than a party to the case.
59.
Mode of Inspection
.-(a) On grant of application for inspection of the records, the Section Officer in-charge of the Judicial Branch shall
arrange to procedure the records of the case and allow inspection of such records on the date and time fixed by the
Registrar between 10 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. and between 2.30 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. in the presence of an officer authorised
Page 12/79
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
in that behalf.
(b)
The person inspecting the records shall not in any manner cause dislocation, mutilation, tampering or damage to the
records in the course of inspection.
(c)
The person inspecting the records shall not make any marking on any record or paper so inspected. Copying, if any, of
the documents/records inspected may be done only in pencil.
(d)
The officer supervising the inspection may at any time prohibit further inspection, if in his opinion any of the records are
likely to be damaged in the process of inspection or the person inspecting the records has violated or attempted to
violate the provisions of these Rules and shall immediately make a report about the matter to the Registrar and seek
further orders of the Registrar. Note about the same shall be made in column (8) of the Inspection Register.
60.
Maintenance of Register of Inspection
.-The Section Officer in-charge of the Judicial Branch shall cause to maintain a Register in Form No. 8 for the purpose of
inspection of documents/records and shall obtain therein the signature of the person making such inspection.
Chapter XII
Legal Practitioners Before The Tribunal
61.
Appearance of legal practitioners
.-Subject as hereinafter provided no legal practitioner shall be entitled to appear and act in any proceedings before the
Tribunal unless he files into Tribunal a vakalatnamain the prescribed form duly executed by or on behalf of the party for
whom he appears.
62.
Appearance on behalf of Government, etc
.-(a) Any legal practitioner appearing on behalf of the Central Government or State Government or any Government
servant sued or suing in his official capacity or any authority/corporation/society notified under section 14 of the Act shall
not be required to file a vakalatnamabut he shall file into Tribunal a Memo of Appearance in Form No. 11 duly signed by
him.
(b)
A presenting officer other than a legal practitioner representing any of the parties referred to in sub-rule (a) shall also file
a memo of appearance in Form No. 11.
63.
Nomination or engagement of another legal practitioner
.-Where a legal practitioner who has filed thevakalatnama engages or nominates another legal practitioner to appear
and argue his client's case but not to act for the client, the Tribunal may permit such other legal practitioner to appear
and argue.
64.
Consent for engaging another legal practitioner
.-A legal practitioner proposing to file a vakalatnamain any case or proceeding before the Tribunal in which there is
already a legal practitioner on record, shall do so only with the written consent of legal practitioner on record or when
such consent is refused, with the permission of the Tribunal.
65.
Restrictions on appearance
.-A legal practitioner who has tendered advice in connection with the institution of any case or other proceeding before
the Tribunal or has drawn pleadings in connection with any such matter or has during the progress of any such matter
acted for a party, shall not appear in any case or proceeding or other matter arising therefrom or in any matter
connected therewith for any person whose interest is opposed to that of his former client, except with the prior
permission of the Tribunal.
66.
Access to information
Page 13/79
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
.-A legal practitioner appearing for the party in any matter before the Tribunal shall be entitled to communicate
personally with or receive any information regarding the said matter from any officer of the Tribunal subject to such
conditions as may be prescribed by the Tribunal.
67.
Form and execution of vakalatnama
.-(a) Every vakalatnama authorising a legal practitioner to plead and act shall be in Form No. 12. The name of the legal
practitioner so appointed shall be inserted in the vakalatnama before it is executed. It shall be dated at the time of its
execution and of its acceptance. Its execution shall be attested by a Judicial Officer, Gazetted Officer serving in
connection with the affairs of the Union or of any State in India or a legal practitioner other than the legal practitioner
accepting the vakalatnama.
(b)
The authority attesting thevakalatnama under sub-rule (a) shall certify that it has been duly executed in his presence and
subscribe his signature giving his name and designation. Attestation shall be made only after the name of the legal
practitioner is inserted in the vakalatnama before its execution. When a vakalatnama is executed by a party who
appears to be illiterate, blind or unacquainted with the language of thevakalatnama, the attestor shall certify that the
vakalatnama was read, translated and explained in his presence to the executant, that he seemed to understand it and
that he signed or affixed his thumb-mark in his presence.
(c)
Every vakalatnama shall contain an endorsement of acceptance by the legal practitioner in whose favour it is executed
and shall also bear his address for service. If the vakalatnama is in favour of more than one legal practitioner, it shall be
signed and accepted by all of them, giving the address for service of any one of them.
68.
Restriction on party's right to be heard
.-The party who has engaged a legal practitioner to appear for him before the Tribunal shall not be entitled to be heard in
person unless he withdraws the vakalatnama with the leave of the Tribunal.
69.
Professional dress for the advocate
.-While appearing before the Tribunal, the advocate shall wear the same professional dress as prescribed for
appearance before the High Court.
Chapter XIII
Registered Clerks Of Legal Practitioners
70.
Prohibition of employment of tout
.-No legal practitioner shall employ as his clerk any person who is a tout.
Explanation.-"Tout" means a person who procures or attempts to procure for any consideration from any legal
practitioner or from any person acting on his behalf, the employment of such legal practitioner in any legal business, or
who, for purposes of such procurement, frequents the precincts of the Tribunal.
71.
Disqualification for registration of clerks
.-No person who is or has been declared a tout or is an undischarged insolvent or has been convicted of an offence
involving moral turpitude or has been dismissed from the service of the Government for corruption or dishonesty or is
otherwise unfit to be a clerk shall be registered as legal practitioner's clerk as provided in rule 25(1) of the Procedure
Rules.
72.
Registration of legal practitioner's clerks
.-(a) When an application in Form No. IV of the Procedure Rules is made by the legal practitioner for registration of his
clerk and the same is allowed by the Registrar, the name of the clerk shall be entered in the Register of clerks in
Register No. 9.
(b)
The Registrar may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, decline to register any clerk, who in his opinion suffers from
any disqualification specified in rule 71 or is otherwise unsuitable to be registered as such.
Page 14/79
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
(c)
An appeal may be filed within thirty days from the date of the order of the Registrar under sub-rule (b) to the
Chairman/Vice-Chairman.
73.
Cancellation of registration
.-(a) The Registrar, may for reasons to be recorded in writing, cancel the registration of any clerk after giving him and his
employer an opportunity to show cause against such cancellation.
(b)
An appeal may be filed against the order of the Registrar made under sub-rule (a) within thirty days from the date of the
order.
74.
Notifying registration and cancellation
.-Orders registering a clerk or cancelling the registration shall be notified on the Notice Board of the Tribunal and a copy
sent to the Advocates Association.
75.
Issue of Identity Card
.-(a) An Identity Card as referred to in sub-rule (3) of rule 25 of the Procedure Rules shall be issued in Form No. 13 to
every registered clerk of the legal practitioner on his remitting a fee of Rs. 5 by way of IPO/DD drawn in favour of the
Registrar.
(b)
The registered clerk shall carry with him the Identity Card and produce the same when required by any official of the
Registry for identification.
(c)
An Identity Card once issued shall be in force for a period of five years unless cancelled earlier.
76.
Access to information by registered clerks
.-The registered clerks may communicate personally with any Sectional or Departmental Head not below the rank of a
Section Officer for information regarding their employers' matters pending in the Tribunal.
77.
Carrying out corrections
.-The Section Officer in-charge of Judicial Branch may permit a registered clerk to correct any clerical or typographical
mistake in any pleadings or other proceedings. The correction shall be made in the presence of the Section Officer and
duly initialled by the maker as well as the Section Officer.
78.
Discharge of duties of an absentee clerk
.-In case of illness or absence on leave of a registered clerk, the Deputy Registrar or the sectional head of the Judicial
Branch may on the requisition of the legal practitioner under whom such registered clerk is engaged, permit the
registered clerk of another legal practitioner to discharge the absentee's duties for a specified period.
79.
Presentation and return of papers
.-Registered clerk may present or take return of papers on behalf of the legal practitioner whom he represents.
Chapter XIV
Affidavits
80.
Title of affidavits
.-Every affidavit shall be entitled "In the Central Administrative Tribunal,....................Bench at................." followed by the
cause title of the application or other proceeding in which the affidavit is sought to be used.
81.
Form and contents of the affidavit
.-(a) Every affidavit shall be drawn up in Form No. 14 in the first person and divided into paragraphs numbered
consecutively.
Page 15/79
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
82.
Corrections/erasures, etc
.-Corrections, erasures and interlineations shall be initialled by the attestor and the number of corrections made on each
page indicated.
83.
Persons authorised to attest
.-Affidavits shall be sworn or affirmed before any Judicial Officer, Registrar, Joint Registrar and Deputy Registrar of the
Tribunal Notary, District Registrar or Sub-Registrar, the Chief Ministerial Officer of any civil or criminal Court in the State
or any Advocate.
84.
Affidavits of illiterate, blind, etc
.-Where an affidavit is sworn or affirmed by any person who appears to be illiterate, blind or unacquainted with the
language in which the affidavit is written, the attestor shall certify that the affidavit was read, explained or translated by
him or in his presence to the deponent and that he seemed to understand it, and made his signature or mark in the
presence of the attestor in Form No. 15.
85.
Identification of deponent
.-If the deponent is not known to the attestor, his identity shall be testified by a person known to him. The identifying
person shall affix his signature in token thereof.
86.
Annexures to the affidavit
.-Document accompanying an affidavit shall be referred to therein as Annexure No............... The attestor shall make the
following endorsement thereon:
"This is the document marked as Annexure No........in the Affidevit of.....
(Signature)
Name & designation of
the attestor with date."
Chapter XV
Discovery, Production And Return Of Documents
87.
Application for production of documents, form of summons
.-(a) Except otherwise provided hereunder, discovery, production and return of documents shall be regulated by the
provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).
(b)
An application for summons to produce documents shall be in Form No. III to the Procedure Rules setting out (i) the
document(s) the production of which is sought (ii) the relevancy of the document(s) and (iii) in case where the production
of a certified copy would serve the purpose, whether application was made to the proper officer and the result thereof.
(c)
A summon for production of documents in the custody of a public officer other than a Court shall be in Form No. 16 and
shall be addressed to the concerned Head of the Department or such other authority as may be specified by the
Tribunal.
88.
Suo motu summoning of documents
.-Notwithstanding anything contained in these Rules, the Tribunal may, suo motu, issue summons for production of
public documents or other documents in the custody of a public officer.
89.
Marking of documents
.-(a) The documents when produced shall be marked as follows:-
(i)
If relied upon by the applicant's side they shall be numbered as "A" series.
(ii)
Page 16/79
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
If relied upon by the respondent's side they shall be marked as "R" series.
(iii)
The Court exhibits shall be marked as "C" series.
(b)
The Tribunal may direct the applicant to deposit in Tribunal by way of IPO/DD drawn in favour of the Registrar a sum
sufficient to defray the expenses for transmission of the records before the summons is issued.
(c)
The transmission of the records shall ordinarily be by registered post parcel.
90.
Return and transmission of documents
.-(a) An application for return of the documents produced shall be in Form No. III given under the Procedure Rules. No
such application shall be entertained after the destruction of the records.
(b)
The Tribunal may, at any time direct return of documents produced subject to such conditions as it deems fit.
Chapter XVI
Examination Of Witnesses And Issue Of Commissions
91.
Procedure for examination of witnesses, issue of commissions, etc
.-The provisions of Orders XVI and XXVI of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) shallmutatis mutandis apply in
the matter of summoning and enforcing attendance of any person and examining him on oath and issuing commission
for the examination of witnesses or for production of documents.
92.
Examination in camera
.-The Tribunal may in its discretion examine any witness in camera.
93.
Form of oath/affirmation to witness
.-Oath shall be administered to a witness in the following form:-
"I do swear in the name of God/solemnly affirm that what I shall state shall be truth, the whole truth and nothing but the
truth."
94.
Form of oath/affirmation to interpreter
.-Oath or solemn affirmation shall be administered to the Interpreter in the following form before his assistance is taken
for examining a witness:-
"I do swear in the name of God/Solemnly affirm that I will faithfully and truly interpret and explain all questions put to and
evidence given by witness and translate correctly and accurately all documents given to me for translation."
95.
Officer to administer oath
.-The oath or affirmation shall be administered by the Court Officer or the Commissioner as the case may be.
96.
Form-recording of deposition
.-(a) The Deposition of a witness shall be recorded in Form No. 17.
(b)
Each page of the deposition shall be initialled by the Members constituting the Bench or the Commissioner.
(c)
Corrections if any, pointed out by the witness may, if the Bench/Commissioner is satisfied, be carried out and duly
initialled. If not satisfied, a note to that effect be appended at the bottom of the deposition.
97.
Numbering of witnesses
.-The witnesses called by the applicant/petitioner shall be numbered consecutively as PWs and those by the
respondents as RWs.
98.
Page 17/79
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Grant of discharge certificate
.-Witness discharged by the Tribunal may be granted a certificate in Form 18 by the Registrar.
99.
Witness bhatta payable
.-(a) Where the Tribunal issues summons to a Government servant to give evidence or to produce documents, person
so summoned may draw from the Government travelling and daily allowance admissible to him as per rules.
(b)
Where there is no provision for payment of TA and DA by the employer to the person summoned to give evidence or to
produce documents, he shall be entitled to be paid as bhatta, a sum found by the Registrar sufficient to defray the
travelling and other expenses having regard to the status and position of the witness. The party applying for the
summons shall deposit with the Registrar the amount ofbhatta as estimated by the Registrar well before the summons is
issued. If the witness is summoned as a Court witness the amount estimated by the Registrar shall be paid as per the
directions of the Tribunal.
(c)
The aforesaid provisions would govern the payment of bhatta to the interpreter as well.
100.
Records to be furnished to the Commissioner
.-The Commissioner shall be furnished by the Tribunal with such of the records of the case as the Tribunal considers
necessary for executing the Commission. Original documents will be furnished only if a copy will not serve the purpose
or cannot be obtained without unreasonable expense or delay. Delivery and return of records shall be made under
proper acknowledgement.
101.
Taking of specimen handwriting, signature, etc
.-The Commissioner may, if necessary take specimen of the handwriting, signature or finger print of any witness
examined before him.
Chapter XVII
Pronouncement Of Order
102.
Order
.-The final decision of the Tribunal on an application/petition before the Tribunal shall be described as "Order".
103.
Operative portion of the order
.-All orders/directions of the Bench shall be stated in clear and precise terms in the last paragraphs of the order.
104.
Corrections
.-The Member of the Bench who has prepared the order shall initial all corrections and affix his initials at the bottom of
each page.
105.
Pronouncement of order
.-(a) The Bench shall as far as possible pronounce the order immediately after the hearing is concluded.
(b)
When the orders are reserved, the date for pronouncement not later than 3 weeks shall be fixed. The date so fixed shall
not be changed except after due notice to all parties/counsel.
(c)
Reading of the operative portion of the order in the open Court shall be deemed to be pronouncement of the order.
(d)
Any order reserved by a Circuit Bench of the Tribunal may be pronounced at the principal place of sitting of the Bench in
one of the aforesaid modes as exigencies of the situation require.
106.
Pronouncement of order by any one Member of the Bench
.-(a) Any one Member of the Bench may pronounce the order for and on behalf of the Bench.
Page 18/79
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
(b)
When an order is pronounced under this Rule, the Court officer shall make a note in the order sheet that the order of the
Bench consisting of .........was pronounced in open Court by the Bench consisting of............ .
107.
Authorising any Member to pronounce order
.-(a) If the Members of the Bench who heard the case are no readily available or have ceased to be Members of the
Tribunal, the Chairman/Vice-Chairman may authorise any other Member to pronounce the order on his being satisfied
that the order has been duly prepared and signed by all the Members who heard the case. The order pronounced by the
Member so authorised shall be deemed to be duly pronounced.
(b)
The Member so authorised for pronouncement of the order shall affix his signature in the order sheet of the case stating
that he has pronounced the order as provided in this rule.
(c)
If the order cannot be signed by reason of death, retirement or resignation or for any other reason by any one of the
Members of the Bench who heard the case, it shall be deemed to have been released from part-heard and listed afresh
for hearing.
108.
Making of entries by Court officer
.-Immediately on pronouncement of an order by the Bench, the Court officer shall make necessary endorsement on the
case file regarding the date of such pronouncement, the nature of disposal and the constitution of the Bench
pronouncing the order. He shall also make necessary entries in the Court diary maintained by him.
109.
Transmission of order by the Court officer
.-(a) The Court officer shall immediately on pronouncement, transmit the order with the case file to the Deputy Registrar
(Judicial).
(b)
On receipt of the order from the Court officer, the Deputy Registrar shall after due scrutiny himself that the provisions of
these Rules have been duly complied with and in token thereof affix his initials, with date on the outer cover of the order.
The Deputy Registrar shall thereafter cause to transmit the case file and the order to the Judicial Branch for taking
expeditious steps to prepare copies and their communication to the parties.
110.
Format of order
.-(a) The format of the order of the Tribunal shall be in Form No. 19.
(b)
All orders shall be neatly and fairly typewritten in double space on one side only on durable foolscap folio paper of metric
A-4 size (30.5 cms. long and 21.5 cms. wide) with left side margin of 5 cms. and right side margin of 2.5 cms.
Corrections, if any, in the order shall be carried out neatly. Sufficient space may be left both at the bottom and at the top
of each page of the order to make its appearance elegant.
(c)
Members constituting the Bench shall affix their signatures in the order of their seniority from right to left.
111.
Costs
.-(a) Unless otherwise quantified by the Tribunal, when costs are awarded in a case, the same shall be determined as
follows:-
(i) For applicant(s)
Rs. 500
Legal Practitioner's fee
Rs. 150
Expenses
(ii) For Respondent(s)
Legal Practitioner's fee
Page 19/79
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Rs. 500
Expenses
Rs. 100
(b)
Only one set of costs shall be awarded to the applicants as also when the same counsel appears for more than one
respondent"> (b) Only one set of costs shall be awarded to the applicants as also when the same counsel appears for
more than one respondent.
(c)
When costs are awarded a Bill of Costs in Form No. 20 shall be prepared giving the details of the costs awarded to the
parties and annexed to the order.
112.
Compliance of urgent orders
.-(a) Whenever the Bench passes an order, final or interlocutory, requiring immediate compliance, the Court officer shall
immediately transmit the case file and the order to the Deputy Registrar (Judicial) who shall ensure prompt action on the
same day.
(b)
Files with Dasti orders should be stapled with "To day" flags and superscribed with OA/TA/RA/CP/MA/PT No. with the
signature of the Court officer with date.
113.
Placing copies/common orders
.-When more than one case is disposed of by a common order, the Judicial Branch shall keep the original order in the
main case and a certified copy in the other connected case files. In the order sheet of the connected case(s), the
Section Officer in-charge of the Judicial Branch shall note that the original order is kept in the main case file (giving its
number).
114.
Indexing of case files disposal
.-After communication of the order to the parties/legal practitioners, the official concerned shall arrange the records with
pagination and prepare the Index Sheet in Form No. 21. He shall affix initials and then transmit the records with the
Index sheets to the records room.
115.
Transmission of files/records/orders
.-Transmission of files/records of the cases/orders shall be made only after obtaining acknowledgement in the
movement register maintained at different sections/levels as per the directions of the Registrar.
116.
Copies of orders in Library
.-(a) The Section Officer of the Judicial Branch shall send copies of every order (final) to the Library.
(b)
Copies of all orders received in each month shall be kept at the Library in a separate folder, arranged in the order of
date of pronouncement, duly indexed and stitched.
(c)
At the end of every year a consolidated index shall also be prepared and kept in a separate file in the Library.
(d)
The order folders and the indices may be made available for reference in the Library to the legal practitioners.
Chapter XVIII
Grant Of Certified Copies And Free Copies
117.
Form and fee of application
.-(a) Every application for grant of certified copy shall be in Form No. 22 and accompanied with a non-refundable fee of
Rs. 5 (Rupees five only) in the form of I.P.O./D.D. drawn in favour of the Registrar and payable at the place of the Bench
of the Tribunal.
(b)
Page 20/79
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
If the certified copies applied for are more than one document in the same cases, only one copy application need be
filed.
118.
Right of the party to obtain certified copy
.-A party to an application/petition or his legal practitioner shall be entitled to obtain certified copy of the record,
proceeding or original document filed in case on payment of prescribed fee.
119.
Application for copies by stranger
.-(a) Applications for copies of documents (other than orders) by persons not parties to the proceedings shall be allowed
only by order of the Registrar obtained on a duly verified petition in Form No. III of the Procedure Rules, setting forth the
purpose for which the copy is required on payment of prescribed fee.
(b)
Copies of orders can, however, be granted to any person on payment of prescribed fees.
120.
Register of copy application and requisition register
.-(a) A Register of Copy Application shall be maintained in Register Form No. 10 and a Requisition Register in Register
Form No. 11 in the copying Branch.
(b)
Entries in respect of urgent copy applications shall be underlined in red ink/pencil.
121.
Copying fee
.-The copying fee payable for obtaining an ordinary copy shall be at the rate of Re. 1 per page and for urgent copy at the
rate of Rs. 2 per page irrespective of the number of words/lines in each page.
122.
Scrutiny of copy application, requisitioning of case records and rectification of defects
.-(a) If the application is in order necessary entries shall be made in the Register of Copy Applications and the
Requisition Register and the same sent to the official-in-charge of records. The officer-in-charge of the records shall
promptly transmit the records alongwith the application after making an entry in the application and initialling the same.
(b)
If the application is found to be defective the same shall be notified on the Notice Board of the Registry. If the defects
are not rectified within three days from the date of such notification, the copy application shall be struck off. The
application shall be deemed to have been made on the date of rectification of all defects.
123.
Determination of additional copying fee
.-On receipt of the records of officer-in-charge of copying section after satisfying that the records are complete shall
determine the additional copying fee payable over and above the copying fee of Rs. 5 already paid and make an entry
thereof is the application with his initials. Additional fee payable shall be notified on the Notice Board of the Registry.
124.
Remittance of additional copying fee
.-Additional copying fee shall be remitted by the applicant between 10.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. in the form of IPO/DD
drawn in favour of the Registrar and payable at the place of the Bench within two days, in the case of urgent copy, and
within seven days in the case of ordinary copy from the date of notice. If the additional fee payable is not remitted within
the same notified, the application shall be struck off.
125.
Order of preparation of certified copy
.-Certified copies shall be prepared in the order in which they become ready in all respects. Urgent applications shall
take precedence over all ordinary applications.
126.
Time limit for issue of urgent/ordinary copy
.-Urgent copy shall be delivered to the applicant as far as possible within three days and ordinary copy within ten days
from the date the application is ready in all respects.
Page 21/79
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
127.
Notifying when copies are ready for delivery and consequence of not taking delivery
.-(a) On each working day before 11.30 a.m., the officer-in-charge of the copying branch shall cause to prepare in
duplicate in Form No. 23, a list of cases in which certified copies are ready for delivery and publish one copy of the same
on the notice board of the Registry with his signature, and the other copy shall be retained for record.
(b)
If the applicant fails to take delivery within three months, the certified copy prepared shall be destroyed and the copying
fee paid forfeited to Government.
128.
Proper accounting of copying fee received
.-The Officer-in-charge shall ensure that the copying fee received in the registry is promptly accounted in the IPO/DD
Register and transmitted to the cash section for crediting them to the Government account.
129.
Preparation and comparison of certified copy
.-(a) Certified copy shall be made by photocopying process or by typing. When the copy is so made, it shall be
compared by the official-in-charge of preparing the copy with the document of which the copy is made, aided by another
official in the copying branch. He shall, after satisfying himself that the copy prepared faithfully and legibly reproduces
the document desired, append a certificate as under and affix his initials:-
"Certified that this is a true and accurate copy of the document/order as in the case file (OA/RA/TA/CP/MA/PT
No................./20................) and that all the matter appearing therein have been legibly and faithfully copied with no
modifications".
(b)
He shall affix an endorsement on the last page of the copy as under and put his initials:-
(i)
Serial No. of the copy of application:
(ii)
Name of the applicant:
(iii)
Date of presentation of application:
(iv)
No. of pages:
(v)
Copying fee charged/urgent or ordinary:
(vi)
Date of preparation of copy:
(vii)
Date on which copy is ready:
(viii)
Date of delivery:
(c)
The certificate and the endorsement shall be made with the help of a rubber stamp got prepared for that purpose. The
entries however shall be made in ink.
(d)
The officer authorised to issue the copy shall affix his signature below the endorsement and cause to affix the seal of the
Tribunal on all pages of the copy and also initial wherever there are corrections.
130.
Re-transmission of case records
.-On completion of the preparation of the certified copy, the officer-in-charge of the copying section shall re-transmit the
records of the case to the concerned branch, after making necessary entries in the Requisition Register and obtain
acknowledgement of the official, who receives back the records, in the relevant column of the Register.
131.
Page 22/79
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Mode of delivery of certified copy
.-At the time of the delivery of the certified copy, the official concerned shall obtain the signature of the applicant in the
relevant column in the Register of Copy Applications, record the date of such delivery on the copy application and fill up
relevant column regarding the date of delivery in the endorsement stamped on the certified copy.
132.
Request for certified copy by post
.-(a) Where the applicant desires to have the certified copy sent to him by post, he shall send an additional sum of Rs.
10 by way of IPO/DD drawn in favour of the Registrar and payable at the place of the Bench for defraying the postal
charges, etc.
(b)
If the amount sent is found to be inadequate, the applicant shall be intimated to remit the said amount within the time
specified. On receipt of the intimation, the applicant shall remit the amount in the manner provided in sub-rule (a) above
and within the time specified.
133.
Intimation of rejection
.-If for any reason the copy application is rejected, due intimation be given to the applicant and the refundable amount, if
any, returned to him.
134.
Supply of free copy only once
.-Once free copy of the order is sent as provided in rule 22 of the Procedure Rules, the Tribunal shall not be required to
furnish any more free copies.
135.
Certifying of free copies
.-Every free copy issued to a party or his legal practitioner in accordance with the Procedure Rules shall be certified to
be "True Copy" and shall be superscribed "FREE COPY UNDER RULE 22 OF CAT (PROCEDURE) RULES" with a
rubber stamp and signed by the officer authorised in that behalf. He shall also cause to enter the date and other details
of furnishing of such free copy in the Register of Free Copies in Register Form No. 12.
136.
Time for furnishing free copies
.-(a) Judicial Branch of the Registry shall issue free copies of the order to the parties or their legal practitioners as
provided under rule 22 of the Procedure Rules as far as possible within seven days from the date of pronouncement of
the order.
(b)
If the free copy of the order is delivered by hand to parties/their legal practitioners, the officer-in-charge shall obtain
acknowledgement therefor in the relevant column in the Register of Free Copies.
137.
Furnishing of free copy in a joint application
.-When a joint application/petition is made, only one free copy of the order contemplated by rule 22 of the Procedure
Rules shall be issued, either to their legal practitioners or if they are appearing in person, to any one of the applicants.
138.
Furnishing of corrected free copy of order
.-Whenever clerical or typographical errors/mistakes in an order are rectified subsequent to the issue of the free copy
thereof, the Registrar shall cause to issue a corrected free copy of such order to the parties/their legal practitioners in
the prescribed manner.
Chapter XIX
Appeal To Supreme Court
139.
Manner of service of order notice issued by the Supreme Court of India
.-Service of orders/notices on respondents ordered by the Supreme Court of India in an appeal or petition pending
before that Court shall be effected in the manner provided by the Supreme Court Rules, 1966 as amended from time to
time.
Page 23/79
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
140.
Steps to comply with Supreme Court directions
.-(a) Unless otherwise ordered by the Supreme Court, the Appellant or his Advocate shall be notified to deposit the
transmission charges and cost of preparation of record, if any, etc., within 15 days of the receipt of the notice.
(b)
When the party or Advocate fails to deposit the amount as aforesaid, the Registrar shall forthwith submit a report thereof
to the Registrar of the Supreme Court of India.
141.
Register of S.L.Ps./Appeals
.-(a) A register in Form No. 13 shall be maintained in regard to S.L.Ps./Appeals against the orders of the Tribunal to the
Supreme Court and necessary entries therein be promptly made by the Judicial Branch.
(b)
The register shall be placed for scrutiny by the Chairman/Vice-Chairman in the first week of every month.
142.
Placing of Supreme Court orders before Chairman/Vice-Chairman/Members
.-Whenever an interim or final order passed by the Supreme Court of India in an appeal or other proceeding preferred
against a decision of the Tribunal is received, the same shall forthwith be placed before the
Chairman/Vice-Chairman/Members for information and kept in the relevant case file. Immediate attention of the
Registrar shall be drawn to the directions requiring compliance.
143.
Circulation of the orders of the Supreme Court
.-All orders of the Supreme Court including dismissal of S.L.Ps. shall be circulated to the Members of the Bench whose
decision was challenged before the Supreme Court and kept in the relevant case file.
144.
Registrar to ensure compliance of Supreme Court orders
.-It shall be the duty of the Registrar to take expeditious steps to comply with the directions of the Supreme Court.
Chapter XX
Retention, Preservation And Destruction Of Records
145.
Procedure regarding retention, preservation and destruction of records
.-Retention, preservation and destruction of records shall be done in accordance with the rules contained in the CAT
(Destruction of Records) Rules, 1990 given in Appendix V as amended from time to time.
146.
Receipt, scrutiny and custody of records
.-The record keeper shall be the custodian and responsible for the records lodged in the record room. He shall receive
the records sent to the record room and scrutinise the records within three days of the date of receipt of records in the
record room.
147.
Rectification of defects/securing of missing records
.-If on such scrutiny, any defect or missing of documents is found in the records, the Record Keeper shall intimate the
same and remit the records back to the branch/section from which the records were received. Thereupon, the Section
Officer-in-charge of the concerned branch/section shall cause to take steps to rectify the defects/omissions so pointed
out, and after such rectification re-transmit the records to the record room within three days of its receipt from the record
room.
148.
Maintenance of Register of records received in the record room
.-The Record Keeper shall maintain a register in Register Form No. 14 of Records received in the record room.
149.
Entry regarding destruction
.-Entries regarding destruction shall be made in the relevant columns of REGISTER FORM NO. 14.
150.
Page 24/79
----- PAGE 25 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Preservation of records requiring permanent retention
.-Records required to be preserved permanently shall be stacked in bundles of convenient size, arranging them in
chronological order. The bundle shall be wrapped in "Kora Cloth" on which shall be attached labels indicating in
chronological order register numbers of the cases included in each bundle. Such bundles shall be arranged serially and
kept in the records room.
151.
Retention of records beyond prescribed period
.-The Registrar may for reasons to be recorded in writing and with prior permission of the Chairman order that record of
any particular case be preserved beyond the prescribed period provided under the Destruction Rules.
Chapter XXI
Miscellaneous
152.
Circuit Benches
.-The provisions of these rules shall mutatis mutandis govern applications entertained by circuit Benches subject to such
adaptations as may by order be made by the concerned Vice-Chairman on being satisfied that it is necessary to do so in
the interest of justice.
153.
Use of computers
.-(a) The Chairman may issue such orders or directions as may be necessary for complying with the provisions of the
relevant Rules of Practice with the aid of the computer and for effective use of the computer facility as and when
introduced.
(b)
Compliance with such orders or directions issued by the Chairman from time to time shall be deemed to be due
compliance of the provisions of the relevant Rules of Practice.
154.
Classification of cases subjectwise/departmentwise
.-(a) The scrutiny branch of the Registry shall at the time of the scrutiny make classification of the cases as follows:-
(i)
Departmentwise;
(ii)
Subjectwise; and
(iii)
Cases which can be heard by a Single-Member Bench.
(b)
The departmentwise classification shall be made in accordance with Appendix VI, as may be modified by the Chairman
from time to time.
(c)
Subjectwise classification shall be made in accordance with Appendix VII, as may be modified by the Chairman from
time to time.
(d)
Single Member Bench cases shall be classified in accordance with Appendix VIII as may be modified by the Chairman
from time to time.
(e)
The classification as above shall be entered in the relevant columns in the report of scrutiny in Form No. 2/Form No. 3,
Order Sheet in Form 4 and Facing Sheet of the final cover in Form No. 5, referred to in rules 11 to 13 of these Rules.
155.
Weekly and monthly statements-Furnishing of
.-(a) The Registrar of each Bench shall prepare a weekly progress report in Form 24 and circulate among all the
Members of the Bench concerned.
(b)
The Vice-Chairman of the Bench concerned shall forward a consolidated monthly progress report in Form No. 24 to the
Page 25/79
----- PAGE 26 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Chairman before the 7th of each month.
(c)
The Registrar of the concerned Bench shall prepare a monthly statement in two parts as in Form 25 regarding filing,
disposal and pendency of cases and forward the same to the Registrar of the Principal Bench before the 7th of each
month.
156.
Inspection of Registry
.-(a) The Registrar or the Deputy Registrar designated by him shall conduct inspection of the sections twice a year, viz.,
for the period from 1st January to 30th June and 1st July to 31st December, on such date as may be found convenient.
(b)
The report of inspection of the Judicial Branch, Library, Administrative Branch and Record Room shall be as in
Schedules I to IV to Appendix IX, as may be modified by the Chairman from time to time.
(c)
The Section Officer concerned shall promptly comply with the directions of the Registrar and submit a report about due
compliance to the Registrar within such time as the Registrar may grant.
(d)
The Registrar shall submit a report to the Chairman/Vice-Chairman containing brief summary of his inspection of the
Registry, directions given by him to the sections and the steps taken for due compliance with such directions.
157.
Due compliance with the Act, Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Practice
.-The Registrar or any officer authorised by him may, for the purpose of satisfying himself that the provisions of the Act,
the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of practice are duly complied with, make such enquiry as he deems fit and call
upon such party, as he deems necessary to appear before him and pass such orders as he deems proper.
158.
Removal of doubt/difficulty
.-If in the matter of implementation of these rules any doubt or difficulty arises, the same shall be placed before the
Chairman and his decision thereon shall be final.
FORM NO. 1
[See rule 4(a)]
FORM OF INDEX
IN THE CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL
.......................BENCH
O.A./R.A./C.P.(Civil/Criminal)/M.A./T/P 19.../20....
A..................................................................................}
}Applicant/Petitioner
B..................................................................................}
By Legal Practitioner Mr./Ms.
A......................................................................................}
} Respondents
B.......................................................................................}
By Legal Practitioner/Government Pleader.
INDEX
Sl.
No.
Brief description of proceedings/documents
Page No.
From
To
Signature of the applicant Legal Practitioner
FOR USE BY THE REGISTRY
Date of presentation/Filing
Page 26/79
----- PAGE 27 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Date of Receipt by post
Registration (Diary) No.
...............
Signature
For Registrar
FORM NO. 2
[See rule 11 (b)]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL .......BENCH
Diary No.
Report on the scrutiny of Application
Presented by :.......................
Date of presentation .....................
Applicant (s) :......................
Respondent (s) :....................
Nature of grievance :............
No. of applicants :..................
No. of Respondents:......................
*If S.B.
CLASSIFICATION
Subject.......................(No......)
Department:..................(No........)
* 1. Is the application in the proper form?
(Three complete sets in paper book form in two compilations)
2. Whether name, description and address of all the parties Been furnished in the cause title?
3. (a) Has the Application been duly signed and verified?
(b)
Have the copies been duly signed?
(c)
Have sufficient number of copies of the application been filed?
4. Whether all the necessary parties are impleaded?
5. Whether English translation of documents in a language other than English or Hindi been filed?
6. Is the application in time?
(See section 21)
7. Has the Vakalathnama/Memo of appearance/authorization been filed?
8. Is the application maintainable?
(u/s 2, 14, 18 or U.R. 8 etc.)
9. Is the application accompanied by IPO/DD for Rs.50?
10. Has the impugned orders original/duly attested legible copy been filed?
11. Have legible copies of the annexures duly attested been filed?
12. Has the Index of documents been filed and pagination done properly?
13. Has the applicant exhausted all available remedies?
14. Has the declaration as required by item 7 of Form I been made?
15. Have required number of envelopes (file size) bearing full address of the respondents been filed?
16. (a) Whether the reliefs sought for, arise out of single cause of action?
(b)
Whether any interim relief is prayed for?
17. In case an M.A. for condonation of delay is filed, is it supported by an affidavit of the applicant?
18. Whether this case can be heard by Single Bench?
19. Any other point?
20. Result of the scrutiny with initial of the Scrutiny Clerk.
Section Officer
Page 27/79
----- PAGE 28 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
________________
Deputy Registrar
_________________
REGISTRAR
_________________
FORM NO. 3
[See rule 11 ]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL .......BENCH
Diary No.........20.............
C.P. (Civil/Criminal)...............20.........
Between
.................................................................Petitioner(s)
By
...................................
(Name of the Counsel, if any)
And
.................................................................Respondent(s)
By
...................................
(Name of the Counsel, if any)
Subject : (No...........)
Department : (No......)
REPORT OF THE SCRUTINY OF CONTEMPT OF COURT PETITION
(CIVIL/CRIMINAL)
1. Whether the name (including as far as possible, the name of Father/mother/husband), age, occupation and address
of the  Petitioner(s) and the respondent(s) are given?
Note :- Where respondent is an officer, his name, designation, and office address above are enough.
2. Whether the parties impleaded as petitioner(s) and respondent(s) are proper?
Note :- (a) In case of civil contempt for disobeying the order of the Tribunal, it is the party in whose favour the direction is
issued that can be impleaded as petitioner and the party against whom the direction is issued can be impleaded as the
respondent.
(b)
In case of criminal contempt, the party who is alleged to have committed contempt, that can be impleaded as
respondent.
3. Nature of the Contempt (Civil/Criminal) and the provisions of the Act invoked?
4. (a) Date of alleged Contempt?
(b)
Date of filing of the Contempt Petition?
(c)
Whether the petition is barred by limitation under section
20. of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971?
5. (a) Whether the grounds and material facts constituting the alleged contempt are given?
(b)
Whether the grounds and facts alleged in the petition are divided into paragraphs and numbered?
(c)
Whether the petition is accompanied by supporting documents or certified/photostat (attested) copies of the original
thereof?
(d)
If the petitioner relies upon any other document(s) in his possession, whether copy of such document(s) is/are filed
along with the petition?
(e)
Page 28/79
----- PAGE 29 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Whether the petition and its annexures have been filed in a paper-book from and duly indexed and paginated?
(f)
Whether three complete sets of the paper-books have been filed?
(g)
Whether equal number of extra copies of paper-books have been filed in case there are more respondents than one?
6. Whether the nature of the order sought from the Tribunal is s stated?
7. Whether the petition is supported by an affidavit sworn to by the petitioner verifying the facts relied upon?
Note :- No affidavit is required if the Motion is by Attorney General/Solicitor General/Additional Solicitor General.
8. Whether the petitioner or his Advocate have signed the petition indicating the place and date?
9. In case of Civil Contempt whether the petition is accompanied by a certified copy of the judgement/decree
order/writ/undertaking alleged to have been disobeyed by the alleged contemner?
10. (a) In case of criminal contempt, not covered by section 14* of the Contempt of Courts Act, whether the petitioner
has produced the consent obtained from the Attorney General/Solicitor General/Additional Solicitor General?
(b)
If not, whether the petition contains the reasons thereof?
*Contempt committed in the presence or hearing of the Member(s)
11. Whether the petitioner had previously made a Contempt Petition on the same facts? If so, have the following been
furnished :
(a)
Number of the petition?
(b)
Whether the petition is pending? And
(c)
If disposed of, nature/result of the disposal with date?
12. Whether the craft charges are enclosed in a separate shee?
FOR ATTENTION
Orders on the administration side have to be obtained from the Chairman/Vice Chairman or Member designated in case
of action for criminal contempt, as required by Rule 7 (ii) before placing for preliminary hearing.
FORM NO.
4.
[See rule 12]
IN THE CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL.......................BENCH
ORDER SHEET
Application No.............of 19...../20...........
Applicant(s)
Respondent(s)
Advocate for Applicant(s)
Advocate for Respondent(s)
Notes of the Registry
Orders of the Tribunal
FORM NO. 5
[See rule 13]
FILE A/B/C
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL...........BENCH
(SB/DB)
TRANSFERRED/ORIGINAL APPLICATON NO.
REVIEW APPLICATION NO.
PETITION FOR TRANSFER NO..............................................}
}of 20.....
C.P. (CIVIL/CRIMINAL) NO.....................................................}
.................................................................................}
Page 29/79
----- PAGE 30 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
.................................................................................}
}APPLICANT(S)
BY ADVOCATE SHRI............................... ....................}
Versus
..............................................................................}
..............................................................................}
} RESPONDENT(S)
BY ADVOCATE SHRI..................................................}
MEMO OF HEARINGS
SUBJECT:
DEPARTMENT:
Nature of Grievance:
Date of impugned Order:
Date of
Presentation
Representation
Date of Registration:
Date of Admission:
Date and nature of final disposal:
R.A., if any filed & number thereof:
Nature of disposal of R.A.:
C.P., if any filed & number thereof:
Result of C.P.:
S.L.P./Appeal, if any filed & number thereof:
Result of S.L.P/Appeal filed:
Date of consignment of Record Room:
FORM NO. 6
[See rule 17]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL...........BENCH
NOTIFICATION
The papers filed in the following cases have been found on Scrutiny to be defective. Hence, it is hereby notified that the
applicant(s) Respondent(s) or his/their Legal practitioner is/are required to rectify the defects in the Registry itself if they
are formal in nature or to take back the papers for rectification of the defects and representation if they are not formal in
nature, within the time shown against each case.
Sl.
No.
Diary No/ Appln. No.
Papers in which defects are noticed
By whom defects are to be rectified
Whether the defects are formal in nature or not
Time granted for rectification/representation
1
2
3
4
5
6
1.
2.
3.
4.
Page 30/79
----- PAGE 31 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Dated this ...............date of .....................20..............
REGISTRAR
FORM NO. 7
[See rule 25 ]
IN THE CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL .......BENCH
at ....................
No........... of 20.............
Between
.........................................................................................................Applicant(s)
By Advocate Shri ..................................
and
...............................................................................Respondents
By Advocate Shri ..................................
PROCESS MEMO
Please issue notice/process to the following parties and a sum of Rs..........is paid herewith by way of IPO/DD No......of
........
Rank of the Party in the Proceeding
Name of the Party
Address for service
1
2
3
Place:....................
Date:........................
Counsel for the Petitioner/Applicant
Central Government Standing
Counsel/Government Pleader
FORM NO. 8
[See rule 29 ]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL .......BENCH
at ....................
Original Application No.................20.........
..................................................................................................Applicant
Represented by
Advocate Shri ..................................
versus
.............................................................................................Respondents
Reprsented by
Advocate Shri ..................................
To
....................................
....................................
....................................
Whereas an application filed by the above named applicant under section 19 of the Administrative Tribunal Act, 1985, as
in the copy annexed hereunto has been registered and upon preliminary hearing the Tribunal has directed that you
should be given an opportunity to show cause why the application should not be admitted.
Notice is hereby given to your to appear in this Bench of the Tribunal in person or through a Legal
Practitioner/Presenting Officer in this matter at 10.30 a.m. of the ............day of ................20..................to show cause,
why the application should not be admitted. If you fail to appear, the application will be heard and decided in your
absence.
Given under my hand and the seal of this Tribunal, this the........day of...........20.............
Page 31/79
----- PAGE 32 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
By order of the Tribunal
Registrar
FORM NO. 9
[See rule 29 ]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL .......BENCH
at ....................
Original Application No................20.......
...................................................................................................Applicant(s)
(By Advocate Shri ..................................)
versus
...................................................................................................Respondent(s)
(By Advocate/Central Government/
Standing Counsel/Government
Pleader Sh...........)
To
....................................
....................................
....................................
Whereas an application filed by the above named applicant(s) under section 19 of the  Administrative Tribunal Act,
1985, as in the copy annexed hereunto has been registered and upon preliminary  hearing the Tribunals admitted the
application.
Notice is hereby given to you that if you wish to contest the application, you may file your reply along with the documents
in support thereof and after serving copy of the same on the applicant or his Legal Practitioner within 30 days of receipt
of the notice, before this Tribunal, either in person or through a legal practitioner/Presenting Officer appointed by you in
this behalf. In default, the said application may heard and decided in your absence on or after that date without any
further notice.
Issued under my hand and the seal of the Tribunal this the.............day of ..................20..................
(By order of the Tribunal)
Registrar
FORM NO. 10
[See rule 57(a) ]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL .......BENCH
Pending/Disposed of
OA/RA/CP.............NO..............of ............20......
...................................................................................................................Applicant(s)
versus
................................................................................................................Respondent(s)
APPLICATION FOR INSPECTION OF DOCUMENTS/RECORDS
I hereby apply for grant of permission to inspect the document/records in the above case. The details are as follows :-
1.
Name and address of the person seeking inspection:
2.
Whether he is a party to the case/his legal practitioner and if so, his rank therein:
3.
Details of the papers/documents sought to be inspected:
4.
Reasons for seeking the Inspection:
5.
The date and duration of the inspection sought:
6.
Whether any fee is payable and if so, the mode of payment:
Page 32/79
----- PAGE 33 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Place.........................
Date..........................
Applicant
Office Use:
Granted inspection for ...............hours on ............./rejected
Registrar
CAT........
FORM NO. 11
[See rule 62 ]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL .......BENCH
OA/RA/CP/PT/MA..................of ............20......
...................................................................................................................Applicant(s)
versus
.................................................................................................................Respondent(s)
MEMO OF APPEARANCE
I, ..........................,having been authorized.................(here furnish the particulars of authority) by the Central/State
Government/Government Servant/..... authority/corporation/society notified under section 14 of the Administrative
Tribunals Act, 1985, hereby appear for applicant No....../Respondent No..... and undertake to plead and act for them in
all matters in the aforesaid case.
Place:..................
Date:...................
........................................................
Signature and Designation of the Counsel
Address of the Counsel for service
FORM NO. 12
[See rule 67 ]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL .......BENCH
OA/RA/CP/PT/...............of ............20......
..................................................................................................................Applicant(s)
versus
................................................................................................................Respondent(s)
I, ........................, Applicant No................./Respondent No............ in the above application/petition do hereby appoint
and retain Shri........................................... Advocate/s to appear, plead and act for me/us in the above
application/petition and to conduct and prosecute all proceedings that may be taken in respect thereof including
Contempt of Court Petitions and Review Applications arising there from and applications for return of documents, enter
into compromise and to draw any moneys payable to me/us in the said proceeding.
Place:..................
Date:..................
.........................
Signature of the Party
"Accepted"
........................................
Signature with date
(Name of the Advocate)
Executed in my presence
*Signature with date
(Name and Designation)
Name of the Advocate
Name and address of the
Advocate for service
* The following certification to be given when the party is unacquainted with the language of the vakalath or is blind or
Page 33/79
----- PAGE 34 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
illiterate.
The contents of the vakalath were truly and audibly read over/translated into ...............language known to the party
executing the vakalath and he seems to have understood the same.
.....................
Signature with date
(Name and Designation)
FORM NO. 13
[See rule 75(a) ]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL .......BENCH
Non-Transferable
Passport size photo to be affixed
Identity Card Reg. No..................
Shri.................Aged................
S/o Shri .................................(Address)
has been registered as a Clerk of Shri............
Legal Practitioner.................................
......................................................
(Address)
and that he is entitled in connection with his employer's business to have access to the Registry of the
CAT...............Bench.The Identity Card is valid from.......................Specimen signature of the Registered Clerk.
Specimen signature of the Advocate.Seal of the Tribunal
Deputy Registrar(J)
Date..................
FORM NO. 14
[See rule 81(a) ]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL .......BENCH
OA/RA/TA/PT/CP(Civil/CP (Criminal)/No...............of ............20......
...................................................................................................................Applicant(s)
versus
................................................................................................................Respondent(s)
AFFIDAVIT
I, ...................................aged............years, son/daughter/wife of (name and occupation of the
deponent)..................residing at............................ do hereby swear in the name of God/solemnly affirms and state as
follows:-
Para 1
Para 2
Para 3
..................................................
..................................................
..................................................
Contents of paragraphs Nos...........to .........are within my personal knowledge and contents of paragraph Nos.........to
.............are based on information received by me which I believe the same to be true (state the source of information
wherever possible and the grounds for belief, if any)
.......................................................................................................................................................
.......................................................................................................................................................
Place:....................
Date:.....................
No. of corrections on page Nos.
........................................
Signature of the Deponent
Name in Block letters
Page 34/79
----- PAGE 35 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Identified by:
*
...............................................................................................................................................Sworn/solemnly affirmed
before me on this the ................day of ...........20.....
................
Signature
(Name and designation of the
Attesting Authority with seal)
* To add endorsement in Form No.15
when necessary.
FORM NO. 15
(See rule 84)
CERTIFICATION WHEN DEPONENT IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE LANGUAGE OF THE AFFIDAVIT OR IS BLIND
OR ILLITERATE.
Contents of the affidavit were truly and audibly read over/translated into .....................language known to the deponent
and he seems to have understood the same.
................
(Signature)
Name and designation with date
FORM NO. 16
[See rule 87(c)]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL .......BENCH
OA/RA/CP (Civil/Crl.)/PT/MA No..... of 20.............
Between
.......................................................................................................Applicant/s
By Advocate Shri ..................................
And
......................................................Respondent/s
By Advocate Shri ..................................
To
Whereas the Tribunal suo motu or on consideration of the request made by Shri............................(Applicant/Respondent
No.) having been satisfied that production of the following documents/records under your control/custody is necessary
for proper decision of the above case, you are hereby directed to cause production of the said documents/records
before this Tribunal/forward duly authenticated copies thereof on or before the ....................day of .............20...............
(Enter description of documents requisitioned)
"By Order of Tribunal"
Registrar.
Date:..................
FORM NO. 17
[See rule 96 ]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL .......BENCH
TA/OA/RA/CP (Civil/Crl.)/PT/MA No..... of /20.............
DEPOSITION OF PR/RW
1. Name:
2. Father's/Mother's/Husband's name:
3. Age
4. Occupation:
5. Place of Residence and address:
6. Name of the Officer administering the oath/affirmation:
7. Name of the Interpreter if any, duly sworn/solemnly affirmed:
Duly sworn/solemnly affirmed
Page 35/79
----- PAGE 36 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Date......................
Examination-in-chief : By
...................................
...................................
Cross-examination:BY
...................................
...................................
Re-examination, if any:
...................................
..................................................................
(Signature of the witness on each page)
Statement was read over/translated to the witness who admitted it to be correct.
..................................................................
Signature of the Member of the
Bench/Commissioner
With date
FORM NO. 18
(See rule 98)
CERTIFICATE OF DISCHARGE
Certified that............................appeared before this Tribunal as a witness/in/OA/
RA/TA/PT/CP (Civil)/Crl.)/MA No..............of 20......, on behalf of the applicant/petitioner/respondent/as court witness on
this the .......day of 20......and that he was relieved at ......................on .................... . He was paid/not paid any T.A. and
D.A./Batta of Rs.....................
.....................................
Signature of Registrar
Date:...............
(Seal of the Tribunal)
FORM NO. 19
[See rule 110 ]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL .......BENCH
FORMAT OF ORDER
OA/TA/CP (Civil/Crl.)/MA/PT No..... of .../20....................................this the ..................day of .........................20..........
Shri/Smt...................................(A/)/(J)
Shri/Smt...................................(A/)/(J)
1.
2.
3.
..........................................................................Applicant(s)(Here enter name and full address of applicant(s)
By Advocate Shri...........................................
Versus
1.
2.
3.
..........................................................................Respondent(s)
(Here enter name and full address of respondent(s)
By Advocate Shri...........................................
Central Government Standing Counsel/Government Pleader
ORDER
*.......................................
Para 1.
Para 2.
Page 36/79
----- PAGE 37 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Para 3.
.........................
.........................
.........................
(Signature)
...................................................
Name
Vice-Chairman/Member
(Signature)
..............................
Name
Chairman/Vice-Chairman/Member
* Here enter name of the Chairman/Vice-Chairman/Member dictating or writing the order.
Here put the initials of the Stenographer who types the order.
FORM NO. 20
[See rule 111(c)]
BILL OF COSTS
(To be annexed to the order)
OA/RA/TA/PT/CP/MA No..... of ...20.............
Costs awarded to Applicant No.................../Respondent No........... and payable by Applicant No................../Respondent
No....................
(i)
Legal Practitioner's fee :
(ii)
Expenses
Rs..................................................
Rs..................................................
_____________________
Total Rs............................................
_____________________
Seal of the Tribunal
...................
(Signature)
Registrar/Deputy Registrar
Note :- No bill of costs need be prepared or annexed, if costs are not awarded.
FORM NO. 21
[See rule 114 ]
IN THE CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL .......BENCH
OA/TA/RA/CP/MA/PT No...............of ................20......
...............................................................................................................Applicant(s)
versus
............................................................................................................Respondent(s)
INDEX  SHEET
Serial No.
DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENTS
PAGE
Certified that the file is complete in all respects.
.................................. .........
Signature of S.O.
...............................................
Signature of Dealing Hand
Page 37/79
----- PAGE 38 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Form No. 22
(See Rule 117)
Central Administrative Tribunal ...................Bench
OA/RA/TA/PT/CP/Civ./Crl./ MA ...............20.........
_________________________________________________________Applicant(s)
Versus
_________________________________________________________ Respondent(s)
APPLICATION FOR GRANT OF CERTIFIED COPY
1. Name & address of the applicant:
2. Whether the applicant is a party to the case:
If not whether the applicant under Rule 119 is filed:
3. Whether the cases is pending or disposed of :
4. Description with date of the documents of Which date of the document of which applied for :
5. No. of copies required and nature of a Applicant [whether urgent or ordinary]
6. Details of the fee remitted also with the Applicant:
Dated the........................ day of ........................................
Signature of the applicant
Counsel of the applicant
FOR OFFICE USE
Granted/Rejected
Additional copying Fee payable/paid & details there of:
(Initials of the Officer-In-Charge)
Form No. 23
(See Rule 127)
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL ...................BENCH
NOTIFICATION OF CERTIFIED COPIES READY FOR DELIVERY
Sl.
No.
Copy Application
No.
Name of the Applicant
Case No.
Date on which copy is ready for delivery
1
2
3
4
5
...........................................................
(Signature of Officer-in-charge with date)
Form No. 24
[See Rule 155(a) & (b)]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL ...................BENCH
Part I
............................BENCH
STATEMENT SHOWING DISPOSAL OF CASES DURING
THE WEEK/MONTH......................
Members of the Bench
Sitting Days
No.
of cases for Admission
Page 38/79
----- PAGE 39 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Cases admitted
No.
of cases restored (Excluding M.A.S.)
No.
of cases disposed of at the Admission stage
No.
of cases disposed of at the final hearing stage
Total disposal
(6+7)
No.
of cases reserved for Judgment
Full day
Part of a day
Reserved Matters
Oral
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Part II
.......................Bench
CATEGORY-WISE STATEMENT OF INSTITUTION AND DISPOSAL FOR
THE WEEK/MONTH...........................
Category of Cases
Fresh Institution
No. of cases Restored/Remanded
Disposal
Arrears increased by (+) or decreased by (-) (1+2-3)
1
2
3
4
T.As.
O.As.
R.As.
R.As. (BY circulation)
Total
P.Ts.
M.As.
Total
P.Ts.
M.As.
Total
Date
[See Rule 155(c)]
Part I
Page 39/79
----- PAGE 40 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
STATEMENT SHOWING THE POSITION REGARDING INSTITUTION,
DISPOSAL AND PENDENCY OF CASES FOR THE MONTH OF
IN RESPECT OF .....................BENCH
No. of cases pending at the beginning of the month
Cases instituted/received during the month
Total for disposal
Cases disposed of during the month
No. of cases pending at the end of the month
Cumulative Figures total of disposal from 1stJanuary
A
B
C
D
E
F
Received by Transfer
Freshly instituted
Total 1+2
Received by Transfer
Freshly instituted
Total 4+5
Out of cases received by transfer
Out of cases freshly instituted
Total 9+10
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
OA
TA
CPs
RA
Total
MA
G. Total
Part II
YEAR-WISE BREAK-UP OF PENDING CASES
Name of Bench
Category of cases
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
Page 40/79
----- PAGE 41 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
TA
DB
SB
OA
DB
SB
CP
DB
SB
CA
DB
SB
RA
DB
SB
MAs
DB
SB
Note:- The number of cases pending at the places where there is a Bench of the Tribunal (Other than Principal Seat) or
where a Circuit sitting is held and the number of cases disposed of  in each such Bench of circuit sitting may be
furnished separately.
Note:-  OA denotes Original Applications
Instructions:
TA  denotes Transferred Applications
1.  Due date of receipt of the statement in P.B. is 7th of the following month.
CA  denotes Civil Applications
CP denotes  Contempt Petitions (Civil/Criminal)
2.  Total must cross tally.
RA denotes  Review Applications
3.  Information be furnished in figures.
MA  denotes Miscellaneous Applications
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL................................BENCH
FORM OF REGISTER NO. 1
[See rule 10(b)]
INWARD REGISTER
Dy. No.
Nature of the Application/Pleadings, etc. received
Name of the party/Legal Practitioner Presenting
Application fee/Additional process fee paid
Initial with date of the receiving clerk
Page 41/79
----- PAGE 42 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Date of transmission to Scrutiny Branch
Initial of the Receiving Clerk in the Scrutiny Branch
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
FORM OF REGISTER NO. 2
[See rule 15(h)]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL................................BENCH
REGISTER OF ORIGINAL APPLICATIONS
For The Year ..../20....
TRANSFERRED APPLICATIONS
CONTEMPT PETITIONS
PETITIONS FOR TRANSFER
MISECELLANEOUS APPLICATIONS
Sl. No.
Application No.
Date of filing & registration
Name & address of the applicant
Name of the Advocate for the applicant
Name and address of the respondents
Name of the Advocate for the respondents
Subject matter
Date of admission
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1.
2.
3.
Particulars of interim orders in the application
Date & result of the final order
Whether disposed of by S.B./D.B./F.B.
Information regarding appeal, if any, filed in the Supreme Court and the result thereof
Date of transmission of records to Record Room
Remarks
10
11
12
13
Page 42/79
----- PAGE 43 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
14
15
1.
2.
3.
4.
5
REGISTER NO. 3
[See rule 16]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL................................BENCH
I.P.O./D.D. REGISTER
Sl. No.
Diary No./
Application
No.
Name of the
Party
Remitting
IPD/CO
Purpose of remittance of IPO/DD
Particulars of IPO/DD
Initials with date of Clerk receiving the IPO/DD
Initials with date of Official receiving IPO/DD in Cash Sec.
Remarks
No. & Dt.
Amount
Name of PO/Bank of issue
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
REGISTER NO. 4
[See rule 21(a)]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL................................BENCH
COURT DIARY
Date...............................
COURT HALL NO.
Day of the week:
Sl. No.
No. of application
Work done
Date of which adjourned
Remarks
(1)
(2)
Page 43/79
----- PAGE 44 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
(3)
(4)
(5)
Note : The following abbreviation shall be used in Column No. 3:
Adj :  Adjourned . Adm : Admitted notice ordered PH : Part Heard PH/Adj : Part Heard/Adjourned
Dis. at  Adm: Disposed of at admission stage JR : Judgment Reserved Dis/Alld.:Dismissed/Allowed
Pt. A : Partly allowed.
FORM OF REGISTER NO. 5
[See rule 39]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL........BENCH
READY LIST OF OAs/RAs/TAs/CPs (Civil/Crl.)/P,.Ts./M.As.
Sl. No.
No. of the case
Whether SB/DB
Date of inclusion in the ready list
Whether stands posted to any date
Date of removal from the ready list
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
FORM OF REGISTER NO. 6
[See rule 46]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL........BENCH
STAGE REGISTER
Sl.
No.
Appln./
Petition
Number
Whether
SB/DB
Date of
Admission/
Issue of note
Date of
next
posting
Whether
Part-heard
or not?
Whether
connected
with any other pending
case
Date of
Final
Page 44/79
----- PAGE 45 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
hearing
Date of
disposal
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Instructions: 1. Application/Petition shall be entered as far as possible in the order of their Registration Number.
2. In respect of Transferred Applications the corresponding W.P. No.../Suit No..... should be written in brackets.
3. Applications disposed of should be rounded off in red ink.
4. Cases which are ready for hearing should be underlined in green ink.
FORM OF REGISTER NO. 7
[See rule 46]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL........BENCH
POSTING REGISTER
Date:..................
(Note :- Separate page should be taken for each date)
Sl.
No.
Application No./
Petition No.
Whether
Single Bench/
Division Bench?
Whether Part-heard or not? (if part-heard composition of the Bench)?
Whether connected with any other pending case? [If so give the number of the connected case(s)]
Remarks
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
FORM OF REGISTER NO. 8
[See rule 60]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL........BENCH
REGISTER OF INSPECTION
No. of
Application/
Petition in
which
inspection
is sought
Name of the Parties
Page 45/79
----- PAGE 46 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
in the Application/
petition
Name &
Address
of the
person
seeking
inspection
Date & time of commencement
of inspection  with the initials
of the person
inspecting
Date & time of the completion of
Inspection with the initials of the person inspecting
Inspection
Fee, if any,
paid
Initials
of the official
who
Supervise
The inspection
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
FORM OF REGISTER NO. 9
[See rule 72]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL........BENCH
REGISTER OF REGISTERED CLERKS OF LEGAL PRACTITIONERS
Sl.
No
Name of the Clerk
with full address
Date & No. of
Registration
Name &
Address
of Legal Practitioner
under whom
employed
Date of  issue of
identity
Card
Particulars
of IPO/
Page 46/79
----- PAGE 47 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
DD
received
Signature
of the
Registered
Clerks
Signature
of the
Legal
Practitioner
Date
of Cancellation of Registration
Initials of the Registering/
Cancelling
Authority
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
FORM OF REGISTER  NO. 10
[See rule 120]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL........BENCH
REGISTER OF COPY APPLICATION
Sl.
No.
Date of
application
Page 47/79
----- PAGE 48 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Amount
Received
And particulars
Of DD/IPO
Name of the application
Amount and
Date of payment of additional
fee
Date of
Preparation
of copy
Date of
delivery
of copy
Signature
of the
person receiving
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
FORM OF REGISTER  NO. 11
[See rule 120]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL........BENCH
REQUISITION REGISTER
Sl.
No.
No. and
date of
Application
Particulars of
the file to be
requisitioned
Section to
which
requisition
is sent
Date of
requisition
Date of receipt
of file in the
copying section
Date of receiving
Back the file with initials
Remarks
Page 48/79
----- PAGE 49 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
FORM OF REGISTER NO. 12
[See rule 135]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL........BENCH
DESPATCH  REGISTER OF FREE COPIES OF ORDERS
Sl.
No.
Case No.
Name & address  of the
person to whom the free
copy is sent
No. of date of the postal
Receipt, if sent by regd. Post/A.D.
Amount of
postage
Signature
of the
Advocate/
Party taking
Delivery with date
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
FORM OF REGISTER NO. 13
[See rule 141]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL........BENCH
REGISTER OF SLPs/ APPEALS TO SUPREME COURT
Sl.
No.
No. of
SLPs/appeal
before the Supreme Court
Number of the
Case appealed
against
Name of the
Applicant/
respondent
Date of
Page 49/79
----- PAGE 50 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Dispatch
of
records
To S.C
Date of
receipt
of
records
from S.C
SLP
Dismissed/
Allowed with
date
Interim
Direction
If any
With
date
Final
Order
In the
Appeal
With date
Direction
If any
For
Compliance
By the
Tribunal
Steps
Taken
For
compliance
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
FORM OF REGISTER NO. 14
[See rule 148]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL........BENCH
Sl.
No.
Page 50/79
----- PAGE 51 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Case
No.
Date of
disposal
of the
case by
the Tribunal
Name f the
applicants
& counsel
Name f the
respondents
& counsel
No. of appeal
if any, before
the S.C. &
date of disposal
Date of
receipt
of records
in the
record room
Date upto which
to be retained
Date on
which
destroyed
No. &
date of
Notification
of destruction
Part
I
Part
II
Part
III
Part
I
Part
II
Part
III
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Page 51/79
----- PAGE 52 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
9
10
11
12
13
14
APPENDIX I
[See rule 18(c)]
No. 1/32/87-JA
December 18, 1991
ORDER
In supersession of the Order of the Chairman No.  1/32/87-JA dated 1.3.1988and in exercise of the powers conferred by
sub-section (6) of section 5 of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985, I hereby authorize all the Members of the Central
Administrative Tribunal to function as a Bench consisting of a Single Member and exercise the jurisdiction, powers and
authority of the Tribunal in respect of classes of case specified in the Schedule w.e.f. 1-1-1992 subject to the following
procedure:-
(1)
that the case does not involve validity of any statutory provision or interpretation of any of the provisions of the
Constitution.
(2)
that it is open to either party to submit to the Single Member before the matter is taken up for admission for  final
hearing, that it may be placed before bench of two Members.  If such a request is made at the outset, the Single
Member shall direct that the case be placed before an appropriate Bench of two members.  Once the case is taken up,
no such request shall be entertained at any subsequent stage of the proceedings for admission or final hearing as the
case may be.
Explanation:
(i)
The party not making the request at the stage of admission shall not be precluded from making such a request  when
the case is taken up for final hearing.
(ii)
The stage of admission would also cover cases which may be finally disposed of with the consent of parties at the
admission stage.
(iii)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the previous paragraphs if at any state of the proceedings it appears to the Single
Member that the case is of such a nature that it ought to be heard by a Bench of two members, he may refer it to the
Chairman to transfer it to a Bench of two members.
Schedule
1. Cases relating to change of date of birth.
2. Cases relating to positing/transfer.
3. Cases relating to entry in character rolls/confidential record/service record, made otherwise than as a measure of
penalty under Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965.
4. Cases relating to allotment or eviction from Government accommodation.
5.
Cases relating to fixation of pay
6.
Cases relating to claims of medical reimbursement, leave, joining time, L.T.C. and over-time.
7.
Cases relating to crossing of efficiency bar.
8.
Cases relating to grant of pension, family pension, other retirement benefits, and cases relating to interest on retirement
benefits.
Page 52/79
----- PAGE 53 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
9.
Cases relating to grant or refusal to grant advances/loans.
10. Cases relating to stagnation increment.
11. Cases relating grant of passes to Railway employees.
12.
Cases relating to grant, refusal or recovery of allowances.
13.
Cases relating to compassionate appointment/appointment of dependents of Government servants dying in harness.
APPENDIX II
[See rule 18(d)]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL
Faridkot House, Copernicus Marg, New Delhi-110001.
No. 13/19/91-JA
December 18, 1991
ORDER
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 and all other enabling provisions of the Administrative Tribunals Act,
1985 and in supersession of all orders on the subject, I hereby make the following order regulating constitution of
Benches and distribution of work of the Principal Bench and other Benches of the Central Administrative Tribunal:-
1. In the case of the Principal Bench, the Chairman and  in his absence, the senior-most Vice-Chairman available and in
their absence,  the senior-most member available, shall regulate constitution of Benches (including Vacation Bench) and
distribution of work of that Bench.
2. In the case of other Benches, the Vice-Chairman and  in his absence, the senior-most member available, shall
regulate constitution of the Benches and distribution of the work.
3. Notwithstanding anything contained in the above paragraph, the power of constitution of Benches and distribution of
work of the Principal Bench and other Benches, shall be subject to such general or special orders, as the Chairman and
in his absence, senior-mot Vice-Chairman of the Principal Bench who is available, may make.
(V.S. MALIMATH)
Chairman
APPENDIX III
[See rule 19(b)]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL
Faridkot House, Copernicus Marg, New Delhi-110001.
No. 1/32/87-JA
January 20, 1992
ORDER
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (6) of section 5 of the  Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985, I hereby
make the following order:
In situations when a Division Bench is not available for dealing with urgent cases for admission and grant of interim
orders, and the urgency is such that the matter cannot be deferred until a Division Bench becomes available, the Single
Member Bench is authorized to take up such urgent cases for admission and grant of interim orders subject to the
condition that if the Single Member is not inclined to admit the matter he shall refer the matter for being placed before
the appropriate Division Bench as soon as the same becomes available.
(V.S. MALIMATH)
Chairman
APPENDIX IV
[See rule 49]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL
Faridkot House, Copernicus Marg, New Delhi-110001.
New Delhi, the 18the February, 1992
No. 13/19/91-JA
NOTIFICATION
Page 53/79
----- PAGE 54 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5, 12 and 22 of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 read with rule 17 of
the Central Administrative Tribunal(Procedure) Rules, 1987 and in  supersession of all previous orders in this regard, I,
V.S. Malimath, Chairman, Central Administrative Tribunal hereby by make the following order with the object of avoiding
delay in dealing with the Review Petitions presented before different (additional) Benches of the Central Administrative
Tribunal:
REVIEW OF ORDERS PASSED BY A BENCH OF TWO MEMBERS
1.1
Review of order in which both the Members who passed the order are functioning in the same Bench.
In such a case, the Review Petition shall be placed before the members who passed the order for consideration by
circulation.  If one of them is of the view that it merits a hearing, then the petition shall be placed before that Bench for
preliminary hearing. In such a case, it would not be necessary to seek orders of the Chairman.
2. Review of order passed by the bench of which one member belongs to the local Bench and the other is a member of
another Bench.
In such a case, the Review Petition shall be sent for consideration by circulation to the members who passed the order. 
If one of them is of the view that it merits a hearing, then the petition shall be placed for preliminary hearing.  For that
purpose, the Vice-Chairman of the local Bench shall seek orders of the Chairman.
3. Review of  order in which both the members have ceased to be members of the Tribunal.
In such a case, the Vice-Chairman shall place the Review Petition for preliminary hearing before a Bench consisting of
any two members of that Bench.  It would not be necessary to seek orders of the Chairman in such a case.
4. Review of order in which one of the members has ceased to be a member of the Tribunal.
If one of the members who passed the order is available in that bench, the Vice-Chairman shall constitute a bench with
him/her and any other member of the bench and place the petition for preliminary hearing.
If not, the Vice-Chairman shall constitute a Bench consisting of any two members of that Bench.
5. Review of order when both the members who passed the order are members of other Benches.
In such a case, the Vice-Chairman shall arrange to send the Review petition to both the members to consider the
petition by circulation. If one of them is of the view that the petition merits a hearing, then the petition shall be placed for
preliminary hearing.  For that purpose, the Vice-Chairman shall seek orders of the Chairman.
REVIEW OF ORDERS PASSED BY A SINGLE MEMBER BENCH
II. (a) If the single member who decided the case continues to be a member of that bench, the petition shall be placed
before him/her for consideration by circulation.  If the member is of the view that the petition merits a hearing, it shall be
posted before him/her for preliminary hearing.
(b)
If the member who decided the case has become a member of another Bench of the Tribunal, the Vice-Chairman shall
send the petition to him/her for being considered by circulation.  If the member is of the view tat the petition merits a
hearing, then the petition shall be placed for preliminary hearing. For that purpose the Vice-Chairman shall seek orders
of the Chairman.
(c)
If the single member who passed the order has ceased to be a member of the Tribunal, then the Vice-Chairman shall
post the petition for preliminary hearing before any member of the Bench.  In such a case, it would not be necessary to
seek the orders of the Chairman.
III. If the Review Petition is not summarily dismissed, further hearing shall be by the very same Bench constituted as per
the aforesaid provisions.
IV. Orders of the Chairman may be sought when a situation not covered by the above provisions arises or when in the
interest of justice it is necessary to deviate from the same.
Note.-  The above procedure shall mutatis mutandis be followed in the Principal Bench.
(V.S.MALIMATH)
Chairman
APPENDIX V
[See rule 145]
Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions (Department of Personnel and Training), Notification No. S.O.
9462, dated September 13, 1990, published in the Gazette of India, Part Ii, Section 3 (ii), dated 29th December, 1990,
Page 54/79
----- PAGE 55 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
PP-5639-5642[F.No.A-11019/33/88/AT]
In exercise of the powers conferred by the Central Government under sub-clause(ii) of clause (c) of sub-section (2) of
section 3 of the Destruction of Records Act, 1917 (Act V of 1917), the Chairman, Central Administrative Tribunal, hereby
makes with the previous approval of the Central Government, the following rules to regulate the destruction of records,
books and papers of all Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal, namely:-
I. GENERAL
1. Short title and commencement - (1)  These rules may be called the Central Administrative Tribunal (Destruction of
Records) Rules, 1990.
(2)
They shall come into force from the date of publication in the Gazette of India.
2. Definitions - In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Permanent preservation" means preservation for a period of 30 years.
(b)
"Supervising Officer" means an officer appointed by Chairman in the case of Principal Bench and by Vice-Chairman in
the case of other Benches.
3. Preparation of index and separation of parts. - After receipt of a judicial record in the record section a fresh index in
the form contained in Annexure I will be prepared. The papers will be numbered and entered in the index under the
appropriate part of which it belongs.  The part to which a particular paper belongs shall be determined with respect to
Annexure II enclosed to these rules.
4. Records when treated as having reached completion - (a) The judicial record in a case shall be treated as having
reached completion on the date of the final order of the Bench or in the event of an appeal to the Supreme Court on the
date of the final order of the Supreme Court as the case may be.
(b)
In the case of registers and other papers in the Judicial and Administrative branches the date of completion shall be the
date on which the registers were closed and in the case of files and other papers, the date on which the final order was
passed thereon.
5. Records when to be taken up for destruction - All records registers/files shall be retained in the record room from the
date of completion till the expiry of the period prescribed under these rules and on expiry of such period they shall be
destroyed without fail :
Provided that the Registrar of the Bench concerned or the Deputy Registrar authorized by him, may for reasons to be
recorded in writing order that any particular paper or the record of any particular case be preserved beyond such period:
Provided further that documents filed by any officer of Government or produced by such officer shall not be destroyed if
not previously re-claimed, but shall invariably be returned to the office from which they were produced.
6. Supervision of destruction - The destruction of judicial records, books and papers shall be carried out from time to
time as may be necessary, and subject to the general superintendence of the Deputy Registrar (Judl.) and the
supervised by such officer (hereinafter called the Supervising Officer), as may be appointed by the Chairman in the case
of Principal Bench and the Vice-Chairman in the case of other Benches.
7. (i) Manner of destruction of records - The destruction of judicial records, books and papers shall be effected in any of
the following manner:-
(a)
tearing so as to render it unlikely that the documents so torn may be used again;
(b)
tearing and burning it;
(c)
destroying with the help of a Paper Shredding  Machine.
(ii)
Sale of paper destroyed and credit of sale price - The paper after the Supervising Officer has certified that the
destruction has rendered such judicial records, books and papers of no value, unless the same is burnt shall be sold as
waste under the orders of the Registrar and proceeds of the sale shall be credited to the receipt Head 070 other
Administrative Service other receipts.
Page 55/79
----- PAGE 56 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
8. Notice before destruction of records - In January each year a notice specifying the documents filed by parties which
will be destroyed during the ensuring year will be displayed on the Notice Board.  A warning will be given that unless
previously reclaimed by the party entitled before the due dates of destruction, the destruction will ensure.  Return of
documents to parties will be made under the orders of the Deputy Registrar.
II JUDICIAL RECORDS
9. Division of records - Every judicial record of Original Applications, Transferred  Application, Review Applications and
Contempt Applications for the purpose of these rules shall consist of three parts, namely, Part I, Part II and Part III.
10. Period for retention of parts, I, II and III of the Judicial Record - Part I of the Judicial Record shall be preserved
permanently; Part II and Part III of a judicial Record shall be destroyed after the expiry of 5 years and 3 years
respectively.
11. Note of destruction to be made in register, etc. - Letter "D" with date indicating that a paper or record has been
destroyed on that date may be made in red ink in the index of the respective case bundle as well as in the relevant
column of the records register in which such paper or record is entered.
III. OTHER JUDICIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REGISTER AND PAPERS
12. Judicial registers, Administrative and accounts registers, statistical registers and the papers and files maintained for
administrative purposes are shown in Annexure Nos.III and IV respectively.  These registers/papers will be destroyed
after expiry of the periods mentioned in the said annexures.
13. Notwithstanding anything contained herein so long as an objection is outstanding and the accounts have not been
completely checked and accepted in audit, they and the supporting documents should not be destroyed even  though
the period preservation in the rules may have expired.
14. The period retention in the record room for any judicial record, judicial/administrative registers and papers not
specified in the annexures hereunder, shall be decided by the registrar/deputy Registrar with the approval  of the
Chairman in the case of Principal Bench and respective Vice-Chairman in the case of other Benches.
ANNEXURE I
FORM OF INDEX
LIST OF PAPERS IN NO........OF 20......
Serial Number of paper on record
Date of paper or Date of filing
Description of paper
Part I ? Part II Part III
........................
ANNEXURE II
ORIGINAL APPLICATIONS-TRANSFERRED APPLICATIONS-REVIEW
APPLICATIONS/CONTEMPT APPLICATIONS
Part I
1. Index Paper
2. All judgments and orders including order on order sheet in the main cases and miscellaneous applications arising
therefrom.
3. Judgment and orders received from Supreme Court.
Part II
1. All applications including miscellaneous applications/plaints/memorandum/appeals together with annexures and all
other documents, whether original or copies filed with them.
2. Counters/written statement and reply affidavits.
3. All other papers not already specified.
ANNEXURE III
REGISTERS MAINTAINED IN JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT
Sl.
No.
Description
Period of retention
1
Page 56/79
----- PAGE 57 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
2
3
1
Stamp Register (General) Permanent
2
Destruction Register
3
Register showing orders received from the Supreme Court
Permanent
4
Judges Daily disposal Register
5
Register showing the names of the Advocates Clerks  10 Years
6
Transferred Application Filing Register
7
Original Application Filing Register
8
Review Applications Filing Register
9
Contempt Application Filing Register
10
Miscellaneous Applications Filing Register
10 Years
11
Disposal of Transferred Applications Received Register
12
Disposal of Original Applications Register
13
Disposal of Review Applications Register
14
Disposal of Contempt Applications Register
15
Register for Return of Documents
16
Un-stamp Register 5 Years
17
Register of Cause List
5 Years
18
Register of Distribution of Decided Cases
19
Original Applications Numbering Registers (Tail Book)
20
Review Applications Numbering Register 3 Years
21
Contempt Applications Numbering Register
22
Miscellaneous  Applications Numbering Register
23
Register for sending counters and Memo of Appearances/Vakalathnama 3 Years
Page 57/79
----- PAGE 58 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
24
Transferred  Applications Notice Register
25
Original Applications Notice Register
26
Review  Applications Notice Register
27
Contempt  Applications Notice Register
28
Miscellaneous  Applications Notice Register
29
Register noting adjournment to Dy.Registrar's Court
3 Years
30
Transferred  Applications Posting Register
31
Original Applications Posting Register
32
Review  Applications Posting Register
33
Contempt  Applications Posting Register
34
Register showing reserved for judgment
35
Adjournment Register
36
Daily work Allotment Register (for drafting, typing and comparing)
37
Certified Documents Issuing Register
38
Cases transferring to other sections (Tail Book)
39
Issuing Register
40
Register of inspection
ANNEXURE IV
ADMINISTRATIVE REGISTERS/PAPERS
A List of Files maintained in accounts/cash section
Sl.
No.
Description
Period of retention
1
2
3
1.
Correspondence on Accounts
Permanent
2.
Correspondence on GPF Accounts
3.
Page 58/79
----- PAGE 59 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Last Pay Certificates issued by CAT in respect of transferred employees and last Pay Certificates received in  respect of
employees transferred to CAT.
Permanent
4.
Copies of Office Orders, Sanction Orders, Leave Sanction Orders, etc.
Permanent
5.
Important Orders of Government of India
Permanent
6.
Important Orders of Government of A.P.
Permanent
7.
Income Tax Recovery Statements
10 Years
8.
Copies of Increment  Certificates
6 Years
9.
Schedules of recoveries affected from salaries
5 Years
10.
Professional Tax Recovery Schedules
-do-
11.
Reconciliation of department expdr. figures and issue of  monthly statement of expenditure HO/PAO
-do-
12.
Receipt Scrolls received from RBI
-do-
13.
Monthly statement of receipts and payments received from Bank
-do-
14.
List of Payments and Monthly Account submitted to PAO, CAT, New Delhi
-do-
15.
Payment Scrolls received from RBI
-do-
16.
Paid Challans
-do-
17.
Counterfoils of used cheque books
-do-
18.
Bank reconciliation statement in respect of departmental receipts
4 Years
19.
Office copies of LTC bills
-do-
Page 59/79
----- PAGE 60 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
20.
Office copies of  Pay  bills
-do-
21.
Office copies of  Contingent  bills
-do-
22.
Office copies of Medical Reimbursement
3 Years
23.
Office copies of Reimbursement of Tuition Fees
3 Years
24.
Office copies of Cycle & GPF Advance Bills
-do-
25.
Office copies Bills sent to PAO for Pre-check
-do-
26.
Correspondence on L.O.C.
2 Years
27.
Office copies of  Pay Slips
-do-
28.
Office copies of TA bills
1 Year
29.
Post Check remarks of P.A.O.
Till the objections are finally cleared.
B. List of Files maintained in establishment stores section
Sl. No.
Description
Period of retention
1
2
3
1.
Appointment (Temporary, Ad hoc, Regular) cadre-wise, employee-wise, files
Permanent
2.
Recruitment rules, etc.
Permanent
3.
General Files/Stock Files
-do-
4.
Purchase of new building for office premises
-do-
5.
Telephone installation and upkeep
Page 60/79
----- PAGE 61 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
-do-
6.
Correspondence regarding Postal Bag/Box
-do-
7.
Correspondence on Telegraphic Address
-do-
8.
Delegation of Financial powers
-do-
9.
Reservation of posts for SC/ST candidates
10.
Correspondence of SIU Study Report
11.
CAT (Salaries & Allowances and Conditions of Services of Chairman Vice-Chairman and Members) Amendment
Rules, 1987
12.
All files relating to drafting/amendment of Rules
-do-
13.
Administrative Tribunals (Procedure) Rules, 1986
14.
Air Coolers, Air Conditioners and Water Coolers
Till the date the equipment is written of
15.
Xerox Machine
-do-
16.
Electronic Typewriter
-do-
17.
Pedestal Fans
-do-
18.
Water filters
-do-
19.
Motor Cycle Maintenance
-do-
20.
Motor Cars Maintenance
-do-
21.
Franking Machine
-do-
22.
Gestetner Machine
-do-
23.
Office accommodation, arrangements of payment of rent for office premises water and electricity charges and office
Page 61/79
----- PAGE 62 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
building
10 Years
24.
Electric installations, correspondence with CPWD
-do-
25.
Disciplinary and other administrative matters
5 Years after close of the enquiry
26.
Correspondence of Lifts , 5 Years
5 Years
27.
Pay Fixation Files of  all employees
-do-
28.
Vacation, Holidays, Circuit Sittings etc.
-do-
29.
Railway consignment  receipts and issue
-do-
30.
Telegram Credit Account File
-do-
31.
Annual Conference of Vice-Chairman
5 Years
32.
Advance increments to State Staff
-do-
33.
Budget files (at location of provision under various sub-heads)
3 Years
34.
Entertainment arrangements for visitors
3 Years
35.
Purchase of Rubber Stamps
-do-
36.
Purchase of Forms and Registers
-do-
37.
Stock and Distribution of Registers and Printed Forms
-do-
38.
Regulation of expenditure on furniture, forms, stationery and misc.
items
-do-
39.
Petrol Coupon Counterfoils
-do-
Page 62/79
----- PAGE 63 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
40.
Specimen Signature of DDO
-do-
41.
Reservation of Guest House etc.
-do-
42.
Reimbursement of Local Conveyance  Charges
2 Years
43.
Sanction of CL, Condoning of late attendance etc.
1 Year
44.
Personal Files
Two Years after retirement/death/resignation
45.
Sanction of Cycle, Festival Advance, O.T.A., L.T.C., M.C.A. G.P.F.
Advances, Part-Final Withdrawals etc.
3 Years after final recovery
46.
High Officials Railway Reservation (H.O.R.)
One Year after the debits are settled
47.
Internal Test Audit Notes,
3 years after the report of s settled
48.
Continuation of Staff on deputation, 3 years after completion of deputation
3 Years after completion of deputation
49.
Allotment of General Pool Accommodation of Staff Quarters,
3 Years
ANNEXURE VI
[See rule 154 (b)]
DEPARTMENT-WISE CLASSIFICATION OF CASES
(A)
ALL INDIA SERVICES
1. Indian Administrative Service
2. Indian Police Service
3. Indian Forest Service
4. Indian Foreign Service
(B)
OTHER SERVCES REGULATED BY CENTRAL GOVERNMENT SERVICE RULES
5. M/o Agriculture
6. M/o Chemicals & Fertilisers
7. M/o Civil Aviation and Tourism
8. M/o Civil Supplies, Consumer Affairs & Public Distribution
9. M/o Coal
10. M/o Commerce
11. M/o Communications
12. M/o Defence
13. M/o Environment and Forests
Page 63/79
----- PAGE 64 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
14. M/o External Affairs
15. M/o Finance
16. M/o Food
17. M/o Food Processing Industries
18. M/o Health and Family Welfare
19. M/o Home Affairs
20. M/o Human Resource Development
21. M/o Industry
22. M/o Information and Broadcasting
23. M/o Labour
24. M/o Law and Justice and Company Affairs
25. M/o Mines
26. M/o Non-Conventional Energy
27. M/o Parliamentary Affairs
28. M/o Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions
29. M/o Petroleum and Natural Gas
30. M/o Planning and Programme Implementation
31. M/o Power
32. M/o Railways
33. M/o Rural Development
34. M/o Science and Technology
35. M/o Steel
36. M/o Surface Transport
37. M/o Textiles
38. M/o Urban Development
39. M/o Water Resources
40. M/o Welfare
41. D/o Atomic Energy
42. D/o Electronics
43. D/o Ocean Development
44. D/o Space
45. Cabinet Secretariat
46. President's Secretariat
47. Prime Minister's Office
48. Planning Commission
49. Government of India Press
50. Staff Selection Commission
(C)
OTHER SERVICES COVERED BY CENTRAL CIVIL SERVICES RULES, C.& A.G., PUBLIC SECTOR, AUTONOMOUS
BODIES
51. Comptroller and Auditor General of India
52. Controller General of Accounts
53. Chief Election Commissioner
54. Planning Commission
55. Union Public Service Commission
56. U.T. of Andaman & Nicobar Island
57. U.T. of Chandigarh
58. U.T. of Dadra & Nagar Haveli
59. U.T. of Daman & Diu
60. U.T. of Delhi
61. U.T. of  Lakshadweep
Page 64/79
----- PAGE 65 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
62. U.T. of Pondicherry
63. Central Board of Trustees/Central Provident & Fund Commissioner
64. Employees' State Insurance Corporation
65. Central Board of Workers Education
66. National Labour Institute
67. National Council of Safety in Mines, Dhanbad
68. Council of Scientific and Industrial Research
69. Central Social Welfare Board
70. Indian Council of Agriculture Research
ANNEXURE VII
[See rule 154 (c)]
SUBJECT-WISE CLASSIFICATION OF
DIVISION BENCH CASES
1. Absorption in Public Sector/Autonomous Bodies/Other Departments
2. Adhoc appointments/Regularisation
3. All India Services
5. Civil Services Examination
6. Creation and Abolition of Post
7. Daily Wages/Casual/Regularisation
8.
Deputation/Repatriation
9. Disciplinary-Cases
(a)
Major Punishment - Dismissal/Removal/Compulsory Retirement/Reduction n Rank
(b)
Minor Punishment - Other Punishment
(c)
Suspension
10. Extra Departmental Staff
11. Leave Rules - Break in Services/Dies non
12. Lien
13. Medical Facilities
14. Probation
15. Recruitment & Appointment
16. Reservation for SC/ST/Ex-servicemen/Physically Handicapped
17. Reversion
18. Retirement under FR 56(J)
19. Scale of Pay
20. Selection/Promotion
21. Seniority/Confirmation
22.
Surplus Staff-Redeployment of
23. T.A.
24.
Temporary Service, Rules/Termination of Service
25. Training
26. Uniform and Washing Allowance
27. Voluntary, Resignation/Retirement
28. All Single-Bench Cases Classified under the Heads (A) to (M) in Appendix VIII
ANNEXURE VIII
[See rule 154 ]
Page 65/79
----- PAGE 66 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
SUBJECT-WISE CLASSIFICATION OF CASES
SINGLE BENCH CASES
(a)
Allotment or Eviction from Government Accommodation
(b)
Claims of Medical Reimbursement, Leave, Joining Time, L.T.C. and Over-Time
(c)
Compassionate Appointment/Appointment of Dependents (Dying in Harness)
(d)
Crossing of Efficiency Bar
(e)
Date of Birth
(f)
Entry in Character Rolls/Confidential Record/Service Record, made otherwise than as a measure of penalty under
Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965
(g)
Fixation of Pay
(h)
Grant of Passes to Railway Employees
(i)
Grant of Pension, Family Pension, other Retirement Benefits and Interest on Retirement Benefits
(j)
Grant or Refusal to Grant Advances/Loans
(k)
Grant, Refusal or Recovery of Allowances
(l)
Postings/Transfers
(m)
Stagnation Increment
ANNEXURE IX
[See rule 156]
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL __________BENCH
INSPECTION
I
FORMAT FOR INSPECTION  OF JUDICAL SECTIONS
Name of Department
Date of present Inspection
Date of last Inspection
Date of Inspection
Date of Inspections during the current financial year
Name and designation of the Inspection Officer
Name of S.O. and date from when he is in-charge
Date of submission of compliance report to Dy. Registrar(J)
Part I
STAFF STRENGTH
(Factual data to be furnished by Section Officer)
S.O.
Asstt.
UDC
LDC
Daftary
Page 66/79
----- PAGE 67 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Peon
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
1.
Staff Strength
Present staff strength with date they took charge  of the post.
(a)  Sanctioned
(b)  Actual
2.
The staff strength at the time of last inspection
(a)  Sanctioned
(b)  Actual
3.
Number of members of staff having working knowledge in Hindi
4.
Number of Staff working in Hindi.
5.
Distribution of work amongst various officers
6.
Number of cases received during the year
7.
Number of cases decided during the year
8.
Whether fire extinguisher has been installed  and is in proper working order. If not, action  taken in respect thereof.
9.
Whether the electrical fittings and wiring are  safe and satisfactory and in working order.
10.
Whether space for keeping records is sufficient.
If not, suggestions, if any.
11.
Whether the racks are sufficient, if not, requirement  considering the available space.
12.
How many exhaust fans have been installed, in the  section, are these in working order, if not, has it been  reported.
Part II
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1.
Whether all the files received in the previous quarter are properly maintained.
(Take ten files from different racks in all and  ally the documents with index and examine  he following points, namely)
Page 67/79
----- PAGE 68 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
(i) Whether the papers are properly classified  and tagged.
(ii)  Whether notices were sent in time.
(iii) Whether Peshies were prepared in time
(iv) Whether Ads for service attached in the files
(v)  Whether names of the Counsels tally with Vakalatnamas.
(vi) Whether all the particulars, are given in the  acing sheet of the file cover.
(vii) Whether the scrutiny sheet is properly submitted to the concerned officer at the time of registration.
(viii) Whether the order sheet is maintained properly.
(ix) Whether the amendments, if any, are incorporated.
(x)  Whether the classification of the case subject-wise  and department-wise is correctly done.)
2.
Whether all the file are properly kept year-wise in seriatim  and labels indicating the year affixed.
3.
Whether the court diary is maintained properly.
4.
If any file found lying on the floor or not kept at proper place, he reasons for it.  The date of receipt in the section should
be indicated with the name of the dealing hand.
5.
Whether the warning list is prepared and published as per the Rules.
6.
Whether the daily cause list is prepared and published as per he Rules.
7.
(a) Whether the interim orders/final orders/are communicated  in time.
(b) Whether copies of common orders are kept in connected files.
8.
Whether the certified copies are issued as per the Rules.
9.
(a)  Is there any delay in taking steps in complying with direction of the Supreme Court?
(b) Whether Records are transmitted to Supreme Court  in  time.
(c) Is there any failure in circulating the orders of the Supreme Court?
10.
(a) Whether indexing of disposed case files is done properly.
(b) Whether the files are sent to the Record Room  for consignment on the days fixed for each
Judicial Section.
If not, reason therefor.
(c) Whether the retention/destruction of records  re done as per Rules.
11.
Whether the following registers are maintained properly and periodical inspection done by the S.O.
(a) Inward Register.
(b) Register of OA/RA/CP(C)/MP
(c) Register of IPO/DD
(d) Ready list Register
(e) Stage Register
(f)  Posting Register
(g) Inspection Register
(h) Register of Registered Clerks.
(i)  Register of Copy application
(j)  Requisition of Register
(k) Despatch Register of free copies of order
(l)  SLP Register
(m) Destruction Register
Page 68/79
----- PAGE 69 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
II
FORMAT FOR INSPECTION OF LIBRARY
Part I
General
1. Name of S.O. (Library), date from which posted as such.
2. Name and designation of other staff members.
3. Accommodation, furniture, lighting, arrangement, fire fighting arrangement.
4. Date of last inspection, or of previous inspection made in the current financial year.
Part II
1. Whether the books are entered in the catalogue.
2. Whether the books are properly kept in the almirahs/racks in an orderly manner.
3. Examine some books to see whether pages of the books are properly sealed.
4. Whether the books are sealed, marked and numbered (Check some books and tally the number with the catalogue).
5. Has there been any loss of book from the Library in the current financial year. If so, has the loss been reported and
what action taken.
6. Check the register for temporary issue of books whether all the books so issued have been received back.  If not, the
details thereof.
7. Check the register for books issued permanently to court rooms, Chambers and Residential Office, etc.
8. Have the books issued permanently been checked and verified with the register.  If so, when? If not, why?
9. Are correction slips received in the Library regularly? If not, why? If no correction slip has been received, what steps
have been taken to procure them.
10. Have all corrections, amendments etc. been promptly incorporated in all the copies of Acts, Rules, Regulations, etc.
? If not, why?
11. Whether copies of necessary correction slips have been sent to all PS/CO and others.
12. Whether a guard file containing al the copies of Government Gazette/Notification issued for amendment/correction,
adoption, modification of Acts, Rules, Regulations etc. is maintained with index.
13. Whether all necessary books and enactments etc. required for permanent issuance has been issued.  If not, why?
Check the requisition slips.
14. Whether the law journals have been circulated to all members and received back.
15. Are there unbound books in the Library which require binding. If so, details thereof.
16. Are the binding of all the old books in perfect order or any of them require repairing/binding. If so, details thereof.
17. Are there any book/magazine or any other paper in the Library which require weeding, if so details thereof.
Part III
1. What is the budget for previous and current financial year.
2. Whether whole of previous budget has been properly utilized or any amount was surrendered.
3. Whether the bills for books/journals purchased/subscribed for the current financial year have been paid or subscribed.
If not, details thereof with reasons.
III
FORMAT FOR INSPECTION OF ADMINISTRATION SECTIONS
DIVISION A - CENTRAL ISSUE SECTION
1.
Name of Deptt.
Central Administrative Tribunal,............Bench
2.
Date of present inspection
3.
Date of last inspection
Part I
(Factual data to be furnished by Section Officer)
A-Staff Position
S.O.
Page 69/79
----- PAGE 70 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Asstt.
U.D.C
L.D.C.
Daftry
Peon
1
2
3
4
5
6
1.
Staff Strength
Present
(a)(a) Sanctioned
(b)(b) Actual
2.
At the time of last inspection
(a)Sanctioned
(b)Actual
3.
Deployment of Staff on
(a)Receipt and diarizing of dak for onward transmission
(b)Sorting and distribution of dak for onward transmission
(c)Despatch of DAK of different items
1.Dasti
2.Judgments
3.Order
4.(a) Notice
5.A/D Cards
6.Telegrams
7.Speed Post Letters
8.Administrative Dak & Misc. Dak
9.Regd. Post
10.Special Messenger
11.Counter delivery
12.Diplomatic bag
B-Grade of Work
4.
What is the average rate of dak received for onward transmission per day from various sections
(i)Hon'ble Chairman's Office
(ii)Hon'ble Vice Chairman's Office
(iii)Hon'ble Member's Office
(iv)Registrar's Office
(v)FA&CAO's Office
(vi)Judicial Sections
a.(a)Notice
b.(b) Dasti Dak
c.(c) Order
(vii)Administrative sections
(viii)Cash Section
Page 70/79
----- PAGE 71 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
(ix)Pay &  Account Office
(x)Any other .
a.(a) Telegram
b.(b) Speed Post
5.
Average rate of receipt and dispatch of dak per day  by various modes of dispatchviz.BF Receipt  Despatch  Balance
BF
Receipt
Despatch
Balance
(i)By Speed Post
(ii)By Regd.  Post
(iii)By Ordinary Post
(iv)By Special Messenger
(v)By Counter delivery
(vi)By Telegraphic Mode
(vii)By any other misc., mode
6.
If any balance is left over in total receipt &  despatch, what are the reasons therefore and  how many days are normally
taken in Despatch Section to dispatch a Communication
Signature of Section Officer
Part II ? INSPECTION OFFICER'S REPORT
Reservations on procedural requirements
Maintained
Corrected upto date
Available Hands
1
2
3
4
(1)
List of residential address and telephone  number of Officers and Staff of C.A.T., P.B.  and other Benches.
(2)
List of residential address and telephone number of Officers of other Organisation  e.g., Deptt.
of  P&T  Trg., Supreme Court, High Courts etc.
(3)
List of telegraphic address of various Benches of C.A.T. and High Courts and other outstations Deptts. with whom
correspondence is exchanged frequently.
(4)
Delhi Official Directory
(5)
Official Directory of CAT
(6)
Schedule of Postal Rates
(7)
Schedule of Speed Post rates
(8)
Dak Registers in PrescribedProforma
(a)Whether maintained properly
(b)Whether delay in distribution
(c)Whether neat and tidy
Page 71/79
----- PAGE 72 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
(d)Whether scrutinised by S.O. daily
(9)
Examine a sample of 50 more than one  month old entries and indicate the number  (if any) of -
(a)incomplete entries
(b)Delay in dispatching
(i)by 2 days
(ii)by 3 days
(iii)by 5 days
(iv)beyond one week
(10)
Despatch
Examine a sample of 50 communications Ready for dispatch and indicate number (if  any) where-
(i)Covers needlessly used.
(ii)Covers used were not of appropriate size.
(iii)Economy slips, although required, not used
(iv)Address written is incomplete or illegible
(v)Window envelope used but address is not visible from the window.
(vi)Unduly large number of stamps or some other denomination used.
(vii)Covers meant for dispatch under service postage stamps not franked with facsimile impression of the signature of
Officer-in-charge.
(viii)Covers marked for dispatch by Regd.
AD with AD Card not bearing reference No. of the Communication.
(ix)Reference No. of telegram ready for dispatch not indicated in the receipt portion of telegram.
(11)
Whether Despatch Register and Register  of daily abstract of  service postage stamps use are maintained in the
prescribed forms?
Are separate Despatch Register maintained for ?
(i)Speed Post
(ii)Regd.  A.D. Post
(iii)Ordinary Post
(iv)Despatch through Special Messenger
(v)Despatch by hand across the counter
(vi)Whether these Registers are maintained neat Tidy.
Whether value of stamps totaled.
(a)daily
(b)Correctly
(12)
Whether postal registration books used for registered post?
(13)
Stamp Account Register:
Whether stamp register is maintained in the prescribed form?
Totals from the despatch registers and postal registration book Posted.
(a)Daily
(b)Correctly
(c)Scrutinised by S.O. daily
(d)Inspected each month by Deputy Registrar
(e)Whether stocks available tallied with the balance shown on  the register?
(14)
Spl. Messenger(s) Books-
(a)What are the number of books is use?
(b)Whether number serially?
Page 72/79
----- PAGE 73 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
(c)What are the basis of allocation?
(d)Whether allocation is rational?
(e)Whether the time of receipt and dispatch of urgent communication is indicated?
(15)
Efficiency in dispatching communication at random, (examine a sample of 50 items of dak despatched  during the period
under inspection and indicate).
(a)time taken to despatch a regd.
Letter.
(b)time taken to despatch a speed post letter.
(c)time to taken to despatch an ordinary letter.
(d)time taken to despatch a telegram.
(e)time taken to dispatch a letter through Spl. Messenger.
(16)
General Remarks
(a)Adequacy of Staff Strength
(b)Adequacy of working condition including lighting, ventilation etc.
(17)
Summing up
Brief recapitulation of defects or short comings noticed.
(18)
Suggestions for improvements
(a)by the inspecting officer
(b)Recd. For S.O/Staff and comments  of Inspecting Officer thereon.
(19)
A general assessment of performance of the section including comparative appraisal with particular  reference to the
picture revealed during the last  inspection.
Signature of Inspecting Officer
Designation
Date........
DIVISION B - ADMINISTRATION SECTION
Name of Deptt.
Central Administrative Tribunal,.............Bench
Date of present inspection
Date of last inspection
Name and designation of the inspecting officer
Part I
Factual data to be furnished by Section Officer
S.O.
Asstt.
Caretaker
UDC
LDC
Daftry
Peon
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Page 73/79
----- PAGE 74 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
8
A.
Staff Strength
1.1. Present
(a)Sanctioned
(b)Actual
2.2. At the time of last inspection
(a)Sanctioned
(b)Actual
3.3. What is the No. of members of staff saving working knowledge in Hindi ?
4.4. What is the No. of Staff working in Hindi ?
B.
Typewriters
1.1. No. of Typewriters.
2.2. No. of Devnagari Typewriters
C.
State of work
During the preceding 12 months
During 12 months preceding last inspection
1.1. No. of receipts received
2.2. No. of files opened
3.3. (i) No. of flies due for recording
(ii) No.
of files recorded
(iii) No.
of files pending for recording
4.4. (i) No. of files due for review
(ii) No. of files reviewed
(iii)  No.
of files pending for review
(iv)  No. of files marked for further  retention after review and its  percentage to above
(ii).
5.5. What is the No. of cases pending
(i)pending over one month
(i)pending over three months
(ii)pending over six months
(iii)pending for more that one year
6.6. What is the No. of complaints with regard to maintenance both electrical and civil installation including maintenance
of building.
(i)Recd.
(ii)Transmitted to C.P.W.D.
(iii)Pending
(iv)Complaints attended to and defects Rectified by C.P.W.D.
(v)Complaints pending (indicate period of pendency and attended to itemwise)
7.7. What is the No. of complaints received and attended  to itemwise in respect of maintenance of office equipment etc.
Sl.
No.
Item details
No.
of complaints recd.
No.
Page 74/79
----- PAGE 75 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
of complaints attended to
No.
of complaints pending
Duration of pendency reasons for
1
2
3
4
5
(a)
Air Conditioner
(b)
Room Coolers
(c)
Water Coolers
(d)
Fans
(e)
Typewriter (Manual)
(f)
Typewriter
(electronic)
(g)
Word Processor
(h)
Computer P.C.
(i)
Photocopying Machine
(j)
Duplicating machine
(k)
Heater
(l)
Heat convector
(m)
Franking machine
(n)
Weighing machine
(o)
Telephones
(p)
Intercoms
(q)
Almirah
(r)
Furniture
(s)
General cleanliness
(t)
Any other not specified items
(u)
Page 75/79
----- PAGE 76 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
Relating to supply of stationery/stores
(v)
Constraints if any to carry out the day o day work and suggestion, if any, to improve the working efficiency.
Signature
Name and Designation
Part II ? INSPECTING OFFICER'S REPORT
1.
Are the following maintained ?
Neat and Tidy Upto date
Supervised by
S.O.
periodically
(1)Dead Stock Register
(2)Consumable Stock Register
(3)Distribution Register
(4)File & File Movement Register
(5)List of standard sub-heads
(6)Diary Register
(7)Astt. Diary
(8)List of subject allotted to different dealing hands.
(9)Guard Files
(10)Reference Folders
(11)Decision Diary/Precedent Book
(12)Reference Books
(13)Register for watching progress of recording of files
(14)Register for watching progress of weeding of files.
(15)Reminder diary
(16)CPWD Complaint Register
2.
Submission/processing of cases
(a)Inspecting Officer to take 10 current cases ready for submission to Deputy Registrar/Registrar or senior officer and
comment upon the following:-
(i)Whether files are neat and tidy and are in presentable  condition ?
(ii)Whether properly referred, docketed, flagged, tagged wherever necessary in addition to other routine requirements in
putting up papers like punching of papers, use of urgency grading etc.
(iii)Whether files are resubmitted promptly in reply to queries raised by senior officers.
(iv)Whether drafts put up on file are precise and concise and name designation and telephone number of the signatory
indicated.
(v)Whether files relating to processing of bills are submitted promptly and due care has been taken to ensure the
compliance of relevant rules before releasing the payments.
3.
Checks on delays
a.(a) Whether weekly arrear statement is prepared
b.(b) Whether monthly arrear statement is prepared.
c.(c) Whether Check List for incoming and outgoing  return is maintained and returns are sent well in time.
d.(d) Whether all incoming papers are diarised and if so, there has been any delay in diarizing the papers.
e.(e) Whether there has been any delay in typing out the fair letters.
4.
Opening and numbering of files-
(i)List of standard heads and subheads
(a)(a) Maintained ?
Page 76/79
----- PAGE 77 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
(b)(b) Reviewed annually ?
(ii)Files opened under appropriate heads?
(iii)Titles appropriate?
5.
Check list of incoming and outgoing periodical returns.
(a)(a) No. of periodical returns and what is the periodicity:-
Incoming Outgoing
(i)Weekly
(ii)Fortnightly
(iii)Monthly
(iv)Quarterly
(v)Half-yearly
(vi)Yearly
(b)(b) What is the No. of returns not received/sent on date?
(i)What is the number of returns recd./sent up to date?
(ii)Whether adequate steps have been taken to  obviate the recurrence of delays, if so, please describe and if not what
are the reason therefor?
(c)(c) Check list to attend letters received from Supreme Court High Courts, M.Ps etc and D.O. letters addressed to
Hon'ble Chairman/Hon'ble Vice-Chairman.
(i)Is S.O. keeping special watch?
(ii)If so, how and if not, why?
(iii)Is the method adopted adequate, if not, what are the suggestions?
(iv)What is the number of such letters not  acknowledged or interim reply given .
(a)(a) Within a week
(b)(b) Within a month
6.
Check of Staff Cars
(1)Do adequate arrangements exist to maintain and servicing of staff car/ If not what are the deficiencies?
(2)Do adequate arrangement exist for garaging vehicles Properly? If not, what are the deficiencies?
(3)Do adequate arrangement exist for refueling of vehicles? If not, what are the deficiencies?
(4)Do the log books of vehicles are maintained in prescribed proforma and entries are checked periodically by the
Controlling Officer.  I If not, what are the deficiencies?
(5)Whether the monthly return on consumption of petrol is  sent on time.
7.
Use of Hindi for Official purposes
(i)Examine a sample of 5 cases of Hindi speaking States e.g., UP, MP, HP, Bihar, Rajasthan, Haryana And Union
Territory of Delhi and report as to whether  n each case communication was sent in Hindi.
(ii)Take sample of 5 communications in Hindi received from member of public or employees to which replies  have been
sent and indicate whether letter s received in Hindi are replied in Hindi or not.
(iii)Of the 10 sample cases referred to above, indicate in  how many cases noting/drafting were done originally in Hindi.
(iv)Take example of 5 contracts/agreements executed and  indicate the number of those not simultaneously  executed in
Hindi.
(v)Take sample of 5 each of (i) forms (ii) Rubber stamps (ii) subjects on file cover and indicate whether these have been
prepared bilingually and if not, what action  as been taken to do the needful Summing up
Summing up
1.Brief recapitulation of defects or short comings noticed and  any other comments which inspecting officers may have
to  make.
2.A general assessment of the performance of the section  including a comparative appraisal with reference to the 
picture revealed during the previous inspections. (The defects mentioned in the last three or four inspections reports with
 particular reference to the recurring and continuing irregularities  which have not been rectified should be specially
stated.)
Page 77/79
----- PAGE 78 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
3.Suggestion for improvement
(a)made by inspecting officer
(b)received from the staff of the section together with  comments of the inspecting officer, thereon.
Signature of Inspecting Officer
Designation
Dated :...........................
IV
FORMAT FOR INSPECTION OF RECORD ROOM
1. Date present inspection
2. Date of last inspection
3. Dates of Inspection during the current financial year
4. Name & Designation of the Inspecting Officer
5. Name of the S.O. or I/C (RR) and date from when he is incharge.
6. Date of submission of compliance report to Dy. Registrar (J).
Part I
STAFF STRENGTH
Factual data to be furnished by Section Officer
1.
1.  Staff Strength
S.O.
Asstt.
U.D.C.
L.D.C.
Daftry
Peon
Present staff strength with date they took charge of the post.
(a)Sanctioned
(b)Actual
2. The staff strength at the time of last inspection
(a)Sanctioned
(b)Actual
3. Number of members of staff having working knowledge of Hindi
4. Number of Staff working in Hindi
5.  Distribution of work amongst various officers
6.  Whether fire extinguisher has been installed  and is in proper working order. If not, action  taken in respect thereof.
7.  Whether the electrical fittings and wiring are  safe and satisfactory and in working order.
8.  Whether space for keeping records is sufficient. If not, suggestions, if any.
9.  Whether the racks are sufficient, if not, requirement  considering the available space.
Part II
1. Whether all the files received in the previous uarter are properly tagged and stitched. (Take ten files from different
racks in all and  ally the documents with index and examine  n respect of other matters.)
2. How many defective files (Badar files) were found uring the quarter.
3. Whether all the file are properly kept year-wise in seriatim  nd labels indicating the year affixed.
4. If any file found lying on the floor or not kept at proper place,  he reasons for it.  The date of receipt in record room 
should be  ndicated with the name of the official.
5. Whether the files are received in the record room for consignment n the date/dates fixed for each judicial section. If
not, reason herefor.
6. Whether the records are received with lists and all such lists are roperly stitched.
Part III
1. Name and number of years for which complete weeding of files done.
2. Total number of files with their Institution number, checked and ready or weeding.
Page 78/79
----- PAGE 79 -----
The Central Administrative Tribunal Rules Of Practice, 1993
3. Total number of files and year of latest file weeded after checking.
4. Ten oldest files pending for weeding and reasons of delay.
5. Steps taken for the destruction of weeded-out files.
6. Whether registers for weeded out/destroyed files maintained upto date.
7. Whether parts of the files to be maintained after weeding out are kept n order and proper place or not.
Part IV
1. Whether files requisitioned for inspection are received back within three days. If not, reasons thereof.
2. Whether files requisitioned for issuing copy are received back within three days. If not, reasons thereof.
3. Registers for requisition properly maintained or not with date of requisitioned and ate of sending the files and date of
receiving back.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 79/79