
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase...
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher
Courses Of Study And Increase Of Admission Capacity In Medical
Colleges Regulation, 1993
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/65468325/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase Of Admission
Capacity In Medical Colleges Regulation, 1993
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase Of Admission
Capacity In Medical Colleges Regulation, 1993
Rule
THE-ESTABLISHMENT-OF-NEW-MEDICAL-COLLEGES-OPENING-OF-HIGHER-COURSES-OF-STUDY-AND-INCRE
ASE-OF-ADMISSION-CAPACITY-IN-MEDICAL-COLLEGES-REGULATION-1993 of 1993
Published on 20 September 1993
Commenced on 20 September 1993
[This is the version of this document from 20 September 1993.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase Of Admission
Capacity In Medical Colleges Regulation, 1993
Published vide Notification No. MCI-34(41)/93-Med.(N), dated 20.9.1993, published in the Gazette of India,
Page 1/14
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase...
Extraordinary, Part III, Section 4, dated 29.9.1993.
15.
/726
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10-A read with section 33 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (
102 of 1956
), the Medical Council of India with the previous approval of the Central Government hereby makes the following
regulations relating to establishment of new medical colleges, opening of higher courses of study and increase of
admission capacity of the medical colleges, namely:--
1.
Short title and commencement .-(1) These regulations may be called the Establishment of New Medical Colleges,
Opening of Higher Courses of Study and Increase of Admission Capacity in Medical Colleges Regulation, 1993.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Scheme relating to medical colleges .-The scheme referred to in clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (2) of section 10-A of
the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 is annexed hereto.
SCHEME
Application For Permission Of The Central Government To Establish A New Medical College
Instruction to the Applicant
Eligibility Criteria
The following organisations shall be eligible-to apply for permission to set up new medical colleges :
1. Universities and State Governments/Union Territories.
2. Autonomous bodies promoted by Central and State Governments.
3.
Societies registered under Societies Registration Act, 1860 or corresponding Acts in States.
4.
Public Trusts, religious or charitable trust registered under Indian Trust Act, 1882, Wakfs Act, etc.
Qualifying Criteria
The eligible organisations shall abide by Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 as modified from time to time and the
regulations framed thereunder and shall qualify to apply for permission to establish new medical colleges only if the
following conditions are fulfilled :-
1. that Medical Education is one of the main objectives of the applicant;
2. that suitable plot of land as prescribed by the Medical Council of India is owned and possessed by the applicant to
set-up the proposed medical college;
3. that Essentiality Certificate regarding the desirability and feasibility of having the proposed medical college at the
proposed location has been obtained and that the adequate clinical material is available as per Medical Council of India
requirements has been obtained by the applicant from the respective State Government or the Union Territory
Administration;
4. that Consent of Affiliation for the proposed medical college has been obtained by the applicant from a recognised
University;
5.
that the applicant owns and manages a hospital of not less than 300 beds with necessary infrastructural facilities and
capable of being developed into a teaching institution as prescribed by the Medical Council of India, in the vicinity of
proposed medical college;
6.
that the applicant has a feasible and time bound programme to set up the proposed medical college along with required
infrastructural facilities, including adequate hostel facilities for boys and girls, and as prescribed by the Medical Council
of India, commensurate with the proposed intake of students, so as to complete the medical college with a period of four
years from the date of grant or permission;
7.
that the medical college will admit students only after the Indian Medical Council has satisfied itself about the
Page 2/14
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase...
infrastructural and other facilities for starting M.B.B.S. and after receiving a written permission from Central Government;
8.
that the applicant has a feasible and time bound expansion programme to provide additional beds and infrastructural
facilities, as prescribed by the Medical Council of India, by way of upgradation of the existing hospital or establishment of
new hospital or both so as to collectively provide the following bed complement within a period of four years form the
date of grant of permission to set up the proposed medical college :
Proposed Annual intake of under-graduate students
Minimum Annual Increase in bed strength
Total bed complement at the end of 4 years
50
50
500
100
100
700
9.
that the applicant has the necessary managerial and financial capabilities to establish and maintain the proposed
medical college and its ancillary facilities including a teaching hospital; and
10.
that the applicant provides two performance bank guarantees in favour of the Medical Council of India, one for a sum of
Rs. 100 lakh (for 50 annual admissions), Rs. 150 lakhs (for 100 admissions), and Rs. 200 lakhs (for 150 annual
admissions), for the establishment of the medical college and its infrastructural facilities and the second for a sum of Rs.
350 lakhs (for 500 beds), Rs. 500 lakhs (for 700 beds) and Rs. 750 lakhs (for 1000 beds) for the establishment of the
teaching hospital and its infrastructural facilities, as per schedule.
Exception. - The above condition shall not apply to applicants who are State Governments provided that they shall give
an undertaking to provide funds in their Plan Budget regularly till facilities are fully provided as per the time bound
programme indicated by them.
Forms and Procedures
Subject to the fulfilment of the above Eligibility and Qualifying criteria, the application for setting up a new medical
college will be submitted by the applicant in the following three parts :-
Part I
Part I ? of the application (Appendix I) will contain the following particulars about the applicant and information regarding
the desirability and prima facie feasibility of setting up a medical college at the proposed location :
1. information regarding constitution of the applicant organisation within the terms of reference of the eligibility criteria;
2. information regarding basic infrastructural facilities and managerial and financial capabilities of the applicant; and
3. information regarding availability of necessary certificates and consents as prescribed in the qualifying criteria.
Part II
Part II ? of the application will contain detailed description of the scheme to set up the new medical college and will be
submitted in the form of a detailed Techno-Economic Feasibility Report about the proposed medical college complete
with the following :
1. name and address of the medical college;
2. market survey and environmental analysis, including national and regional medical education policy, need and
availability of trained medical manpower, gap analysis, desirability and prima facie feasibility of establishing a new
medical college at the proposed location;
3. site characteristics and availability of external linkage including topography, plot size, permissible floor space index,
ground coverage, building height, road access, availability of public transport, electric supply, water supply, sewage
connection, telephone lines, etc.;
4. educational programme including annual intake of students, admission criteria and method of admission,
reservation/preferential allocation of seats (if any), departmentwise and yearwise curriculum of studies;
5. functional programme including departmentwise, servicewise functional requirements and area distribution and
roomwise seating capacity;
Page 3/14
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase...
6. equipment programme including roomwise list of medical, scientific and allied equipment complete with schedule of
quantities and specifications;
7. manpower programme: including departmentwise requirements of teaching staff (full-time), technical, administrative
and ancillary staff, categorywise recruitment criteria and salary structure, etc. (minimum as per UGC scale);
8. building programme: including building wise built-up area of the medical college, faculty and staff housing, staff and
student hostels, administrative office, library, auditorium, animal house, mortuary, and other infrastructural facilities such
as cultural and recreational centre, sports complex, etc.;
9. planing and layout: including master plan of the medical college complex, layout plans, sections, elevations and
floorwise area calculations of the medical college and anciallary building, etc.;
10. phasing and scheduling: including monthwise schedule of activities indicating commencement and completion of
building design, local body approvals, civil construction, provision of engineering services and equipment, recruitment of
staff and phased commissioning commensurate with the proposed intake of students;
11.
project cost: including capital cost of land, buildings, plant and machinery, medical, scientific and allied equipment,
furniture and fixtures, and preliminary and pre-operative expenses;.
12.
means of financing the project cost: including contribution of the applicant, grants and donations, equity and terms loans,
and other sources, if any;
13.
revenue assumptions : including fee structure and estimated annual revenue from various sources;
14.
expenditure assumptions: including operating expenses and depreciation; and
15. operating results: including income statement, cash flow, statement and projected balance sheets.
Part III
Part III ? of the application will contain detailed description of the existing hospital and the proposed expansion scheme
to upgrade the existing hospital or to set up an additional hospital or both to coincide with the phased development of
the proposed medical college.
This part of the application will also be submitted in the form of a detailed Techno-Economic Feasibility Report about the
expansion programme and will include the following :
1. name and address of the existing hospital;
2. details about the existing hospital and its ancillary building, including bed strength, built-up area, clinical and
para-clinical disciplines, bed distribution, architectural and lay-out plans, list of medical and allied equipment, capacity
and configuration of engineering services, hospital services, administrative services and other ancillary and support
services, categorywise staff strength, etc.;
3. details about the additional land for expansion of the existing hospital or for setting up of new hospital, including land
particulars, distance from the proposed medical college, plot size, authorised land usage, geography, soil conditions,
road access, availability of public transport, electric supply, water supply, sewage connection, telephone lines, etc.;
4. upgraded medical progamme: including the additional clinical and para clinical discipline envisaged under the
expansion scheme;
5. upgraded functional programme: including specialitywise and servicewise functional requirements and area
distribution and specialitywise bed distribution;
6. building programme: including details about additional built-up area of the hospital, staff housing, staff and students
hostels and other ancillary buildings;
7. planning and layout: including upgraded master plan of the hospital complex or master plan of the proposed new
hospital as the case may be, along with layout plans, sections, elevations and floorwise area calculations of the hospital
and ancillary buildings;
8. details about upgradation or additional in the capacity and configuration of engineering services and hospital services;
9. equipment programme: including upgraded roomwise list of medical and allied equipment, schedule of quantities and
specifications;
10. upgraded manpower programme : including category wise distribution of medical, para-medical and other staff;
11. phasing and scheduling of the expansion scheme: including monthwise master schedule of activities indicating
Page 4/14
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase...
commencement and completicn of building design, local body approvals, civil construction, provision of engineering and
hospital services, provision of medical and allied equipment, recruitment of staff, etc., to commensurate with the
development of the proposed medical college;
12. project cost of the expansion scheme: including additional cost of land, buildings, engineering and hospital services,
medical and allied equipment, furniture and fixtures and preliminary and pre-operative expenses;
13. means of financing the cost of expansion scheme: including contribution of the applicant, grants and donations,
equity and term loans and other sources, if any;
14. revenue assumptions: including details of income from various procedures and services, upgraded service loads and
annual revenue;
15. expenditure assumptions: including operating expenses, financial expenses, and depreciation; and
16.
operating results: including income statements, cash flow statements and balance sheets.
Application Fee
The application shall be submitted by registered post only to the Secretary (Health) Ministry of Health and Family
Welfare, Government of Ind aulana Azad Road, Nirman Bhawan, New Delhi-110 011 along with a non-refundabl
[application fee of three lakhs and fifty thousand rupees] in the form of demand draft/pay order in favour of "Medical
Council of India" payable at Delhi. The fee is for registration, technical scrutiny, contingent expenditure and for three
inspections/evaluation of the examinations at the end of each professional examinations, i.e., at the end of 1st
professional examinations, Ilnd professional and IIIrd professional. Beyond three inspections, the normal inspection fee
prescribed by the Council will apply.
Registration
Applications found complete in all respects will be registered by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and forwarded
to the Medical Council of India for evaluation and recommendations. Registration of the applications will only signify the
acceptance of the application for evaluation. It will however, under no circumstances mean approval of the application
for grant of permission.
The period of one year prescribed under the Indian Medical Council (Amendment) Ordinance of 1993 for processing of
an application for setting up of a new medical college will commence from the date of registration of the application by
the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
Incomplete applications will not be registered and will be returned by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to the
applicant along with enclosures and processing fee.
Prescribed Period
In computing the time-limit specified above, the time taken by the authorities and institutions submitting the scheme in
furnishing any information/clarification or additional documents called for by the Council or by the Central Government
shall be excluded.
Evaluation by Medical Council of India
Medical Council of India will evaluate Part I of the application in the first instance to establish the desirability and prima
facie feasibility of setting up the medical college at the proposed location and the capability of the applicant to provide
the necessary sources and infrastructure for the scheme. While evaluating each part of the application, the Council may
seek further information/clarification or additional documents from the applicant as considered necessary or may carry
out physical inspection to verify the information.
Grant of Permission
The Central Government on the recommendation of the Medical Council of India, may issue a letter of intent to set up a
new college with such conditions by modification in the original proposal as may be considered necessary. The formal
permission will be granted after the above conditions and modifications are accepted and the performance bank
guarantees for the required sums are furnished by the applicant.
The formal permission will include a time bound programme for the establishment of the medical college and expansion
of the hospital facilities. This permission will also include a clear-cut definition of preliminary requirements to be met in
respect of buildings, infrastructural facilities, medical and allied equipment, faculty and staff, etc., before admitting the
1st batch of students. The permission will also define annual targets to be achieved by the applicant to commensurate
with the intake students during the following years.
The above permission to establish a new medical college and admit students will be granted initially for a period of one
Page 5/14
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase...
year and will be renewed on yearly basis subject to verification of the achievements of annual targets and revalidation of
the performance bank guarantees. This process of renewal of permission will continue till such time the establishment of
the medical college and expansion of the hospital facilities is completed and a formal recognition of the medical college
by the Medical Council of India is granted. Further admissions are liable to be stopped at any stage unless the
requirements for various steps of development are to the satisfaction of Medical Council of India.
N.B. - The Council may obtain any other information from the proposed medical college as it deems fit and necessary.
APPENDIX I
Format Of Application For Permission Of The Central Government To Establish A New Medical College
(Under section 10-A read with section 33 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956)
PARTICULARS OF THE APPLICANT
NAME OF THE APPLICANT
(IN BLOCK LETTERS)
ADDRESS
(IN? BLOCK LETTERS)
REGISTERED OFFICE
(No. STREET, CITY, PIN CODE, TELEPHONE, TELEX, TELEFAX)
CONSTITUTION
(STATE GOVERNMENT/UNION TERRITORY ADMINISTRATION/UNIVERSITY, AUTONOMOUS BODY, SOCIETY,
TRUST
REGISTRATION/INCORPORATION
(NUMBER AND DATE)
NAME OF AFFILIATING UNIVERSITY
List of Enclosures
1. Certified copy of Bye-laws/Memorandum and Articles of Association/Trust Deed, etc.
2. Certified copy of certificate of Registration/Incorporation.
3. Annual Reports and Audited Balance Sheets for the last 3 years.
4. Certified copy of the Title Deeds of the total available land as a proof of ownership.
5. Certified copy of the Zoning Plans of the available sites indicating the land use.
6. Proof of ownership of the existing Hospital.
7. Certified copy of the Essentiality Certificate issued by the respective State
Government/Union Territory Administration.
8. Certified copy of the Consent of Affiliation issued by a recognised University.
9. Authorisation Letter addressed to the Bankers of the Applicant authorising the Central Government/Medical Council of
India to make independent enquiries regarding the financial track record of the applicant.
Application For Permission Of The Central Government For Starting New Or Higher Courses (Including P.G.
Degree/diploma And Higher Specialities) In A Medical College/institution
Instruction to the Applicant
For starting higher courses in medical subjects (Annexure I) in the medical colleges/institutions, the applicant should be
a recognised medical college or institution. The applicant should conform to the guidelines laid down in the
recommendations on Graduate/Post-graduate Medical Education adopted by the Medical Council of India and modified
from time to time and approved by the Central Government. They should apply to the Central Government for this
permission along with the State Government's permission. University's affiliation and in conformity with the Medical
Council of India regulations along with the documentary evidence to show additional financial allocation, provision for
additional space, provision for additional equipment and other infrastructural facilities and provisions of recruitment of
additional staff as per Medical Council of India norms.
Submission of Application Scheme and Application Fee
The application (Appendix II) shall be submitted by registered post to the Secretary (Health), Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare, Government of India, Nirman Bhawan; Maulana Azad Road, New Delhi along with the information and
non-refundable application fee [two lakh rupees]
[Substituted by Notification No. MCI-34 (41)/93-Med. (N), dated 13-6-1997 (w.e.f. 24-6-1997).]
in the form of demand draft in favour of "Medical Council of India" and payable at Delhi. This fee is for registration,
Page 6/14
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase...
technical scrutiny and contingent charges and for carrying out physical inspection for the purpose.
Qualifying Criteria
The Organisation shall qualify for starting the new or higher courses in the existing medical colleges/institutions only if
the following conditions are fulfilled :
1. The Medical College/Institution is recognised by the Medical Council of India for running M.B.B.S./Post-graduate
courses.
2. The permission letter regarding desirability and feasibility for starting of new or higher courses as the existing medical
college/institution has been obtained by the applicant from the respective State Government or the Union Territory
administration.
3. Letter of University's permission for starting these courses at the existing medical college/institution has been
obtained by the applicant from the University to which it is affiliated.
4. That the applicant has a feasible and time bound programme to provide additional equipment and infrastructural
facilities like the number of staff, space, funds, equipment and teaching beds, etc., for starting these higher courses as
per Medical Council of India recommendations.
5. Selection as candidates for degree and diploma courses will be made strictly on the basis of academic merit. The
number of teaching staff in relation to the number of students will have to be in the ratio of 1:1 for P.G. degree, 1:2 for
P.G. diploma and 1:1 for higher specialities. In this regard Annexure II may be seen.
6. The application provides a bank guarantee for providing additional infrastructural facilities for each discipline as
follows:
P.G. degree
- Rs. 85 lakhs
P.G. diploma
- Rs. 64 lakhs
Higher Specialties
- Rs. 128 lakhs
Exception.-The above condition shall not apply to applicants who are State Governments provided that they shall give
an undertaking to provide funds in their Plan Budget regularly till facilities are fully provided as per the time bound
programme indicated by them.
Registration of Application
Incomplete applications will be returned by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to the applicant along with
enclosures and processing fee.
Applications found complete in all respects will be registered by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and forwarded
to the Medical Council of India within 30 days for evaluation and recommendations, Acceptance of the applications will
only signify the acceptance of the application for evaluation. It will, however, under no circumstances, mean approval of
the application for grant of permission. The period of one year prescribed under the Indian Medical Council
(Amendment) Act, 1933 for processing of an application for starting new or higher courses will commence from the date
of registration of the applications by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
Prescribed Period
In computing the time-limit specified above, the time taken by the authorities and institutions submitting the scheme in
furnishing any information/clarification or additional documents called for by the Council or by the Central Government
shall be excluded.
Evaluation by Medical Council of India
The Medical Council of India will evaluate the application to accept the desirability and prima facie feasibility for starting
new or higher courses at the existing medical college/institution and the capability of the applicant to provide the
necessary courses, and infrastructure for the scheme.
While evaluating the application, the Council may seek further information/clarification or additional documents from the
applicants as considered necessary and will carry out a physical inspection to verify the information.
Grant of Permission
The Central Government on the recommendations of the Medical Council of India, may issue a letter for intent for
starting new or higher courses in the existing medical colleges/institutions with such conditions or modifications in the
original proposal as may be considered necessary. The formal permission will be granted after the above conditions and
Page 7/14
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase...
modifications are accepted and the performance bank guarantees for the required sums are furnished by the applicant.
The Central Government on the recommendations of the Medical Council of India may issue the formal permission.
APPENDIX II
Format Of Application For Permission Of The Central Government For Starting New Or Higher Courses (Including P.G.
Degree/diploma And Higher Specialities) In A Medical College/institution Particulars Of The Applicant
Name OF THE APPLICANT
(IN BLOCK LETTERS)
ADDRESS
(IN BLOCK LETTERS)
REGISTERED OFFICE
(NO. STREET, CITY, PIN CODE, TELEPHONE, TELEX, TELEFAX)
CONSTITUTION
(UNIVERSITY/STATE GOVERNMENT/UNION TERRITORY ADMINISTRATION, AUTONOMOUS BODY,
SOCIETY/TRUST)
REGISTRATION/INCORPORATION
(NUMBER AND DATE)
NAME OF AFFILIATING UNIVERSITY
NO. OF SEATS APPROVED AND DATE OF RECOGNITION BY MEDICAL COUNCIL OF INDIA
List of Enclosures
1. Certified copy of the Essentiality Certificate issued by the respective State Government/Union Territory Administration
on the prescribed pro forma.
2. Certified copy of the Consent of Affiliation issued by a recognised University.
3. Authorisation letter addressed to the Bankers of the Applicant authorising the Central Government/Medical Council of
India to make independent enquiries regarding the financial track record of the applicant.
4. Certified copy of the letter from Medical Council of India approving recognition of the college/institution.
ANNEXURE I
List Of Higher Courses In Medical Subjects
The Specialities for which post-graduate courses may be conducted are divided into four groups.
Group A.-General Medicine and General Surgery.
Group B.-Specialities in which a Straight M.D/M.S. can be taken :-
1. Obstetrics and Gynaecology.
2. Orthopaedics.
3. E.N.T.
4. Paediatrics.
5. Opthalmology.
6. Social and Preventive Medicine.
7. Radio-diagnosis.
8. Radio-therap%v.
9. Anaesthesilogy.
10. Psychiatry.
11. Dermatology, Venereology and Leprosy.
12. Forensic Medicine.
13. Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases.
14. Hospital Administration.
15. Communicable Diseases-With emphasis on the major problems-Malaria, Leprosy and Water Borne Diseases along
with anyone of the remaining communicable diseases.
16. Social Medicine.
17.
Community Medicine.
18.
Family Medicine/General practice.
Page 8/14
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase...
19.
Nutrition and Dietetics.
20.
Medical Economics.
21.
Sports Medicine.
22.
Geriatrics.
23.
Medical Genetics.
24.
Accidental and Emergency Medicine.
25.
Nuclear Medicine.
26.
Aviation Medicine.
27.
Maternity and Child Health.
28.
Tropical Medicine.
29.
Experimental Medicine.
30.
Experimental Surgery.
31.
Dermatology.
32.
Sexually Transmitted Diseases.
33.
Leprosy.
34.
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation.
35.
Health Administration including Hospital Administration.
36.
Health Administration.
37.
Hospital Administration.
Group C.-Specialities in which a candidate shall have M.D./M.S. in any of the subject noted against each or
M.R.C.P./F.R.C.S. before taking up further specialisation or degree in the following :
Prior Requirement
1. Neuro Surgery.
M.S. (Surgery) or M.S.
(Orthopaedics)
2. Cardio-Thoracic Surgery.
M.S. (Surgery)
3. Plastic Surgery.
M.S. (Surgery)
M.S. (Orthopaedics)
M.S. (E.N.T.)
4. Genito-Urinary Surgery.
Page 9/14
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase...
M.S. (Surgery)
M.D. (Obst. & Gynae)
5. Paediatrics Surgery.
M.S. (Surgery)
M.S. (Orthopaedics)
6. Gastroenterology.
M.D. (Medicine)
M.D. (Paediatrics)
7. Endocrinology.
M.D. (Medicine)
M.D. (Paediatrics)
8. Neurology.
M.D. (Medicine)
M.D. (Paediatrics)
9. Cardiology.
M.D. (Medicine)
M.D. (Peadiatrics)
10. Clinical Haematology.
M.D. (Medicine)
M.D. (Pathology)
M.D. (Paediatrics)
11. Oncology
(Medical).
M.D. (Medicine)
M.D. (Peadiatrics)
M.D. (Radic-therapy)
12. Oncology
(Surgical).
M.S. (Surgery)
M.S. (E.N.T.)
M.S. (Orthopaedics)
M.D. (Radic-therapy)
M.D. (Obst.&Gynae)
13. Nephrology.
M.D. (Medicine)
M.D. (Peadiatrics)
14. Gastro-Enterology.
M.S. (Surgery)
15. Vascular Surgery.
M.S. (Surgery)
M.S. (Orthopaedics)
16. Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics.
M.D. (Medicine)
M.D. (Pharmacology)
17. Colo Rectal Surgery.
M.S. (Surgery)
18. Other subjects.
Group D.-Basic Sciences.
1. Anatomy.
2. Physiology.
3. Bio-chemistry.
Page 10/14
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase...
4. Pharmacology.
5. Microbiology.
6. Pathology.
7. Bio-physics.
Note.-Experiments in organising training in subjects under Category C be done with the prior approval of the Inspection
Council.
The following nomenclature should be uniformly adopted for all clinical and non-clinical subjects.
Nomenclature for P.G. Degree Course
(a)
M.D./M.S. in General Medicine/Surgery;
(b)
M.D./M.S. for specialities in which a straight postgraduate degree can be taken.
(c)
D.M./M.Ch. for specialities in which a candidate should have taken prior M.D./M.S., i.e., for specialities in Category C.
(d)
M.D./M.S. in basic Medical Sciences.
(e)
M.Sc. by examination for non-medical persons in Basic Medical Sciences.
Note.-Non-medical persons should not be admitted to postgraduate courses in Pathology.
(f)
Ph.D. by thesis for both medical and non-medical persons.
Nomenclature for P.G. Diplomas
1. Diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases (D.T.C.D.)
Note.-The training courses for diploma in Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases should cover both pulmonary and extra
pulmonary Tuberculosis as well as other chest diseases.
2. Dermatology, including Venereal Diseases and Leprosy (D.V.D.)
3. Anaesthesiology (D.A.)
4.
Oto-Rhino-Laryagology (D.L.O.)
5. Paediatrics (D.C.H.)
6. Opthalmology (D.O.)
7. Orthopaedics (D.Ortho.)
8. Clinical Pathology (D.C.P.)
9. Public Health (D.P.H.)
10. Psychiatry (D.P.M.)
11. Diploma in Industrial Hygiene (D.I.H.)
Diploma in Occupational Health (D.O.H.)
12. Tropical Medicine (D.T.M. & H.)
13. Diploma in Microbiology (D. Microbiology)
14. Obstetrics and Cynardology (D.C.O.)
15. Maternity and Child Welfare (D.M.C.W.)
16. Radiology Diagnosis (D.M.R.D.)
17. Radiology Therapy (D.M.R.T.)
18. Diploma in Biostatistics and Computer Medicine (D.B. & C.M.)
19. Diploma in Nuclear Medicine (D.N.M.)
20. Diploma in Health Education (D.H.E.)
21. Diploma in Aviation Medicine (Dip.Avi.Med.)
22. Diploma in Reproductive Biology and Family Planning (D.R.B. & F.P.)
23. Diploma in Physical Medicine (Dip.Phy.Med.)
24. Diploma in Nutrition (D.N.)
25. Diploma in Forensic Medicine (D.F.M.)
Page 11/14
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase...
26. Diploma in Hospital Administration (D.H.A.)
27. Diploma in Medical Virology (D.M.V.)
28. Diploma in Community Medicine (D.C.M.)
29. Diploma in Malarialogy (Dip. Malaria)
30. Diploma in Waterborne Diseases (D.W.D.)
31. Diploma in Medical Economics (D.M.E.)
32. Diploma in Immuno-hameatology and Blood Transfusion (D.I.H.B.T.)
33. Diploma in Sexually Transmitted Diseases (D.S.T.D.)
34. Diploma in Leprosy (D.Lep.)
35. Diploma in Dermatology (D.D.)
36. Diploma in Radiological Physics (D.R.P.)
37. Diploma in Medical Psychology (D.M.P.)
38.
Diploma in Immunology and Allergy (D.I.A)
39.
Diploma in Diabetology (Dip. Diabet.)
40.
Diploma in Sport Medicine (D.S.M.)
41.
Diploma in Epidemiology (D.Epid.)
42.
Diploma in Medical Entomology (D.Med.Ent.)
Teacher-Student Ratio
General
(1)
For M.D./M.S. degree in clinical subjects, there shall be proper training in basic medical sciences related to the
disciplines concerned as well as paper in these subjects at the examination, in the case of M.D. and M.S. in basic
medical sciences there should be training in applied aspect of the subject and paper on the subject.
(2)
In all post-graduate courses, whether clinical or basic medical sciences, preventive and social aspects should be
emphasised.
(3)
This should be a part of the examination in the degree courses as this gives training in research methodology.
(4)
The teacher-student ratio should be such that the number of post-graduate teachers to the number of post-graduate
students admitted per year be maintained at 1:1.
For the proper training of the post-graduate students, there should be a limit to the number of student admitted per year.
For this purpose every unit should consist of at least 3 full time. postgraduate teachers and can admit not more than 3
students for postgraduate training per year. If the number of post-graduate teachers in the unit is more than three then
the number of students can be increased proportionately. For this purpose one student should associate with one
post-graduate Teacher.
In addition to students admitted to M.D./M.S. course, a maximum of 6 students per year can be admitted to diploma
courses in such department where diploma courses are conducted. If the number of recognised postgraduate teachers
in any department of a medical college/institution in more than three, the number of students for admission to the
diploma courses may be increased at a ration of two students per additional recognised postgraduate teacher per year
subject to a maximum of 12 students admitted in the department per year for the diploma courses.
Application For Permission Of The Central Government To Increase The Admission Capacity In M.B.B.S/higher Courses
(Including Diploma/degree/higher Specialities) In The Existing Medical
Colleges/INSTITUTIONS
Instruction to the Applicant
For increasing the number of seats in the M.B.B.S./post-graduate DIPLOMA/HIGHER SPECIALITIES/DEGREE level,
Page 12/14
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase...
the medical college/institution should conform to the regulations prescribed by the Medical Council of India. They should
apply to the Central Government for this permission along with the State Government permission. University's affiliation
and in conformity with the Medical Council of India regulations, documentary evidence to show the additional financial
allocation, provision for additional equipment and other infrastructural facilities and provision for recruitment of additional
staff as per Medical Council of India norms.
Submission of Application/Scheme/Application Fee
The application (Appendix III) shall be submitted by registered post to the Secretary (Health), Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare, Government of India, Nirman Bhavan, Maulana Azad Rpod, New Delhi-110011 along with the
information and non-refundable application fee [two lakh rupees]
[Substituted by Notification No. MCI-34(41)/93. Med.(N), dated 13-6-1997 (w.e.f. 24-6-1997).]
in the form of demand draft in favour of "Medical Council of India" and payable at Deihi. This fee is for registration, fee
for technical scrutiny and contingent expenditure and for carrying out of physical inspection for the purpose.
Qualifying Criteria
The medical college/institution shall qualify to apply for increasing the number of admission in
M.B.B.S./DIPLOMA/DEGREE/HIGHER SPECIALITIES courses in the existing medical college/institutions only if the
following conditions are fulfilled :
1. The Medical College/Institution is recognised by the Medical Council of India for running these courses.
2. The permission letter regarding desirability and feasibility of having an increase of seats at the existing medical
college/institution for these courses has been obtained by the applicant from the respective State Government of the
Union Territory administration.
3. Letter of University's permission for increasing the seats at the existing medical college/institution has been obtained
by the applicant from the university to which it is affiliated.
4. That the applicant has a feasible and time bound programme to provide additional equipment and infrastructural
facilities like the number of staff, space, funds, equipment and teaching beds, etc., for the increased number as per
Medical Council of India recommendations.
5. That the number of teaching beds will have to be in the ratio of 7 beds per student admitted for more than 100
admissions. The number of units in the clinical departments have to be increased and additional senior staff provided.
The number of teaching staff will have to be in the ratio 1: 10 students for M.B.B.S., 1: 1 for P.G. degree, 1:2 for P.G.
diploma, 1: 1 for higher specialities.
6. That the maximum number of admission in M.B.B.S. course should not exceed 150 annually.
7. That the applicant provides a bank guarantee in favour of Medical Council of India for providing additional
infrastructural facilities as follows :
M.B.B.S.
-25 seats-50 lakhs
-50 seats-100 lakhs
P.G. Diploma
-per seat-3 lakhs
P.G. Degree
-per seat-5 lakhs
Higher specialties
-per seat-10 lakhs
Exception.-The above condition shall not apply to applicant who are from State Governments provided that they shall
give an undertaking to provide funds in their plan budget regularly till facilities are full provided as per the time bound
programme indicated by them.
Registration of Application
Incomplete applications will-be returned to the applicant by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
Applications found complete in all respect will be registered by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and forwarded
to Medical Council of India within 30 days for evaluation and recommendations. Acceptance of the application will only
signify the acceptance of application for evaluation. It will, however, under no circumstances mean approval of the
application for grant of permission.
Prescribed Period
Page 13/14
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Establishment Of New Medical Colleges, Opening Of Higher Courses Of Study And Increase...
In computing the time-limit specified above, the time taken by the authorities and institutions submitting the scheme in
furnishing any information/clarification or additional documents called for by the Councilor by the Central Government
shall be excluded.
Evaluation by Medical Council of India
The Medical Council of India will evaluate the application to accept the desirability and prima facie feasibility for
increasing the admission strength at the existing medical college/institution and the capability of the applicant provide
the necessary resources and infrastructure for the scheme.
While evaluating the application, the Council may seek further information/clarification or additional documents form the
applicant as considered necessary and will carry out a physical inspection to verify the information.
Grant permission
The Central Government on the recommendations of the Medical Council of India may issue a letter of intent to increase
the admission of the above said courses with such conditions.or modifications in the original proposal as may be
considered necessary. The formal permission will be granted after the above conditions and modifications are accepted
and the performance bank guarantees for the required sums are furnished by the applicant. The Central Government on
the recommendations of the Medical Council of India may issue the formal permission.
APPENDIX III
Format Application For Permission Of The Central Government To Increase The Admission Capacity In M.B. B.S/higher
Courses Of Study (Including Diploma/degree In Specialities) In The Existing Medical Colleges/institutions
Particulars OF THE APPLICANT
NAME OF THE APPLICANT
(IN BLOCK LETTERS)
ADDRESS
(IN BLOCK LETTERS)
REGISTERED OFFICE
(No. STREET, CITY, PIN CODE, TELEPHONE, TELEX, TELEFAX)
CONSTITUTION
(STATE GOVERNMENT/UNION TERRITORY ADMINISTRATION/UNIVERSITY/AUTONOMOUS BODY, SOCIETY,
TRUST)
REGISTRATION/INCORPORATION
(NUMBER AND DATE)
NAME OF AFFILIATING UNIVERSITY
No. OF SEATS APPROVED AND DATE
OF RECOGNITION BY MEDICAL COUNCIL OF INDIA
List of Enclosures:
1. Certified copy of the Essentiality Certificate issued by the respective State Government/Union Territory Administration
on the prescribed pro forma.
2. Certified copy of the Consent of Affiliation issued by a recognised University.
3. Authorisation letter addressed to the bankers of the Applicant authorising the Central Government/Medical Council of
India to make independent enquiries regarding the financial track record of the applicant.
4. Certified copy of the letter from Medical Council of India approving recognition of the college/institution.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 14/14