
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/173404633/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
Rule THE-CABLE-TELEVISION-NETWORKS-RULES-1994 of 1994
Published on 29 September 1994
Commenced on 29 September 1994
[This is the version of this document from 29 September 1994.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
Published vide G.S.R. 729(E), dated 29-9-1994, published in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt.II, Section 3, dated 29-9-1994
336.
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 22 of the Cable Television Networks (Regulation)
Ordinance, 1994 (9 of 1994), the Central Government makes the following rules, namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions .-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
Page 1/16
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
(a)
[ "Act" means the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 (
7 of 1995
);
(aa)
"Authority" means the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India established under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the
Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997 (
24 of 1997
);
(aaa)
"Broadcaster" means any person including an individual, group of persons, public or body corporate, firm or any
organisation or body who or which is providing programming services and includes his or her authorised distribution
agencies;]
(aaaa)
[]
[Renumbered (a) as (aaaa) by Notification No. G.S.R. 452(E) dated 31.7.2006 (w.e.f. 29.9.1994).]
"cable operator" means any person who provides cable service through a cable television network or otherwise controls
or is responsible for the management and operation of a cable television networks;
(b)
"cable service" means the transmission by cables of programmes including re-transmission by cables of any broadcast
television signals;
(c)
"cable television network" means any system consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and associated signals
generation, control and distribution equipment, designed to provide cable service for reception by multiple subscribers;
(d)
"company" means a company defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956;
(e)
"form" means from appended to these rules;
(ee)
[ "Multi-System Operator (MSO)" means a cable operator receives a programming service from a broadcaster or his
authorised agencies and re-transmits the same or transmits his own programming service for simultaneous reception
either by multiple subscribers directly or through one or more local cable operators (LCOs), and includes his authorised
distribution agencies by whatever name called;
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 452(E) dated 31.7.2006 (w.e.f. 29.9.1994).]
(eee)
"Notified area" means any area notified by the Central Government under section 4-A of the Act;]
(f)
"person" means-
(i)
an individual who is a citizen of India;
(ii)
an association of individuals or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, whose members are citizens of India;
(iii)
a company in which not less than fifty-one per cent. of the paid-up share capital is held by the citizens of India;
(g)
"programme" means any television broadcast and includes-
(i)
exhibition of films, features, dramas, advertisements and serials through video cassette recorders or video cassette
players;
(ii)
any audio or visual or audio-visual live performance or presentation; and the expression "programming service" shall be
Page 2/16
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
construed accordingly;
(h)
"registering authority" means the registering authority notified under clause (h) of section 2 of the Cable Television
Networks (Regulation) Ordinance, 1994 1 ;
(i)
"subscriber" means a person who receives the signal of cable television network at a place indicated by him to the cable
operator, without further transmitting it to any other person.
3.
Application for registration as a cable television network in India .-(1) Every application for registration as a cable
television network in India shall be made in writing in Form I and shall be renewable after every twelve months.
(2)
The application shall be addressed to the Registering Authority and delivered to his office in Form I.
(3)
(a)
Every application for registration or renewal of registration shall be accompanied by-
(i)
a fee of rupees five hundred only; and
(ii)
the requisite documents mentioned in Forms 1 and 2.
(b)
Every application for issue of duplicate certificate of registration shall be accompanied by-
(i)
a fee of rupees two hundred and fifty only; and
(ii)
the requisite documents mentioned in Form 1.
(4)
The amount of fee shall be deposited in the Head Post Office where the application for registration or renewal of
registration or issue of duplicate certificate of registration is being made.
(5)
The amount of the fees shall be deposited under the Head "Un-Classified Receipts (U.C.R.).
4.
Examination of Applications .-On receipt of an application under rule 3 the registering authority shall examine the
application having regard to the provisions of section 4 of the Ordinance.
5.
Registration .- (1) On being satisfied that the applicant fulfils the provisions of the Act, the registering authority shall
issue a registration certificate in Form 3:
Provided that where the registering authority is satisfied that the registration cannot be granted to the applicant, he shall
inform the applicant in Form 4.
(2)
On receipt of an application under clause (b) sub-rule (3) of rule 3 for issue of duplicate certificate the Registering
Authority shall examine the application having regard to the provisions of rule 3 and shall issue a duplicate Registration
Certificate in Form 3-A.
6.
Programme Code
.-(1) No programme should be carried in the cable service which-
(a)
offends against good taste or decency;
(b)
contains criticism of friendly countries;
(c)
contains attack on religions or communities or visuals or words contemptuous of religious groups or which promote
Page 3/16
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
communal attitudes;
(d)
contains anything obscene, defamatory, deliberate, false and suggestive innuendos and half truths;
(e)
is likely to encourage or incite violence or contains anything against maintenance of law and order or which promote
anti-national attitudes;
(f)
contains anything amounting to contempt of Court;
(g)
contains aspersions against the integrity of the President and Judiciary;
(h)
contains anything affecting the integrity of the Nation;
(i)
criticises, maligns or slanders any individual in person or certain groups, segments of social, public and moral life of the
country;
(j)
encourages superstition or blind itself;
(k)
denigrates women through the depiction in any manner of the figure of a woman, her form or body or any part thereof in
such a way as to have the effect of being indecent, or derogatory to women, or is likely to deprave, corrupt or injure the
public morality or morals;
(l)
denigrates children;
(m)
contains visual or words which reflect a slandering, ironical and snobbish attitude in the portrayal of certain ethnic,
linguistic and regional groups;
(n)
contravenes the provisions of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (
37 of 1952
); (o) is not suitable for unrestricted public exhibition:
Provided that no film or film song or film promo or film trailer or music video or music albums or their promos, whether
produced in India or abroad, shall be carried through cable service unless it has been certified by the Central Board of
Film Certification (CBFC) as suitable for unrestricted public exhibition in India.
(o)
[ is not suitable for unrestricted public exhibition
Explanation . - For the purpose of this clause, the expression "unrestricted public exhibition" shall have the same
meaning as assigned to it in the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (
37 of 1952
).]
(p)
[ contains live coverage of any anti-terrorist operation by security forces, wherein media coverage shall be restricted to
periodic briefing by an officer designated by the appropriate Government, till such operation concludes.
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 216(E), dated 21.3.2015 (w.e.f. 29.9.1994)]
Explanation. - For the purposes of this clause, it is clarified that "anti-terrorist operation" means such operation
undertaken to bring terrorists to justice, which includes all engagements involving justifiable use of force between
security forces and terrorists.]
(q)
[ depicts cruelty or violence towards animals in any form or promotes unscientific belief that
causes harm to animals:]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 804(E), dated 19.8.2016 (29.9.1994).]
(2)
Page 4/16
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
The cable operator should strive to carry programmes in his cable service which project women in a positive, leadership
role of sobriety, moral and character building qualities.
(3)
[ No cable operator shall carry or include in his cable service any programme in respect of which copyright subsists
under the]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 710(E), dated 8.9.2000 (w.e.f. 29.9.1994)]
[Copyright Act, 1957 (
14 of 1957
)]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 26(E), dated 18.1.2001 (w.e.f. 29.9.1994)]
[unless he has been granted a licence by owners of copyright under that Act in respect of such programme.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 710(E), dated 8.9.2000 (w.e.f. 29.9.1994)]
(4)
Care should be taken to ensure that programmes meant for children do not contain any bad language or explicit scenes
of violence.
(5)
Programmes unsuitable for children must not be carried in the cable service at times when the largest numbers of
children are viewing.
(6)
[ No cable operator shall carry or include in his cable service any television broadcast or channel, which has not been
registered by the Central Government for being viewed within the territory of India:
[Provided that a cable operator may continue to carry or include in his cable service any television broadcast or channel,
whose application for registration to the Central Government was made on or before 11th May, 2006 and is under
consideration, for a period upto 15th June, 2009 or till such registration has been granted or refused, whichever is
earlier:]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 282(E), dated 11.5.2006 (w.e.f. 29.9.1994).]
Provided further that channels unlinking from India, in accordance with permission for uplinking granted before 2nd
December, 2005, shall be treated as "registered" television channels and can be carried or included in the cable
service.]
[* * *]
7.
Advertising Code .-(1) Advertising carried in the cable service shall be so designed as to conform to the laws of the
country and should not offend morality, decency and religious susceptibilities of the subscribers.
(2)
No advertisement shall be permitted which-
(i)
derides any race, caste, colour, creed and nationality;
(ii)
is against any provision of the Constitution of India;
(iii)
tends to incite people to crime, cause disorder or violence or breach of law or glorifies violence or obscenity in any way;
(iv)
presents criminality as desirable;
(v)
exploits the national emblem, or any part of the Constitution or the person or personality of a national leader or a State
dignitary;
(vi)
in its depiction of women violates the Constitutional guarantees to all citizens. In particular, no advertisement shall be
permitted which projects a derogatory image of women. Women must not be portrayed in a manner that emphasises
passive, submissive qualities and encourages them to play a subordinate, secondary role in the family and society. The
cable operator shall ensure that the portrayal of the female form, in the programmes carried in his cable service is
Page 5/16
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
tasteful and aesthetic, and is within the well established norms of good taste and decency;
(vii)
exploits social evils like dowry, child marriage;
(viii)
[ promotes directly or indirectly production, sale or consumption of- ]
(A)
[ cigarettes, tobacco products wine, alcohol, liquor or other intoxicants.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 104(E), dated 25.02.2008 (w.e.f. 29-9-1994)]
[Provided that a product that uses a brand name or logo, which is also used for cigarettes, tobacco products, wine,
alcohol, liquor or other intoxicants, may be advertised on cable service subject to the following conditions that-
(i)
the story board or visual of the advertisement must depict only the product being advertised and not the prohibited
products in any form or manner;
(ii)
the advertisement must not make any direct or indirect reference to the prohibited products;
(iii)
the advertisement must not contain any nuances or phrases promoting prohibited products;
(iv)
the advertisement must not use particular colours and layout or presentations associated with prohibited products;
(v)
the advertisement must not use situations typical for promotion of prohibited products when advertising the other
products:
Provided further that-
(i)
the advertiser shall submit an application with a copy of the proposed advertisement alongwith a certificate by a
registered Chartered Accountant that the product carrying the same name as cigarettes, tobacco products, wine,
alcohol, liquor or other intoxicants is distributed in reasonable quantity and is available in a substantial number of outlets
where other products of the same category are available and the proposed expenditure on such advertising thereon
shall not be disproportionate to the actual sales turnover of the product;
(ii)
all such advertisements found to be genuine brand extensions by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting shall be
previewed and certified by the Central Board of Film Certification as suitable for unrestricted public exhibition and are in
accordance with the provisions contained in sub-clause (i) to (v) of the first proviso, prior to their telecast or transmission
or retransmission;]
(B)
[ infant milk substitutes, feeding bottle or infant foods.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 710(E), dated 8.9.2000 (w.e.f. 29.9.1994)]
(ix)
[ depicts cruelty or violence towards animals in any form or promotes unscientific belief that causes harm to animal.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 804(E), dated 19.8.2016 (29.9.1994).]
(3)
No advertisement shall be permitted the objects whereof are wholly or mainly of a religious or political nature;
advertisements must not be directed towards any religious or political end.
[(3-A) No advertisement shall contain references which hurt religious sentiments.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 710(E), dated 8.9.2000 (w.e.f. 29.9.1994)]
(4)
The goods or services advertised shall not suffer from any defect or deficiency as mentioned in Consumer Protection
Act, 1986.
(5)
No advertisement shall contain references which are likely to lead the public to infer that the product advertised or any of
its ingredients has some special or miraculous or super-natural property or quality, which is difficult of being proved.
Page 6/16
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
(6)
The picture and the audible matter of the advertisement shall not be excessively "loud" .
(7)
No advertisement which endangers the safety of children or creates in them any interest in unhealthy practices or shows
them begging or in an undignified or indecent manner shall not be carried in the cable service.
(8)
Indecent, vulgar, suggestive, repulsive or offensive themes or treatment shall be avoided in all advertisements.
(9)
No advertisement which violates the Code for self-regulation in advertising, as adopted by the Advertising Standard
Council of India (ASCI), Mumbai for public exhibition in India, for time to time, shall be carried in the cable service.
(10)
All advertisements should be clearly distinguishable from the programme and should not in any manner interfere with
the programme, viz. , use of lower part of screen to carry captions, static or moving alongside the programme.
(11)
[ No programme shall carry advertisements exceeding twelve minutes per hour, which may include up to ten minutes per
hour of commercial advertisements, and up to two minutes per hour of a channel's self-promotional programmes.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 452(E) dated 31.7.2006 (w.e.f. 29.9.1994).]
8.
Register .-Each cable operator shall maintain a register in Form 5 for each month of the year for which the registration is
granted.
9.
[ Standard interconnection agreements, tariffs and quality of service standards for the service providers in the areas
notified under section 4-A of the Act
.-The Authority may, on issue of any notification under section 4-A of the Act by the Central Government, take
appropriate decisions on the following aspects and duly notify the-
(a)
standard interconnection agreement to be used for entering into commercial agreements for distribution in the notified
areas, of pay or free-to-air channels among (i) broadcasters and multi-system operators; and (ii) multi-system operators
and local cable operators;
(b)
the maximum limits of security deposit and monthly rental for supply, maintenance and servicing of set top boxes of
prescribed specifications to the subscribers on rental basis by multi-system operators in the notified areas;
(c)
tariff for the basic service tier alongwith the minimum number of free-to-air channels to be provided by the multi-system
operators or local cable operators to the subscribers in the notified areas;
(d)
regulations for quality of service to be provided by the multi-system operators or local cable operators to the subscribers
in the notified areas.]
10.
[ Nature and prices of channels .-(1) Every broadcaster shall declare the nature of each of its channels as "pay" or
"free-to-air" channel as well as the maximum retail price of each of its "pay" channels to be charged by the multi-system
operators or local cable operators from the subscribers in each of the notified areas.
(2)
Every broadcaster shall file his declaration of the nature and prices of channels under sub-rule (1) before the authority
and the Central Government within fifteen days of the date of notification by the Central Government under section 4-A
of the Act.
(3)
If in the opinion of the Authority, the price declared by the broadcaster in respect of any of its pay channels is too high,
the Authority may, under section 11 of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997 (
24 of 1997
), fix and declare the maximum retail price of such a pay channel or fix a general maximum retail price for all pay
Page 7/16
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
channels within which the broadcasters may declare their individual prices for each pay channel, to be paid by the
subscribers in any of the notified areas, and such an order of the Authority shall be binding on the broadcasters and the
multi-system operators and local cable operators.
(4)
Every broadcaster shall enter into interconnection agreements with multi-system operators in the notified areas as per
the standard interconnection agreement, or with any mutually agreed modifications on a non-discriminatory basis, as per
the regulations or directions or orders of the Authority.
(5)
If a broadcaster fails to declare the price of any of its pay channels within the prescribed time limit under sub-rule (2) or
refuses or fails to comply with the direction under sub-rule (3) or refuses or fails to enter into an interconnect agreement
with a multi-system operator permitted by the Central Government under sub-rule (3) of rule 11 within the time limit as
prescribed by the Authority, then the Authority may, so as to protect the interests of the subscribers, take interim
measures to ensure supply of signals.
(6)
In the event of non-compliance by the broadcaster of the directions issued by the Authority under sub-rule (5), the
Central Government may, on the recommendations of the Authority, suspend the permission granted to the broadcaster
under uplinking to downlinking guidelines as the case may be, to broadcast the channel in the country or any part
thereof.
(7)
Every declaration filed by the broadcaster under sub-rule (1) or maximum retail price fixed by the Authority under
sub-rule (3) shall normally remain valid for a period of one year from the date of such declaration or fixation, as the case
may be, subject to the condition that every broadcaster will be free to revise the price of any channel or convert a pay
channel to free-to-air channel or a free-to-air channel to a pay channel by giving one month 's notice to the multi-system
operator and subscribers:
Provided that no increase in price beyond the individual limit, if any, specified by the Authority, shall be valid without
prior approval of the Authority:
Provided further that no such price increase shall be valid beyond the general maximum retail price for all channels fixed
by the Authority. ]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 138 (E) dated 27.2.2009 (w.e.f. 29.9.1994)]
11.
[ Grant of permission to multi-system operators to provide cable services with addressable systems in the notified areas
.-(1) No multi-system operator shall provide cable television network services with addressable systems in any one or
more notified areas without a valid permission from the Central Government under sub-rule (3) of rule 11.
(2)
Every multi-system operator who desires to provide cable television network services with addressable systems in any
of the notified areas, shall, within thirty days of the issue of the notifications under section 4-A of the Act by the Central
Government, apply for permission to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in Form 6 annexed to these rules,
alongwith processing fee of rupees ten thousand.
(3)
The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in the Government of India shall, within thirty days of the receipt of the
application, grant, or refuse, permission to the applicant to provide addressable systems in the notified areas after
considering its suitability or otherwise on the basis of information given in respect of its existing operational area, actual
number of subscribers and addresses of its local cable operators in each of the notified areas, commercial
arrangements with the broadcasters and local cable operators, if any, financial strength, management capability,
security clearance and preparedness to supply and maintain adequate number of set top boxes for its subscribers,
installation of its subscriber management system and compliance with all other quality of service standards as may be
specified by the Authority.
(4)
The Central Government may lay down such terms and conditions of permission under sub-rule (3) as may be deemed
necessary and desirable to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Act and the regulations, directions and orders
made by the Authority.
Page 8/16
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
(5)
No multi-system operator shall continue to provide any cable television network services in the notified areas after the
date notified therein, without obtaining prior permission from the Central Government.
(6)
In the event of a multi-system operator who fails or refuses to enter into an interconnection agreement with a
broadcaster of a pay channel or an adequate number of local cable operators in the notified areas or who violate the
terms and conditions of the permission granted to it under sub-rule (3), within the time limit as prescribed by the
Authority, the Authority may, so as to protect the interests of the subscribers, take interim measures to ensure supply of
signals.
(7)
In the event of violation by a multi-system operator of one or more of the terms and conditions of the permission granted
under sub-rule (3), the Central Government may suspend or revoke such permission for such period and for such
notified areas as it deems fit:
Provided that no such order of suspension or revocation shall be made without giving a reasonable opportunity to the
multi-system operator to explain its position.]
12.
[ Public awareness campaign about Conditional Access System scheme .-(1) Every multi-system operator granted
permission under sub-rule (3) of rule 11 shall create public awareness among the subscribers in the notified areas for a
period of thirty days from the to be specified by the Authority, either through advertisements in the print and electronic
media or through other means (e.g. , leaflets, printing on the reverse of the receipts, personal visits, group meetings with
subscribers or consumer groups, etc.) the salient features of the Conditional Access System scheme as approved by the
Authority for implementation, by the multi-system operator, in the notified areas, and in particular the following:-
(a)
A-la-carte subscription rates and the periodic intervals at which such subscriptions are payable for receiving the various
pay channels;
(b)
the refundable security deposit and the daily or monthly rental payable for the set-top box and its detailed specifications
such as make, model, technical specifications, user manuals and maintenance centers, etc.;
(c)
the number and names of free-to-air channels that the multi-system operator will provide to the subscribers and specific
placement of each channel in the prime or non-prime bands;
(d)
the prescribed monthly service charge to be paid by each subscriber for receiving the basic service tier fixed by the
Authority and the number of additional free-to-air channels, if any, offered by the multi-system operator;
(e)
the Quality of Service Standards specified by the Authority and the arrangements made by the multi-system pperator to
comply with these standards;
(f)
the Subscriber Management System established by the multi-system operator to demonstrate the functioning of the Set
Top Boxes and interact with the subscribers to explain the various financial, logistic and technical aspects of the system
for its smooth implementation;
(g)
the subsisting arrangements for resolution of disputes between the multi-system operator and local cable operators and
the subscribers in respect of the quality of service standards, payments and refunds, etc.
(2)
The Authority may also arrange public awareness activities in the notified areas either directly or through authorised
officers or consumer organisations, etc. ]
13.
[ Supply and installation of Set Top Boxes .-(1) Every subscriber in the notified areas who desires to receive one or more
pay channels shall, during the public awareness campaign under rule 12 or within fifteen days after its expiry, apply to
any one of the multi-system operators granted permission under sub-rule (3) of rule 11 either directly or through any of
Page 9/16
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
his linked local cable operators, to supply and install one or more set top boxes in his premises as per the scheme
approved by the Authority and deliver the requisite channels through the same:
Provided that every subscriber shall be free to buy a Set Top Box of approved quality from the open market, if available
and technically compatible with the multi-system operator 's system, and no multi-system operator or cable operator
shall force any subscriber to buy or to take on rent the set top box from him only.
(2)
Every subscriber in the notified areas who desires to receive one or more pay channels, and who failed to apply within
the period prescribed under sub-rule (1) may at any time either buy a set top box of approved quality from the open
market, if available and technically compatible with the multi-system operator 's system, or apply to any one of the
multi-system operators granted permission under sub-rule (3) of rule 11 either directly or through any of his linked local
cable operators, to supply and install one or more set top boxes in his premises as per the scheme approved by the
Authority and deliver the requisite channels through the same or through the set top box of approved quality acquired by
the applicant on his own, as the case may be.
(3)
Every multi-system operator shall procure, supply and install the required number of set top boxes of approved quality in
the premises of every applicant under sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) within a period as may be determined by regulation or
order by the Authority from the date of receipt of such application, and transmit the requisite pay channels through the
same or through the set top box of approved quality acquired by the applicant on his own, as the case may be.
(4)
Every multi-system operator shall set up and operationalise its subscriber management system within a time frame as
may be determined by regulation or order by the Authority, for ensuring efficient and error-free service to the subscribers
by recording and providing individualised preferences for pay channels, billing cycles, refunds, etc.
(5)
In the event of the failure of any multi-system operator to supply and install a set top box each in the premises of one or
more applicants under sub-rule (1) or to operationalise subscriber management system within the time limit as
determined by regulation or order by the Authority, then the Authority may, so as to protect the interests of the
subscribers, take interim measures to ensure supply of signals. ]
[14. Dispute Resolution Mechanism .- Every multi-system operator shall be obliged to maintain the quality of service as
per the standards, including the arrangements for handling complaints and redressal of grievances of the subscribers,
as may be determined by regulation or order by the Authority. The Authority may look into the efficacy of such
arrangements and issue necessary directions to the concerned parties for compliance. ]
15.
[ Transition to addressable systems .-(1) Immediately on operationalisation of the subscriber management system and
the installation of the set top boxes under rule 13, every multi-system operator shall start transmitting the pay channels
in encrypted as well as unencrypted form for a period of not less than fifteen days to test out the quality of service,
remove any technical or operational snags and enable the subscribers to become familiar with the operation of
addressable systems at their end.
(2)
Before the start of the transition period under sub-rule (1), the Authority may call for progress or compliance reports from
the service providers in the Forms appended to these rules, and at intervals, as may be specified by it to satisfy itself
that all the multi-system operators permitted under sub-rule (3) of rule 11 have completed all the necessary
arrangements to switch over to transmission of pay channels through addressable systems in the whole of the notified
area by the date notified by the Central Government under section 4-A of the Act.
(3)
In the event of satisfactory completion of all arrangements, every multi-system operator in the notified area shall start
transmitting pay channels only through addressable systems from the date notified by the Central Government under
section 4-A of the Act.
(4)
In the event of the Authority coming to a conclusion that the arrangements made by the multi-system operators are not
adequate and the switch over to transmission of pay channels through addressable systems is likely to be against the
interests of a substantial portion of the subscribers in any notified area, the Authority may recommend to the Central
Page 10/16
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
Government an extension of the notified date by such period as in its opinion is the minimum required for the
satisfactory completion of the necessary arrangements by the multi-system operators.
(5)
On receipt of a recommendation from the Authority under sub-rule (4), and before the expiry of the notified date, the
Central Government may, if it is satisfied that it is not in public interest to switch over to addressable systems on the
notified date and that circumstances so warrant to extend the notified date to protect the interests of a substantial portion
of subscribers in the notified area, issue another notification indicating the revised date under section 4-A of the Act:
Provided that the power to issue notification in respect of the areas already notified by the Government of India in the
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting under section 4-A of the Act vide number S.O. 792(E), dated 10th July, 2003
shall be subject to the orders and final outcome of the LPA No. 985/2006 & CMs 6660/2006 and 6658/2006 pending in
the High Court of Delhi.
(6)
Every multi-system operator shall complete the remaining arrangements within such extended period and start
transmitting the pay channels only through addressable systems from such revised date as notified under sub-rule (5).]
[FORM 1
[See rule 3(1)]
(To be submitted in duplicate)
Form of application for *registration/renewal of registration/issue of duplicate certificate of registration as a cable
operator.
To
The Head Postmaster
Head Post Office
.....................................
Application for *registration/renewal of registration/ issue of duplicate certificate of registration as a cable operator.
1. (a) Name of Applicant (individual/firm/company/association of persons/body of individuals)*
(b)
Age/Date of establishment/ Date of incorporation.
2. (a) Address (Office)
(b)
Telephone number (if any).
3. (a) Nationality (for individual applicants/body of individuals)
(b)
By birth/ domicile
4. (a) Amount of fee paid for *registration/ renewal/ issue of duplicate certificate Rs........
(b)
Name of Head Post Office ...............................
(Attach copy of challan vide which the fees have been deposited)
5. Area in which cable television network is working/ proposed to be set up.
6. Date from which the cable television network is operating /proposed to be set up
7. Number of channels being provided /proposed to be provided (with names).
8. (a) Whether using Television Receive Only (TVRO)
(b)
If Yes, number and size of TVRO ..........................
(c)
Location .................. ......................................'.........
9. Names of Doordarshan satellite channels included in cable service...........
10. Copy of earlier registration certificate enclosed. Yes/No (To be filled in only for renewal of registration).
11. (a) State reasons for issue of duplicate certificate of registration ................
(Attach mutilated or defaced original certificate of registration /copy of report made to the police in case of theft or loss of
the original certificate)
(b)
Page 11/16
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
Period validity of the original Registration Certificate for which the duplicate Registration Certificate is being
sought...........................(To be filled in only for issue of duplicate Registration Certificate)
12. Declaration if Form 2 enclosed. Yes/No
I/We.........the applicant(s) *(individual/firm/company/association of persons/body of individuals) do hereby declare that
the above facts are correct in all respects.
............................
Signature of Applicant
*(individual/firm /company/association of persons/body of individuals)
Name ...................................
Place ..............................
Address...............................
Date ...............................
*Score out the word or words which are not applicable.]
FORM 2
[See rule 3(1-3)]
I / We .........................the applicant(s) (individual/ firm /company/association of persons/ body of individuals)* for
registration as a cable operator/ renewal of registration as a cable operator do hereby declare that:
(i)
I/We shall ensure that my/our cable television network shall run in accordance with the provisions of the Cable
Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 at all times.
(ii)
I/We shall not permit/ associate any person who is not eligible to run a cable television network under the Cable
Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 to run/with the running of my/our cable television network.
(iii)
I/We shall strive to the best of my/our ability to provide cable service to the satisfaction of the subscriber(s) of my/ our
cable television network.
(iv)
I/We shall strive to the best of my/our ability to ensure that my/our cable television network is not used for any unlawful
purpose.
(v)
I/We shall obtain the necessary approval/ clearance from the relevant authority for the running of my /our cable
television network.
(vi)
I/We shall abide by any direction issued by the Central Government in respect of the running of a cable television
netweork within India.
.......................................
Signature of Applicant
(individual/ firm/company/association
of persons body of individuals
Name ...................................
Place ..............................
Address ...............................
Date .....:.........................
*Score out the word or words which are not applicable.
FORM 3
(See rule 5)
Government of India
Head Post Office
REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE NUMBER
Shri/Shrimati/M/s ..................resident of...............is registered as a cable operator (individual, firm, company, association
of persons or body of individuals)* for running a cable television network at the following address..........in the city/ town
Page 12/16
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
of..........for a period of twelve months with effect from............His Registration Number is ................
2. This Certificate is only valid for the premises stated above.
3. This Registration Certificate is not transferable.
4. The Certificate shall remain valid for the period indicated above or till the holder carries on the cable service or where
the surrender of the certificate is accepted by the competent authority.
Head Post Master
Head Post Office
..............(town/city)
Place ..............................
Date ...............................
TO BE DISPLAYED PROMINENTLY ON THE PREMISES OF THE CABLE OPERATOR.
[FORM 3-A
[See rule 5(2)]
Government of India
Head Post Office
DUPLICATE REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE
1. Shri/Shrimati/M/s ...........................resident of.....................is registered as a cable operator
(individual/firm/company/association of persons or body of individuals)* for running a cable television network at the
following address ..........................in the city/town of ...........................for a period of twelve months with effect from
.................... (date from which the original Registration Certificate was valid).His Registration Number is
......................................
2. This Certificate is valid only for the premises stated above.
3. This Registration Certificate is not transferable.
4. The Certificate shall remain valid for the period indicated above or till the holder carries on the cable service or where
the surrender of the certificate is accepted by the competent authority.
Head Post Master
Head Post Officer
................(town/city)
Place ..............................
Date ...............................
TO BE DISPLAYED PROMINENTLY ON THE PREMISES OF THE CABLE OPERATOR.
*Tick whichever is a appropriate]
FORM 4
[See proviso to rule 5(3)]
To
..........................
Sir,
Reference to your application dated ..........................for registration as a cable operator.The necessary registration
cannot be granted to you for the following reasons(s):-
(i)
Application is incomplete.
(ii)
Registration fee has not been tendered.
(iii)
Applicant is not a citizen of India.
(iv)
Less than fifty-one per cent. of the paid-up share capital of the applicant company is held by citizens of India.
Head Post Master
Head Post Office
Place.....................
Date...................
Page 13/16
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
FORM 5
(See rule 8)
Form of register to be maintained by each cable operator.
SL No.
Encrypted channel/ Programme
Duration from to
Date
Month
Year
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
[FORM 6]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 452(E) dated 31.7.2006 (w.e.f. 29.9.1994).]
[See rule 11(2)]
(To be submitted in duplicate)
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR GRANT OF PERMISSION TO MULTISYSTEM OPERATORS TO PROVIDE CABLE
TELEVISION NETWORK SERVICES WITH ADDRESSABLE SYSTEM IN ANY ONE OR MORE NOTIFIED AREA
To
The Secretary
Ministry of Information & Broadcasting
"A" Wing, Shastri Bhawan,
New Delhi-110 001.
Subject: Application for grant of permission to multi system television network services with addressable system in any
operators to provide cabley or more notified areas.
Sir,
I hereby submit the following details for grant of permission.
1. (a) Name of the Applicant (individual/firm/company/association of persons/body of individuals)**
(b)
Age/Date of establishment/Date of Incorporation.
2. (a) Nationality (for individual applicants/body of individuals
(b)
By birth/domicile )
3. Details of payment of Processing Fee
4. Details of Registration as a Cable Operator
(a)
Name of the Post Office with which registered
(b)
Registration No./Validity up to
(c)
Copy of the Registration Certificate (enclose)
5. Complete Postal Address with Telephone/Fax No. /E_mail ID
(a)
Corporate Office/Head Office
(b)
Registered Office
(c)
Regional Offices
Page 14/16
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
(d)
Address of Correspondence
6. Name of authorised contact person, his designation and telephone/fax No./E-mail ID
7. "Registration detail under Companies Act, 1956: Incorporation No. and Date (Attach a copy of Certificate of
Incorporation and Memorandum and Article of Associations)
8. *Board of Directors(Attach list of Directors alongwith bio-data of each Director giving date of birth, place of birth,
parentage, nationality, permanent address, residential address, official address, passport No (if any), qualification,
experience, etc.
9. *Attach list of key executives including CEO/MD alongwith details as in above
10. Authorised  Share Capital, (ii) Paid-up Share Capital, (iii) Net worth (enclose a copy of the audited Balance Sheet
and Profit and Loss Account for the immediate preceding year and certificate of Net worth on the basis of these
documents by a Chartered Accountant.
11. Details of availability/arrangement of funds (sufficient proof to be enclosed).
12. (i) Present Area of Operation (if in more than one city,city-wise details to be given).
(ii)
CAS notified Area or Areas proposed to be covered by the applicant (if in more than one city,then city-wise details
should be given).
13. No. of channels being provided in unencrypted from (own/broadcasters) (give names separately for own channels
and broadcasters channel).
14.
Other value added services being provided (Details alongwith their copies of licenses).
15. Total No. of each of local cabe operators and subscribers covered (attach list of local cable operators with their
telephone nos./fax nos. /E-mail IDs and the number of subscribers each of the cable operators has with him.)
16.
Details of past experience/field of activity.
17.
Preparedness to supply and maintain adequate number of Set Top Boxes for the subscribers and installation of
subscriber management system (give details to substantiate your claim including no. of Set Top Boxes already
available/orders placed/network of authorized persons/agents to supply and provide after sales service).
18.
Number of Agreements signed with broadcasters to supply their channels under CAS scheme (Give names of
broadcasters and their channels for which agreements signed alongwith copies of agreements to substantiate your
claim).
19.
What arrangements have been made/proposed  to be made to give wide publicity to CAS scheme in each of the notified
areas, as approved by the Authority. (Give full details).
I/We ..................... the applicant(s) **(individual/ company/association of peons/body of individuals) do hereby declare
that the above facts are correct in all respects.
I/ We hereby undertake to abide by all the conditions/directions/orders that the Central Government or the Authority a
lay down/issue for the smooth implementation and operation of CAS scheme in the areas.
..............................................................
Signature of Applicant/Authorised person
7. Advertising Code **(individual/firm/company/association
of persons/body of individuals)
Place ............................
Name ...................................
Date ..............................
Address...............................
*To be given in case applicant is aCompany/Firm.
**Score out the word or words which are not applicable.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Page 15/16
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994
Translation
Page 16/16