
----- PAGE 1 -----
European Economic Community International Institutional Partners Scheme, 1993
European Economic Community International Institutional Partners
Scheme, 1993
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/122013531/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
European Economic Community International Institutional Partners Scheme, 1993
UNION OF INDIA
India
European Economic Community International Institutional Partners Scheme, 1993
Rule EUROPEAN-ECONOMIC-COMMUNITY-INTERNATIONAL-INSTITUTIONAL-PARTNERS-SCHEME-1993 of 1993
Published on 29 September 1994
Commenced on 29 September 1994
[This is the version of this document from 29 September 1994.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
European Economic Community International Institutional Partners Scheme, 1993
The Scheme specified for the purpose of Section 10(23BBB).
1983.
S.O. 719(E), dated 29th September, 1994. - The Central Government hereby notifies the following scheme for facilitating
investments by the European Economic Community for the benefit of establishment of joint ventures in India.
1.
(i)
This Scheme may be called the European Economic Community International Institutional Partners (ECIIP) Scheme,
1993.
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
European Economic Community International Institutional Partners Scheme, 1993
(ii)
It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from 1st April, 1993.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Scheme, unless the context otherwise requires :-
(a)
"European Economic Community" means the European Economic Community (EEC) established by the Treaty of Rome
of 25th March, 1957.
(b)
"Institutional Partner" means a financial institution approved in this behalf by the Central Government.
(c)
"Facility" means any of the four facilities offered by the European Economic Community under its International
Institutional Partners Scheme, as given in the annexure to this Scheme.
3.
Structure of the Scheme.
(1)
The European Economic Community has developed a financial instrument called the European Community International
Investment Partners (ECIIP) Scheme to promote joint ventures in Asia, Latin America and the Mediterranean countries.
EEC signs framework agreements with financial institutions in the target country, and makes available its financial
assistance through these partner financial institutions. ECIIP specifically aims its assistance at small and medium sized
companies, but larger companies can also benefit, if their projects are particularly interesting for the development of the
country.
(2)
EEC has so far entered into Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) with three financial institutions in India, viz., ICICI,
IDBI and the Exim Bank of India. EEC may in future decide to have similar MOUs with other financial institutions and/or
banks in India.
(3)
The European Economic Community has expressed an intention that the community does not intend to repatriate
interest, dividends, or capital gains arising out of the investments under the ECIIP Scheme. Nothing the expressed
intention of the community that the community does not intend to repatriate proceeds of sale of shares or dividends
arising out of the investments made under ECIIP Scheme, and intends to reinvest such proceeds in India, which, is also
the preferred arrangement in so far as the Government of India is concerned, the Government of India has inserted a
new clause (23BBB) in section 10 of the Income-tax Act to provide income-tax exemption on any income of the
European Economic Community derived in India by way of interest, dividends or capital gains from investments made
out of its funds under this Scheme. This exemption will take effect from 1st April, 1994, and will, accordingly, apply in
relation to the assessment year 1994-95 (relevant for the income year 1993-94) and subsequent years. All such
incomes derived by the European Economic Community on or after 1st April, 1993, would be exempt from tax
accordingly.
4.
Investments and disinvestments.
(1)
The investments made by the European Economic Community under the ECIIP Scheme would be counted as domestic
investments, and not foreign investments, for the purpose of the Statement on Industrial Policy, dated 24th July, 1991.
Investments under the ECIIP Scheme would not be counted as promoters' quota for the purpose of Securities and
Exchange Board of India (SEBI) Guidelines. In all other sense also, investments of the European Economic Community
under the ECIIP Scheme would be treated at par with the investments of the partner institutions.
(2)
All the investments would be made by EEC through ECIIP approved partner institutions who would hold the investment
instruments on behalf of EEC. EEC would be able to disinvest also through the ECIIP partner institutions, in accordance
with the disinvestment guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India on September 15, 1992, as modified from time to
time. Disinvestment when made would be made in suitable lots by these partner institutions, so as to have minimum
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
European Economic Community International Institutional Partners Scheme, 1993
disturbance of dislocation of the stock exchange prices of the scrips unloaded. EEC has indicated to the Government of
India that disinvestment proceeds, and funds realised therefrom, would also be reinvested as investible funds of EEC for
projects approved under this Scheme.
(3)
This equity holding by ECIIP partner institutions on behalf of EEC out of ECIIP funds would be in addition to any equity
which may be held by these institutions out of their own funds, or equity of any foreign investors hailing from European
countries.
5.
Eligibility of partner institutions.
(1)
The Indian Financial Institutions desiring to become partner institution of EEC for any of its facilities under ECIIP, in
order to seek loans and equity participation from EEC in industrial and financial ventures promoted by them would be
required to be approved in this behalf by the Government of India.
(2)
It would be possible for the European Economic Community to enter into any number of memoranda of understanding
with partner institution among banks, financial institutions, the State Industrial Development Corporations and the State
Finance Corporations under the ECIIP Scheme. Once the memorandum of understanding/framework agreement is
lodged with the Government of India and accepted, suitable modification to this Scheme would be announced
accordingly.
6.
Use of funds provided by ECIIP.
(1)
All investments under the ECIIP facilities in joint ventures permitted in India will be made by the partner institutions
without the requirement of any approval from the Central Government for such individual investments.
(2)
The partner institutions shall maintain separate accounts in their books of account for the funds under the ECIIP facilities
handled by them on behalf of the European Economic Community and for depositing the sale proceeds of its
investments if any.
7.
Tax exemption.
(1)
The tax exemption would be available to EEC only in respect of investments made out of ECIIP funds, which would be
used by the EEC through partner institutions as seed money for promoting industrial enterprises with the European
Investors hailing from EEC member countries in India.
(2)
The exemption from income-tax on dividend, interest and capital gains tax on disinvestment available to EEC under this
Scheme will not be available in respect of the equity held by foreign investors hailing from EEC member countries, or the
equity held by the ECIIP partner institutions out of their own funds.
Annexure
Facility
Facility
Facility
Facility
1
2
3
4
Type
of operation
Identification
of potential joint venture projects and partners.
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
European Economic Community International Institutional Partners Scheme, 1993
Operations
prior to launching a joint venture.
Financing
capital requirements.
Human
resource development : training and management assistance.
Beneficiaries
Chambers
of commerce, professional associations, public agencies and ECIIP
Financial Institutions, Individual companies may not benefit from
facility 1.
Companies,
either individually or jointly, local or European, wishing to
undertake a joint venture investment project.
Joint
ventures established by partners from EEC and from eligible
countries Both partners must have a meaningful participation.
Investment in local companies which operate under a licensing and
technical assistance agreement with an EEC company.
Access
The
beneficiary may apply directly to the EEC or through a financial
institution.
Application
to be made through a financial institution.
Type
of  finance
Grant
Interest
free advance to be converted later either into a grant, a loan or
equity.
Equity
holding or equity loan The financial institution must co-finance
the projects.
Interest
free loan
Amount
available
Maximum
of 10,000 ECU
Maximum
of 2,50,000 ECU
Maximum
of 10,00,000  ECU
The
maximum total support per project is 10,00,000 ECU
Maximum
of 2,50,000 ECU
Limits
Up
to 50 per cent of the cost.
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
European Economic Community International Institutional Partners Scheme, 1993
Up
to 50 per cent of the cost.
20
per cent of the capital of the joint venture.
Up
to 50 per cent of the cost.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5