
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Indian Wireless Telegraphy  (Commercial Radio Operator's Certificate Proficiency And L...
The Indian Wireless Telegraphy  (Commercial Radio Operator's
Certificate Proficiency And Licence To Operate  Global Maritime
Distress And Safety  System) Rules, 1994
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/51496373/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Indian Wireless Telegraphy  (Commercial Radio Operator's Certificate Proficiency And Licence To Operate  Global
Maritime Distress And Safety  System) Rules, 1994
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Indian Wireless Telegraphy  (Commercial Radio Operator's Certificate Proficiency And Licence To Operate  Global
Maritime Distress And Safety  System) Rules, 1994
Rule
THE-INDIAN-WIRELESS-TELEGRAPHY-COMMERCIAL-RADIO-OPERATOR-S-CERTIFICATE-PROFICIENCY-AND-L
ICENCE-TO-OPERATE-GLOBAL-MARITIME-DISTRESS-AND-SAFETY-SYSTEM-RULES-1994 of 1994
Published on 28 January 1995
Commenced on 28 January 1995
[This is the version of this document from 28 January 1995.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Indian Wireless Telegraphy  (Commercial Radio Operator's Certificate Proficiency And Licence To Operate  Global
Maritime Distress And Safety  System) Rules, 1994
Published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3(i), dated 28th January, 1995 (w.e.f. 28th January, 1995)
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Indian Wireless Telegraphy  (Commercial Radio Operator's Certificate Proficiency And L...
2036.
G.S.R. 42, dated 20th December, 1994. - In exercise of the powers conferred  by Sec. 7 of the Indian Telegraph Act,
1885. The Central Government hereby makes  the following rules, namely :
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Indian  Wireless Telegraphy (Commercial Radio Operator's Certificate Proficiency and
Licence  to Operate Global Maritime Distress and Safety System) Rules, 1994.
(2)
They shall, come into force from the date of their publication in the Official  Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- Unless the context otherwise requires, in these rules
(a)
"Conviction" means the convention of the International  Telecommunication Union.
(b)
"Radio telegraphy" includes Radio telephony.
3.
Categories of certificates and licences.
- On the result of an examination  which may, from time to time be held by it or by an officer empowered by it in this 
behalf, the Central Government may grant (in accordance with the terms of the  Convention) the following categories of
the Certificate and Licence to operate Global  Maritime Distress and Safely System, namely.
(i)
First-Class Radio Electronic Certificate and Licence;
(ii)
Second-Class Radio Electronic Certificate and Licence;
(iii)
General Operator's Certificate and Licence;
(iv)
Restricted Operator's Certificate and Licence.
4.
Eligibility for admission to the examination and licence.
- No person shall be eligible for admission to an examination held under these rules for grant of a certificate unless such
person is-
(i)
a Citizen of India;
(ii)
above the age of eighteen years on the date specified from time to time  by this Ministry; and
(iii)
has passed All India Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination  or an equivalent examination conducted by a
recognised board/University with Mathematic and Physics as optional subjects.
5.
Application.
- An application for admission to an Examination specified in  rule 3 above, shall be made to the Central Government or
to an officer empowered by it,  in this behalf, in the form prescribed by the Government from time to time, together with 
all the subsidiary forms and documents duly filled in and completed in all respects.
6.
Fee for an examination.
- A candidate for admission to an examination for  the grant of certificates specified the rule 3 shall pay fees in the
following scale.
(i)
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Indian Wireless Telegraphy  (Commercial Radio Operator's Certificate Proficiency And L...
First-Class REC and Second-Class REC
(a)
Part I
250.00
(b)
Part II and or Part III
250.00
(ii)
General and Restricted operator certificates Part II and or Part
III
250.00
(iii)
Conversion examination from ROGC and SND Class COP
250.00
(vi)
Re-examination for the renewal of certificate to operate endorsed
in the certificate
250.00
(Fee
for an Examination specified above is subject to revision by
Central  Government from time to time)
7.
Examination.
(1)
The examination for the award of GMDSS certificate in  Radio telephony shall be held in accordance with the terms of
the convention and in  the manner determined, from time to time, by the Central Government who shall  notify the place
at which and the date on which such an examination shall be held.
(2)
Any person admitted to the examination and found guilty of impersonation  of submitting fabricated documents which
have been tempered with or making  statements which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information or 
otherwise resorting to any other irregular or improper means for claiming admissions  to the examination may, in
addition to rendering him/herself liable to criminal  prosecution, be debarred either permanently or for a specified period
from appearing  in any of the examination, held for the award of (GDSS) certificates of Radio telephony  awarded under
rule (3) :
Provided that order under this rule shall not be made unless the person has  been given a reasonable opportunity of
making a representation against the action  imposed to be taken.
8.
Secretary.
- Every holder of the certificate shall observe secrecy of the  correspondence. A declaration to this effect shall be made
by him/her in the  application for admission to the examination.
9.
Validity of licences.
(1)
Licence to operate shall be valid for a period specified  by the Central Government, but it shall in no case, be less than
three years or more  than five years from the date of declaration of result of the examination:
Provided that on the expiry of the initial period of her validity of licence, it may  be renewed for a period of three years at
a time if the holder applies for it before the  date of expiry of licence except as provided in rule 10(2) but not earlier than
three  months prior to that date, and
(i)
pays a fee Rs. 200.
(ii)
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Indian Wireless Telegraphy  (Commercial Radio Operator's Certificate Proficiency And L...
has a total experience of not less than 3 months within 3 years  immediately preceding the date of expiry of a licence, or
(iii)
satisfies the Central Government by re-examination or otherwise that  he still possesses all of the qualifications specified
in his certificate.
(2)
If the holder of a licence, in the opinion of the Central Government has  wilfully or negligently provided incorrect or false
information for the purpose of re-validation of the licence, the Central Government may endorse, suspend or cancel  the
licence :
Provided that no order to suspend or cancel the licence under this rule shall be  made unless the person concerned has
been given a reasonable opportunity of making  a representation against the action proposed to be taken.
Explanation.-For the purposes of this rule, the expression 'experience' means  the experience gained at a mobile station
in the Maritime or Aeronautical Mobile  Service using GMDSS.
10.
Issue of duplicate or replacement certificates and licences.
(1)
A holder  whose certificate or licence has been lost, mutilated or destroyed shall immediately  notify the loss to the
Central Government. A properly executed application for duplicate  certificate shall be made to the Central Government
embodying a statement of the  circumstances involved in the loss, mutilation or destruction of the certificate or  licence
for which a duplicate is required. If the certificate or licence has been lost, the  applicant must state that reasonable
search has been made for it and further, that in  the event it be found, either the original or the duplicate shall be
returned for  cancellation.
(2)
The Central Government may issue duplicate copies of any certificate or  licence on the payment of the charges as
follows.
(i)
Issue of Duplicate 200.00
(ii)
Issue of Duplicate Renewal slip 100.00
11.
Discipline of operators.
(1)
If in the opinion of the Central Government the holder of the certificate or licence has wilfully or negligently failed to
comply with  the provisions of the convention, or of these rules or of any regulations lawfully  applicable to him/her in
respect of operation of Radio Apparatus the Central  Government may endorse, suspend or cancel the certificate.
(2)
The Central Government may at any time require the holder of a certificate of  proficiency to produce the same and the
holder shall comply with such requisition.
(3)
The Central Government may at any time require the holder of a certificate of proficiency or licence to be re-examined in
order to test his knowledge and ability  and may as a result of such examination, endorse, suspend or cancel the
licence. No  fee shall be chargeable for such examination :
Provided that the Central Government may modify, vary cancel or revoke any of  the conditions governing the issue of
GMDSS certificate in Radio Telephony either by  specified notice in writing to the holder or by a general notice published
in the Official  Gazette or Newspaper in New Delhi.
12.
Admission and award of certificates in radio telephony (GMDSS).
- Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules the Central Government may,  subject to such conditions as it may
impose from time to time :
(i)
admit a person, who is not a citizen of India to examination held under  these rules, and
(ii)
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Indian Wireless Telegraphy  (Commercial Radio Operator's Certificate Proficiency And L...
award him/her a certificate in Radio Telephony (GMDSS).
13.
Recognition of certificates issued by other countries.
- The Central  Government may recognise, subject to any conditions it may prescribe from time to  time, certificate of
Radio telephony (GMDSS) issued by a competent authority in any  other country as a certificate of proficiency of the
same class issued by it.
14.
Results of the examinations.
(1)
The result of each candidate who has  qualified in the examination would be forwarded him/her as soon as possible after
 publication of the result.
(2)
No request for revaluation or re-scrutiny of any paper would be entertained.
15.
Conversion examination for award of radio telephony certificate  (GMDSS).
- Any person, who had passed the ROGC or COP (Second-Class  examinations or was granted ROGC or COP SND
licence or certificate or any such  licence /certificate was renewed shall be required to pass examination for conversion 
to appropriate certificate in Radio Telephony GMDSS).
16.
Language.
- The language of the examination shall be English.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5