
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Project Imports Regulations, 1986.
The Project Imports Regulations, 1986.
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/10402923/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
Union of India - Act
The Project Imports Regulations, 1986.
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Project Imports Regulations, 1986.
Rule THE-PROJECT-IMPORTS-REGULATIONS-1986 of 1986
Published on 27 October 1995
Commenced on 27 October 1995
[This is the version of this document from 27 October 1995.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Project Imports Regulations, 1986.
Published vide Notification No. M.F. (D.R.) 153/95 Custom (N.T), dated 27th October, 1995 (w.e.f. 3rd April, 1986).
Notifications M.F. (D.R.) No. 230/86-Custom, dated 3rd April 1986. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 157
of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), and in supersession of the Project Imports (Registration of Contract)
Regulations, 1965, except as respect things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Central Board of
Excise and Customs hereby makes the following regulations, namely :
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These regulations may be called the Project Imports Regulations, 1986.
(2)
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Project Imports Regulations, 1986.
They shall come into force on the 3rd day of April , 1986.
2.
Application.
- These regulations shall apply for assessment and clearance of the goods falling under heading No. 98.01 of the First
Schedule to the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (5 I of 1975).
3.
[ Definitions. - For the purposes of these regulations, -
(a)
"Industrial plants" means an industrial system designed to be employed directly in the performance of any process or
series of processes necessary for manufacture, production or extraction of a commodity, but does not include
(i)
establishments designed to offer services of any description such as hotels, hospitals, photographic studios,
photographic film processing laboratories, photocopying studios, laundries, garages and workshops; or
(ii)
a single machine or a composite machine, within the meaning assigned to it, in Notes 3 and 4 to Section XVI of the said
First Schedule.
Explanation. - For the purposes of sub-clause N, the expression "establishments designed to offer services of any
description" shall not include video recording or editing units, cinematographic studios, cinematographic film processing
laboratories and sound recording, processing, mixing or editing studios;
(b)
"sponsoring authority" means an authority specified in the Table annexed to these regulation;
(c)
"Substantial expansion" means an expansion which well increase the existing installed capacity by not less than 25 per
cent;
(d)
"unit" means any self-contained portion of an industrial plant or any self-contained portion of a project specified under
the said Heading No. 98.01 and having an independent function in the execution of the said project.]
4.
Eligibility.
- The assessment under the said heading No. 98.01 shall be available only to those goods which are imported (whether
in one or more than one consignment) against one or more specific contracts, which have been registered with the
appropriate Custom House in the manner specified in regulation 5 and such contract or contract has or have been so
registered.
(i)
before by order is made by proper officer of customs permitting the clearance of the goods for home consumption;
(ii)
in the case of goods cleared for home consumption without payment of duty subject to re-export in respect of fairs,
exhibitions, demonstrations, seminars, congresses and conferences, duly sponsored or approved by the Government of
India or Trade Fair Authority of India, as the case may be, before the date of payment of duty.
5.
Registration of Contracts.
(1)
Every importer claiming assessment of the goods falling under the said heading No. 98.01, on or before their importation
shall apply in writing to the proper officer at the port where the goods are to be imported or where the duty is to be paid
for registration of the contract or contracts, as the case may be :
Provided that in the case of consignments sought to be cleared through a Customs House other than the Customs
House at which the contract is registered, the importer shall produce from the Customs House of registration such
information as the proper officer may require.
(2)
The importer shall apply, as soon as may be, after he has obtained the Import trade control licence wherever required
for the import of articles covered by the contract and in case of imports covered by the Open General Licence or imports
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Project Imports Regulations, 1986.
made by Central Government, any State Government, statutory corporation, public body or Government undertaking run
as a joint stock company (hereinafter referred to as "Government Agency") as soon as clearance from the  [concerned
sponsoring authority]
[Substituted by Notification No. M.R. (D.R.) No. 153/95 Custom (N.T.), dated 27th October, 1995.]
, as the case may be, has been obtained.
(3)
The application shall specify -
(a)
The location of the plant or project;
(b)
the description of the articles to be manufactured, produced, mined or explored;
(c)
The installed or designed capacity of the plant or project and in the case of substantial expansion of an existing plant or
project the installed capacity and the proposed addition thereto;
(d)
such other particulars as may be considered necessary by the proper officer for purposes of assessment under the said
heading.
(4)
[]
[Subs-rule (4), substituted by Notification No. M.R. (D.R.) No. 142./92 Custom (N.T.), dated 10th March, 1992.]
The application shall be accompanied by the original deed of contract together with a true copy thereof, the import trade
control licence, wherever required, and an approved list of items from the [concerned sponsoring authority.]
[Substituted by Notification No. M.R. (D.R.) No. 153/95 Custom (N.T.), dated 27th October, 1995.]
(5)
The importer shall also furnish such other documents or other particulars as may be required by the proper officer in
connection with the registration of contract.
(6)
The proper officer shall, on being satisfied that the application is in order register the contract by entering the particulars
thereof in a book kept for the purpose, assign a number in token of the registration and communicate that number to the
importer and shall also return to the importer all the original documents which are no longer required by him.
6.
Amendment of contract.
(1)
If any contract referred to in regulation 5 is amended, whether before or after registration, the importer shall make an
application for registration of the amendment to the said contract to the proper officer.
(2)
The application shall be accompanied by the original deed of contract relating to the amendments together with a true
copy thereof and the documents, if any, permitting consequential amendments to the import trade control licence,
wherever required, for the import of articles covered by the contract and in the case of imports covered by Open General
Licence, as soon as clearance from the [concerned sponsoring authority]
[Substituted by Notification No. M.R. (D.R.) No. 153/95 Custom (N.T.), dated 27th October, 1995. ]
, as the case may be, has been obtained along with a list of articles referred to in clause (4) of regulation 5, duly
attested.
(3)
On being satisfied that the application is in order, the proper officer shall make a note of the amendments in the register.
7.
[ Finalisation of contract. - The importer shall within three months from the date of clearance for home consumption of
the last consignment of the goods or within such extended period as the proper officer may allow, submit a statement
indicating the details of the goods imported together with necessary documents as proof regarding the value and
quantity of the goods so imported in terms of this Regulation and any other document that may be required by the
proper officer for finalisation of the contract.]
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Project Imports Regulations, 1986.
[Inserted by Notification M.R. (D.R.) No. 17/92 Custom(N.T.), dated 7th January, 1992.]
[Table]
[Substituted by Notification M.R.(D.R.) No. 54/97 Custom (N.T.), dated 5th June, 1997.]
Sr. No.
Name of the Plant or Project
Sponsoring Authority
1.
All Plants and projects under SSI Units.
Director of Industries of the concerned State.
2.
All power Plants and Transmission Projects
under,-
(a) National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd.
National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd. NTPC
Bhavan, Scope Complex, 7, Lodhi Road Insitutional Area, New
Delhi-110003.
(b) Tehri Hydro Development Corporation Ltd.
Tehri Hydro Development Corporation Limited
Bhagirathi Bhawan(Top Terrace), Bhagirathipuram, Tehri
Tehri(Garhwal) 249001 (UP)
(c) Nathpa Jhakri Power corporation Ltd.
Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation Limited Himfed
Building Khalini, shimla (HP).
(d) North Easter Electric Power Corporation Ltd.
North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Limited
Brookland Compound Lower New Colony Shillong 793 001.
(e) National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
Ltd.
National Hydroelectric PowerCorporation
LimitedNHPC OfficeComplex Sector-33, FaridabadFaridabad
(Haryana).
(f) Bhakra Beas Management Board.
Bhakra Beas Management Board Madhjya marg,
Sector 19-BChandigarh -160019
(g) Central power Research Institute.
Central Power Research Institute,Prof. C.V.
Raman Road,Raj Mahal Vilas Extn. II, Stage P.O., P.B.No.
9401, Bangalore-560094.
(h) National Power Training Institute Training
Institute.
National Power Training InstitutedSector
33, FaridabadHaryana -121 003.
(i) Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd.
Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd.Hemkunt
Chambers, 6thFlorr, 87, Nehru PlaceNew
Delhi-110019.
3.
Power Plants and Transmission Projects other
than those mentioned at Sl. No. 2 above
Secretary to the State Government or Union
Territory Concerned dealing with the subject of power or
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Project Imports Regulations, 1986.
electricity,
3A. [
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 623(E), dated 6.9.2002 (w.e.f. 3.4.1986)]
Drinking Water Supply Projects for supply of water
for human or animal consumption
Collector/District Magistrate/Deputy
Commissioner of the District in which the project
is located]
4.
Any other Plant and Concerned Administrative
Ministry or Department Project.
[Rule 3, Substituted by Notification No. M.F. (D.R.) 153/95 Custom (N.T), dated 27th October, 1995 (w.e.f. 3rd April,
1986).]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5