
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Life Insurance Corporation Of India Class III Employees (Special Allowance For Passing...
The Life Insurance Corporation Of India Class III Employees (Special
Allowance For Passing Examination) Rules, 1996
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/58552051/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Life Insurance Corporation Of India Class III Employees (Special Allowance For Passing Examination) Rules, 1996
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Life Insurance Corporation Of India Class III Employees (Special Allowance For Passing Examination) Rules, 1996
Rule
THE-LIFE-INSURANCE-CORPORATION-OF-INDIA-CLASS-III-EMPLOYEES-SPECIAL-ALLOWANCE-FOR-PASSING-
EXAMINATION-RULES-1996 of 1996
Published on 1 March 1996
Commenced on 1 March 1996
[This is the version of this document from 1 March 1996.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Life Insurance Corporation Of India Class III Employees (Special Allowance For Passing Examination) Rules, 1996
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2, Section 3, sub-section (i), dated 1st March, 1996
(w.e.f. 1st August, 1994)
1929.
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 48 of the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 (
31 of 1956
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, to amend the LIC Class III Employees (Special Allowance
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Life Insurance Corporation Of India Class III Employees (Special Allowance For Passing...
for Passing Examination) Rules, 1988 namely :-
1.
Short title, commencement and application.
(1)
These Rules may be called the Life Insurance Corporation of India Class III Employees (Special Allowance for Passing
Examination) Rules, 1996.
(2)
They shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of August, 1994.
(3)
They shall apply to all the Class III employees of the Corporation.
2.
Special allowance.
- Subject to the conditions specified in rule 3, a Class III employee of the Corporation who has successfully completed
the period of probation and passed the professional or technical examination set out in column (1) of the Table below
shall be paid a special allowance at the rate specified in the corresponding entry in column (2) of the said Table:
Provided that no such employee shall be entitled to the payment of special allowance for more than one such
examination.
Table
Professional/Technical
Examination
Special
Allowance
(1)
(2)
(i)
Examination of the Insurance Institute of India, Mumbai :
(a)
Licentiate
Rs. 48
per month
(b)
Associateship
Rs.
144 per month
(c)
Fellowship
Rs.
240 per month
(ii)
Examination of the Institute of Actuaries, London :
Rs. 48
per month on passing each subject
(iii)
Examination of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
and the Institute of Cost and works Accountants of India :
(a)
Intermediate
Rs. 96
per month
(b)
Final Group 'A' or 'B'
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Life Insurance Corporation Of India Class III Employees (Special Allowance For Passing...
Rs.
180 per month
(c)
Final Group 'A' and 'B'
Rs.
240 per month
(iv)
Master of Business Administration of a recongnised
University/Institution
Rs.
240 per month.
The amount of Special Allowance as stated above shall be counted for the purpose of calculation of Dearness
Allowance, House Rent Allowance, Provident Fund, and Gratuity as referred in LIC Class III and IV Employees
(Revision of Terms and Conditions of Service) Rules, 1995.
Conditions :- The payment of the special allowance under rule 2 will be subject to the following conditions, namely :-
(1)
the employee is not in receipt of any special increment for passing any of the examinations specified in rule 2 or the
examinations of the Chartered Insurance Institutes, London or of the Indian Life Offices Association;
(2)
an employee who fails to keep alive his membership of the concerned Institute, shall not be paid the special allowance
on and from the last date on which the renewal of membership is to be effected under the rules of the Institute;
(3)
The employee who is awarded Diploma of Associateship and Fellowship should continue to make payment of requisite
renewal fee failing which the special allowance shall not be paid.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3