
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Cochin Port Employees (Festival Advance) Regulations, 1997
The Cochin Port Employees (Festival Advance) Regulations, 1997
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/61209937/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Cochin Port Employees (Festival Advance) Regulations, 1997
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Cochin Port Employees (Festival Advance) Regulations, 1997
Rule THE-COCHIN-PORT-EMPLOYEES-FESTIVAL-ADVANCE-REGULATIONS-1997 of 1997
Published on 7 February 1997
Commenced on 7 February 1997
[This is the version of this document from 7 February 1997.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Cochin Port Employees (Festival Advance) Regulations, 1997
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2, Section 3(i) dated 7th February, 1997 (w.e.f. 7th
February, 1997).
1948.
G.S.R. 65(E), dated 7th February, 1997. - In exercise of the powers conferred sub-section (1) Section 124, read with
sub-section (1) of Section 132 of the Major Ports Act, 1963 (38 of 1963) the Government hereby approves the Cochin
Port Employees (Festival Advance) Regulations, 1997 made by Board of Trustees for the Port of Cochin and the set in
Second Schedule annexed to this notification. The said regulations shall come into force-on the date of publication of
this notification in the Official Gazette.
Schedule
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 28 of the Major Port Trust Act, 1963 (38 of 1963), the Cochin Port hereby
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Cochin Port Employees (Festival Advance) Regulations, 1997
makes the following Regulations subject to approval of the Central Government and the same is published herein as
required under Section 124 of the said Act.
1.
Short title and commencement.
- (i) These Regulations may be called the Cochin Port Employees (Festival Advance) Regulations, 1997.
(ii)
They shall come into effect from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires---
(a)
"Accounts Officer" means the Financial Advisor and Chief Accountants Officer of the Board or any other Officer
authorised by him in this himself.
(b)
"Advance" means the advance admissible under these Regulations.
(c)
"Board", "Chairman" and "Head of Department" shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in the Major Port
Trusts Act, 1963.
(d)
"Head of Office" means the Drawing Officer concerned.
(e)
"Employees" means an employee of the Board.
(f)
"Financial Year" means the year beginning on the 1st April and ending on the 31st March following.
(g)
"Important Festival" means-
(i)
Republic day
(ii)
Ramzan
(iii)
Vishu
(iv)
Easter
(v)
Bakrid
(vi)
Independence Day
(vii)
Onam
(viii)
Deepavali
(ix)
Christmas
(x)
Any other festival which the competent authority may declare, by a general or special order, after taking into
consideration the importance attached locally or otherwise to such festival.
3.
Extent of application. - (1) Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, the advance is admissible to all regular
employees (permanent and temporary), of Classes III and IV including part-time employees, irrespective of their pay
range.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Cochin Port Employees (Festival Advance) Regulations, 1997
(2)
The advance is not admissible to :-
(i)
Persons paid from contingencies, and
(ii)
Apprentices.
4.
Conditions of eligibility.
(1)
An advance shall be granted only on the event of any one of the important festivals, irrespective of the religious faith of
the employee concerned.
(2)
The advance shall not be granted to an employee more than once in a financial year.
(3)
The advance under these regulations shall be granted to an employee if he is on duty, or on earned leave or on any
other leave equivalent thereto, including maternity leave, but excluding leave preparatory to retirement on the date on
which the advance is applied for.
(4)
The advance under these Regulations shall not be granted to an employee unless an advance already granted to him
has been fully recovered.
(5)
The advance shall not be granted to a temporary employee unless he is likely to continue in service with the Board for a
period of at least one year beyond the month in which the advance is disbursed.
(6)
The advance shall not be granted to an employee unless he applies for it in writing to the Head of office at least a
fortnight before the date of the festival for which the advance is applied for. This condition can, however, he relaxed by
the authority who is empowered to sanction the advance, in individual cases, if he is satisfied that the applicant was
prevented from making the application within the time limit specified.
5.
Interest-free advance.
- The advance granted under these Regulations shall be free of interest.
6.
Amount of advance.
- The amount of advance which may be granted to a regular employee not exceeding Rs. 1,500 (Rupees one thousand
five hundred only).
7.
Disbursement of advance.
- The amount of advance sanctioned under these regulations shall be disbursed to an employee before the festival in
respect of which the advance is sanctioned.
8.
Recovery of advance.
(1)
The amount of advance granted under these regulations shall be recovered in not more than 10 equal monthly
instalments.
(2)
The recovery of the amount of advance shall commence with the issue of pay or leave salary, as the case may be, for
the month following that in which such amount is disbursed.
9.
Accounts of advance.
- The procedure for maintenance of accounts and watching the recoveries shall be as specified in Annexure 'A' to the
regulations.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Cochin Port Employees (Festival Advance) Regulations, 1997
10.
Interpretation of Regulations.
- If any question arises as to the interpretation of these regulations, the same shall be decided by the Board.
11.
Repeal and savings.
- All rules corresponding to these regulations and any orders issued in this regard from time to time and in force
immediately before the commencement of these regulations are hereby repealed.
Provided that any order made or any action taken under the regulations so repealed shall be deemed to have been
made or taken under the corresponding provision of these regulations.
Annexure 'A'
[See Regulation 9]
1. Head of Office should ensure that the conditions attached to grant of festival advance are fulfilled and that proper
accounts are maintained and the recoveries of the advance are effected.
2. The payment of advance should be entered invariably by each Head of Office and the Disbursing Officer in the
relevant columns of the Pay Bill Register maintained in Form TR 22-A. Monthly recoveries effected from the individuals
concerned should also be noticed in the recovery column in that register. No separate register merely for watching the
recovery of advance individual-wise is required to be maintained.
monthly abstract of recoveries should be prepared and attached to the Pay Bill for a month by each Head of Office,
copies of the monthly abstracts should be maintained by the Head of Office and kept bound for each year separately.
3. Each Head of Office shall be wholly and solely responsible for effecting the recoveries of such advance.
4. When an employee is transferred from one office to another, the amount of advance paid and the balance (instalment
and amount) outstanding as on date of transfer shall be mentioned in the last pay certificate to be issued by the Head of
Office.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4