
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Debts Recovery Tribunal (Procedure For Appointment As Presiding Officer Of The Tribuna...
The Debts Recovery Tribunal (Procedure For Appointment As
Presiding Officer Of The Tribunal) Rules, 1998.
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/59864310/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Debts Recovery Tribunal (Procedure For Appointment As Presiding Officer Of The Tribunal) Rules, 1998.
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Debts Recovery Tribunal (Procedure For Appointment As Presiding Officer Of The Tribunal) Rules, 1998.
Rule
THE-DEBTS-RECOVERY-TRIBUNAL-PROCEDURE-FOR-APPOINTMENT-AS-PRESIDING-OFFICER-OF-THE-TRIBU
NAL-RULES-1998 of 1998
Published on 19 January 1998
Commenced on 19 January 1998
[This is the version of this document from 19 January 1998.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Debts Recovery Tribunal (Procedure For Appointment As Presiding Officer Of The Tribunal) Rules, 1998.
Published vide vide Notification G.S.R. 31(E), dated 19.1.1998, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2,
Section 3(i), dated 19.1.1998.
21.
/944
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 4 read with clause (e) of sub-section (2) of section 36
of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Debts Recovery Tribunal (Procedure For Appointment As Presiding Officer Of The Tribuna...
51 of 1993
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement
.-(1) These rules may be called The Debts Recovery Tribunal (Procedure for Appointment as Presiding Officer of the
Tribunal) Rules, 1998.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions
.-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (
51 of 1993
);
(b)
"Tribunal" means the Debts Recovery Tribunal established under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act;
(c)
"Presiding Officer" means a person appointed as Presiding Officer of a Tribunal under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the
Act;
(d)
"Reserve Bank" means the Reserve Bank of India constituted under section 3 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (
2 of 1934
);
(e)
all other words and expressions used and not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Method of appointment under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Act
.--(1) For the purpose of appointment to the post of a Presiding Officer, there shall be a Selection Committee consisting
of-
(i)
The Chief Justice of India or a Judge of the Supreme Court of India as nominated by the Chief Justice of India;
(ii)
the Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs);
(iii)
the Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Law and Justice;
(iv)
the Governor of the Reserve Bank or the Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank nominated by the Governor of the
Reserve Bank;
(v)
[ Secretary or Additional Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance, Department of Financial
Services.]
[ Substituted by G.S.R. 3(E), dated 4-1-2011,  (w.e.f. 5-1-2011).]
(2)
The Chief Justice of India or the Judge of the Supreme Court shall be the Chairman of the Selection Committee.
(3)
Any three members of the Committee including the Chairman shall form a quorum for meeting of the Committee.
(4)
[ The Selection Committee may devise its own procedure for including conducting interview for selection and
appointment of Presiding Officer.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Debts Recovery Tribunal (Procedure For Appointment As Presiding Officer Of The Tribuna...
(5)
The Selection Committee shall recommend persons for appointment as Presiding Officer,-
(i)
from amongst the persons from the list of candidates prepared by the Ministry of Finance after inviting necessary
applications; and
(ii)
from amongst judicial officers nominated by a High Court.]
(6)
The Central Government shall on the basis of the recommendations of the Selection Committee make a list of persons
selected for appointment as Presiding Officer and the said list shall be valid for a period of two years. The appointment
of a Presiding Officer shall be made from the list so prepared.
4.
Medical fitness
.-No person shall be appointed as a Presiding Officer unless he is declared medically fit by a Medical Board to be
constituted by the Central Government for the purpose unless he has already been declared fit by an equivalent
authority.
5.
Interpretation
.-If any question arises relating to the interpretation of these rules the same shall be referred to the Central Government
for its decision.
6.
Saving
.-Nothing in these rules shall affect reservations, relaxation of age limit and other concessions required to be provided
for the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, ex-servicemen and other special categories of
persons, in accordance with the orders issued by the Central Government from time to time in this regard.
7.
Oaths of office and secrecy
.-Every person appointed to be Presiding Officer under sub-section (1) of section 4 shall, before entering upon his office,
make and subscribe an oath of office and secrecy in the Forms annexed to these rules.
FORM I
(See rule 7)
Form of oath of office for presiding officer of the debts recovery tribunal
"I ....... (Name of the Presiding Officer) having been appointed as Presiding Officer do solemnly affirm/do swear in the
name of God that I will faithfully and conscientiously discharge my duties as Presiding Officer to the best of my ability,
knowledge and judgment, without fear or favour, affection or ill will.
Name of the presiding officer
Debts recovery tribunal
FORM II
(See rule 7)
Form of oath of secrecy for presiding officer of the debts recovery tribunal
"I ......... (Name of the Presiding Officer) having been appointed as Presiding Officer do solemnly affirm/do swear in the
name of God that I will not directly or indirectly communicate or reveal to any person or persons any matter which shall
be brought under my consideration or shall become known to me as Presiding Officer of said Debts Recovery Tribunal
except as may be required for the due discharge of my duties as the Presiding Officer."
Name of The Presiding Officer
Debts Recovery Tribunal
[ Substituted by G.S.R. 646(E), dated 2-8-2000, for sub-Rules (4) and (5) (w.e.f. 2-8-2000).]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3