
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Minimum Qualifications for Teachers in Medical Institutions Regulations, 1998
The Minimum Qualifications for Teachers in Medical Institutions
Regulations, 1998
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/56077468/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Minimum Qualifications for Teachers in Medical Institutions Regulations, 1998
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Minimum Qualifications for Teachers in Medical Institutions Regulations, 1998
Regulation THE-MINIMUM-QUALIFICATIONS-FOR-TEACHERS-IN of 1998
Published on 1 January 1998
Commenced on 1 January 1998
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1998.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Central Government Act
The Minimum Qualifications for Teachers in Medical Institutions Regulations, 1998
1.
Short title and commencement.
—(1)  These regulations may be called the Minimum Qualifications for Teachers in Medical Institutions Regulations,
1998.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Minimum Qualifications for Teachers in Medical Institutions Regulations, 1998
Objective.  —
Appointment of medical teachers, with minimum qualification and experience in various departments of medical colleges
and institutions imparting graduate and post-graduate medical education is a necessary requirement to maintain a
standard of teaching.
3.
Minimum qualifications for appointment as a teacher.  —
Minimum qualifications for appointment as a teacher in various departments of a medical college or institution imparting
graduate and post-graduate education shall be as specified in the Schedules I and II annexed with these regulations.
THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR TEACHERS IN MEDICAL INSTITUTIONS REGULATIONS, 19981 SCHEDULE
II The following qualifications be treated at par with M.D/M.S awarded by Indian Universities:— 1. Facharzt Fuer
Chirugia (Specialist Surgeon) ( West Germany ). 2. ‘Facharzt Fuer Gynaekologie' (Specialist of Gynaecology) ( West
Germany ). 3. F.R.A.C.S. (Fellowship of the Royal Australian College of Surgeons). 4. ‘Diploma in Certificate D Etudes
Specialist D of Medicine Electro-Radiologie (Certificate of Special Studies of Medical Electro-Radiology) ( Paris, France
). 5. F.R.C.P. ( Canada ), F.R.C.S. ( Canada ). 6. M.C.P.A. (Membership of the College of Pathologists of Australia ). 7.
Diploma in Psychiatry (Mc Gill University) ( Montreal, Canada ). 8. Diploma in Psychiatry ( Edinburgh University ). 9. Dr.
P.H. of John Hopkins, Harvard and California/Universities ( USA ). 10. M.R.C. Path (Lon) F.R.C. Path ( London ). 11.
Facharzt Fuer Innera Frankheiten, (Specialist Internal Medicine) ( West Germany ). 12. Candidates of Sciences (Doctor
of Philosophy) in Medicine Branch Plastic Surgery ( Hungary ) awarded by Hungarian Academy of Medical Sciences
Budapest. 13. Facharzt Fuer Kinderheikunde (Children Specialist) ( West Germany ). 14. M.A.M.S./M.N.A.M.S./D.N.B.
qualification when granted on or after 1st June, 1976 granted by National Board of Examinations, New Delhi after due
examination and fulfilling one year research experience. 15. FFR of U.K. by examination. 16. F.R.C.S. or M.R.C.P. of
Royal Colleges of U.K. 17. M.Ch. (Orthopaedics) ( Liverpool ). 18. Approved qualifications from speciality Boards of
U.S.A. 19. Ph.D. awarded by Supreme Attestation Commission (Moscow) granted to students sponsored by Medical
Council of India or to other students fulfilling the minimum eligibility criteria for admission to undergraduate courses in
India and admitted in the institutions of erstwhile U.S.S.R., recognised by the Medical Council of India, for
undergraduate or postgraduate courses upto 1989. Note: Other qualifications will be evaluated by the Council as and
when reference is received. N.B. 1. M.R.C.P., M.R.C. (Path.), F.R.C.S., F.F.A.R.C.S. refer to the Diploma of
Membership and Fellowship awarded by all the Royal Colleges of U.K., prior to 11-11-1978. 2. Holders of specaility
Boards of U.S.A. qualifications should complete the entire requirements of the Board concerned. 3. In the case of
qualifications in higher specialities (M.Ch. D.M.) the holder should have also obtained M.D.(Gen. Medicine) or M.S.(Gen.
Surgery) or an equivalent qualification as prescribed by the Council in its recommendations on Postgraduate Medical
Education. This requirement may be relaxed in suitable cases in cases of candidates who have obtained M.Ch./D.M.
after a direct 5 years course, which are recognised by the Council. 4. After 31st May, 1977, for all teaching appointments
to posts higher than tutor in higher specialities i.e. Cardiology, Neurology, Thoracic-Surgery, Neuro-Surgery,
Plastic-Surgery, Paediatric-Surgery, Urology, the candidates must possess postgraduate degree qualifications in the
speciality concerned i.e. D.M./M.ch. approved by the Council from time to time. Where teachers with DM/M.Ch.
qualifications are not available in respect of the courses which have not yet been started, matter regarding relaxation of
qualification and experience of Postgraduate teachers may be taken up with the Medical Council of India: Provided that
the requirements of possessing a postgraduate degree qualification in the concerned higher speciality shall not be
applicable for higher appointments in the case of existing teachers holding regular teaching posts whose appointment
was initially made on the basis of two years special training in the speciality after the requisite M.D./M.S. 5. All British
qualifications obtained after 11-11-1978 will cease to be recognised qualifications. 6. From January, 1985 all fresh
entrants as teachers in medical college should have the requisite recognised Indian Postgraduate medical qualifications
(recognised by the Medical Council of India). --------------- 1. Vide Notification No. MCI-12(2)/98-Med., published in the
Gazette of India, Pt. III, Sec. 4, dated 5th December, 1998.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2