
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Cochin Port Trust Employees (House Building Advance) Family Benefit Fund Regulations, ...
The Cochin Port Trust Employees (House Building Advance) Family
Benefit Fund Regulations, 1998
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/29793545/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Cochin Port Trust Employees (House Building Advance) Family Benefit Fund Regulations, 1998
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Cochin Port Trust Employees (House Building Advance) Family Benefit Fund Regulations, 1998
Rule
THE-COCHIN-PORT-TRUST-EMPLOYEES-HOUSE-BUILDING-ADVANCE-FAMILY-BENEFIT-FUND-REGULATIONS-
1998 of 1998
Published on 5 November 1998
Commenced on 5 November 1998
[This is the version of this document from 5 November 1998.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Cochin Port Trust Employees (House Building Advance) Family Benefit Fund Regulations, 1998
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2, Section 3(i), dated 5th November, 1998 (w.e.f. 5th
November, 1998)
1949.
G.S.R. 657(E), dated 5th November, 1998. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of Section 124, read
with Sub-section (i) of Section 21 of the Major Ports Act, 1963 (38 of 1963), the Central Government hereby approves
the Cochin Port Trust Employees (HBA) Family Benefit Regulations, 1998 made by the Board of Trustees for the Port of
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Cochin Port Trust Employees (House Building Advance) Family Benefit Fund Regulations, ...
Cochin and set in the table annexed to this notification.
The said regulations shall come into force on the date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette.
Schedule
Cochin Port Trust Employees
(House Building Advance)
Family Benefit Fund Regulations, 1998
1.
Short title and application.
(a)
These Regulations may be called the 'Cochin Port Trust Employees' (House Building Advance) Family Benefit Fund
Regulations, 1998.
(b)
These Regulations shall apply to those officers/employees of the Board who have already availed the House Building
Advance from the Port Trust and are willing to join the scheme and those who avail H.B.A. after the commencement of
the Regulation.
2.
Commencement.
- It shall take effect from the date of publication in the Gazette of India.
3.
Definitions.
- In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires----
(a)
The "Act" means the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963.
(b)
"Board" and "Chairman" shall have the meanings assigned to them under the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963.
(c)
"Employee" means Officer/Employee/Worker to whom the Regulations apply under 1 (b) above.
(d)
"Fund" means the Cochin Port Trust Employees House Building Advance Family Benefit Fund for meeting the
undischarged liability towards H.B.A.
(e)
"Financial Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer", Secretary" shall mean the Board's Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts
Officer and Secretary respectively.
4.
Object.
- The object of the Regulations is to compensate from the Fund the undischarged liability towards H.B.A. availed the
Board only including in thereon in the case of an employee who dies in harness, while in Service subject to the rolling
limits of Financial assistences.
5.
Constitution of the Fund.
(a)
A Fund styled the "Cochin Port Trust Employees" (House Building Advance) Family Benefit Fund shall be constituted
with the contribution made monthly by the employees of the Board who have already availed/avail the H.B.A. and with
the contribution by the Board.
(b)
An account called the "Cochin Port Trust Employees" (House Building Advance) Family Benefit Fund shall be opened in
the State Bank of India, W/Island.
6.
Contribution to the Fund.
(a)
Every employees to whom the Regulations apply shall make a non-refundable subscription of Rs. 25 (Rupees twenty
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Cochin Port Trust Employees (House Building Advance) Family Benefit Fund Regulations, ...
five only) per month and such subscription should continue to be paid by him/her till the date of his/her retirement on
superannuation or otherwise or till repayment of the H.B.A. together with interest accrued thereon, whichever is earlier.
In respect of future entrants subscription will commence from the pay of the month immediately following that in which
the first instalments of the H.B.A. is disbursed either for the outright purchase of the house or for the purchase of plot or
for construction. If during any month, recovery of subscription could not be made for any reason, such dues will be
recovered from the subsequent pay bill or of their settlement dues.
(b)
The Board shall make contribution of Rs. 12.50 (Rupees twelve and paise fifty only) per mensem per employee, at the
beginning of each financial year on the basis of the number of employees covered by the provisions of the Regulations,
the excess or short contribution by the Board for that financial year been made good at the time of the next payment of
contribution.
7.
Payment in the event of death while in service.
- In the case of an employee dying while in service, the amount due from/her i.e., the principal and interest to shall be
reimbursed to the Port Trust Board by meeting the same from the fund, provided the subscription to the Fund has been
commenced and continued till the month of his death. However, in cases where the recovery of the employee's
subscription could not be effected regularly from the employee's salary due to application of the provisions of the
Payment of Wages Act due to the prolonged illness of the employee duly certified by the Port Trust's Chief Medical
Officer or due to any other reason excepting in cases where such lapses were committed wilfully, the arrears of
subscription shall be adjusted from any interest payable to the employee by the Trust. The balance amount, if any,
should be discharged by the nominee. The Board, when it deems appropriate shall enhance the limit of Rs. 75,000 to a
higher amount or shall remove the limit when it is convinced to the financial viability of the scheme.
8.
Administration of the Fund.
(a)
The fund shall be administered by a committee consisting of the Chairman, Financial Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer
and the Secretary.
(b)
The fund shall be operated by the Financial Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer and Secretary, jointly to any other
Officer not below the above rank, authorised by the Chairman, in his behalf.
(c)
The investment of the amount available in the fund shall be made by the Financial Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer in
such a way as may be decided by the Chairman from time to time.
(d)
The committee shall, if it decides to be prudent, arrange for insurance of the enrolled members of the scheme against
death arising out of accident for suitable insured amounts, paying the premium for the fund
(e)
The claims for payment from the fund shall be processed by the Financial Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer and put up
to the committee.
9.
Accounts and audit.
- The Financial Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer shall arrange to maintain the necessary books of account and audit
by one of the officers under his control in Administering the Fund.
10.
Interpretation.
- If any question arises relating to the interpretation of these Regulations, the same shall be referred to the Board.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3