
----- PAGE 1 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of Namibia for the avoidance of double
taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on
income and capital gains
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/93285913/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Namibia for the
avoidance of double taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and capital gains
UNION OF INDIA
India
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Namibia for the
avoidance of double taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and capital gains
Rule
CONVENTION-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-R
EPUBLIC-OF-NAMIBIA-FOR-THE-AVOIDANCE-OF-DOUBLE-TAXATION-AND-PREVENTION-OF-FISCAL-EVASION-
WITH-RESPECT-TO-TAXES-ON-INCOME-AND-CAPITAL-GAINS of 1999
Published on 8 March 1999
Commenced on 8 March 1999
[This is the version of this document from 8 March 1999.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/14
----- PAGE 2 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Namibia for the
avoidance of double taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and capital gains
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 196(E), dated 8th March, 1999
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Revenue)
(Foreign Tax Division)
Income-Tax
G.S.R. 196(E). - Whereas the convention stated in the Schedule below, between the Government of the Republic of
India and the Government of the Republic of Namibia for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal
evasion with respect to taxes on income and capital gains has entered into force on the 22nd January, 1999, on the
notification by both the Contracting States to each other of the completion of the procedures as required by Article 29 of
the said Convention:
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central
Government hereby directs that all the provisions of the Convention stated in the Schedule shall be given effect to in the
Union of India.
Schedule
The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Namibia, desiring to conclude a
Convention for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income
and capital gains,
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Personal Scope
This Convention shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
Article 2
Taxes Covered
1.
The taxes to which this Convention shall apply are:
(a)
in Namibia:
(i)
the income-tax;
(ii)
the non-resident shareholders' tax; and
(iii)
the petroleum income-tax;
(hereinafter referred to as "Namibian tax");
(b)
in India:
income-tax (including any surcharge thereon)
(hereinafter referred to as "Indian tax").
2.
This Convention shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes which are imposed after the date of
signature of the Convention in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes referred to in paragraph 1. The competent
authorities of the Contracting States shall notify each other of any substantial changes which have been made in their
respective taxation laws, and if it seems desirable to amend any article of this Convention without affecting the general
principles thereof, the necessary amendments may be made by mutual consent.
Article 3
General Definitions
1. For the purposes of this Convention, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
the term "Namibia" means the Republic of Namibia and when used in a geographical sense, includes the territorial sea
Page 2/14
----- PAGE 3 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
as well as the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf, over which Namibia exercises sovereign rights in
accordance with its internal law and subject to international law, concerning the exploration and exploitation of the
natural resources of the sea-bed and its sub-soil and the superjacent waters;
(b)
the term "India" means the territory of India and includes territorial sea and airspace above it, as well as any other
maritime zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and jurisdiction, according to the Indian law and in
accordance with international law, including the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982;
(c)
the terms "a Contracting State", and "the other Contracting State" means Namibia or India, as the context requires;
(d)
the term "person" includes an individual, a company, a body of persons and any other entity which is treated as a
taxable unit under the taxation laws in force in the respective Contracting States;
(e)
the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity which is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(f)
the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively an
enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other
Contracting State;
(g)
the term "international traffic" means any transport by ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise which has its place of
effective management in a Contracting State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the
other Contracting State;
(h)
the term "national" means:
(i)
any individual possessing the citizenship of a Contracting State;
(ii)
any legal person, partnership and association deriving its status as such from the law in force in a Contracting State;
(i)
the term "competent authority" means:
(i)
in the case of Namibia, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance who is the Chief Executive Officer and
Administrator of Namibian Tax Laws or his or her authorised representative;
(ii)
in the case of India, the Central Government in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) or its authorised
representative;
(j)
the term "tax" means Indian tax or Namibian tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any interest or any
amount which is payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this Convention applies or
which represents a penalty imposed relating to those taxes.
2. As regards the application of the Convention by a Contracting State, any term not defined therein shall, unless the
context otherwise requires, have the meaning which it has under the law of that State concerning the taxes to which this
Convention applies.
Article 4
Resident
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any individual who is ordinarily
resident, or has his or her domicile in that State and any company or other body of persons which has its place of
effective management or incorporation in that State.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1, an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his or
her status shall be determined as follows:
(a)
Page 3/14
----- PAGE 4 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
he or she shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which he or she has a permanent home available to him or
her; if he or she has a permanent home available to him or her in both States, he or she shall be deemed to be a
resident of the State with which his or her personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);
(b)
if the State in which he or she has his or her centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he or she has not a
permanent home available to him or her in either State, he or she shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which
he or she has a habitual abode;
(c)
if he or she has a habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he or she shall be deemed to be a resident of the
State of which he or she is a national;
(d)
if he or she is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall
settle the question by mutual agreement.
3.
Where, by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1, a person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which its place of effective management is situated. In
case of doubt the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
Article 5
Permanent Establishment
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:
(a)
a place of management;
(b)
a branch;
(c)
an office;
(d)
a factory;
(e)
a workshop;
(f)
a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources;
(g)
an installation or structure used for the exploration of natural resources, provided that the installation or structure
continues for a period of not less than six months;
(h)
a warehouse, in relation to a person providing storage facilities for others; and
(i)
in the case of Namibia, a guest farm or other operation of a similar nature;
3. The term "permanent establishment" likewise encompasses:
(a)
a building site, a construction, assembly or installation project or supervisory activities in connection therewith, but only
where such site, project or activity continues for a period of more than six months; or
(b)
the furnishing of services, excluding those referred to in Article 14, by an enterprise of a Contracting State through
employees or other personnel engaged in the other Contracting State, provided that such activities continue for the
same project or a connected project for a period or periods aggregating more than six months within any twelve months
period.
4.
Page 4/14
----- PAGE 5 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to
include:
(a)
the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display or the occasional delivery of goods or merchandise
belonging to the enterprise;
(b)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage,
display or occasional delivery;
(c)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprises solely for the purpose of processing by
another enterprise;
(d)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of collecting
information, for the enterprise;
(e)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity of
a preparatory or auxiliary character;
(f)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a) to
(e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or
auxiliary character.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1, and 6, where a person other than an agent of an independent status to
whom paragraph 6 applies is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting State, that
enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned Contracting State in respect of any
activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, if such person-
(a)
has and habitually exercises in that State, an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise, unless the
activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through a fixed place of
business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that
paragraph; or
(b)
has no such authority, but nevertheless maintains habitually in the first-mentioned Contracting State a stock of goods or
merchandise from which he or she regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise.
6.
An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting
State merely because it carries on business in that other State through a broker, general commission agent or any other
agent of an independent status, provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. However,
when the activities of such an agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise, he or she will not
be considered an agent of an independent status within the meaning of this paragraph.
7.
The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a
resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent
establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
Article 6
Income from Immovable Property
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture or
forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be also taxed in that other State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which
the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry..rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed
Page 5/14
----- PAGE 6 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working
of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources. Ships, boats and aircrafts shall not be
regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of
immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 5 shall also apply to the income' from immovable property of an enterprise and to
income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
5. Where the ownership of shares or other rights in a company or legal person entitles the owner to the enjoyment of
immovable property situated in a Contracting State and held by that company or legal person, income derived by the
owner from the direct use, letting or use in any other form of his or her right of enjoyment may be taxed in that State.
The provisions of this paragraph shall apply notwithstanding the provisions of Article 7 or 15.
Article 7
Business Profits
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on
business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on
business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is
attributable to that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other
Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall, in each Contracting State, be
attributed to that permanent establishment the pro fits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly
independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In determination of the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which
are incurred for the purposes of the business of permanent establishment, including executive and general
administrative expenses, so incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or
elsewhere in accordance with the provisions of and subject to the limitations of the laws of that State. However, no such
deduction shall be allowed in respect of amounts, if any, paid (otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual
expenses) by the permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices, by way of
royalties, fees or other similar payments in return for the use of patents or other rights, or by way of commission, for
specific services performed or for management, or, except in the case of a banking enterprise, by way of interest on
moneys lent to. the permanent establishment. Likewise, no account shall be taken, in the determination of the profits of
a permanent establishment, for amounts charged (otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual expenses), by the
permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices, by way of royalties, fees or other
similar payments in return for the use of patents or other rights, or by way of commission for specific services performed
or for management, or, except in the case of a banking enterprise by way of interest on moneys lent to the head office of
the enterprise or any of its other offices.
4. In so far as it has been customary in a Contracting State to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanent
establishment on the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in
paragraph 2 shall preclude that Contracting State from determining the profits to be taxed by such an apportionment as
may be customary. The method of apportionment adopted shall, however, be such that the result shall be in accordance
with the principles contained in this Article.
5. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
6. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be
determined by the same method year-by year unless there is good reason to the contrary.
7. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other articles of this Convention, then the
provisions of those articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this article.
Article 8
Shipping and Air Transport
1. Profits from the operation or charter of ships or aircraft in international traffic and the rental of containers and related
equipment which is incidental to the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be taxable only in the
Page 6/14
----- PAGE 7 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
Contracting State in which the place of effective management of the enterprise is situated.
2. If the place of effective management of a shipping enterprise is aboard a ship or boat, then it shall be deemed to be
situated in the Contracting State in which the home harbour of the ship or boat is situated, or, if there is no such home
harbour, in the Contracting State of which the operator of the ship or boat is resident.
3. For the purposes of this Article, interest on funds connected with the operation of ships or aircraft in international
traffic shall be regarded as profits derived from the operation of such ships or aircraft and the provisions of Article 11
shall not apply in relation to such interest.
4. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or an
international operating agency.
Article 9
Associated Enterprises
1. Where:
(a)
an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an
enterprise of the other Contracting State; or
(b)
the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting
State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations
which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for
those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may
be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State-and taxes accordingly-profits on which
an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included are
profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between the two
enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shall
make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such
adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Convention and the competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall if necessary consult each other.
Article 10
Dividends
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the dividends the tax so
charged shall not exceed 10 per cent. of the gross amount of the dividends.
This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this article means income from shares of all kinds or other rights, not being
debt-claims, participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same
taxation treatment as income from shares by the laws of the State of which the company making the distribution is a
resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal
services from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or 15, as the case
may be, shall apply.
Article 11
Interest
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.
Page 7/14
----- PAGE 8 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of that
State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the interest the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent. of the
gross amount of the interest.
3. Interest arising in a Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that State provided it is derived and beneficially
owned by:
(a)
the Government, a political sub-division or a local authority of the other Contracting State; or
(b)
such agency or instrumentality of the Government of the other Contracting State as may be agreed in writing between
the competent authorities of both the Contracting States.
4. The term "interest" as used in this article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by
mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profit, and in particular income, from
Government securities, and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of
this article.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 2 and shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such a case the provisions of Article 7 or 15 as the case may be, shall apply.
6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State itself, a political sub-division, a
local authority or a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the interest, whether he or she is a
resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in
connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was incurred, and such interest is borne by such
permanent establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent
establishment or fixed base is situated.
7. Where by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
provisions of this article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case the excess part of the payments
shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this
Convention.
Article 12
Royalties
1. Royalties arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that
other State.
2. However, such royalties may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise and according to the laws of
that State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the royalties, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent. of
the gross amount of the royalties.
3. The term "royalties" as used in this article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or
the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work, including cinematograph films and films or tapes used
for radio or television broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model, computer programme, plan, secret formula
or process, or for the use of or the right to use industrial, commercial or scientific equipment involving a transfer of
know-how or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 2 and shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the royalties arise, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the right of property in respect of which the royalties are paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 15, as the case may be, shall apply.
5. Royalties shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State itself, a political sub-division, a
local authority or a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the royalties, whether he or she is a
Page 8/14
----- PAGE 9 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in
connection with which the liability to pay the royalties was incurred, and such royalties are borne by such permanent
establishment or fixed base, then such royalties shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent
establishment or fixed base is situated.
6. Where by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of royalties having regard to the use, right or information for which they are paid,
exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such
relationship, the provisions of this article shall apply only to the last mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of
the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other
provisions of this Convention.
Article 13
Capital Gains
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6
and situated in the other Contracting State, or from the alienation of shares in a company the assets of which consist
principally of such property, may also be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed
base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing
independent personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or
with the whole enterprise) or of such fixed base, may also be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international traffic or movable property pertaining to the
operation of such ships or aircraft, shall be taxable only in the Contracting State in which the place of effective
management of the enterprise is situated.
4. Gains from the alienation of shares or similar rights being shares in a company, the assets of which consist principally
of immovable property situated in a Contracting State, may also be taxed in that State. Gains from the alienation of an
interest in a partnership, trust or estate, the property of which consists principally of immovable property situated in a
Contracting State, may also be taxed in that State.
5. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the sale, exchange or other disposition, directly or indirectly,
of shares other than those mentioned in paragraph 4, or similar rights in a company which is a resident of the other
Contracting State may also be taxed in that other State.
6. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to hereinabove, shall be taxable only in the
Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
Article 14
Fees for Technical Services
1. Fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State which are derived by a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such fees for technical services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise, and
according to the laws of that State; but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the fees for the technical services, the
tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent. of the gross amount of such fees.
3. The term "fees for technical services" as used in this article means payment of any kind to any person, other than to
an employee of the person making the payments, in consideration for any services of a technical, managerial or
consultancy nature.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 4 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the fees for technical services, being a
resident of a Contracting State carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the fees for technical services
arise through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services,
and the fees for the technical services are effectively connected with such permanent establishment or such services. In
such case, the provisions of Article 7 or 15, as the case may be, shall apply.
5. Fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State itself, a
political sub-division, a local authority or a statutory body thereof, or a resident of that State. Where, however, the
person paying the fees for technical services, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting
State a permanent establishment in connection with which the obligation to pay the fees for technical services was
Page 9/14
----- PAGE 10 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
incurred, and such fees for technical services are borne by that permanent establishment, then such fees for technical
services shall be deemed to arise in the Contracting State in which the permanent establishment is situated.
6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the recipient or between both of them and some
other person, the amount of the fees paid for technical services, exceeds for whatever reason, the amount which would
have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this
article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable
according to the law of each Contracting State due regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.
Article 15
independent Personal Services
1. Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State in respect of professional services or other
activities of an independent character shall be taxable only in that State. Such income may also be taxed in the other
Contracting State if:-
(a)
the individual has a fixed base regularly available to him or her in that other State for the purpose of performing his or
her activities, but only so much thereof as is attributable to that fixed base; or
(b)
the individual is present in that other State for a period or periods exceeding in the aggregate 183 days within any period
of 12 months, but only so much thereof as is attributable to services performed in that State.
2. The term "professional services" includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching
activities as well as independent activities of medical practitioners, lawyers, engineers, architects, dentists and
accountants.
Article 16
Dependent Personal Services
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 17, 19, 20 and 21 salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a
resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is
exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived there from
may be taxed in that other State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of
an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first mentioned State if.-
(a)
the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days within any
period of 12 months and
(b)
the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State; and
(c)
the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in the other State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this article, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in
respect of an employment exercised aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic may be taxed in the
Contracting State in which the place of effective management of the enterprise is situated.
Article 17
Directors' Fees
Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his or her capacity as a
member of the board of directors of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that
other State.
Article 18
Artistes and Sportspersons
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 15 and 16, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
artiste, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson from his or her
personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an artiste or a sportsperson in his or her capacity as such
accrues not to the artiste or sportsperson but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the provisions of
Page 10/14
----- PAGE 11 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
Articles 7, 15 and 16 be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the artiste or sportsperson are exercised.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, income derived by an artiste or sportsperson from his or her
personal activities as such shall be exempt from tax in the Contracting State in which these activities are exercised if the
activities are exercised within the framework of a visit which is substantially supported by the other Contracting State, a
political sub-division, a local authority or a public institution thereof.
Article 19
Pensions and Annuities
1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of article 20, pensions and other similar remuneration for past employment or
any annuity arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State, shall be taxable only in
the first mentioned State.
2. The term "annuity" means a stated sum payable periodically at stated times during life or during a specified or
ascertainable period of time under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full consideration in
money or money's worth.
Article 20
Government Service
1. (a) Remuneration, other than pension, paid by a Contracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority
thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or sub-division or authority shall be taxable only in
that State.
(b)
However, such remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the services are rendered in that
other State and the individual is a resident of that State who
(i)
is a national of that State; or
(ii)
did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority
thereof, to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or sub-division or authority shall be taxable only in
that State;
3. The provisions of Articles 16, 17 and 19 shall apply to remuneration and pensions in respect of services rendered in
connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority thereof.
Article 21
Professors, Teachers and Students
1. Remuneration received for educational or scientific research by an individual who is or was immediately before
visiting a Contracting State a resident of the other Contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned State for
the purpose of scientific research or for teaching at an educational institution shall be exempt from tax in the
first-mentioned State. This exemption shall be granted for a period that shall not exceed two years from the date on
which the teacher or researcher first entered the first-mentioned State for the purposes of engaging in scientific research
or for teaching. This article shall not apply to income from research if such research is undertaken not in the public
interest but primarily for the private benefit of a specific person or persons.
2. (a) Payments which a student or a business apprentice who is or was immediately before visiting a Contracting State
a resident of the other Contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned State solely for the purpose of his
education or training receives for the purpose of his maintenance, education or training shall not be taxed in that State,
provided that such payments arise from sources outside that State.
(b)
Payments which a student or business apprentice receives as remuneration from employment in the first-mentioned
State shall be exempted from ' tax in the first-mentioned State. This benefit shall extend only for such period of time as
may be reasonable or customarily required to complete the education or training undertaken, but in no event shall any
individual have the benefit of this provision for more than three consecutive years from the date of his or her first arrival
in the first mentioned Contracting State.
Article 22
Other Income
Page 11/14
----- PAGE 12 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
Items of income not dealt with in the foregoing articles of this Convention and derived from sources within a Contracting
State shall be taxable only in that State.
Article 23
Elimination of Double Taxation
1. In Namibia, double taxation shall be eliminated as follows:
Where a resident of Namibia derives income or capital gains from India, the amount of tax on that income or gains
payable whether directly or by deduction, in India in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, may be credited
against the Namibian tax imposed on that resident. The amount of credit, however, shall not exceed the amount of the
Namibian tax on that income or gains computed in accordance with the taxation laws and regulations of Namibia.
2. In India, double taxation shall be eliminated as follows:-
Where a resident of India derives income or capital gains from Namibia, which in accordance with the provisions of this
Convention may be taxed in Namibia, then India shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident
an amount equal to the tax on income or capital gains paid in Namibia whether directly or by deduction.
Article 24
Limitation of Benefits
1. If, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, the right of India to tax income is limited and according to the
Namibian tax laws the income is regarded as income from foreign sources and, therefore, exempted from Namibian tax,
India may tax such income as if this Convention did not exist.
2. If, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, the right of Namibia to tax income from Namibian sources or
deemed to be from Namibian sources is limited and if such income is in accordance with the Indian tax laws not taxed in
India, Namibia may tax such income as if this Convention did not exist.
Article 25
Non-Discrimination
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State, to any taxation or any
requirement connected therewith, which is more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which
nationals of that other State in the same circumstances are or may be subjected. This provision shall, notwithstanding
the provisions of Article 1 also apply to persons who are not residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State
carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as preventing a Contracting State from charging
the profits of a permanent establishment which a company of the other Contracting State has in the first-mentioned
State at a rate of tax which is higher than that imposed on the profits of a similar company of the first mentioned
Contracting State, nor as being in conflict with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 7 of this Convention.
3. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 7 of Article 11, paragraph 6 of Article 12, or
paragraph 6 of Article 14 apply, interest, royalties, fees for technical services and other disbursements paid by an
enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State shall for the purpose of determining the
taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible under the same conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the
first-mentioned State.
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by
one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any taxation
or any requirement connected therewith which is more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to
which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
5. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to residents of the other Contracting
State any personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for taxation purposes on account of civil status or family
responsibilities which it grants to its own residents.
Article 26
Mutual Agreement Procedure
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him or her in
taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, he or she may, irrespective of the remedies provided
by the domestic laws of those States, present his or her case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of
which he or she is a resident or, if his or her case comes under Paragraph 1 of Article 25, to that of the Contracting State
Page 12/14
----- PAGE 13 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
of which he or she is a national. The case must be presented within three years from the first notification of the action
resulting in taxation not in accordance with the provisions of the Convention.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive
at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracting
State with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Convention. Any agreement reached
shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic laws of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties
or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Convention. They may also consult together for the
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Convention.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of
reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs.
Article 27
Exchange of Information
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information (including documents) as are
necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Convention or of the domestic laws of the Contracting States concerning
taxes covered by the Convention, in so far as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Convention, in particular for
the prevention of fraud or evasion of such taxes. The exchange of information if not restricted by article 1. Any
information received by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as information obtained under
the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative
bodies) involved in the assessment, or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in respect of, or the determination of
appeals in relation to, the taxes covered by the Convention. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only
for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions.
2. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:-
(a)
to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other
Contracting State;
(b)
to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of that or of the
other Contracting State;
(c)
to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial, or professional secret, or trade
process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy.
Article 28
Diplomatic Agents and Consular Officers
Nothing in this Convention, shall affect any fiscal privileges accorded to members of diplomatic or permanent missions
or consular posts under the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 29
Entry into Force
Each of the Contracting States shall notify to the other through diplomatic channels, the completion of the procedures
required by its laws for the bringing into force of this Convention. This Convention shall enter into force on the date of
the, later of these notifications and shall thereupon have effect
(a)
in Namibia
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or created on or after the first day of March in the calendar year
next following that in which this Convention enters into force; and
(ii)
in respect of other taxes, for any year of assessment beginning on or after the first day of March in the calendar year
next following that in which the Convention enters into force.
(b)
in India:
Page 13/14
----- PAGE 14 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on or after the first day of April in the calendar year
next following that in which the Convention enters into force; and
(ii)
in respect of other taxes, for any fiscal year beginning on or after the first day of April in the calendar year next following
that in which the Convention enters into force;
Article 30
Termination
1. This Convention shall remain in force until terminated by one of the Contracting States. Either Contracting State may
terminate the Convention, through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination at least six months before the end
of, a y calendar year beginning after the expiry of five years from the date of, entry into force of the Convention. In such
event, the Convention shall cease to have effect:-
(a)
in Namibia:
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on or after the first day of March in the calendar year
next following that in which the notice is given; and
(ii)
in respect of other taxes, for any year of assessment beginning on or after the first day of March in the calendar year
next following that in which the notice is given;
(b)
in India:
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on or after the first day of April in the calendar year
next following that in which the notice is given; and
(ii)
in respect of other taxes, for any fiscal year beginning on or after the first day of April in the calendar year next following
that in which the notice is given;
In witness whereof the undersigned, duly authorised thereto, have signed this Convention.
Done in duplicate at New Delhi, this 15th day of February 1997, in the English and Hindi languages, both the texts being
equally authentic. In case of any divergence in interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
For the Government of the Republic of India
For the Government of the Republic of Namibia
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 14/14