
----- PAGE 1 -----
Import Of Equine Species Of Animals From The Countries Where Contagious Equine Metritis Is...
Import Of Equine Species Of Animals From The Countries Where
Contagious Equine Metritis Is Reported
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/168632748/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Import Of Equine Species Of Animals From The Countries Where Contagious Equine Metritis Is Reported
UNION OF INDIA
India
Import Of Equine Species Of Animals From The Countries Where Contagious Equine Metritis Is Reported
Rule
IMPORT-OF-EQUINE-SPECIES-OF-ANIMALS-FROM-THE-COUNTRIES-WHERE-CONTAGIOUS-EQUINE-METRITIS
-IS-REPORTED of 1999
Published on 11 August 1999
Commenced on 11 August 1999
[This is the version of this document from 11 August 1999.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Import Of Equine Species Of Animals From The Countries Where Contagious Equine Metritis Is Reported
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 585(E), dated 11th August, 1999
Ministry of Agriculture
(Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying)
G.S.R. 585(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Livestock Importation Act,
1898 (Act
9 of 1898
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Import Of Equine Species Of Animals From The Countries Where Contagious Equine Metritis Is...
) as amended by Livestock Importation Amendment Act, 1953 (Act 1 of 1953) and in supersession of the notification of
the Government of India in the Ministry of Agriculture No. 50-22/77-LDT(AQ)/Pt. dated the 4th February, 1998, the
Central Government hereby prohibits with immediate effect import of equine species of animals from the countries
where Contagious Equine Metritis is reported during the last three years, or from any other country whose equine stock
meant for import into India had originated from, or reared in, or visited any of the Contagious Equine Metritis Infected
countries during the immediate past two years prior to importation, except males upto seven years and females upto five
years of age which have never been meted or were in contact with the breeding stock: -
Provided that, in addition to the health requirements specified under the Act, the equines to be imported into India are
accompanied by a Veterinary Health Certificate from an authorised Veterinarian stating that the animals have not been
in contact with the breeding stock during the last two years and that the swabs collected from prepuce, urethra, vagina
and cervix of these animals were found negative for pathogenic micro-organisms specifically Taylorella equigenitalis, by
standard culture on three consecutive testing during thirty days immediately prior to embarkation for export:
Provided further that such imported equines on arrival in India shall be kept in quarantine for a minimum period of thirty
days at the Government Quarantine Stations. During this quarantine period, the imported equines shall be subjected to
bacteriological and serological examinations by recognised laboratories, on three consecutive occasions, conducted at
weekly intervals and shall be permitted to mix with other stock only when declared negative for Contagious Equine
Metritis infection and Quarantine Officer shall examine the equine as per health protocol specified in the Schedule;
The equine shall only be imported through the international airports of Delhi, Calcutta, Mumbai and Chennai, or any
other airport notified by the Government from time to time.
Schedule
Health Protocol for Importation of Equines
1.
The equines should come from a country free from African Horse Sickness.
(a)
. In case of Thoroughbred horses, import will be allowed for breeding purposes only.
2.
During one hundred eighty days immediately prior to export, the equine should have not visited any country where
African Horse Sickness occurred in the past two years immediately preceding the export.
3.
The equine being imported has been kept in isolation for thirty days in an approved Government quarantine station and
subjected to the following tests with negative results :
Disease
Diagnostic Test
(1)
(2)
(3)
Glanders
Mallein/Complement Fixation Test (CFT)
Fifteen days before embarkation.
Dourine
Complement Fixation Test (CFT)
Fifteen days before embarkation.
Equine Infections Anaemia
Coggins (Immunodiffusion Test)
Thirty days before embarkation.
Infections Equine Abortion (Salmonella abortus equi)
Serum Agglutination Test (titre not greater than one/three
thousand)
Fifteen days before embarkation.
Equine Viral Arteritis (EVA)
Virus Neutralisation Test
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Import Of Equine Species Of Animals From The Countries Where Contagious Equine Metritis Is...
Two occasions at least fourteen
days apart with negative result during twenty eight days prior
to shipment
Contagious Equine Metritis
Culture of microorganism
Three consecutive tests at weekly
interval during pre-export quarantine period with negative
results.
Equine Piroplasmosis (Babesia equi and Babesia caballi)
Complement Fixation Test (CFT)/ Indirect Fluorescent Antibody
Test (IFAT)
30 days before embarkation.
Venezuelan equine Encephalomyelitis
Haemagghitination Inhibition (HI)/ Complemont Fixation Test
(CFT)/ Plaque Reduction Neutralisation Test (PRNT)
Not less than fourteen days after
the commencement of pre-export quarantine.
Equine Morbilli Virus
Serum Neutralisation Test(SNT)
N.B. : No testing is necessary in respect of such diseases which do not occur in the exporting country. However, a
certificate from a qualified veterinarian should be furnished certifying freedom from the disease.
4.
The equines should not show any clinical signs or symptoms of infectious or contagious diseases including African
Horse Sickness, Epizootic Lymphangitis, Ulcerative Lymphangitis, Trypansomosis, Dourine, Equine Piroplasmosis,
Equine Rhiopneumonitis, Equine Encephmyelitis, Equine Influenza, Equine Infectious Anaemia, Potomac Horse Fever,
Getah Virus and Vesicular Stomatitis on the day of shipment and during the three month prior to shipment.
5.
The equines have to be kept for three months prior to shipment in an establishment where no infectious or contagious
disease was reported and no such diseases reported in a radius of twenty kilometers around such establishment.
6.
All animals prior to export should have been vaccinated with Equine Influenza (Killed) bivalent vaccine, and the last
vaccination should be within fifteen to thirty days prior to embarkation.
7.
All equipments, containers, vehicles and parts of the vessels or aircraft used for transportation of the equines were
cleaned and disinfected using disinfectant approved for the purpose by the Government Veterinary Authorities.
8.
After import in India, the equines should be kept in quarantine for a minimum period of (thirty) days at the Government
Quarantine Station or premises specifically approved by the Ministry of Agriculture for this purpose. During this
quarantine period, the equines shall be subjected to standard culture and serological examination for contagious equine
metritis infection by a recognised laboratory on three consecutive occasions at seven days interval and shall be
permitted to mix with other stock only when declared negative for Contagious Equine Metritis infection.
9.
Equines imported from countries other than those reported infectious must not have been boarded in any of the infected
countries during the period commencing twelve months prior to embarkation for export from the exporting country.
9.1
A certificate issued by an authorised verterinarian of the exporting country to the effect that the country has remained
free of Contagious Equine Metritis disease during the three years immediately prior to export must accompany the
consignment.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3