
----- PAGE 1 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion
with Respect to Taxes on Income
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/133302598/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and
Tobago for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
UNION OF INDIA
India
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and
Tobago for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
Rule
CONVENTION-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-R
EPUBLIC-OF-TRINIDAD-AND-TOBAGO-FOR-THE-AVOIDANCE-OF-DOUBLE-TAXATION-AND-THE-PREVENTION-
OF-FISCAL-EVASION-WITH-RESPECT-TO-TAXES-ON-INCOME of 1999
Published on 26 October 1999
Commenced on 26 October 1999
[This is the version of this document from 26 October 1999.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/15
----- PAGE 2 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and
Tobago for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 720(E), dated 26th October, 1999
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Revenue)
(Foreign Tax Division)
Income-Tax
G.S.R. 720(E). - Whereas the annexed Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal
evasion with respect to taxes on income, has entered into force on the thirteenth day of October, 1999, thirty days after
the receipt of the later of the notifications by both the Contracting States to each other of the completion of the
procedures required under their laws for bringing into force of the said Convention in accordance with article 29 of the
said Convention;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Income-tax Act, 1961(43 of 1961), the Central
Government hereby directs that all the provisions of the said Convention shall be given effect to in the Union of India.
The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago desiring to
conclude a Convention for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on
income and with a view to promoting economic cooperation between the two countries have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Personal Scope
This Convention shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
Article 2
Taxes Covered
1.
This Convention shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its political subdivisions
or local authorities irrespective of the manner in which they are levied,
2.
There shall be regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income or on elements of income including taxes
on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property, taxes on the total amounts of wages or salaries Paid by
enterprises, as well as taxes on capital appreciation,
3.
The existing taxes which are the subject of this Convention are:-
(a)
in the case of Trinidad and Tobago, the corporation tax, the income tax, the unemployment levy and the petroleum
profits tax (hereinafter referred to as "Trinidad and 'Tobago tax");
(b)
in the case of India, the income tax, including any surcharge thereon (hereinafter referred to as "Indian tax").
4.
This Convention shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes which are imposed by a Contracting State
after the date of signature of this Convention in addition to, or in place of, the taxes referred to in paragraph 3. The
competent authorities of the Contracting States shall notify each other of any significant changes which have been made
in their respective taxation laws.
Article 3
General Definitions
1. For the purposes of this Convention, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
the term "Trinidad and Tobago" means the Archipelagic State of Trinidad and Tobago, comprising the several Islands of
Trinidad and Tobago, its archipelagic water's, territorial sea and the airspace thereof, together with the adjacent
submarine areas of the Exclusive Economic Zone and the continental shelf beyond the territorial sea over which
Trinidad and Tobago exercises sovereign or other rights in accordance with the laws of Trinidad and Tobago and with
international, law.
Page 2/15
----- PAGE 3 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
(b)
the term "India" means the territory of India and includes the territorial sea and airspace above it, as well as any other
maritime zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and Jurisdiction, according to the Indian law and in
accordance with international law, including the U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea;
(c)
the terms "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State" mean the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago or the
Republic of India, as the context requires;
(d)
the term "person" includes an individual, a company, a body of persons and any other entity which is treated as a
taxable unit under the taxation laws in force in the respective Contracting States;
(e)
the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity which is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(f)
the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively an
enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other
Contracting State;
(g)
the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise which is a resident of a
Contracting State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting State;
(h)
the term "competent authority" means:
(i)
in the case of Trinidad and Tobago, the Minister to whom the responsibility for Finance is assigned or his authorized
representative;
(ii)
in the case of India, the Central Government in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) or their authorised
representative;
(i)
the term "national" means:
(i)
any individual possessing the nationality of a Contracting State;
(ii)
any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in a Contracting State;
(j)
the term "fiscal year" means:
(i)
in the case of Trinidad and Tobago, the "year of income" as defined in section 2(1) of the Income Tax Act, Chapter
75:01;
(ii)
in the case of India, "previous year" as defined under section 3 of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
(k)
the term "tax" means Trinidad and Tobago tax or Indian tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any amount
which is payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this Convention applies or which
represents a penalty or fine imposed relating to those taxes.
2. In the application of this Convention by a Contracting State any term not defined herein shall, unless the context
otherwise requires, have the meaning which it has under the laws of that Contracting State relating to the taxes which
are the subject of this Convention.
Article 4
Resident
1. For purposes of this Convention, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the laws of
that State is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management, or any other criterion of a
Page 3/15
----- PAGE 4 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
similar nature.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his
status shall be determined as follows:
(a)
he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a
permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State with which his
personal and economic relations are closer ("centre of vital interests") ;
(b)
if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home
available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which he has an habitual abode;
(c)
if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State of
which he is a national;
(d)
if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the
question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which its place of effective management is situated. If the
State in which its place of effective management is situated cannot be determined, then the competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
Article 5
Permanent Establishment
1. For the purposes of this Convention the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:
(a)
a place of management;
(b)
a branch;
(c)
an office;
(d)
a factory;
(e)
a workshop;
(f)
a warehouse in relation to a person providing storage facilities for others;
(g)
a sales outlet;
(h)
a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources;
(i)
a drilling rig or ship used for, or in connection with, the exploration or development of natural resources;
(j)
a dredging project;
(k)
a farm, plantation or other place where agricultural, forestry, plantation or related activities are carried on; and
(l)
a building site or construction or assembly project or supervisory activities in connection therewith only if such site,
project or activity last more than nine months.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to
Page 4/15
----- PAGE 5 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
include:
(a)
the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise;
(b)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage,
display or delivery;
(c)
the maintenance of a stock of goods merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely the purpose of processing by
another enterprise;
(d)
the maintenance of a fixed place of solely for the purpose of purchasing merchandise or of collecting information, for the
enterprise;
(e)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise any other activity of
a preparatory or auxiliary character.
(f)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a) to
(e) , provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or
auxiliary character.
4. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person, other than an agent of an independent status
to whom paragraph 6 applies, is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first mentioned Contracting State in respect of
any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, if such a person:
(a)
has and habitually exercises in that State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise, unless the
activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 3 which, if exercised through a fixed place of
business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that
paragraph; or
(b)
has no such authority, but habitually maintains in the first-mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise from which
he regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise; or
(c)
habitually secures orders in the first-mentioned State, wholly or almost wholly for the enterprise itself or for the
enterprise and other enterprises controlling, controlled by, or subject to the same control, as that enterprise.
5.
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall, except in
regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting state if it collects
premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of an
independent status to whom paragraph 6 applies.
6.
An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State merely because it carries
on business in that state through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status,
provided that such person is acting in the ordinary course of their business. However, when the activities of such an
agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise, he will not be considered an agent of an
independent status within the meaning of this paragraph.
7.
The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a
resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent
establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
Article 6
Page 5/15
----- PAGE 6 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
Income from Immovable Property
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture or
forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the laws of the Contracting state in which
the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed
property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working
of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources; ships, boats, motor vehicles and aircraft
shall not be regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting or use in any other form of
immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and to
income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
Article 7
Business Profits
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on
business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on
business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may also be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is
attributable to that permanent establishment.
2. Subject 'to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other
Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be
attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly
independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are
incurred for the purposes of the business of the permanent establishment, including executive and general
administrative expenses so incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or
elsewhere, in accordance with the provisions of and SUbject to the limitations of the tax laws of that State.
4. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
5. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be
determined by the same method year by year, unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
6. Where profits include item B of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Convention, then the
provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
Article 8
Shipping and Air Transport
1. Profits derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State. from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic
shall be taxable only in that  State.
2. Profits derived by a transportation enterprise which is a resident of a Contracting State from the use, maintenance, or
rental of containers (including trailers and other equipment for the transport of containers) used in the transport of goods
or merchandise in international traffic shall be taxable only in that Contracting State unless the containers are used
solely within the other Contracting State.
3. For the purposes of this Article, interest earned incidentally on funds connected with the operation of ships or aircraft
in international traffic shall be regarded as profits derived from the operation of such ships or aircraft, and the provisions
of Article 11 shall not apply in relation to such interest.
4. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or an
international operating agency.
Article 9
Associated Enterprises
1. Where:
(a)
Page 6/15
----- PAGE 7 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
an enterprise of a Contracting state participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an
enterprise of the other Contracting State; or
(b)
the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting
State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations
which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for
those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions have not so accrued, may
be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an  enterprise of that State and taxes accordingly profits on which
an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included are
profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between the two
enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shall
make appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such adjustment,
due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Convention and the competent authorities of the Contracting
States shall, if necessary, consult each other.
Article 10
Dividends
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
may also be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the dividends is the tax so
charged shall not exceed 10 percent of the gross amount of the dividends. This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of
the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares or other rights, not being debt-claims,
participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment
as income from shares by the laws of the State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal
services from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of, Article 7 or Article 14, as
the case may be, shall apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting state derives profits or income from the other contracting state,
that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends are
paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed case situated in that other State, nor subject the company's
undistributed profits to a tax on the company's undistributed the profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed
profits consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in such other State.
Article 11
Interest
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises, and according to the laws of that
State; but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the interest the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 percent of the
gross amount of the interest. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall by mutual agreement settle the
mode of application of this limitation.
3. Notwithstanding the proviSions of paragraph 2, interest arising in a Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that
State provided it is derived and beneficially owned by -
(i)
the Government, a political subdivision or a local authority of the other contracting state; or
Page 7/15
----- PAGE 8 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
(ii)
(a)
in the case of Trinidad and Tobago, the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago, the Agricultural Development Bank, the
Export Insurance Company, the National Housing Authority, the National Insurance Board, the Home Mortgage Bank,
the Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Small Business Development Company, the Development Finance Limited and
the Trinidad and Tobago Mortgage Finance Company;
(b)
in the case of India, the Reserve Bank of India, Industrial Finance Corporation of India, the Industrial Development Bank
of India, the Export Import Bank of India, the National Housing Bank, the small Industries Development Bank of India
and the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI); or
(iii)
any other institution or agency as may be mutually agreed upon between the two Contracting States.
4. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by
mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from bonds or
debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such securities, bonds or debentures, but shall not include any
item which is treated as a distribution under the provisions of Article 10 of this Convention. Penalty charges for late
payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of this Article.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State itself, a political subdivision, a
local authority or a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a
Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which
the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was incurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent
establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent
establishment or fixed base is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the interest having regard to the debt-claim for which it is paid exceeds the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payment
shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this
Convention.
Article 12
Royalties and Fees for Technical Services
1. Royalties or fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State, and paid to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such royalties or fees for technical services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise
and according to the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical
services the tax 80 charged shall not exceed 10 percent of the gross amount of the royalties or fees for technical
services.
3. (a) The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of,
or the right to use, any copyright of a literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films or recordings on
any means of reproduction for use in connection with television or radio broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, deSign or
model, plan, know-how, computer software programme, secret formula or process, or any industrial, commercial or
scientific equipment or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scient1fic experience;
(b)
The term "fees for technical services" means payment at any kind in consideration for the rendering of any managerial,
technical or consultancy services including the provision of services by technical or other personnel but does not include
payments for services mentioned in Article 14 and 15 of this Convention.
Page 8/15
----- PAGE 9 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical
services being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting state in which the royalties
or fees for technical services arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the
royalties or fees for technical services are paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed
base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
5. Royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State
itself, a political subdivision, a local authority or a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the royal
ties or fees for technical services, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Cohtracting State a
permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the liability to pay the royalties or fees for technical
services was incurred, and such royalties or fees for technical services are borne by such permanent establishment, Or
fixed base then such royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent
establishment or fixed base is situated.
6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
Borne other person, the amount of the royalties or fees for technical services having regard to the use, right or
information for which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the
beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last mentioned
amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting
State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.
Article 13
Capital Gains
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6
and situated in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed
base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing
independent personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or
with the whole enterprise) or of such fixed base, may also be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international
traffic or movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships, aircraft shall be taxable only in that State.
4. Gains from the alienation of shares of the capital stock of a company the property of which consists (directly or
indirectly principally of immovable property situated in a Contracting State may be taxed in that State.
5. Gains from the alienation of shares other than those mentioned in paragraph 4 in a company which is a resident of a
Contracting State may be taxed in that state.
6. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
Article 14
Independent Personal Services
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of professional services or other activities of an
independent character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following circumstances, when such income may
also be taxed in the other Contracting state:
(a)
if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing his activities;
in that case, only 80 much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in that other State; or
(b)
if his stay in the other State is for a period or periods aggregating 183 days or more in any 12-month period commencing
or ending in the fiscal year concerned; in that case, only so much of the income as is derived from his activities
performed in that other State may be taxed in that other State; or
(c)
if the remuneration for his activities in the other Contracting State is paid by a resident of that Contracting State or is
borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that Contracting state and exceeds in the fiscal year a
Page 9/15
----- PAGE 10 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
sum of Rupees 40,000 or its equivalent in Trinidad and Tobago currency.
2. The term "professional services" includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching
activities as well as the independent activities of medical practitioners, lawyers, engineers, architects, dentists and
accountants.
Article 15
Dependent Personal Services
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18 and 19 salaries, wages, emoluments and other similar remuneration
derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect. of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the
employment is exercised in the 9ther Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is
derived therefrom may also be taxed in that other state.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of
an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if:
(a)
the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any
12-month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned; and
(b)
the remuneration is paid by, or "on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State; and
(c)
the remuneration establishment or has in the other is not borne by a permanent a fixed base which the employer has in
the other State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this  Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised
aboard a ship or aircraft operated  in international traffic, by an enterprise of a  Contracting State may be taxed in that
State.
Article 16
Directors' fees
Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a contracting state in his capacity as a member of the
Board of Directors of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other State.
Article 17
Artistes and Sportspersons
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15 income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from his
personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may also be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an entertainer Or a sportsperson in his capacity as such
accrues not to the entertainer or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the
provisions of Articles 7, 14 and 15 be taxed in the Contacting State in which the activities of the entertainer or
sportsperson are exercised.
3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, shall not apply to income from activities performed in a Contracting state by
entertainers or sportspersons if the visit to that State is substantially supported by public funds of one or both of the
Contracting States or of political subdivisions or local authorities thereof. In such a case, the income is taxable only in
the Contracting State of which the entertainer or sportsperson is a resident.
Article 18
Pensions and Social Security Payments
1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, pensions and other similar remuneration paid in consideration
of past employment to a resident of a Contracting State and any annuity paid to such a resident may also be taxed in
that State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, pensions paid and other payments made under a public scheme which
is part of the social security system of a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof shall be
taxable only in that State.
Article 19
Government Services
1. (a) Remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority
Page 10/15
----- PAGE 11 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
thereof to an individual in respect of 8ervices rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in
that State.
(b)
However, such remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the services are rendered in that
other State and the individual is a resident of that State who:
(i)
is a national of that State; or
(ii)
did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. (a) Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority
thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in
that State.
(b)
However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of, and a
national of, that other State.
3. The provisions of Articles 15, 16 and 18 shall apply to remuneration and pensions in respect of services rendered in
connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof.
Article 20
Students and Apprentices
1. A student or business apprentice who is or was a resident of a Contracting State immediately before visiting the other
Contracting State and who is present in that other Contracting State solely for the purpose of his education or training
shall, besides grants, loans and scholarships, be exempt from tax in that other State on:
(a)
payments made to him by persons residing outside that other  State for the purposes of his maintenance, education or
training; and
(b)
remuneration from employment in that other State for an amount not exceeding the amount which is exempt from tax
under the laws of that other Contracting State for any fiscal year, provided that such employment is directly reLated to
his studies or is undertaken for the purpose of his maintenance.
2. The benefit of this Article shall extend only for such period of time as may be reasonable or customarily required to
complete the education or training undertaken, but in no event shall any individual have the benefits of this Article for
more than seven consecutive years from the date of his first arrival in that other Contracting State.
Article 21
Professors, Teachers and Research Scholars
1. A professor, teacher or research scholar who is or was a resident of the Contracting State immediately before visiting
the other Contracting State for the purpose of teaching or engaging in research, or both, at a university, college, school
or other approved institution in that other Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that other State on any
remuneration for such teaching or research for a period not exceeding two years from the date of his arrival in that other
State.
2. This Article shall not apply to income from research, if such research is undertaken primarily for the private benefit of
a specific person or persons.
3. For the purposes of this Article and Article 20, an individual shall be deemed to be a resident of a Contracting State if
he is resident in that State in the fiscal year in which he visits the other Contracting State or in the immediately preceding
fiscal year.
4. For the purposes of paragraph 1 "approved institutions"  means an institution which has been approved in this  regard
by the competent authority of the State in which  the institution is located.
Article 22
Other Income
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this
Convention shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in
Page 11/15
----- PAGE 12 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
paragraph 2 of Article 6,
(a)
if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting
State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services
from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the income is paid is effectively
connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the
case may be, shall apply;
(b)
if the resident of a Contracting State derives income from sources within the other Contracting State in the form of
lotteries, crossword puzzles, races including horse races, card games and other games of any sort or gambling or
betting of any form or nature whatsoever, such income may be taxed in the other Contracting State.
3. Nothwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, items of income of a resident of a Contracting State not dealt
with in the foregoing Articles of this Convention and arising in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other
State.
Article 23
Elimination of Double Taxation
1. The laws in force in either of the Contracting State will continue to govern the taxation of income in the respective
Contracting States except where provisions to the contrary are made in this Convention.
2. In the case of Trinidad and Tobago, double taxation  shall be eliminated as follows:
Where a resident of Trinidad and Tobago derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention,
may be taxed in India, Trinidad and Tobago shall allow as a deduction from the tax     on the income of that resident an
amount equal to the income tax paid in India, whether directly or by deduction at source. Such deduction shall not,
however, exceed that part of the income tax as computed before the deduction is given, which is attributable to the
income which may be taxed in India.M
3. In the case of India, double taxation shall be eliminated as follows:
Where a resident of India derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, may be taxed in
Trinidad and Tobago, India shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident an amount equal to the
income tax paid in Trinidad and Tobago, whether directly or by deduction at source. Such deduction shall not, however,
exceed that part of the income tax, as computed before the deduction is given, which is attributable to the income which
may be taxed in Trinidad and Tobago.
4. The tax payable in the Contracting State mentioned in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article shall be deemed to include
the tax which would have been payable but for the tax incentives granted under the laws of the Contracting State and
which are designed to promote economic development.
5. Income which in accordance with the provisions of this Convention. is not to be subjected to tax in a Contracting
State. may be taken into account for calculating the rate of tax to be imposed in that Contracting State.
Article 24
Non-discrimination
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any,
requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to
which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances are or may be subjected. This provision shall,
notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not residents of one or  both of the Contracting
States.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a contracting State has in the other Contracting
state shall not be l~ss favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State
carrying on the same activities. This provision shall nO.t be construed as preventing a Contracting state from charging
the profits of a permanent establishment which a company of the other Contracting State has in the first-mentioned
State at a rate of tax which is higher than that imposed on the profits of a similar company of the first-mentioned
contracting State, nor as being in conflict with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 7 of this Convention.
3. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to the residents of the other
Contracting State any personal allowances, reliefs or deductions for taxation purposes on account of civil status or
family responsibilities which it grants to its own re8idents.
Page 12/15
----- PAGE 13 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
4. Except where the provisions of Article 9, paragraph 7 of Article 11 or paragraph 6 of Article 12 apply, interest,
royalties and fees for technical services and other disbursements paid by an enterprise of a Contracting State to a
resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be
deductible under the same conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State.
5. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly by
one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any taxation
or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
6. The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2, apply to taxes of every kind and
description.
Article 25
Mutual Agreement Procedure
1. Where a person considers that the action of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in
taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the
domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a
resident or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 24, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national.
The case must be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in
accordance with the provisions of this Convention.
2. The competent Authority shall endeavour if the objections appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive
at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracting
State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with this Convention. Any agreement reached
shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties
or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of this Convention. They may also consult together for the
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in this Convention.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of
reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs. The competent authorities shall, through
consultations, develop appropriate bilateral procedures, conditions, methods and techniques for the implementation of
the mutual agreement procedure provided for in this Article.
Article 26
Exchange of Information
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information (including documents), as is
necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Convention or of the domestic laws of the Contracting States concerning
taxes covered by this Convention insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to this Convention in particular for
the prevention of fraud or evasion of such taxes. The exchange of information is not restricted by Article 1. Any
information received by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret if}. the same manner as information obtained
under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and
administrative bodies) involved in the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecutIon in respect of, or the
determination of appeals in relation to, the taxes covered by this Convention. Such persons or authorities shall use the
information only for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial
decisions.
2. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:
(a)
to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other
Contracting state;
(b)
to supply information or documents which are not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration
of ~ that or of the other Contracting State;
(c)
to supply information or documents which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional
secret or trade process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy ..
Page 13/15
----- PAGE 14 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
Article 27
Diplomatic Agents and Consular Officers
Nothing in this Convention shall affect the fiscal privileges of diplomatic agents or consular officers under the general
rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 28
Collection Assistance
1. The Contracting States undertake to lend assistance to each other in the collection of taxes to which this Convention
relates, together with interest, costs, and civil penalties relating to such taxes, referred to in this Article as a "revenue
claim".
2. Request for assistance by the competent authority of a Contracting State in the collection of a revenue claim shall
include a certification by such authority that, under the laws of that State, the revenue claim has been finally determined.
For the purposes of this Article, a revenue claim is finally determined when a Contracting State has the right under its
internal law to collect the revenue claim and the taxpayer has no further rights to restrain collection.
3. Amount collected by the competent authority of a Contracting State pursuant to this Article shall be forwarded to the
competent authority of the other Contracting State. However, the first-mentioned Contracting State shall be entitled to
reimbursement of costs, if any, incurred in the course of rendering such assistance to the extent mutually agreed
between the competent authorities of the two States.
4. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing on either Contracting State the obligation to carry out
administrative measures of a different nature from those used in the collection of its own taxes or those which would be
contrary to its public policy.
Article 29
Entry into Force
1. The Contracting States shall notify each other in writing, through diplomatic channels, of the completion of the
procedures required by the respective laws for the entry into force of this Convention.
2. This Convention shall enter into force thirty days after the receipt of the later of the notifications referred to in
paragraph 1 of this Article.
3. The provisions of this Convention shall have effect:
(a)
in Trinidad and Tobago:
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at source, to income paid or credited on or after first January in the calendar year next
following that in which this Convention enters into force;
(ii)
in respect of other taxes on income, to income in any taxable year beginning on or after first January in the calendar
year next following that in which this Convention enters into force; and
(b)
in India, in respect of income derived in any fiscal year beginning on or after the first day of April next following the
calendar year in which this Convention enters into force.
Article 30
Termination
This Convention shall remain in force indefinitely until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State may
terminate this Convention, through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination at leas~ six months before the
end of any calendar year beginning after the expiration of five years from the date of entry into force of this Convention.
In such event, this Convention shall cease to have effect:
(a)
in Trinidad and Tobago:
(i)
in respect of taxers withheld at source, to income paid or credited on or after first January in the calendar year next
following that in which the notice is given;
(ii)
in respect of other taxes on income, to income in any taxable year beginning on or after first January in the calendar
Page 14/15
----- PAGE 15 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Repub...
year next following that in which the notice is given;
(b)
in India in respect of income derived in any  previous year on or after the first. April next following the calendar year in
which the notice is given
In Witness Whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized  thereto, have signed this Convention.
Done in duplicate at Port of Spain this 8th day of February, 1999 in English and Hindi languages, both texts being
equally authentic. In case of divergence between the texts, the English text shall be the operative one.
For the Government of the Republic of India
For the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and
Tobago
............................................
............................................
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 15/15