
----- PAGE 1 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashe...
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for the Avoidance
of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect
to Taxes on Income
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/95452197/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
UNION OF INDIA
India
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
Rule
CONVENTION-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-H
ASHEMITE-KINGDOM-OF-JORDAN-FOR-THE-AVOIDANCE-OF-DOUBLE-TAXATION-AND-THE-PREVENTION-OF-F
ISCAL-EVASION-WITH-RESPECT-TO-TAXES-ON-INCOME of 1999
Published on 8 December 1999
Commenced on 8 December 1999
[This is the version of this document from 8 December 1999.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/15
----- PAGE 2 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashe...
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 810(E), dated 8th December, 1999
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Revenue)
(Income-Tax)
G.S.R. 810(E). - Whereas the annexed Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal
evasion with respect to taxes on income has entered into force on the 16th day of October, 1999. in accordance with
Article 29 of the said Convention, thirty days after the receipt of the later of the notifications by both the Contracting
States to each other of the completion of the procedures required by their respective laws for bringing into force of the
said Convention:
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 90 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (
43 of 1961
), the Central Government hereby directs that all the provisions of the said Convention shall be given effect to in the
Union of India.
Annexure
The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Desiring to conclude a Convention for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect
to taxes On income and with a view to promoting economic cooperation between the two countries.
have agreed as follows :
Article 1
Personal Scope
This Convention shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
Article 2
Taxes Covered
1.
This Convention shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its political subdivisions
or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
2.
There shall he regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income, or on elements of income, including
taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property, and taxes on the total amounts of wages or
salaries paid by enterprises.
3.
The existing taxes to which the Convention shall apply arc in particular :
(a)
In India :
the income tax including any surcharge thereon.
(hereinafter referred to as "Indian tax").
(b)
In Jordan:
(i)
the income tax;
(ii)
the distribution tax; and
(iii)
the social service tax
(hereinafter referred to as "Jordanian tax").
4.
The Convention shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes which are imposed after the date of
signature of the Convention in addition to or in place of the existing taxes referred to in para 3. The competent
Page 2/15
----- PAGE 3 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashe...
authorities of the Contracting States shall notify each other of significant changes which have been made in their
respective taxation laws.
Article 3
General Definitions
1. For the purposes of this Convention, unless the context otherwise requires ;
(a)
the term "India" means the territory of India and includes the territorial sea and airspace above it, as well as any other
maritime zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and jurisdiction, according to the Indian law and in
accordance with international law, including the U. N. Convention on the Law of the Sea;
(b)
the term "Jordan"' means the territories of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, the territorial waters of Jordan and
airspace above it, and the seabed and subsoil of the territorial waters, and includes any area extending beyond the limits
of the territorial waters of Jordan, and the seabed and subsoil of any such area, which has been or may hereafter be
designated, under the laws of Jordan, and in accordance with international law as an area over which Jordan has
sovereign rights for the purposes of exploring and exploiting the natural resources, whether living or non-living;
(c)
the term "person" includes an individual a company, a body of persons and any other entity which is treated as a taxable
unit under the taxation laws in force in the respective Contracting States;
(d)
the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity which is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(e)
the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively an
enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other
Contracting State;
(f)
the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise which is a resident of a
Contracting State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting State;
(g)
the term "competent authority" means :
(i)
in India : the Central Government in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) or their authorised representative;
(ii)
in Jordan : the Minister of Finance or his authorised representative.
(h)
the term "national" means :
(i)
any individual possessing the nationality of a Contracting State;
(ii)
any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in a Contracting State.
(i)
the term "fiscal year" means:
(i)
in the case of India, "previous year" as defined under section 3 of the Income-tax Act, 1961:
(ii)
in the case of Jordan "the year" as defined in Article 2 of the Income Tax Law (57 of 1985).
(j)
the term "tax" means Indian tax or Jordanian tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any amount which is
payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which the Convention applies or which represents
a penalty or fine imposed relating to those taxes;
(k)
the terms "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State" mean the Republic of India or the Hashemite Kingdom
Page 3/15
----- PAGE 4 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashe...
of Jordan as the context requires.
2. As regards the application of the Convention by a Contracting State any term not defined therein shall unless the
context otherwise requires, have the meaning which it has under the law of that State concerning the taxes to which the
Convention applies.
Article 4
Resident
1. For the purposes of this Convention the term "Resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the
laws of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management or any other
criterion of a similar nature. But this term does not include any person who is liable to lax in that State in respect only of
income from sources in that State.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting State, then his status
shall be determined as follows:
(a)
he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a
permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State with which his
personal and economic relations arc closer (centre of vital interests);
(b)
if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home
available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which he has an habitual abode;
(c)
if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State of
which he is a national;
(d)
if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the
question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which its place of effective management is situated. If the
State in which its place of effective management is situated cannot be determined, then the competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
Article 5
Permanent Establishment
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially
(a)
a place of management;
(b)
a branch;
(c)
an office;
(d)
a factory;
(e)
a workshop;
(f)
a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any oilier place of exploration, exploitation or extraction of natural resources;
(g)
a sales outlet;
(h)
a warehouse in relation to a person providing storage facilities for other; and
(i)
Page 4/15
----- PAGE 5 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashe...
a farm, plantation or other place where agricultural, forestry, plantation or related activities are carried on.
3. A building site or construction or assembly project or installation project or supervisory activities in connection
therewith constitute a permanent establishment only if such site, project or activity last more than six months.
4. An enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State and to carry on business
through that permanent establishment if it provides services or facilities in connection with, or supplies plant and
machinery on hire used for or to be used in the prospecting for or extraction or exploitation of mineral oils in that State.
5.
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to
include :
(a)
the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise;
(b)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage,
display or delivery;
(c)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by
another enterprise.
(d)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of collecting
information, for the enterprise:
(e)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of earning on for the enterprise, any other activity of
a preparatory or auxiliary character;
(f)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a) to
(e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or
auxiliary character.
6.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person-other than an agent of an independent status to
whom paragraph 8 applies-is acting on behalf of an enterprise and has, and habitually exercises, in a Contracting State
an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise, that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent
establishment in that State in respect of any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, unless the
activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 5 which, if exercised through a, fixed place of
business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that
paragraph.
7.
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall, except in
regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collects
premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of an
independent status to whom paragraph 8 applies.
8.
An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State merely because it carries
on business in that State through a broker general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status,
provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. However, when the activities of such an
agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise, he will not be considered an agent of an
independent status within the meaning of this paragraph.
9.
The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a
resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent
establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
Page 5/15
----- PAGE 6 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashe...
Article 6
Income from Immovable Property
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture or
forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which
the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed
property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working
of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources; ships, boats, aircraft and motor vehicles
shall not be regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of
immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and to
income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
Article 7
Business Profits
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on
business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on
business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may also be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is
attributable to that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other
Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be
attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly
independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are
incurred for the purposes of the permanent establishment, including executive and general administrative expenses so
incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere, in accordance with the
provisions of and subject to the limitations of the tax laws of that State.
4. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
5. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
6. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Convention, then the
provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
Article 8
Shipping and Air Transport
1. Profits derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation by that enterprise of ships or aircraft in
international traffic shall be taxable only in that State.
2. For the purposes of this Article, profits from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall mean profits
derived by an enterprise described in paragraph 1 from the transportation by sea or air respectively of passengers mail,
livestock or goods carried on by the owners or lessees or charterers of ships or aircraft including-
(a)
the sale of tickets for such transportation on behalf of other enterprises;
(b)
other activity directly connected with such transportation, and
(c)
the rental of ships or aircraft incidental to any activity directly connected with such transportation.
3. Profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State described in paragraph 1 from the use, maintenance, or rental of
containers (including trailers, barges, and related equipment for the transport of containers) used in connection with the
operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be taxable only in that State.
Page 6/15
----- PAGE 7 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashe...
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to profits from participation in a pool, a joint business or
codesharing, or an international operating agency.
5. For the purposes of this Article, interest on funds connected with the operation of ships or aircraft in international
traffic shall be regarded as profits derived from the operation of such ships or aircraft, and the provisions of Article 11
(Interest) shall not apply in relation to such interest.
6. Gains derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State described in paragraph 1 from the alienation of ships, aircraft or
containers owned and operated by the enterprise, the income from which is taxable only in that State, shall be taxed
only in that State.
7. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, income derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from
the operation of ships between the ports of the other Contracting State and the ports of third countries may be taxed in
that other Contracting State, but the tax imposed in that other State shall be reduced by an amount equal to 50%
thereof.
Article 9
Associated Enterprises
1. Where
(a)
an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an
enterprise of the other Contracting State, or
(b)
the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting
State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State.
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations
which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for
those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may
be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State and taxes accordingly - profits on which
an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included are
profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first mentioned State if the conditions made between the two
enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shall
make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such
adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Convention and the competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall, if necessary consult each other.
Article 10
Dividends
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the dividends the tax so
charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends. This paragraph shall not affect the taxation
of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares or other rights, not being debt claims,
participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment
as income from shares by the laws of the State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal
services from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions Article 7 or Article 14, as the
case may be shall apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting State,
that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends are
Page 7/15
----- PAGE 8 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashe...
paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the company's
undistributed profits to a tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends and or the undistributed profits
consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in such other State.
Article 11
Interest
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of that
State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the interest the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the
gross amount of the interest. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall by mutual agreement settle the
mode of application of this limitation.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest arising in a Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that
State provided it is derived and beneficially owned by:
(i)
the Government, a political sub-division or a local authority of the other Contracting State; or
(ii)
the Central Bank of the other Contracting State, or any other bank or governmental financial institutions/ agencies that
may be mutually agreed upon between the two Contracting States.
4. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by
mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from
government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including permiums and prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of
this Article.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be shall apply.
6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State itself, a political sub-division, a
local authority or a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a
Contracting State or not. has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which
the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was incurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent
establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the Contracting State in which the permanent
establishment or fixed based is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments
shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this
Convention.
Article 12
Royalties and Fees for Technical Services
1. Royalties or fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such royalties or fees for technical services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise,
and according to the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical
services, the tax so charged shall not exceed 20 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties or fees for technical
services.
3. (a) The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of
or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films, and films or tapes or
Page 8/15
----- PAGE 9 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashe...
any other means of reproduction for television or radio broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan,
secret formula or process, or any industrial commercial or scientific equipment, or for information concerning industrial,
commercial or scientific experience.
(b)
The term "fees for technical services" means payment of any kind in consideration for the rendering of any managerial,
technical or consultancy services including the provision of services by technical or other personnel but does not include
payments for services mentioned in Articles 14 and 15 of this Convention.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical
services being a resident of a Contracting State, caries on business in the other Contracting State in which the royalties
or fees for technical services arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the
royalties or fees for technical services are paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed
base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
5. Royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State
itself, a political subdivision, a local authority or a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the royalties
or fees for technical services, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a
permanent establishment or a fixed based in connection with which the liability to pay the royalties or fees for technical
services was incurred, and such royalties or fees for technical services are borne by such permanent establishment or
fixed base, then such royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the
permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
6. Where by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the royalties or fees for technical services, having regard to the use. right or
information for which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the
beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned
amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting
State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.
Article 13
Capital Gains
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6
and situated in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed
base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing
independent personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or
with the whole enterprise) or of such fixed base, may also be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international
traffic or movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships, aircraft shall be taxable only in that State.
4. Gains from the alienation of shares of the capital stock of a company the property of which consists directly or
indirectly principally of immovable property situated in a Contracting State may be taxed in that State.
5. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 shall be taxable only
in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident, provided that such resident is subject to tax thereon in that
State. If the resident is not subject to tax thereon, then such gains may be taxed in the other Contracting State.
Article 14
Independent Personal Services
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of professional services or other activities of an
independent character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following circumstances, when such income may
also be taxed in the other Contracting State:
(a)
if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing his activities;
in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in that other State; or
(b)
Page 9/15
----- PAGE 10 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashe...
if his stay in the other State is for a period or periods aggregating 183 days or more in any 12-month period commencing
or ending in the fiscal year concerned; in that case, only so much of the income as is derived from his activities
performed in that other State may be taxed in that other State, or
(c)
if the remuneration for his activities in the other Contracting State is paid by a resident of that Contracting State or is
borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that Contracting State and exceeds in the fiscal year the
equivalent of US $ 2000.
2. The term "professional services" includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching
activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, surgeons, dentists and
accountants.
Article 15
Dependent Personal Services
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16. 18 and 19, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a
resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is
exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom
may be taxed in that other State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of
an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if:
(a)
the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any
12-month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned, and
(b)
the remuneration is paid by or on behalf of an employer who is not a resident of the other State, and
(c)
if the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in the other
State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised
aboard a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise which is a resident of a Contracting State in international traffic shall
be taxable only in that Contracting State.
Article 16
Directors' Fees
Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of
the board of directors of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other
State.
Article 17
Artistes and Sportsmen
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsman, from his
personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an entertainer or a sportsman in his capacity as such
accrues not to the entertainer or sportsman himself but to another person, that income may notwithstanding the
provisions of Articles 7, 14 and 15, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the entertainer or
sportsman are exercised.
3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, shall not apply to income from activities performed in a Contracting State by
entertainers or sportsmen if the visit to that State is substantially supported by public funds of one or both of the
Contracting States or of political sub-divisions or local authorities thereof. In such a case, the income is taxable only in
the Contracting State of which the entertainer or sportsman is a resident.
Article 18
Pensions
1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, pensions and other similar remuneration paid to a resident of a
Contracting State in consideration of past employment shall be taxable only in that State.
Page 10/15
----- PAGE 11 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashe...
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, pensions paid and other payments made under a public scheme which
is part of the social security system of a Contracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority thereof shall be
taxable only in that State.
Article 19
Government Service
1. (a) Remuneration, other than a pension paid by a Contracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority
thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or sub-division or authority shall be taxable only in
that State.
(b)
However, such remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the services are rendered in that
State and the individual is a resident of that State who :
(i)
is a national of that Slate; or
(ii)
did not become a resident of that Slate solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. (a) Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority
thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or sub-division or authority shall be taxable only in
that State.
(b)
However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of, and a
national of, that State.
3. The provisions of Articles 15, 16 and 18 shall apply to remuneration and pensions in respect of services rendered in
connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority thereof.
Article 20
Students and Apprentices
1. A student or business apprentice who is or was a resident of a Contracting State immediately before visiting the other
Contracting State and who is present in that other Contracting State solely for the purpose of his education or training
shall be exempt from tax in that other State on :
(a)
payments made to him by persons residing outside that other Slate for the purposes of his maintenance, education or
training; and
(b)
remuneration from employment in that other State, in an amount not exceeding US $ 500 or its equivalent amount
during any fiscal year, as the case may be, provided that such employment is directly related to his studies or is
undertaken for the purpose of his maintenance.
2. The benefit of this Article shall extend only for such period of time as may be reasonable or customarily required to
complete the education or training undertaken, but in no event shall any individual have the benefits of this Article for
more than five consecutive years from the date of his first arrival in that other Contracting State.
Article 21
Professors, Teachers and Research Scholars
1. A professor or teacher who is or was a resident of the Contracting State immediately before visiting the other
Contracting State for the purpose of teaching or engaging in research, or both, at a university, college, school or other
approved institution in that other Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that other State on any remuneration for
such teaching or research for a period not exceeding one year from the date of his arrival in that other State.
2. This Article shall not apply to income from research, if such research is undertaken primarily for the private benefit of
a specific person or persons.
3. For the purposes of this Article and article 20 an individual shall be deemed to be a resident of a Contracting State if
he is resident in that State in the fiscal year in which he visits the other Contracting State or in the immediately preceding
fiscal year.
4. For the purposes of paragraph 1 "approved institution" means an institution which has been approved in this regard
by the competent authority of the concerned State.
Page 11/15
----- PAGE 12 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashe...
Article 22
Other Income
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this
Convention shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in
paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in
the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the
income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of
Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, if a resident of a Contracting State derives income front sources within
the other Contracting State in the form of lotteries, crossword puzzles, races including horse races, card games and
other games of any sort or gambling or betting of any form or nature whatsoever, such income may be taxed in the other
Contracting State.
Article 23
Elimination of Double Taxation
1. The laws in force in either of the Contracting State will continue to govern the taxation of income in the respective
Contracting States except where provisions to the contrary are made in this Convention.
2. In the case of India double taxation shall be eliminated as follows :
Where a resident of India derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, may be taxed in
Jordan, India shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident an amount equal to the income tax
paid in Jordan whether directly or by deduction at source. Such amount shall not however exceed that part of the
income tax, as computed before the deduction is given, which is attributable to the income which may be taxed in
Jordan.
3. In the case Jordan, double taxation shall be eliminated as follows :
Where a resident of Jordan derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention may be taxed in
India. Jordan shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident an amount equal to the income tax
paid in India. Such deduction shall not however exceed that part of the income tax as computed before the deduction is
given, which is attributable to the income which may be taxed in India.
4. The tax payable in the Contracting State mentioned in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article shall be deemed to include
the tax which would have been payable but for the tax incentives granted under the laws of the Contracting State and
which are designed to promote economic development.
5. Income which in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, is not to be subjected to tax in a Contracting
State, may be taken into account for calculating the rate of tax to be imposed in that Contracting State.
Article 24
Non-Discrimination
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any
requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to
which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may be
subjected. This provision shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not residents of
one or both of the Contracting States.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State
carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as preventing a Contracting State from granting to
residents of the other Contracting State any personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for taxation purposes on
account of civil status or family responsibilities which it grants to its own residents.
3. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by
one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any taxation
or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
4. Except where the provisions of Article 9, paragraph 7 of the Article 11, or paragraph 6 of Article 12, apply, interest,
Page 12/15
----- PAGE 13 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashe...
royalties and other disbursement paid by an enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, deductible under the same conditions as if
they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State.
5. The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2, apply to taxes of every kind and
description which are the subject of this Convention.
Article 25
Mutual Agreement Procedure
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both the Contracting States result or will result for him in taxation
not in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the domestic
law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a resident or, if
his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 24, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national The case must
be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in accordance with the
provisions of the Convention.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive
at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracting
State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Convention. Any agreement reached
shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties
or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Convention, they may also consult together for the
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Convention.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of
reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs. When it seems advisable in order to reach agreement
to have an oral exchange of opinions, such exchange may take place through a Commission consisting of
representatives of the competent authorities of the Contracting States.
Article 26
Exchange of Information
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information (including documents), as is
necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Convention or of the domestic laws of the Contracting States concerning
taxes covered by the Convention insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Convention in particular for the
prevention of fraud or evasion of such taxes. The exchange of information is not restricted by Article 1. Any information
received by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as information obtained under the
domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative
bodies) involved in the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in respect of, or the determination of
appeals in relation to, the taxes covered by the Convention. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only
for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions.
2. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation :
(a)
to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other
Contracting State:
(b)
to supply information or documents which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration
of that or of the other Contracting State.
(c)
to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade
process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy.
Article 27
Collection Assistance
1. The Contracting States undertake to lend assistance to each other in the collection of taxes to which this Convention
relates, together with interest, costs, and civil penalties relating to such taxes, referred to in this Article as a "revenue
claim".
2. Request for assistance by the competent authority of a Contracting State in the collection of a revenue claim shall
Page 13/15
----- PAGE 14 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashe...
include a certification by such authority that, under the laws of that State, the revenue claim has been finally determined.
For the purposes of this Article, a revenue claim is finally determined when a Contracting State has the right under its
internal law to collect the revenue claim and the taxpayer has no further rights to restrain collection.
3. Amounts collected by the competent authority of a Contracting State pursuant to this Article shall be forwarded to the
competent authority of the other Contracting State. However, the first-mentioned Contracting State shall be entitled to
reimbursement of costs if any, incurred in the course of rendering such assistance to the extent mutually agreed
between the competent authorities of the two States.
4. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing on either Contracting State the obligation to carry out
administrative measures of a different nature from those used in the collection of its own taxes or those which would be
contrary to its public policy.
Article 28
Diplomatic Agents and Consular Officers
Nothing in this Convention shall affect the fiscal privileges of diplomatic agents or consular officers under the general
rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 29
Entry into Force
1. The Contracting States shall notify each other in writing, through diplomatic channels, the completion of the procedure
required by the respective laws of the entry into force of this Convention.
2. This Convention shall enter into force thirty days after the receipt of the later of the notifications referred to in
paragraph 1 of this Article.
3. The provisions of this Convention shall have effect:
(a)
in India, in respect of income arising in any fiscal year beginning on or after the first day of April next following the
calendar year in which the Convention enters into force, and
(b)
in Jordan, in respect of income arising in any fiscal year beginning on or after the first day of January next following the
calendar year in which the Convention enters into force.
Article 30
Termination
This Convention shall remain in force indefinitely until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State may
terminate the convention through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination at least six months before the end
of any calendar year beginning after the expiration of five years from the date of entry into force of the Convention. In
such event, the Convention shall cease to have effect :
(a)
in India, in respect of income arising in any previous year on or after the first day of April next following the calendar year
in which the notice of termination is given.
(b)
in Jordan, in respect of income arising in any previous year on or after the first day of January next following the
calendar year in which the notice of termination is given.
In Witness Whereof the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Convention.
Done in duplicate at New Delhi, this twentieth day of April 1999 in Arabic, Hindi and English languages, all three texts
being equally authentic. In case of divergence between the texts the English text shall be the operative one.
For the Government of the Republic of India
For the Government of Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
..............................................................................
..............................................................................
Protocol
At the signing of the Convention concluded today between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government
of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with
respect to taxes on income, the undersigned have agreed that the following provisions shall form an integral part of the
said Convention.
Page 14/15
----- PAGE 15 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Hashe...
Article 9-Associated Enterprises
1. With reference to paragraph 2 of Article 9, it is understood that the provisions shall not apply in the case of fraud or
wilful default.
Article 17-Artists and Sportsmen
2. With reference to paragraph 3 of Article 17, it is understood that the provisions shall apply in respect of income
derived by an artiste from the activities performed in the other Contracting State under the cultural agreements
concluded between the Governments of the Contracting States.
Article 24-Non Discrimination
3. With reference to paragraph 3 of Article 24, it is understood that this provision shall not be construed as preventing a
Contracting State from charging the profits of a permanent establishment which a company of the other Contracting
State has in the first-mentioned State at a rate of tax which is higher than that imposed on the profits of a similar
company of the first mentioned Contracting State.
In Witness Whereof the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Convention.
Done in duplicate at New Delhi, this twentieth day of April 1999 in Arabic, Hindi and English languages, all three texts
being equally authentic. In case of divergence between the texts the English text shall be the operative one.
For the Government of the Republic of India
For the Government of Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 15/15