
----- PAGE 1 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech...
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Czech Republic for the Avoidance of Double
Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to taxes
on Income and on Capital
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/172925599/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech Republic for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to taxes on Income and on Capital
UNION OF INDIA
India
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech Republic for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to taxes on Income and on Capital
Rule
CONVENTION-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-C
ZECH-REPUBLIC-FOR-THE-AVOIDANCE-OF-DOUBLE-TAXATION-AND-THE-PREVENTION-OF-FISCAL-EVASION-
WITH-RESPECT-TO-TAXES-ON-INCOME-AND-ON-CAPITAL of 1999
Published on 8 December 1999
Commenced on 8 December 1999
[This is the version of this document from 8 December 1999.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/15
----- PAGE 2 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech...
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech Republic for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to taxes on Income and on Capital
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 811(E), dated 8th December, 1999
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Revenue)
G.S.R. 811(E). - Whereas the annexed Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Czech Republic for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect
to taxes on income and on Capital has come into force on the 27th day of September, 1999, on the Notification by both
the Contracting States of each other, under article 30 of the said Convention, of the completion of the procedures
required under their respective laws for bringing into force of the said Convention;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961)and section
44 A of the Wealth-tax Act, 1967 (27 of 1967), the Central Government hereby directs that all the provisions of the said
Convention shall be given effect to in the Union of India.
Annexure
The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech Republic
Desiring to conclude a Convention for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect
to taxes on income and on capital and with a view to promoting economic cooperation between the two countries,
have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Personal Scope
This Convention shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
Article 2
Taxes Covered
1.
This Convention shall apply to taxes on income and on capital imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its political
subdivisions or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
2.
There shall be regarded as taxes on income and on capital all taxes imposed on total income, on total capital, or on
elements of income, or capital, including taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property, and
taxes on the total amounts of wages or salaries paid by enterprises, as well as taxes on capital appreciation.
3.
The existing taxes to which the Convention shall apply are in particular :
(a)
In India:
(i)
the income tax, including any surcharge thereon;
(ii)
the wealth tax,
(hereinafter referred to as "Indian tax");
(b)
In the Czech Republic :
(i)
the tax on income of individuals:
(ii)
the tax on income of legal persons;
(iii)
the tax on immovable property,
(hereinafter referred to as "Czech tax");
4.
The Convention shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes which are imposed after the date of
signature of the Convention in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes referred to in paragraph 3. The competent
Page 2/15
----- PAGE 3 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech...
authorities of the Contracting States shall notify each other of significant changes which have been made in their
respective taxation laws.
Article 3
General Definitions
1. For the purposes of this Convention, unless the context otherwise requires :
(a)
the term "India" means the territory of India and includes the territorial sea and airspace above it, as well as any other
maritime zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and jurisdiction, according to the Indian law and in
accordance with international law, including the U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea;
(b)
the term "the Czech Republic" means the territory of the Czech Republic over which, under Czech legislation and in
accordance with international law, the sovereign rights of the Czech Republic are exercised;
(c)
the term "person" includes an individual, a company, a body of persons and any other entity which is treated as a
taxable unit under the taxation laws in force in the respective Contracting States;
(d)
the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity which is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(e)
the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively an
enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other
Contracting State;
(f)
the term" international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise which is a resident of a
Contracting State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting State;
(g)
the term "competent authority"' means :
(i)
in India: the Central Government in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) or their authorised representative;
(ii)
in the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Finance or his authorised representative;
(h)
the term "national" means :
(i)
any individual possessing the nationality of a Contracting State;
(ii)
any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in a Contracting State;
(i)
the term "fiscal year" means :
(i)
in the case of India, "previous year" as defined under section 3 of the Income-tax Act, 1961;
(ii)
in the case of the Czech Republic, calender year;
(j)
the term "tax" means Indian tax or Czech tax. as the context requires, but shall not include any amount which is payable
in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this Convention applies or which represents a
penalty or fine imposed relating to those taxes;
(k)
the term "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State" mean the Republic of India or the Czech Republic as
the context requires.
2. As regards the application of the Convention by a Contracting State any term not defined therein shall, unless the
context otherwise requires, have the meaning which it has under the law of that State concerning the taxes to which the
Page 3/15
----- PAGE 4 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech...
Convention applies.
Article 4
Resident
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the
laws of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason or his domicile, residence, place of management or any other
criterion of a similar nature. But this term does not include any person who is liable to tax in that State in respect only of
income from sources in that State or capital situated therein.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his
status shall be determined as follows :
(a)
he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a
permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State with which his
personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);
(b)
if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home
available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which he has an habitual abode;
(c)
if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State of
which he is a national;
(d)
if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the
question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which its place of effective management is situated. If the
State in which its place of effective management is situated cannot be determined, then the competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
Article 5
Permanent Establishment
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:
(a)
a place of management;
(b)
a branch;
(c)
an office;
(d)
a factory;
(e)
a workshop;
(f)
a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources;
(g)
a sales outlet;
(h)
a warehouse in relation to a person providing storage facilities for others; and
(i)
a farm plantation or other place where agricultural, forestry, plantation or related activities are carried on.
3. A building site or construction, assembly or installation project or supervisory activities in connection therewith
constitute a permanent establishment only if such site, project or activities last more than six months.
Page 4/15
----- PAGE 5 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech...
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to
include:
(a)
the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;
(b)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage or
display;
(c)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by
another enterprise;
(d)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of collecting
information, for the enterprise:
(e)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on. for the enterprise, any other activity of
a preparatory or auxiliary character;
(f)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in subparagraphs (a) to
(e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or
auxiliary character.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person-other than an agent of an independent status to
whom paragraph 7 applies-is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting State, that
enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned Contracting State in respect of any
activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, if such a person :
(a)
has and habitually exercises in that State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise, unless the
activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through a fixed place of
business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that
paragraph; or
(b)
has no such authority, but habitually maintains in the first-mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise from which
he regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise.
6.
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall, except in
regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collects
premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of an
independent status to whom paragraph 7 applies.
7.
An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State merely because it carries
on business in that State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status,
provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. However, when the activities of such an
agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise, he will not be considered an agent of an
independent status within the meaning of this paragraph.
8.
The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a
resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent
establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
Article 6
Income from Immovable Property
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture or
Page 5/15
----- PAGE 6 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech...
forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which
the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed
property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working
of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources; ships, boats, aircraft and motor vehicles
shall not be regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of
immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and to
income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
Article 7
Business Profits
1. The profit of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on
business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on
business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may also be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is
attributable to that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other
Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be
attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a district and
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly
independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are
incurred for the purposes of the permanent establishment, including executive and general administrative expenses so
incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere, in accordance with the
provisions of and subject to the limitations of the tax laws of that State.
4. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reasons the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment or goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
5. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
6. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Convention, then the
provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
Article 8
Shipping And Air Transport
1. Profits derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of ships or air-crafts in international traffic
shall be taxable only in that State.
2. Profits derived by a transportation enterprise which is a resident of a Contracting State from the use, maintenance, or
rental of container (including trailers and other equipment for the transport of containers) used for the transport of goods
or merchandise in international traffic shall be taxable only in that Contracting State unless the containers are used
solely within the other Contracting State.
3. For the purposes of this Article, interest on funds directly connected with the operations of ships or aircraft in
international traffic shall be regarded as profits derived from the operation of such ships or aircraft, and the provisions of
Article 11 shall not apply in relation to such interest.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or an
international operating agency.
Article 9
Associated Enterprises
Where
(a)
an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an
enterprise of the other Contracting State, or
Page 6/15
----- PAGE 7 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech...
(b)
the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting
State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State, and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the
two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations which differ from those which would be made between
independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises,
but. by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed
accordingly.
Article 10
Dividends
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident of the other
Contracting State the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends. This paragraph
shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares or other rights, not being debtclaims,
participating in profits, as well as income from other rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment as income
from shares by the laws of the State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or perform in that other State independent personal
services from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the
case may be, shall apply,
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting
State, that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends
are paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the company's
undistributed profits to a tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits
consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in such other State.
Article 11
Interest
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of that
State, but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting State the tax so charged shall not
exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the interest. 3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest arising
in a Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that Contracting State provided it is derived and beneficially owned by,
or derived in connection with a loan or credit extended or endorsed by :
(a)
the Government, a political sub-division or a local authority of the other Contracting State; or
(b)
(i)
in the case of India, the Reserve Bank of India, the Industrial Finance Corporation of India, the Industrial Development
Bank of India, the Export-Import Bank of India, the National Housing Bank, the Small Industries Development Bank of
India and the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI); and
(ii)
in the case of the Czech Republic, the Czech National Bank (CNB), the Czech Export Bank (CEB), the Export
Guarantee and Insurance Company (EGAP), and the consolidation Bank (KoB); or
(c)
any other institution as may be agreed upon from time to time between the competent authorities of the Contracting
Page 7/15
----- PAGE 8 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech...
States.
4. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by
mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from
government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of
this Article.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other state independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State itself, a political subdivision, a
local authority or a resident of that State, where, however, the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a
Contracting State or not, has in the Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with
which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was incurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent
establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the Contracting State in which the permanent
establishment or fixed base is situated
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments
shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to he other provisions of this
Convention.
Article 12
Royalties and Fees for Technical Services
1. Royalties or fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such royalties or fees for technical services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise,
and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical services is a
resident of the other Contracting State the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the
royalties or fees for technical services.
3. (a) The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of,
or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films and films or tapes for
television or radio broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process o r any
industrial, commercial or scientific equipment or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific
experience.
(b)
the term "fees for technical services" as used in this article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for
the rendering of any managerial, technical or consultancy services including the provision of services by technical or
other personnel but does not include payments for services mentioned in articles 14 and 15 of this Convention.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical
services being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the royalties
or fees for technical services arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the
royalties or fees for technical services arc paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed
base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
5. Royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in a contracting state when the payer is that State
itself, a political sub-division, a local authority or a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the
royalties or fees for technical services, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or nor, has in a Contracting State
a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the liability to pay the royalties or fees for technical
services was incurred, and such royalties or fees for technical services are borne by such permanent establishment or
Page 8/15
----- PAGE 9 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech...
fixed base, then such royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in the Contracting State in which
the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the royalties or fees for technical services, having regard to the use, right or
information for which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and
beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned
amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting
State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.
Article 13
Capital Gains
1. Gains derived by a resident of a contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in article 6
and situated in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed
base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing
independent personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or
with the whole enterprise) or of such fixed base, may also be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the alienation of ships or air-crafts operated in international
traffic or movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships or aircraft shall be taxable only in that State.
4. Gains from the alienation of shares of the capital stock of a company the property of which consists directly or
indirectly principally of immovable property situated in a Contracting State may be taxed in that State.
5. Gains from the alienation of shares other than those mentioned in paragraph 4 in a company which is a resident of a
Contracting State may be taxed in that State.
6. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in paragraphs 1,2, 3, 4 and 5, shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
Article 14
Independent Personal Services
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of professional services or other activities of an
independent character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following circumstances, when such income may
also be taxed in the other Contracting State:
(a)
if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing his activities;
in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in that other State; or
(b)
if his stay in the other State is for a period or periods aggregating 183 days or more in any 12-month period commencing
or ending in the fiscal year concerned; in that case only so much of the income as is derived from his activities
performed in that other State may be taxed in that other State
2. The term "professional services" includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching
activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, surgeons, dentists and
accountants.
Article 15
Dependent Personal Services
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18, 19, 20 and 21, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by
a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment
is exercised in the other Contracting Slate. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom
may be taxed in that other State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1. remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of
an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if all the
following conditions are met:
(a)
the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any
Page 9/15
----- PAGE 10 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech...
12-month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned, and
(b)
the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State, and
(c)
the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in the other State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised
aboard a ship or air-craft operated in international traffic, by an enterprise of a Contracting State maybe taxed in that
State.
4. The term "employer" mentioned in paragraph 2 (b) covers the person having right on the work produced and bearing
the responsibility and risk connected with the performance of the work,
Article 16
Directors' Fees
Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of
the board of directors of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other
State.
Article 17
Artistes and Sports Persons
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from his
personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an entertainer or a sportsperson in his capacity as such
accrues not to the entertainer or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the
provisions of Articles 7, 14 and 15, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the entertainer or
sportsperson are exercised.
3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, shall not apply to income from activities performed in a Contracting State by an
entertainer or a sportsperson if the visit to that State is substantially supported by public funds of the other Contracting
State or of political subdivisions or local authorities thereof. In such case, the income is taxable only in the Contracting
State of which the entertainer or sportsperson is a resident.
Article 18
Pensions
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, pensions and other similar remuneration paid to a resident of a
Contracting State in consideration of past employment shall be taxable only in that State,
Article 19
Government Service
1. (a) Remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority
thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or sub-division or authority shall be taxable only in
that State.
(b)
However, such remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the services are rendered in that
State and the individual is a resident of that State who :
(i)
is a national of that State; or
(ii)
did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. (a) Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority
thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or sub-division or authority shall be taxable only in
that State.
(b)
However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of, and a
national of, that State.
3. The provisions of Articles 15, 16 and 18 shall apply to remuneration and pensions in respect of services rendered in
Page 10/15
----- PAGE 11 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech...
connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority thereof.
Article 20
Students and Apprentices
1. A student or business apprentice who is or was a resident of a Contracting Slate immediately before visiting the other
Contracting State and who is present in that other Contracting State solely for the purpose of his education or training
shall, besides grants, loans and scholarships, be exempt from tax in that other state on:
(a)
payments made to him by persons residing outside that other State for the purposes of his maintenance, education or
training; and
(b)
remuneration from employment in that other State, for an amount not exceeding the amount which is exempt from tax
under the laws of that other Contracting State for any fiscal year, provided that such employment is directly related to his
studies or is undertaken for the purpose of his maintenance.
2. The benefit of this Article shall extend only for such period of time as may be reasonable or customarily required to
complete the education or training undertaken but in no event shall any individual have the benefits of this Article for
more than seven consecutive years from the date of his first arrival in that other Contracting State.
Article 21
Professors, Teachers and Research Scholars
1. A professor or teacher who is or was a resident of a Contracting State immediately before visiting the other
Contracting State for the purpose of teaching or engaging in research, or both, at a university, college, school or other
approved institution in that other Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that other State on any remuneration for
such teaching or research for a period not exceeding two years from the date of his first arrival in that other State.
2. This Article shall not apply to income from research, if such research is undertaken primarily for the private benefit of
a specific person or persons.
3. For the purposes of paragraph 1 the term "approved institution" means an institution which has been approved in this
regard by the competent authority of the concerned State.
Article 22
Other Income
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this
Convention shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in
paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in
the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the
income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of
Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, if a resident of a Contracting State derives income from sources within
the other Contracting State in the form of lotteries, crossword puzzles, races including horse races, card games and
other games of any sort or gambling or betting of any form or nature whatsoever, such income may be taxed in the other
Contracting State.
Article 23
Capital
1. Capital represented by immovable property referred to in Article 6, owned by a resident of a Contracting State and
situated in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Capital represented by movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment which
an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or by movable property pertaining to a fixed base
available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing independent
personal services, may also be taxed in that other State.
3. Capital represented by ships or aircraft, operated in international traffic or by movable property pertaining to the
operation of such ships or aircraft shall be taxable only in the Contracting State of which the enterprise operating such
ships, aircraft or property is a resident.
Page 11/15
----- PAGE 12 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech...
4. All other elements of capital of a resident of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State.
Article 24
Elimination of Double Taxation
1. The laws in force in either of the Contracting State will continue to govern the taxation of income and of capital in the
respective Contracting State except where provisions to the contrary are made in the Convention.
2. In the case of India double taxation shall be eliminated as follows : Where a resident of India derives income or owns
capital which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, may be taxed in the Czech Republic, India shall
allow as a deduction from the tax on the income or capital of that resident an amount equal to the tax paid in the Czech
Republic whether directly or by deduction at source. Such amount shall not however exceed that part of the tax, as
computed before the deduction is given, which is attributable to the income or capital which may be taxed in the Czech
Republic.
3. In the case of the Czech Republic double taxation shall be eliminated as follows : Where a resident of the Czech
Republic derives income or owns capital which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, may be taxed in
India, the Czech Republic shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income or capital of that resident an amount
equal to the tax paid in India. Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the tax as computed before the
deduction is given, which is attributable to the income or capital which may be taxed in India.
4. The tax payable in the Contracting State mentioned in paragraph 2 and 3 of this Article shall be deemed to include the
tax which would have been payable but for the tax incentives granted under the laws of the Contracting State and which
are designed to promote economic development.
5. Where, in accordance with any provision of this Convention, income derived or capital owned by a resident of a
Contracting State is exempt from tax in that State, such State may nevertheless, in calculating the amount of tax on the
remaining income or capital of such resident, take into account the exempted income or capital,
Article 25
Non-Discrimination
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any
requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to
which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances are or may be subjected. This provision shall,
notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not residents of one or both of the Contracting
States.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State
carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as preventing a Contracting Slate from charging
the profits of a permanent establishment which a company of the other Contracting State has in the first mentioned State
at a rate of tax which is higher than that imposed on the profits of a similar company of the first-mentioned Contracting
State, nor as being in conflict with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 7 of this Convention.
3. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by
one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any taxation
or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
4. Except where the provisions of Article 9, paragraph 7 of Article 11, or paragraph 6 of Article 12, apply, interest
royalties and other disbursement paid by an enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible under the same conditions as if
they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State. Similarly, any debts of an enterprise of a Contracting Stale
to a resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable capital of such enterprise,
be deductible under the same conditions as if they had been contracted to a resident of the first-mentioned State.
5. The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2, apply to taxes of every kind and
description.
Article 26
Mutual Agreement Procedure
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in
taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the
Page 12/15
----- PAGE 13 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech...
domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a
resident or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 25, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national.
The case must be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in
accordance with the provisions of the Convention.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive
at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracting
State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Convention. Any agreement reached
shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties
or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Convention. They may also consult together for the
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Convention.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of
reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs. When it seems advisable in order to reach agreement
to have an oral exchange of opinions, such exchange may take place through a commission consisting of
representatives of the competent authorities of the Contracting States.
Article 27
Exchange of Information
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information (including documents), as is
necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Convention or of the domestic laws of the Contracting States concerning
taxes covered by the Convention insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Convention in particular for the
prevention of fraud or evasion of such taxes. The exchange of information is not restricted by Article 1. Any information
received by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as information obtained under the
domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative
bodies) involved in the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in respect of. or the determination of
appeals in relation to, the taxes covered by the Convention, Such persons or authorities shall use the information only
for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial; decisions.
2. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:
(a)
to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other
Contracting State;
(b)
to supply information or documents which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration
of that or of the other Contracting State :
(c)
to supply information or documents which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional
secret or trade process, or information, or documents the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy.
Article 28
Collection Assistance
1. The Contracting States undertake to lend assistance to each other in the collection of taxes to which this Convention
relates, together with interests, costs, and civil penalties relating to such taxes, referred to in this Article as a "revenue
claim".
2. Request for assistance by the competent authority of a Contracting State in the collection of a revenue claim shall
include a certification by such authority that, under the laws of that State, the revenue claim has been finally determined.
For the purposes of this Article, a revenue claim is finally determined when a Contracting State has the right under its
internal law to collect the revenue claim and the taxpayer has no further rights to restrain collection.
3. A request for assistance in collection of taxes due from a tax payer shall be made only if adequate assets of that lax
payer are not available for recovering the taxes from him in the Contracting State making the request.
4. Amount collected by the competent authority of a contracting State pursuant to this Article shall be forwarded to the
competent authority of the other Contracting State. However, the first-mentioned Contracting State shall be entitled to
reimbursement of costs, if any, incurred in the course of rendering such assistance to the extent mutually agreed
between the competent authorities of the two States.
Page 13/15
----- PAGE 14 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech...
5. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing on either Contracting State the obligation to carry out
administrative measures of a different nature from those used in the collection of its own taxes or those which would be
contrary to its public policy.
6. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 30 relating to entry into force of this convention, the application of this Article
shall commence on a date to be mutually agreed upon by the competent authorities of the Contracting State.
Article 29
Members of Diplomatic Missions and Consular Posts
Nothing in this convention shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts under the
general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 30
Entry Into Force
1. The Contracting States shall notify each other in writing, through diplomatic channels, the completion of the procedure
required by the respective laws for the entry into force of this convention.
2. This Convention shall enter into force on the date of the later of the notifications referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Article.
3. The provisions of this Convention shall have effect;
(a)
in India, in respect of income derived or capital held in any fiscal year beginning on or after the first day of April next
following the calendar year in which the Convention enters into force; and
(b)
in the Czech Republic :
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at source, to income paid or credited on or after first January in the calendar year next
following that in which the Convention enters into force ;
(ii)
in respect of other taxes on income and taxes on capital, to income or capital in any taxable year beginning on or after
first January in the calendar year next following that in which the Convention enters into force.
4. On the entry into effect of this Convention, the application of the Agreement between the Government of the
Czechoslovak Socialist Republic and the Government of India for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of
fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income signed at New Delhi on 27th January 1986 shall, in relation between the
Czech Republic and India, cease to have effect.
Article 31
Termination
This Convention shall remain in force indefinitely until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State may
terminate the Convention, through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination at lease six months before the
end of any calendar year beginning after the expiration of five years from the date of entry into force of the Convention.
In such event, the Convention shall cease to have effect:
(a)
in India, in respect of income derived in any previous year on or after the first April next following the calendar year in
which the notice is given and in respect of capital held at the expiry of any previous year beginning on or after first April
next following the calendar year in which the notice of termination is given;
(b)
in the Czech Republic,
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at source, to income paid or credited on or after first January in the calendar year next
following that in which the notice is given;
(ii)
in respect of other taxes on income and taxes on capital, to income or capital in any taxable year beginning on or after
first January in the calendar year next following that in which the notice is given.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Convention,
Done in duplicate at PRAGUE this 1st day of Oct. 1998 in Hindi, English and Czech languages, all three texts being
Page 14/15
----- PAGE 15 -----
Convention Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Czech...
equally authentic. In case of divergence between the texts the English text shall be the operative one.
For the Government of the Republic of India
For the Government of the Czech Republic
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 15/15