
----- PAGE 1 -----
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of D...
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of
Morocco for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of
Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/77131903/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the
Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
UNION OF INDIA
India
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the
Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
Rule
CONVENTION-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-KINGDOM-OF-MOROCCO-FOR-THE-AVOIDANCE-
OF-DOUBLE-TAXATION-AND-THE-PREVENTION-OF-FISCAL-EVASION-WITH-RESPECT-TO-TAXES-ON-INCOME
of 2000
Published on 15 March 2000
Commenced on 15 March 2000
[This is the version of this document from 15 March 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the
Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
Page 1/15
----- PAGE 2 -----
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of D...
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 245(E), dated 15th March, 2000
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Revenue)
(Income-Tax)
G.S.R. 245(E). - Whereas the annexed Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Kingdom of Morocco for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with
respect to Taxes on Income has come into force on the 20th day of February, 2000, on the notification by both the
Contracting States to each other, under Article 29 of the said Convention, of the completion of the procedures required
by their respective laws for bringing into force of the said Convention;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (
43 of 1961
), the Central Government hereby directs that all the provisions of the said Convention shall be given effect to in the
Union of India.
Annexure
The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco
Desiring to conclude a Convention for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect
to taxes on income.
Have Agreed as follows :
Article 1
Scope of The Convention
This Convention shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
Article 2
Taxes Covered
1.
This Convention shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its political subdivisions
or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
2.
There shall be regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income, or on elements of income, including
taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property.
3.
The existing taxes to which this Convention shall apply are in particular.
(a)
In the Republic of India: the income-tax, including any surcharge thereon ;
(hereinafter referred to as "Indian tax")
(b)
In the Kingdom of Morocco :
(i)
General income tax ;
(ii)
corporation tax ;
(iii)
the tax on income from the shares or social parts and assimilated income;
(iv)
the tax on immovable property profits ;
(v)
the participation on the national solidarity;
(vi)
the tax on income from fixed yield investments;
(hereinafter referred to as "Moroccan tax").
4.
The Convention shall also apply to any identical or substantially similar taxes which are imposed by either Contracting
Page 2/15
----- PAGE 3 -----
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of D...
State after the date of signature of the present Convention in addition to, or in place of, the taxes referred to in
paragraph 3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall notify each other of any substantial changes
which are made in their respective taxation laws.
Article 3
General Definitions
1. In this Convention, unless the context otherwise requires :
(a)
the term "India" means the territory of India and includes the territorial sea and airspace above it, as well as any other
maritime zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and jurisdictions, according to the Indian law and in
accordance with international law and, in particular, the U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea.
(b)
the term "Morocco" means the Kingdom of Morocco; and when used in geographical sense the term "Morocco" includes:
(i)
the territory of the Kingdom of Morocco; the territorial sea thereof and
(ii)
the maritime areas beyond the territorial sea, including the seabed and subsoil thereof (continental shelf) and the
exclusive economic zone over which Morocco exercises sovereign rights, in accordance with its domestic laws and
international law, for the purpose of exploration and exploitation of the natural resources of such areas.
(c)
the term "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State" mean India or Morocco as the context requires;
(d)
the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity which is treated as a company or body corporate under the
taxation laws in force in the respective Contracting States;
(e)
the term "competent authority" means:
(i)
in the ease of India, the Central Government in the Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue, or their authorised
representative;
(ii)
in the case of Morocco, the Minister of Finance or his authorised representative.
(f)
the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively an
enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other
Contracting State;
(g)
the term "fiscal year" means:
(i)
in the case of India, "previous year" as defined in section 3 of the Income-tax Act, 1961;
(ii)
in the case of Morocco, a "fiscal exercise" as defined under the Laws relating to the General Income Tax and the
Corporation Tax.
(h)
the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise which is a resident of a
Contracting State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting State;
(i)
the term "national" means any individual, possessing the nationality of a Contracting State and any legal person,
partnership or association deriving its status from the laws in force in the Contracting State;
(j)
the term "person" includes an individual, a company, a body of persons and any other entity which is treated as a
taxable unit under the taxation laws in force in the respective Contracting States;
(k)
Page 3/15
----- PAGE 4 -----
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of D...
the term "tax" means Indian tax or Moroccan tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any amount other than
tax which is payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this Convention applies or
which represents a penalty or fine imposed relating to those taxes.
2. As regards the application of this Convention by a Contracting State, any term not defined therein shall, unless the
context otherwise requires, have the meaning which it has under the law of that State concerning the taxes to which this
Convention applies.
Article 4
Resident
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the
laws of that State or any political subdivision or local authority thereof is liable to tax therein by reason of bis domicile,
residence, place of management or any other criterion of a similar nature. This term, however, does not include any
person who is liable to tax in that State in respect only of income from sources in that State.
2. Where, by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1, an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his
status shall be determined as follows:
(a)
he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a
permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be resident of the State with which his personal
and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);
(b)
if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home
available to him in either State; he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an habitual abode;
(c)
if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to a resident only of the State of
which he is a national;
(d)
if he is a national of both States or in neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the
question by mutual agreement.
3. Where, by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1, a person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which its place of effective management is situated.
Article 5
Permanent Establishment
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:
(a)
a place of management;
(b)
a branch;
(c)
an office;
(d)
a factory;
(e)
a workshop;
(f)
a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources;
(g)
a sales outlet;
(h)
a warehouse is relation to a person providing storage facilities for others;
(i)
Page 4/15
----- PAGE 5 -----
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of D...
a farm, plantation or other place where agricultural, forestry, plantation or related activities are carried on; and
(j)
a building site or construction or assembly project or supervisory activities in connection there with, but only where such
site, project or activity continues for a period of more than eight months.
3. An enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State and to carry on business
through that permanent establishment if it provides services or facilities in connection with, or supplies plant and
machinery on hire used for or to be used in the prospecting for, or extraction or exploitation of mineral oils in that State.
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to
include:
(a)
the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise;
(b)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage,
display or delivery;
(c)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by
another enterprise;
(d)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of collecting
information, for the enterprise;
(e)
the maintenance of a fixed place or business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity of
a preparatory or auxiliary character,
(f)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in subparagraphs (a) to
(e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory of
auxiliary character.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 where a person - other than an agent of an independent status to
whom paragraph 7 applies - is acting on behalf of an enterprise and has, and habitually exercises, in a Contracting State
an authority to conclude contracts on behalf of the enterprise, that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent
establishment in that State in respect of any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, unless the
activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 of this Article, which if exercised through a fixed
place of business would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that
paragraph.
6.
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall, except in
regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collects
premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of an
independent status to whom paragraph 7 applies.
7.
An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting
State merely because it carries on business in that other State through a broker, general commission agent or any other
agent of an independent status provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. However,
when the activities of such an agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise, he will not be
considered an agent of an independent status within the meaning of this paragraph.
8.
The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a
resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other Contracting State (whether through a
permanent establishment or otherwise) shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the
Page 5/15
----- PAGE 6 -----
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of D...
other.
Article 6
Income From Immovable Property
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture or
forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which
the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed
property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working
of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources. Ships, boats and aircraft shall not be
regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of
immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and to
income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
Article 7
Business Profits
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on
business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on
business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is
attributable to that permanent establishment.
For the purposes of this Article, where a permanent establishment takes an active part in negotiating, concluding or
fulfilling contracts entered into by the enterprise, then notwithstanding that other parts of the enterprise have also
participated in those transactions, there shall be attributed to the permanent establishment that proportion of profits of
the enterprise arising out of those contracts as the contribution of the permanent establishment to those transactions
bears to that of the enterprise as a whole.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other
Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be
attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly
independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions, expenses which are
incurred for the purposes of business of the permanent establishment, including executive and general administrative
expenses so incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere, in
accordance with the provisions of the tax laws, and subject to the limitations laid down therein.
4. In so far as it has been customary in a Contracting State to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanent
establishment on the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in
paragraph 2 shall preclude that Contracting State from determining the profits to be taxed by such an apportionment as
may be customary. The method of apportionment adopted shall, however, be such that the result shall be in accordance
with the principles contained in the Article.
5. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
6. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
7. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Convention, then the
provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
Article 8
Shipping and Air transport
1. Profits derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic
shall be taxable only in that State.
2. Profits derived by a transportation enterprise which is a resident of a Contracting State from the use, maintenance, or
Page 6/15
----- PAGE 7 -----
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of D...
rental of containers (including trailers and other equipment for the transport of containers) used for the transport of
goods or merchandise in international traffic shall be taxable only in that Contracting State unless the containers are
used solely within the other Contracting State.
3. For the purposes of this Article, interest on funds directly connected with the operation of ships or aircraft in
international traffic shall be regarded as profits described in this Article, and the provisions of article 11 (interest) shall
not apply in relation to such interest.
4. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or an
international operating agency.
Article 9
Associated Enterprises
1. Where:
(a)
an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an
enterprise of the other Contracting State, or
(b)
the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting
State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State, and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the
two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations which differ from those which would be made between
independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises,
but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed
accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State and taxes accordingly profits on which
an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included are
profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first mentioned State if the conditions made between the two
enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shall
make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such
adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Convention and the competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall, if necessary, consult each other.
Article 10
Dividends
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, and according to the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the dividends, the tax so
charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends. This paragraph shall not affect the taxation
of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares, or other rights, (not being debt-claims),
participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment
as income from shares by the laws of the Contracting State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State
of which the company paying the dividends is a resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or
performs in that other Contracting State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the
holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment of fixed
base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7, or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting
State, that other State, may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends
are paid to a resident of that other State or, insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the company's
undistributed profits to a tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or undistributed profits
consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in such other State.
Page 7/15
----- PAGE 8 -----
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of D...
Article 11
Interest
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
Contracting State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of that
Contracting State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the interest, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per
cent of the gross amount of the interest.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest arising in a Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that
State provided it is derived and beneficially owned by:
(i)
the Government, a political subdivision, or a local authority of the other Contracting State; or
(ii)
in the case of India, the Reserve Bank of India, the Industrial Finance Corporation of India, the Industrial Development
Bank of India, the Export-Import Bank of India, the National Housing Bank, the Small Industries Development Bank of
India and the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI); and
(iii)
in the case of Morocco, the Bank A1-Maghrib (the Central Bank of Morocco), the Northern Provinces Development
Agency, the Central Popular Bank and its regional agencies, the National Bank of Economic Development, the
Moroccan Bank of Foreign Trade, the Communal Equipment Fund, the Immovable and Hotel Credit and the Industrial
Development Office.
(iv)
any other institution as may be agreed from time to time between the competent authorities of the Contracting States.
4. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by
mortagage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from
government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purposes of
this Article.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other Contracting State independent personal services from a fixed
base situated therein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such
permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case maybe, shall
apply.
6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that Contracting State itself, a political
subdivision, a local authority or a resident of that Contracting State. Where, however, the person paying the interest,
whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed
base in connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was incurred, and such interest is borne by
such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the Contracting State in
which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments
shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this
Convention.
Article 12
Royalties and Fees for Technical Services
1. Royalties and fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other Contracting State.
2. However, such royalties or fees for technical services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise
and according to the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the royalties or the fees for technical
Page 8/15
----- PAGE 9 -----
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of D...
services, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties or fees for technical
services.
3. The term "royalties" as used in this Article means:
(a)
payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the right to use, any copyright of a literary, artistic or
scientific work, including cinematograph films or recordings on any means of reproduction for use for radio or television
broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, computer software programme, secret formula or process,
or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience; and
(b)
payments of any kind received as consideration for the use of, or the right to use, any industrial, commercial or scientific
equipment.
4. The term "fees for technical services" means payments of any kind in consideration for the rendering of managerial,
technical or consultancy services including the provision of services by technical or other personnel but does not include
payments for services mentioned in Articles 14 and 15 of this Convention.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties and fees for technical
services, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the
royalties or fees for technical services arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that
other Contracting State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in
respect of which the royalties or fees for technical services are paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7, or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
6. Royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State
itself, a political subdivision, a local authority or a resident of that Contracting State. Where, however, the person paying
the royalties or fees for technical services, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting
State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the liability to pay the royalties or fees for
technical services was incurred, and such royalties or fees for technical services are borne by such permanent
establishment or fixed base, then such royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in the
Contracting State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the royalties or fees for technical services, having regard to the use, right or
information for which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the
beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of
this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain
taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.
Article 13
Capital Gains
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6
and situated in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other Contracting State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed
base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing
independent personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or
together with the whole enterprise) or of such a fixed base, may be taxed in that other Contracting State.
3. Gains from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international traffic or movable property, pertaining to the
operation of such ships or aircraft, shall be taxable only in the Contracting State in which the place of effective
management of the enterprise is situated.
4. Gains from the alienation of shares of the capital stock of a company the property of which consists directly or
indirectly principally of immovable property situated in a Contracting State may also be taxed in that Contracting Sate.
5. Gains from the alienation of shares other than those mentioned in paragraph 4 in a company which is a resident of a
Contracting State may be taxed in that Contracting State.
6. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that mentioned in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
Page 9/15
----- PAGE 10 -----
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of D...
Article 14
Independent Personal Services
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Article 12 relating to fees for technical services, income derived by a resident of
a Contracting State in respect of professional services or other independent activities of a similar character shall be
taxable only in that Contracting State except in the following circumstances:
(a)
if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing his activities;
or
(b)
if his stay in the other Contracting State is for a period or periods amounting to or exceeding in the aggregate 183 days
in the relevant fiscal year, in such case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base or as is derived
from his activities performed in that other Contracting State, as the case may be, may also be taxed in that other
Contracting State.
2. The term "professional services" includes independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching activities as
well as the independent activities of physicians, surgeons, lawyers, engineers, architects, dentists and accountants.
Article 15
Dependent Personal Services
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived
by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the
employment is exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is
derived therefrom may be taxed in that other State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of
an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first mentioned State, if:
(a)
the recipient is present in the other state for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in the relevant
fiscal year, and
(b)
the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State, and
(c)
the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in the other State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised
aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a Contraction State shall be taxable only in
that State.
Article 16
Directors' Fees
Director's fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of
the Board of Directors of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State maybe taxed in that other
Contracting State.
Article 17
Income Earned By Artistes and Sports Persons
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
artiste, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio of television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from his
personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an artiste or a sportsperson in his capacity as such
accrues not to the artiste or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the provisions
of articles 7, 14 and 15, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the artiste or sportsperson are
exercised.
3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, shall not apply to income from activities performed in a Contracting State by
entertainers or sports persons if the visit to that State is wholly or substantially supported by public funds of one or both
of the Contracting States or of political sub-divisions or local authorities thereof. In such a case, the income is taxable
only the Contracting State of which the entertainer or sportsperson is a resident.
Page 10/15
----- PAGE 11 -----
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of D...
Article 18
Remuneration and Pensions in Respect of Government Service
1. (a) Remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority
thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or sub-division or authority shall be taxable only in
that State.
(b)
However, such remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the services are rendered in that
State and the individual is a resident of that State who :
(i)
is national of that State; or
(ii)
did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. (a) Any person paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority
thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or sub-division or authority shall be taxable only in
that State.
(b)
However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of, and a
national of that other State.
3. The provisions of Articles 15, 16 and 19 shall apply to remuneration and pensions in respect of services rendered in
connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or apolitical sub-division or a local authority thereof.
Article 19
Non-Government Pensions and Annuities
1. Any pension, other than a pension referred to in Article 18, or any annuity derived by a resident of a Contracting State
from sources within the other Contracting State may be taxed only in the first-mentioned Contracting State.
2. The term "pension" means a periodic payment made in consideration of past services.
3. The term "annuity" means a stated sum payable periodically at stated times during life or during a specified or
ascertainable period of time, under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full consideration in
money or money' s worth.
Article 20
Payments Received By Students and Apprentices
1. A student or business apprentice who is or was a resident of one of the Contracting States immediately before visiting
the other Contracting State and who is present in the other State solely for the purpose of his education or training, shall
be exempt from tax in that other State on:
(a)
payments made to him by persons residing outside that other State for the purposes of his maintenance, education or
training; and
(b)
remuneration from employment in that other State in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of US dollars 2000, during
any fiscal year;
provided that such employment is directly related to his studies or is undertaken for the purpose of his maintenance.
2. The benefits of this Article shall extend only for such period of time as may be reasonable or customarily required to
complete the education or training undertaken, but in no event shall any individual have the benefits of this Article for
more than five consecutive years from the date of his first arrival in that other Contracting State.
Article 21
Payments Received By Professors, Teachers and Research Scholars
1. A professor or teacher or research scholar who is or was a resident of one of the Contracting States immediately
before visiting the other Contracting State for the purpose of teaching or engaging in research, or both, at a university,
college, school or other institution, approved in that other Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that other State
on any remuneration for such teaching or research for a period not exceeding two years from the date of his arrival in
that other State.
2. This Article shall not apply to income from research if such research is undertaken primarily for the private benefit of a
Page 11/15
----- PAGE 12 -----
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of D...
specific person or persons.
3. For the purposes of this Article and Article 20, an individual shall be deemed to be a resident of a Contracting State if
he is a resident in the Contracting State in the fiscal year in which he visits the other Contracting State or in the
immediately preceding fiscal year.
4. For the purposes of paragraph 1, "approved" means a university, college, school or other institution which has been
approved in this regard by the competent authority of the concerned Contracting State.
Article 22
Other Income
1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2, items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, which
are not expressly dealt with in the foregoing articles of this Convention, shall be taxable only in that Contracting State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in
paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in
the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the
income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of
Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, if a resident of Contracting State derives income from sources within
the other Contracting State in the form of lotteries, crossword puzzles, races including horse races, card games and
other games of any sort or gambling or betting of any form or nature whatsoever, such income may be taxed in the other
Contracting State.
Article 23
Avoidance of Double Taxation
1. The laws in force in either of the Contracting State will continue to govern the taxation of income in the respective
Contracting States except where provisions to the contrary are made in this Convention.
2. In the case of India, double taxation shall be eliminated as follows:
Where a resident of India derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, may be taxed in
Morocco, India shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident an amount equal to the income tax
paid in Morocoo whether directly or by deduction at source. Such amount shall not however exceed that part of the
income tax, as computed before the deduction is given, which is attributable to the income which may be taxed in
Morocco.
3. In the case of Morocco, double taxation shall be eliminated as follows:
Where a resident of Morocco derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, may be taxed
in India, Morocco shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident an amount equal to the income
tax paid in India, whether directly or by deduction at source. Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the
income tax as computed before the deduction is given, which is attributable to the income which may be taxed in India.
4. The tax payable in a Contracting State mentioned in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article shall be deemed to include the
tax which would have been payable but for the tax incentives granted under the laws of the
Contracting State and which are designed to promote economic development.
5. Income which in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, is not to be subjected to tax in a Contracting
State, may be taken into account for calculating the rate of tax to be imposed in that Contracting State.
Article 24
Non-Discrimination
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any
requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to
which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances are or may be subjected.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State
carrying on the same activities in the same circumstances. This provision shall not be construed as preventing a
Contracting State from charging profits of a permanent establishment which an enterprise of the other Contracting State
has in the first mentioned State at a rate higher than that imposed on the profits of a similar enterprise of the
first-mentioned Contracting State, nor as being in conflict with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 7 of this
Page 12/15
----- PAGE 13 -----
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of D...
Convention.
3. Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to persons not residents in
that State any personal allowances, reliefs, reductions and deductions for taxation purposes which are by law available
only to persons who are so resident.
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by
one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first mentioned State to any taxation
or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which other similar enterprises of that first-mentioned State are or may be subjected in the same
circumstances.
5. In this Article, the term "taxation" means taxes which are the subject of this Convention.
Article 25
Mutual Agreement Procedure
1. Where a resident of a Contracting State considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or
will result for him in taxation not in accordance with this Convention, he may, notwithstanding the remedies provided by
the national laws of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a
resident. This case must be presented within three years of the date of receipt of notice of the action which gives rise to
taxation not in accordance with this Convention.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive
at an appropriate solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other
Contracting State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation not in accordance with the Convention. Any agreement
reached shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the national laws of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting State shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties or
doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of this Convention. They may also consult together for the
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in this Convention.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of
reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs. When it seems advisable in order to reach agreement
to have an oral exchange of opinions, such exchange may take place through a Commission consisting of
representatives of the competent authorities of the Contracting States.
Article 26
Exchange of Information
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information (including documents) as is
necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Convention or of the domestic laws of the Contracting States concerning
taxes covered by the Convention insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Convention in particular for the
prevention of fraud or evasion of such taxes. The exchange of information is not restricted by Article 1. Any information
received by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as information obtained under the
domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative
bodies) involved in the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in respect of, or the determination of
appeals in relation to, the taxes covered by the Convention. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only
for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions. The competent
authorities shall, through consultation, develop appropriate conditions, methods and techniques concerning the matters
in respect of which such exchange of information shall be made, including where appropriate, exchange of information
regarding tax avoidance.
2. The exchange of information or documents shall be either on routine basis or on request with reference to particular
cases or both. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall agree from time to time on the list of information
or documents which shall be furnished on a routine basis.
3. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:
(a)
to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws or administrative practice of that or of the other
Contracting State;
(b)
to supply information or documents which are not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration
Page 13/15
----- PAGE 14 -----
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of D...
of that or of the other Contracting State;
(c)
to supply information or documents which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional
secret or trade process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy.
Article 27
Collection Assistance
1. The Contracting State under take to lend assistance to each other in the collection of taxes to which Convention
relates, together with interest, costs, and civil penalties relating to such taxes referred to in this Article as a "revenue
claim".
2. Request for assistance by the competent authority of Contracting State in the collection of a revenue claim shall
include a certification by such authority that under the laws of that State the revenue claim has been finally determined.
For the purposes of this Article, a revenue claim is finally determined when a Contracting State has the right under its
internal law to collect the revenue claim and the taxpayer has no further rights to restrain collection.
3. Amount collected by the competent authority of Contracting State pursuant to this Article shall be forwarded to the
competent authority of the other Contracting State. However, the first-mentioned Contracting State shall be entitled to
reimbursement of costs, if any, incurred in the course of rendering such assistance to the extent mutually agreed
between the competent authorities of the two States.
4. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing on either Contracting State the obligation to carry out
administrative measures of a different nature from those used in the collection of its own taxes or those which would be
contrary to its public policy.
Article 28
Diplomatic and Consular Activities
Nothing in this convention shall affect the fiscal privileges of diplomatic and consular officials under the general rules of
international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 29
Entry Into Force
1. The Contracting State shall notify each other in writing, through diplomatic channels, the completion of the procedure
required by the respective laws for the entry into force of this Convention.
2. This Convention shall enter into force 30 days after the receipt of the later of the notifications referred to in paragraph
1 of this Article.
3. The provisions of this Convention shall have effect:
(a)
in India, in respect of income arising in any fiscal year beginning on or after the first day of April next following the
calendar year in which the Convention enters into force; and
(b)
in Morocco, in respect of income arising on or after the first day of January of the Calendar year next following the year
in which this Convention enters into force.
Article 30
Termination
This Convention shall remain in force indefinitely, until terminated by a Contracting State, Either Contracting State may
terminate the Convention through diplomatic channels by giving notice of termination at least six months before the end
of any calendar year beginning after expiration of five years from the date of entry into force of the Convention. In such
event, the Convention shall cease to have effect.
(a)
in India, in respect of income arising in any fiscal year on or after the first day of April next following the calendar year in
which the notice of termination is given;
(b)
in Morocco, in respect of income arising on or after the first day of January of the calendar year next following the year in
which the notice of termination is given.
In Witness Whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, have signed the present convention.
Done in duplicate at Rabat, this 30th day of October 1998, in the Hindi, Arabic, English and French languages, the four
Page 14/15
----- PAGE 15 -----
Convention between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Morocco for the Avoidance of D...
texts being equally authentic. In case of divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
FOR THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA
FOR THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(K.M.R. JANARTHANAN)
(FATHALLAH OUALALOU)
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 15/15