
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation, Submission Of Budget And Maint...
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation,
Submission Of Budget And Maintenance Of Accounts) Rules, 2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/153171788/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation, Submission Of Budget And Maintenance Of Accounts)
Rules, 2000
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation, Submission Of Budget And Maintenance Of Accounts)
Rules, 2000
Rule
THE-CENTRAL-ELECTRICITY-REGULATORY-COMMISSION-PREPARATION-SUBMISSION-OF-BUDGET-AND-MAI
NTENANCE-OF-ACCOUNTS-RULES-2000 of 2000
Published on 8 March 2000
Commenced on 8 March 2000
[This is the version of this document from 8 March 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation, Submission Of Budget And Maintenance Of Accounts)
Rules, 2000
Published vide Notification G.S.R. 237(E), dated 8.3.2000, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2,
Section 3(i), dated 10.3.2000.
9.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation, Submission Of Budget And Maint...
/487
G.S.R. 237(E), dated 8.3.2000.- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 31 and section 54 of the Electricity
Regulatory Commissions Act, 1998 (
14 of 1998
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement .
(1)
These rules may be called The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation, Submission of Budget and
Maintenance of Accounts) Rules, 2000.
(2)
These shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Preparation and submission of annual budget estimates .
(1)
The budget estimates of the Commission for every financial year beginning on the 1st day of April and ending on the
31st day of March in following year shall be prepared in such form as in use in the Central Government
Ministries/Departments subject to such alterations and additions to those forms as the Government may specify in
consultation with the Commission.
(2)
The Commission shall consider and approve, in consultation with the Financial Adviser, the budget estimates with such
changes as it thinks fit at the meeting to which the consideration of the budget estimates is fixed by a resolution of the
Commission.
(3)
The budget estimates as approved by the Commission shall be submitted to the Government normally by the 15th of
October but in no case later than the end of October of each year:
Provided that the Government may, on the request of the Commission, extend the date of submission of the budget
estimates by such period not exceeding fifteen days as the Government may think fit.
(4)
Subject to such orders as may be issued by the Government, no expenditure shall be incurred until the budget is
sanctioned by the Government and expenditure authorised by a competent authority in the Commission.
3.
Supplementary estimates .
- If during any financial year, for any reason, substantial modification of the budget estimates as finally approved by the
Government is likely to be involved, the Commission shall submit for approval to the Government supplementary
estimates in such form and on such dates as the Government by order from time to time direct.
4.
Accounts of the Commission.
- The accounts of the Commission shall be maintained in the forms in use in Central Government
Ministries/Departments, subject to such additions and alterations in those forms as the Government may from time to
time direct in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
5.
Publication of annual accounts .
- An abstract statement of annual receipts and expenditure shall be published in the Gazette of India.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2