
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Foreign Exchange Management (Insurance) Regulations, 2000
The Foreign Exchange Management (Insurance) Regulations, 2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/150722735/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
Union of India - Act
The Foreign Exchange Management (Insurance) Regulations, 2000
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Foreign Exchange Management (Insurance) Regulations, 2000
Rule THE-FOREIGN-EXCHANGE-MANAGEMENT-INSURANCE-REGULATIONS-2000 of 2000
Published on 3 May 2000
Commenced on 3 May 2000
[This is the version of this document from 3 May 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Foreign Exchange Management (Insurance) Regulations, 2000
Published vide G.S.R. 395(E), dated 3.5.2000. published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(i),
dated 5.5.2000.
11.
/571
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 47 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (
42 of 1999
), the Reserve Bank makes the following regulations with respect to the holding by a person resident in India of a
general or life insurance policy issued by an insurer outside India, namely:--
1.
Short title and commencement .-(i) These regulations may be called the Foreign Exchange Management (Insurance)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Foreign Exchange Management (Insurance) Regulations, 2000
Regulations, 2000.
(ii)
They shall come into force on 1st day of June, 2000.
2.
Definitions .-In these regulations, unless the context requires otherwise,--
(i)
"Act" means the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (
42 of 1999
);
(ii)
the words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations shall have the same meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
[ Permission to take or hold a general insurance policy issued by an insurer outside India
.-(i) A person resident in India may take or continue to hold a general insurance policy issued by an insurer outside
India, provided that, the policy is held, under a specific or general permission of the Central Government.
(ii)
A person resident in India may continue to hold any general insurance policy issued by an insurer outside India when
such person was resident outside India:
Provided further that where the premium due on a general insurance policy has been paid by making remittance from
India, the policy holder shall repatriate to India through normal banking channels, the maturity proceeds or amount of
any claim due on the policy, within a period of seven days from the receipt thereof.
4.
Permission to take or hold a life insurance policy issued by an insurer outside India .-(i) A person resident in India may
take or continue to hold a life insurance policy issued by an insurer outside India, provided that, the policy is held, under
a specific or general permission of the Reserve Bank of India.
(ii)
A person resident in India may continue to hold any life insurance policy issued by an insurer outside India when such
person was resident outside India:-
Provided further that where the premium due on a life insurance policy has been paid by making remittance from India,
the policy holder shall repatriate to India through normal banking channels, the maturity proceeds or amount of any
claim due on the policy, within a period of seven days from the receipt thereof.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2