
----- PAGE 1 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portu...
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Portuguese Republic for the Avoidance of Double
Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes
on Income
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/106040736/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portuguese Republic for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
UNION OF INDIA
India
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portuguese Republic for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
Rule
CONVENTION-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-P
ORTUGUESE-REPUBLIC-FOR-THE-AVOIDANCE-OF-DOUBLE-TAXATION-AND-THE-PREVENTION-OF-FISCAL-EV
ASION-WITH-RESPECT-TO-TAXES-ON-INCOME of 2000
Published on 16 June 2000
Commenced on 16 June 2000
[This is the version of this document from 16 June 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/15
----- PAGE 2 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portu...
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portuguese Republic for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
Published Vide Notification No. G.S.R. 542(E), dated 16th June, 2000
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Revenue)
(Income-Tax)
G.S.R. 542(E). - Whereas the annexed Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Portuguese Republic for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with
respect to taxes on income has come into force, on the 30th April, 2000, thirty days after the date of exchange of
diplomatic notes indicating the completion of internal legal procedures necessary in each Contracting State for the entry
into force of this Convention in accordance with Article 29 of the said Convention;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred under section 90 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the
Central Government hereby directs that all the provisions of the said Convention shall be given effect to in the Union of
India.
Annexure
The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portuguese Republic, desiring to conclude a
Convention for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income,
Have Agreed as follows:
Chapter I
Scope of the Convention
Article 1
Personal Scope
This Convention shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
Article 2
Taxes Covered
1.
This Convention shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its political or
administrative subdivisions or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
2.
There shall be regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income or on elements of income, including taxes
on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property and taxes on the amounts of wages or salaries paid by
enterprises.
3.
The existing taxes to which the Convention shall apply are in particular:
a) In the case of the Portuguese Republic:
(I)
Personal income tax (Imposto sobre o Rendimento das Pessoas Singulares - IRS);
(II)
Corporate Income tax (Imposto sobre o Rendimento das Pessoas Colectivas - IRC);
(III)
Local surtax on corporate income tax (Derrama);
(hereinafter referred to as "Portuguese tax");
b) In the case of the Republic of India:
The Income tax Including any surcharge thereon;
(hereinafter referred to as "Indian tax").
4.
The Convention shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes which are imposed after the date of
signature of the Convention in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The competent authorities of the Contracting
States shall notify each other of any substantial changes which have been made in their respective taxation laws.
Chapter II
Definitions
Page 2/15
----- PAGE 3 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portu...
Article 3
General Definitions
1. For the purposes of this Convention, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
the term "Portugal" means the territory of the Portuguese Republic situated in the European Continent, the
archipelagoes of Azores and Madeira, the respective territorial sea and any other zone in which, in accordance with the
laws of Portugal and international law, the Portuguese Republic has its jurisdiction or sovereign rights with respect to the
exploration and exploitation of the natural resources of the sea bed and subsoil, and of the superjacent waters;
(b)
the term "India" means the territory of India and includes the territorial sea and airspace above it, as well as any other
maritime zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and jurisdictions, according to the Indian law and in
accordance with International law, including the U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982;
(c)
the terms "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State" mean Portugal or India as the context requires;
(d)
the term "tax" means Portuguese tax or Indian tax, as the context requires;
(e)
the term "person" includes an individual, a company, a body of persons and any other entity which is treated as a
taxable unit under the taxation laws in force in a Contracting State;
(f)
the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity which is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(g)
the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively an
enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other
Contracting State;
(h)
the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise of a Contracting State,
except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting State;
(i)
the term "competent authority" means:
(i)
in Portugal: the Minister of Finance or the Director General of Taxation (Director-Gernal does Importos) or their
authorised representative;
(ii)
in India: the Central Government in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) or their authorised representative;
(j)
the term "national" means:
(i)
any individual possessing the nationality of a Contracting State;
(ii)
any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in a Contracting State.
(k)
The term "fiscal year" means:
(i)
in the case of Portugal, the civil year as laid down in the IRC Code or the taxation period as defined in the IRC Code;
(ii)
in the case of India, "previous year" as defined under section 3 of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
2. As regards the application of the Convention at any time by a Contracting State, any term not defined therein shall
unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning which it has at that time under the law of that State for the
purposes of the taxes to which the Convention applies, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State
prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that State.
Page 3/15
----- PAGE 4 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portu...
Article 4
Resident
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the
laws of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management or any other
criterion of a similar nature. This term, however, does not include any person who is liable to tax in that State in respect
only of income from sources in that State.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his
status shall be determined as follows:
a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a
permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State with which his
personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);
b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home
available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which is has an habitual abode;
c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State
of which he is a national;
d) if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle
the question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which its place of effective management is situated.
If the State in which its place of effective management is situated can not be determined; then the competent authorities
of the Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
Article 5
Permanent Establishment
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:
a) a place of management;
b) a branch;
c) an office;
d) a factory;
e) a workshop;
f) a sales outlet; and
g) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources, including an installation or
structure used for the exploration or exploitation of natural resources only if so used for a period of more than 120 days
in a fiscal year.
3. A building site, construction, installation or assembly project or supervisory activities in connection therewith
constitutes a permanent establishment only if it lasts more than nine months.
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to
include:
a) the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise;
b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage,
display or delivery;
c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing
by another enterprise;
d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of
collecting information, for the enterprise;
e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity
of a preparatory or auxiliary character;
f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub-paragraphs a) to
e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or
Page 4/15
----- PAGE 5 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portu...
auxiliary character.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person other than an agent of an independent status to
whom paragraph 6 applies is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting State, that
enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned State, if
a) he has and habitually exercises in that State an authority to conclude contracts on behalf of the enterprise, unless his
activities are limited wholly to the activities described in paragraph 4;
b) he has no such authority, but habitually maintains in the firstmentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise from
which he regularly delivers goods or merchandise op behalf of the enterprise and some additional activities conducted in
that State on behalf of the enterprise have contributed to the sale of the goods or merchandise.
6.
An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State merely because it carries
on business in that State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status,
provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business.
7.
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall, except in
regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collects
premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of an
independent status to whom paragraph 6 applies.
8.
The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a
resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent
establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
Chapter III
Taxation of Income
Article 6
Income From Immovable Property
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture or
forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which
the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed
property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working
of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources; ships, boats, motor vehicles and aircraft
shall not be regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of
immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and to
income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
5. The foregoing provisions shall also apply to income from movable property, or income derived from services
connected with the use or the right to use the immovable property, either of which, under the taxation law of the
Contracting State in which the property is situated, is assimilated to income from immovable property.
Article 7
Business Profits
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on
business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on
business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is
attributable to (a) that permanent establishment; (b) sales in that other State of goods or merchandise of the same or
similar kind as those sold through that permanent establishment; or (c) other business activities carried on in that other
State of the same or similar kind as those effected through that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other
Page 5/15
----- PAGE 6 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portu...
Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be
attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly
independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are
incurred for the purposes of the permanent establishment, including executive and general administrative expenses so
incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere, subject to the provisions
of the domestic laws of the Contracting State in which the permanent establishment is situated.
4. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
5. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
6. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Convention, then the
provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
Article 8
Shipping and Air Transport
1. Profits from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be taxable only in the Contracting State of
which the enterprise is a resident.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or an
international operating agency.
3. Whenever companies from different countries have agreed to carry on an air transportation business together in the
form of a consortium, the provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to such part of the profits of the consortium as
corresponds to the participation held in that consortium by a company that is a resident of a Contracting State.
4. For the purposes of this Article, profits from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall mean profits
derived from the transportation by sea or air of passengers, mail, livestock or goods carried on by the owner or lessees
or charterers of the ships or aircraft, including profits from:
(i)
the sale of tickets for such transportation on behalf of other enterprises;
(ii)
the incidental lease of ships or aircraft used in such transportation; and
(iii)
the use, maintenance or rental of containers (including trailers and related equipment for the transport of containers) by
the enterprise engaged in international traffic in connection with such transportation.
5. Interest on funds generated by the operation of ships or aircraft and arising directly to a permanent establishment of
an enterprise of one Contracting State in the other Contracting State, shall be regarded as profits derived from the
operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic. It is clarified that such interest shall not refer to interest on funds
representing investments.
Article 9
Associated Enterprises
1. Where
a) an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an
enterprise of the other Contracting State, or
b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a
Contracting State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State, and in either case conditions are made or imposed
between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations which differ from those which would be made
between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the
enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise
and taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State  and taxes accordingly profits on which
an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included are
profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between the two
Page 6/15
----- PAGE 7 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portu...
enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shall
make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such
adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Convention and the competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall if necessary consult each other.
Article 10
Dividends
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident and according to the laws of that State, but:
a) Where the dividends are paid by a company which is a resident of Portugal to a resident of India who is the beneficial
owner thereof, the Portuguese tax so charged shall not exceed:
(i)
15 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends; or
(ii)
10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends if the beneficial owner is a company that, for an uninterrupted period of
two years prior to the payment of the dividend, owns directly at least 25 per cent of the capital stock (capital social) of
the company paying the dividends.
b) Where the dividends are paid by a company which is a resident of India to a resident of Portugal who is the beneficial
owner thereof, the Indian tax so charged shall not exceed:
(i)
15 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends; or
(ii)
10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends if the beneficial owner is a company that, for an uninterrupted period of
two fiscal years prior to the payment of the dividend, owns directly at least 25 per cent of the capital stock of the
company paying the dividends.
This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares, "jouissance" shares or "puissance" rights,
mining shares, founders' shares or other rights, not being debt-claims, participating in profits, as well as income which is
subjected to the same taxation treatment as income from shares by the laws of the State of which the company making
the distribution is a resident. The term also includes profits attributed under an arrangement for participation in profits
(associates and participated).
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal
services from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as
the case may be, shall apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting
State, that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends
are paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the company's
undistributed profits to a tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits
consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in such other State.
Article 11
Interest
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of that
State, but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not
exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the interest. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall by
Page 7/15
----- PAGE 8 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portu...
mutual agreement settle the mode of application of this limitation.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest arising in a Contracting State shall be exempted from tax in
that State:
a) if the debtor of such interest is that State, a political or administrative subdivision or a local authority thereof; or
b) if interest is paid to the other Contracting State, a political or administrative subdivision or a local authority thereof or
an institution (including a financial institution) in connection with any financing granted by them under an agreement
between the Governments of the Contracting States.
4. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by
mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from
government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of
this Article.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State itself, a political or administrative
subdivision thereof, a local authority or a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the interest, whether
he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in
connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was incurred, and such interest is borne by such
permanent establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent
establishment or fixed base is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments
shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this
Convention.
Article 12
Royalties and Fees for Included Services
1. Royalties and fees for included services arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such royalties and fees for included services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise
and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties and fees for included services is a
resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount. The
competent authorities of the Contracting States shall by mutual agreement settle the mode of application of this
limitation.
3. The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or
the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films and films or tapes or
any other means of reproduction for use in connection with radio or television broadcasting, any patent, trade mark,
design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or for the use of, or the right to use, industrial, commercial or scientific
equipment, or for information concerning industrial, commercial, or scientific experience.
4. For the purposes of this Article "fees for included services" means payments of any kind, other than those mentioned
in Articles 14 and 15 of this Convention, to any person in consideration of the rendering of any technical or consultancy
services (including through the provisions of services of technical or other personnel) if such services:
a) are ancillary and subsidiary to the application or enjoyment of the right, property or information for which a payment
described in paragraph 3 is received, or
b) make available technical knowledge, experience, skill, knowhow or processes or consist of the development and
transfer of a technical plan or technical design which enables the person acquiring the services to apply the technology
contained therein.
Page 8/15
----- PAGE 9 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portu...
5. Notwithstanding paragraph 4, "fees for included services" does not include payments:
a) for services that are ancillary and subsidiary, as well as inextricably and essentially linked, to the sale of property;
b) for services that are ancillary and subsidiary to the rental of ships, aircraft, containers or other equipment used in
connection with the operation of ships or aircraft in international craft;
c) for teaching in or by educational institutions;
d) for services for the personal use of the individual or individuals making the payment;
e) to an employee of the person making the payments or to any individual or firm of individuals (other than a company)
for professional services as defined in Article 14;
f) for services rendered in connection with an installation or structure used for the exploration or exploitation of natural
resources referred to in paragraph 2 (f) of Article 5;
g) for services referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 5.
6. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties and fees for included
services, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the
royalties and fees for included services arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that
other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of
which the royalties and fees for included services are paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment
or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
7. Royalties and fees for included services shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State where the payer is that State
itself, a political or administrative subdivision thereof, a local authority or a resident of that State. Where, however, the
person paying the royalties and fees for included services, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in
a Contracting State a permanent establishment or fixed base in connection with which the obligation to pay the royalties
and fees for included services was incurred, and such royalties and fees for included services are borne by that
permanent establishment or fixed base, then such royalties and fees for included services shall be deemed to arise in
the State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
8. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the royalties and fees for included services, having regard to the use, right or
information for which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the
beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned
amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting
State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.
Article 13
Capital Gains
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6
and situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed
base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing
independent personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or
with the whole enterprise) or of such fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international traffic or movable property pertaining to the
operation of such ships or aircraft, shall be taxable only in the Contracting State of which the enterprise is a resident.
4. Gains from the alienation of shares in the capital stock of a company the property of which consists directly or
indirectly principally of immovable property situated in a Contracting State may also be taxed in that State. Gains from
the alienation of shares other than those mentioned above in a company which is a resident of a Contracting State may
be taxed in that State.
5. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 shall be taxable only
in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
Article 14
Independent Personal Services
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of professional services or other activities of an
independent character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following circumstances, when such income may
Page 9/15
----- PAGE 10 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portu...
also be taxed in the other Contracting State:
a) if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing his
activities; in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in that other State;
or
b) if his stay in the other State is for a period or periods exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any twelve-month period
commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned; in that case, only so much of the income as is derived from his
activities performed in the other State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "professional services" includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching
activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, dentists and accountants.
Article 15
Dependent Personal Services
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18 and 19, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a
resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is
exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom
may be taxed in that other State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of
an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if:
a) the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any
twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned, and
b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State, and
c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in the other
State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised
aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic may be taxed in the Contracting State of which the enterprise is
a resident.
Article 16
Directors' Fees
Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of
the board of directors or supervisory board (in Portugal, conselho fiscal) or of another similar organ of a company which
is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
Article 17
Artistes and Sportsmen
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsman, from his
personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an entertainer or a sportsman in his capacity as such
accrues not to the entertainer or sportsman himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the
provisions of Articles 7, 14 and 15, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the entertainer or
sportsman are exercised.
3. However such income shall not be taxed in the State mentioned in paragraph 1 if the said activities are exercised
during a visit to that State by a resident of the other Contracting State and when such visit is wholly or substantially
financed by that other State, a political or administrative subdivision or a local authority thereof.
Article 18
Pensions
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, pensions and other similar remuneration paid to a resident of a
Contracting State in consideration of past employment shall be taxable only in that State.
Article 19
Government Service
1. a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a political or
administrative subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or
subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in that State;
Page 10/15
----- PAGE 11 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portu...
b) However, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if
the services are rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who:
i) is a national of that State; or
ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. a) Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or a political or administrative subdivision or a
local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be
taxable only in that State;
b) However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of, and a
national of, that State.
3. The provisions of Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 shall apply to salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, and to
pensions, in respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political or
administrative subdivision or a local authority thereof.
Article 20
Professors, Teachers and Research Scholars
1. A professor, teacher or research scholar who is or was a resident of the Contracting State immediately before visiting
the other Contracting State for the purpose of teaching or engaging in research, or both, at a university, college, school
or other approved institution in that other Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that other State on any
remuneration for such teaching or research for a period not exceeding two years from the date of his arrival in that other
State.
2. This Article shall not apply to income from research, if such research is undertaken primarily for the private benefit of
a specific person or persons.
3. For the purposes of this Article and Article 21, an individual shall be deemed to be a resident of a Contracting State if
he is resident in that State in the fiscal year in which he visits the other Contracting State or in the immediately preceding
fiscal year.
4. For the purposes of paragraph 1 "approved institution" means an institution which has been approved in this regard
by the competent authority of the concerned State.
Article 21
Students and Trainees
Payments which a student, a business apprentice or trainee who is or was immediately before visiting a Contracting
State a resident of the other Contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned State solely for the purpose of
his education or training receives, for the purpose of his maintenance, education or training, shall not be taxed in that
State, provided that such payments:
a) arise from sources outside that State;
b) are remuneration from employment in that other State in an amount not exceeding US$ 3000 per annum during a
period not exceeding two years from the day of his first arrival in that other Contracting State, provided that such
employment is directly related to his studies.
Article 22
Other Income
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this
Convention shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in
paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in
the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the
income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of
Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, if a resident of a Contracting State derives income from sources within
the other Contracting State in the form of lotteries, crossword puzzles, races including horse races, card games and
other games of any sort or gambling or betting of any form or nature whatsoever, such income may be taxed in the other
Contracting State.
Chapter IV
Page 11/15
----- PAGE 12 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portu...
Methods for Elimination of Double Taxation
Article 23
Elimination of Double Taxation
1. The laws in force in either of the Contracting State will continue to govern the taxation of income in the respective
Contracting States except where provisions to the contrary are made in this Convention.
2. In the case of Portugal double taxation shall be eliminated as follows:
Where a resident of Portugal derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, may be taxed
in India, Portugal shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident an amount equal to the income
tax paid in India. Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the income tax as computed before the
deduction is given, which is attributable to the income which may be taxed in India.
3. In the case of India double taxation shall be eliminated as follows:
Where a resident of India derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, may be taxed in
Portugal, India shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident an amount equal to the income tax
paid in Portugal whether directly or by deduction at source. Such amount shall not, however, exceed that part of the
income tax, as computed before the deduction is given, which is attributable to the income which may be taxed in
Portugal.
4. Where in accordance with any provisions of this Convention income derived by a resident of a Contracting State is
exempt from tax in that State, such State may nevertheless, in calculating the amount of tax on the remaining income of
such resident, take into account the exempted income.
5. The tax paid in a Contracting State mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall be deemed to include the tax
on dividends, interest, royalties and fees for included services and business profits which would have been payable as
laid down in this Convention but for the legal provisions concerning tax reduction or exemption of the Contracting States
for the encouragement of genuine investment or economic development. The provisions of this paragraph shall apply for
the first seven years during which this Convention is applicable. This period may be extended by mutual agreement
between the competent authorities.
Chapter V
Special Provisions
Article 24
Non-Discrimination
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any
requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to
which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may be
subjected. This provision shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not residents of
one or both of the Contracting States.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State
carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to residents
of the other Contracting State any personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for taxation purposes on account of civil
status or family responsibilities which it grants to its own residents.
3. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 6 of Article 11, or paragraph 4 of Article 12, apply,
interest, royalties, technical fees and other disbursements paid by an enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of
the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible
under the same conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State.
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by
one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any taxation
or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
5. The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2, apply to taxes of every kind and
description.
Article 25
Mutual Agreement Procedure
Page 12/15
----- PAGE 13 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portu...
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in
taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the
domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a
resident or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 24, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national.
The case must be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in
accordance with the provisions of the Convention.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive
at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracting
State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Convention. Any agreement reached
shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties
or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Convention. They may also consult together for the
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Convention.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly, including through a
joint commission consisting of themselves or their representatives, for the purpose of reaching an agreement in the
sense of the preceding paragraphs.
Article 26
Exchange of Information
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information, including authenticated copies
of the documents, as is necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Convention or of the domestic laws of the
Contracting States concerning taxes covered by the Convention insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the
Convention The exchange of information is not restricted by Article 1. Any information received by a Contracting State
shall be treated as secret in the same manner as information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall
be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment
or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in respect of, or the determination of appeals in relation to, the taxes
covered by the Convention. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may
disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions.
2. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:
a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other
Contracting State;
b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of that or of
the other Contracting State;
c) to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade
process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (order public).
Article 27
Collection Assistance
1. The Contracting States agree to provide mutual assistance and support for recovering, in accordance to the
respective provisions and rules of their legislations or regulations, the taxes covered by this Convention, when these
amounts are definitely due under the laws and regulations of the Contracting State seeking the assistance for such
recovery.
2. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall consult each other to decide the mode of application of this
Article in case they consider the rendering of assistance for collection of taxes feasible.
Article 28
Members of Diplomatic Missions and Consular Posts
Nothing in this Convention shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions and consular posts under
the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 29
Entry Into Force
1. This Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the date on which diplomatic notes indicating the
completion of internal legal procedures necessary in each Contracting State for the entry into force of this Convention
have been exchanged.
Page 13/15
----- PAGE 14 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portu...
2. This Convention shall apply:
a) in Portugal:
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at source, the fact giving rise to them appearing on or after the first day of January in the
year next following the year in which this Convention enters into force;
(ii)
in respect of other taxes as to income arising in the fiscal year beginning on or after the first day of January in the year
next following the year in which this Convention enters into force;
b) in India:
in respect of income arising in any fiscal year beginning on or after the first day of April next following the calendar year
in which this Convention enters into force.
Article 30
Termination
This Convention shall remain in force indefinitely but either of the Contracting States may, on or before the thirtieth day
of June in any calendar year from the fifth year following that in which the notifications have been given, terminate the
Convention through diplomatic channels. In such event, the Convention shall cease to have effect:
a) in Portugal:
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at source, the fact giving rise to them appearing on or after the first day of January of the
year next following the date on which the period specified in the said notice of termination expires;
(ii)
in respect of other taxes, as to income arising in the fiscal year beginning on or after the first day of January next
following the date on which the period specified in the said notice of termination expires;
b) in India:
in respect of income arising in any fiscal year beginning on or after the first day of April next following the date on which
the period specified in the said notice of termination expires.
In Witness Whereof the undersigned, duly authorised thereto, have signed this Convention.
Done in duplicate, at Lisbon this September 11th day of 1998 in Hindi, Portuguese and English languages, each text
being equally authentic, the English text prevailing in case of doubt.
For the Government of theRepublic of India
For the Government of thePortuguese Republic
Protocol
At the moment of signing the Convention between the Republic of India and the Portuguese Republic for the avoidance
of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income, the undersigned have agreed
upon the following which shall be an integral part of the Convention.
Ad Article 3
For the purposes of paragraph 3, the reference to the time of application of the Convention shall mean the time when
the income which is the subject matter of this Convention arises.
Ad Article 3 and 23
For the purposes of paragraph 1(d), of Article 3 and Article 23 the expression "tax" shall not include any amount which is
payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this Convention applies or which
represents a penalty imposed relating to those taxes.
Ad Article 5
For the purposes of paragraph 2, a warehouse in relation to a person providing storage facilities for others will be
considered as constituting a permanent establishment.
Ad Article 6
For the purposes of paragraph 1, it is agreed that the Contracting
State of which the person deriving income from property is a resident is also entitled to tax such income.
Ad Article 7
For the purposes of paragraph 3, it is agreed that the provisions of the domestic tax laws referred to therein relate, in the
case of India, to section 44C of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961. It is further agreed that in no event the conditions and
Page 14/15
----- PAGE 15 -----
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Portu...
limits referred to in section 44C shall not be less favourable than those in force on the date of the signing of this
Convention.
Ad Article 13
For the purposes of paragraphs 1 and 4, it is agreed that the
Contracting State of which the person deriving the capital gains is a resident is also entitled to tax such capital gains.
Ad Article 23
It is understood that the term "economic development" used in paragraph 5 of Article 23 would mean industrial
development or development of infrastructural facilities.
Ad Article 24
1. The provisions of Article 24 do not preclude the application of any provision of the tax law of the Contracting States
dealing with thin capitalisation problems.
2. The provisions of Article 24 shall be construed in the sense that insofar as the deductibility of the incurred
disbursements is concerned, each Contracting State may apply its own procedures regarding the burden of proof.
3. The provisions of paragraph 2 shall not be construed as preventing a Contracting State from charging the profits of a
permanent establishment which a company of the other Contracting State has in the first mentioned State at a rate of
tax which is higher than that imposed on the profits of a similar company of the first mentioned Contracting State subject
to the difference between the two rates not being more than 10%.
In Witness Whereof, the undersigned, duly authorised thereto, have signed this Protocol.
Done in duplicate at Lisbon this September 11th day of 1998 in Hindi, Portuguese and English languages, each text
being equally authentic, the English text prevailing in case of doubt.
For the Government of theRepublic of India
For the Government of thePortuguese Republic
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 15/15