
----- PAGE 1 -----
Company Law Settlement Scheme, 2000
Company Law Settlement Scheme, 2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/146911402/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Company Law Settlement Scheme, 2000
UNION OF INDIA
India
Company Law Settlement Scheme, 2000
Rule COMPANY-LAW-SETTLEMENT-SCHEME-2000 of 2000
Published on 1 June 2000
Commenced on 1 June 2000
[This is the version of this document from 1 June 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Company Law Settlement Scheme, 2000
Published vide Notification No. S.O. 529 (E) New Delhi, the 31.5.2000.
1689.
S.O. 529 (E) New Delhi, the 31.5.2000.- Whereas the Central Government has decided to make a Scheme namely, the
Company Law Settlement Scheme, 2000 for granting immunity from prosecution and compounding the period of delay
involving in filing certain documents under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b) of Section 637-B read with Section 637 of the said Act,
the Central Government hereby notifies the following Scheme, namely :
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Company Law Settlement Scheme, 2000
This Scheme may be called the Company Law Settlement Scheme, 2000.
(2)
It shall come into force on the 1st day of June, 2000.
2.
Definitions.-
In this Scheme, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Companies Act, 1956;
(b)
"company" means all companies registered under the Act and includes Government companies and companies
incorporated outside India to the extent to which the Act is applicable;
(c)
"declaration" means the company making the declaration under this Scheme and includes an officer of such company as
defined in clause 30 of Section 2 of the Act in relation to the offence mentioned in the declaration filed under this
Scheme ;
(d)
"designated authority" means the Registrar of Companies having jurisdiction over the registered office of the company
on the date of notification;
(e)
"offence" means the non-compliance with the provisions of the Act in relation to the filing of any documents specified in
the Act in respect of non-compliance of which a fine or imprisonment or both has been prescribed but shall not include
any non-compliance referred to in clause 8 of this Scheme;
(f)
All other words and expressions used and not defined under this Scheme, but defined in the Act, shall have the
meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Settlement of offences.-
Subject to the provisions of this Scheme, any company may make a declaration alongwith proof of payment of
prescribed fee under acknowledgement on or after the 1st June, 2000 but on or before 5.00 P.M. of 31st August, 2000
to the designated authority in respect of any offence committed under the Act and seek settlement of the offence so
committed.
4.
Declaration to be filed by the applicant with the Registrar.-
The declaration under the Scheme shall be made to the designated authority, having the jurisdiction, in Form A.
5.
Time and manner of payment of fees for seeking immunity under the Scheme.-
The decla rant shall pay lump sum amount based on the period of delay and the nominal filing fees as per Schedule X of
the Act, apart from the lump sum amount as stated in the table given below :
Sl. No.
Number of documents
Amount payable for delay less than 3 years
Amount payable for delay for period more than 3 years
(a)
Upto 2
Rs.
2,500
Rs.
3,000
(b)
Upto 5
Rs.
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Company Law Settlement Scheme, 2000
5,000
Rs.
6,000
(c)
Upto 10
Rs.
7,500
Rs.
9,000
(d)
More than 10
Rs.
10,000
Rs.
15,000
The amount payable shall be deposited alongwith a challan form in any of the designated branches of Punjab National
Bank or by way of of Pay Order/Demand Draft payable to the Registrar of Companies. Any sum paid for seeking
immunity under the Scheme shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
6.
Withdrawal of appeal against prosecution launched for the offence.-
If the company has filed any appeal against any notice issued for violation of the provisions under the Act in respect of
which declaration is made under this Scheme, the declarant shall withdraw the appeal and furnish the proof of such
withdrawal along with the declaration.
7.
Order by designated authority granting immunity from the penalty and prosecution.-
The designated authority shall consider the declaration and upon being satisfied shall pass an order in writing inter alia
stating the reasons for granting the immunity.
8.
Scheme not to apply to certain offence.-
(1)
This Scheme shall not apply to the filing of Form Number 5 relating to increase in authorised capital of the company for
which specific interest has to be paid for filing the intimation for the delay and such other provisions of the Act where
specific approval of the Company Law Board or Central Government is to be obtained :
Provided that the Scheme shall apply to such intimations which are to be submitted to Registrar of Companies alongwith
a prescribed fees but for which no specific form has been specified.
(2)
This Scheme shall also not apply for non-compliance of the provisions of the Act where the penalty of imprisonment only
has been prescribed.
9.
After passing the appropriate order, Registrar of Companies shall inform the concerned Court or Regional Director of
Company Law Board before whom the matter for prosecution or compounding application is pending in appropriate
cases.
FORM-A
Declaration Under Company Law Settlement Scheme, 2000
Form of Declaration
To
The Registrar of Companies,
Sir/ Madam,
I/We herewith make a declaration under the Company Law Settlement Scheme, 2000 and give below the following
particulars, namely :
1. Name of the declarant and Address :
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Company Law Settlement Scheme, 2000
(in Block Letters)
2. Name of the Company :
3. Registration No. of Company :
4. Date of incorporation of the Company :
5. Address of the Company :
6. Status of the Company; whether public /private If public Listed/Non-listed
6. Business /objects of the Company :
(Tick in appropriate column)
(a)
Manufacturing ....
(b)
Trading ....
(c)
Finance .....
(d)
Service ....
(e)
Others (please specify) ....
8. Statement of Declaration of non-compliance
Sl. No.
Nature of return to be filed
Section under which to be filed
Status of offence (whether still continuing).
9.
Sl. No.
Nature of   document
Due date of filing
Period of delay
Amount payable under Company Law Settlement Scheme, 200 (Rs.)
Details of payment
a) Demand Draft No.
b) Date
c) Name of Bank
d) Amount (Rs.)
Company Registration No. ..............
Signature of the Managing Director/Whole Time Director/Director/Manager/Company Secretary
10.
Whether declarant on behalf of the company would like to be granted immunity for non-compliance?
11.
Submission.-
In light of the circumstances herein mentioned above and keeping in mind the admission of the offence by the applicant/
company and taking into consideration the nature, scope, extent, seriousness, gravity of the offence, the
applicant/company, himself requests for the grant of immunity in the form of relief for non-compliance.
12.
List of enclosures.
Place: .............
Date: .............
Designation/ Signature of the applicant
(SEAL OF DECLARANT)
VERIFICATION
I .............................son/daughter/wife of Shri.............. in my capacity as ...............in the company, solemnly declare that
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Company Law Settlement Scheme, 2000
(a)
The information given in this declaration is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.
(b)
The company had failed to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 as mentioned above.
(c)
I have withdrawn the appeals pending before Court/Company Law Board/Regional Director or other adjudicating
authority.
I further declare that this declaration is in my capacity as the Managing Director/Director and that I am competent to
make this declaration and verify it.
Place : .............
Date : .............
Designation/Signature of the applicant
(Seal of Declarent)
Certificate Granting Immunity From Penalty And Prosecution Under The Company Law Settlement Scheme, 2000
Whereas ...................(hereinafter referred to as the company) had made a declaration under the Company Law
Settlement Scheme, 2000, and had filed the documents mentioned below along with the declaration and also paid the
compounding fee of Rs ..........payable as per the said declaration :
Sl. No.
Nature of return to be filed
Section under which to be filed
Status of offence (whether still continuing).
And whereas the applicant has also declared that no petition or appeal before any Court/Company Law Board /Regional
Director against any notice or order in respect of the fine payable has been filed by such applicant/had withdrawn such
appeal/writ petition from the Court/Company Law Board/Regional Director.
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred under this Scheme, the undersigned hereby issues this certificate to
the said company to :
(a)
certify receipt of payment from the declarant towards full and final settlement of the compounded fee payable under this
Scheme;
(b)
grant immunity subject to the provisions contained in the scheme from instituting and proceeding for prosecution for any
offence under the Companies Act, 1956 or from the imposition of penalty under the said enactment for the time being in
force in respect of matters covered in the aforesaid declaration made by the declarant.
Date: & Place : .........
Designated Authority
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5