
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (Annual Report-Furnishing Of Returns, S...
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (Annual
Report-Furnishing Of Returns, Statements And Other Particulars)
Rules, 2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/79838199/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (Annual Report-Furnishing Of Returns, Statements And Other
Particulars) Rules, 2000
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (Annual Report-Furnishing Of Returns, Statements And Other
Particulars) Rules, 2000
Rule
THE-INSURANCE-REGULATORY-AND-DEVELOPMENT-AUTHORITY-ANNUAL-REPORT-FURNISHING-OF-RETUR
NS-STATEMENTS-AND-OTHER-PARTICULARS-RULES-2000 of 2000
Published on 12 June 2000
Commenced on 12 June 2000
[This is the version of this document from 12 June 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (Annual Report-Furnishing Of Returns, Statements And Other
Particulars) Rules, 2000
Published vide Notification S.O. 570(E), dated 12th June, 2000.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (Annual Report-Furnishing Of Returns, S...
14.
/661
S.O. 570(E), dated 12th June, 2000. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 20 read with clause (e) of
sub-section (2) of section 24 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (
41 of 1999
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement
.-(1) These rules may be called The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Annual Report-Furnishing of
Returns, Statements and Other Particulars) Rules, 2000.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication.
2.
Definitions
.-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999;
(b)
"Appendix" means an Appendix annexed to these rules;
(c)
All other words and expressions used in these rules but not defined, and defined in the Act shall have the same
meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Form, manner and the time of furnishing of returns, statements and other particulars
.-(1) The Authority shall furnish to the Central Government the Annual Report-Returns, Statements and other particulars
in regard to any proposed or existing programme for the promotion and the development of the insurance industry giving
a true and full account of its activities in the form and manner prescribed in the appendix.
(2)
The Annual Report-Returns, Statements and other particulars of the previous financial year referred to in sub-rule (1)
above shall be submitted by the Authority to the Central Government within 9 months after the close of each financial
year.
Appendix
(See rule 3)
Form Of (Annual Report-Returns, Statements And Other Particulars) Of Insurance Regulatory And Development
Authority
Part I ? Policies and programmes
(a)
Review of General Economic Environment
(b)
Appraisal of Insurance Market
(c)
Number and details of Authorised insurers/re-insurers
(d)
Policies and measures to develop Insurance Market
(e)
Research and Development activities undertaken by the insurers
(f)
Review of:-
(i)
protection of interests of policy-holders
(ii)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (Annual Report-Furnishing Of Returns, S...
maintenance of solvency margins of insurers
(iii)
monitoring of re-insurance
(iv)
monitoring investments of the insurers
(v)
health insurance
(vi)
specified percentage of business to be done in rural sector
(vii)
pensions
(viii)
accounts and actuarial standards
(ix)
directions, orders and regulations given by the Authority
(x)
powers and functions delegated by the Authority
(xi)
other policies and programmes having bearing on the working of the insurance market.
Part II ? Review of working and operations of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority in respect of
(i)
Regulation of insurance/re-insurance companies
(ii)
Intermediaries associated with insurance business
(iii)
Professional institutes connected with insurance education
(iv)
Litigation, Appeals and Court pronouncements
(v)
International Corporation in insurance
(vi)
Public Complaints
(vii)
Functioning of the Advisory Committee
(viii)
Functioning of Ombudsman
(ix)
Review of performance of various Committees set up from time to time by the IRDA
(x)
Review of the Advisory functions performed by the Authority from time to time
(xi)
Other activities having a bearing on the insurance market.
Part III ? Statutory functions of the authority enshrined in the section 14 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority Act, 1999
Part IV ? Organisational matters of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3