
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (General Insurance-Reinsurance) Regulat...
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (General
Insurance-Reinsurance) Regulations, 2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/183503222/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (General Insurance-Reinsurance) Regulations, 2000
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (General Insurance-Reinsurance) Regulations, 2000
Rule
THE-INSURANCE-REGULATORY-AND-DEVELOPMENT-AUTHORITY-GENERAL-INSURANCE-REINSURANCE-RE
GULATIONS-2000 of 2000
Published on 14 July 2000
Commenced on 14 July 2000
[This is the version of this document from 14 July 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (General Insurance-Reinsurance) Regulations, 2000
Published vide Notification No. IRDA/Reg/7/2000, dated 14.7.2000, published in the Gazette of India,
14.
/664
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 114-A of the Insurance Act, 1938 (
4 of 1938
), sections 14 and 26 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (General Insurance-Reinsurance) Regulat...
41 of 1999
), the Authority, in consultation with the Insurance Advisory Committee, hereby makes the following regulations,
namely:-
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title and commencement .-(1) These regulations may be called The Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority (General Insurance- Reinsurance) Regulations, 2000.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions .-In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (
41 of 1999
);
(b)
"Authority" means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority established under sub-section (1) of section 3 of
the Act;
(c)
"cession" means the unit of insurance passed to a reinsurer by the insurer which issued a policy to the original insured
and, accordingly, a cession may be the whole or a portion of single risk defined policies or defined divisions of business,
as agreed in the reinsurance contract;
(d)
"facultative" means the reinsurance of a part of all of single policy in which cession is negotiated separately and that the
reinsurer and the insurer have the option of accepting or declining each individual submission;
(e)
"Indian reinsurer" means an insurer who carries on exclusively reinsurance business and is approved in this behalf by
the Central Government;
(f)
"pool" means any joint underwriting operation of insurance or reinsurance in which the participants assume a
predetermined and fixed interest in all business written;
(g)
"retrocession" means the transaction whereby a reinsurer cedes to another insurer or reinsurer all or part of the
insurance it has previously assume;
(h)
"retention" means the amount which an insurer assumes for his own account. In proportionate contracts, the retention
may be a percentage of the policy limit. In excess of loss contracts, the retention is an amount of loss;
(i)
"treaty" means a reinsurance arrangement between the insurer and the reinsurer, usually for one year or longer, which
stipulates the technical particulars and financial terms applicable to the reinsurance of some class or classes of
business;
(j)
words and expression used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Insurance Act, 1938 (
4 of 1938
) or the General Insurance Business Nationalisation Act, 1972 (
57 of 1972
) or Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (
41 of 1999
), rules made thereunder shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in those Acts or rules, as the case may
be.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (General Insurance-Reinsurance) Regulat...
Chapter II
3.
Procedure to be followed for reinsurance arrangements .-(1) The Reinsurance programme shall continue to be guided
by the following objectives to:-
(a)
maximise retention within the country;
(b)
develop adequate capacity;
(c)
secure the best possible protection for the reinsurance costs incurred;
(d)
simplify the administration of business.
(2)
Every insurer shall maintain the maximum possible retention commensurate with its financial strength and volume of
business. The Authority may require an insurer to justify its retention policy and may give such directions as considered
necessary in order to ensure that the Indian insurer is not merely fronting for a foreign insurer.
(3)
Every insurer shall cede such percentage of the sum assured on each policy for different classes of insurance written in
India to the Indian reinsurer as may be specified by the Authority in accordance with the provisions of Part IV-A of the
Insurance Act, 1938.
(4)
The reinsurance programme of every insurer shall commence from the beginning of every financial year and every
insurer shall submit to the Authority, his reinsurance programmes for the forthcoming year, 45 days before the
commencement of the financial year.
(5)
Within 30 days of the commencement of the financial year, every insurer shall file with the Authority a photocopy of
every reinsurance treaty slip and excess of loss cover note in respect of that year together with the list of reinsurers and
their shares in the reinsurance arrangement.
(6)
The Authority may call for further information or explanations in respect of the reinsurance programme of an insurer and
may issue such directions, as it considers necessary.
(7)
Insurers shall place their reinsurance business outside India with only those reinsurers who have over a period of the
past five years counting from the year preceding for which the business has to be placed, enjoyed a rating of at least
BBB (with Standard & Poor) or equivalent rating of any other international rating agency. Placements with other
reinsurers shall require the approval of the Authority. Insurers may also place reinsurance with Lloyd's syndicates
takings care to limit placements with individual syndicates to such shares as are commensurate with the capacity of the
syndicate.
(8)
The Indian reinsurer shall organise domestic pools for reinsurance surpluses in fire, marine hull and other classes in
consultation with all insurers on basis, limits and terms which are fair to all insurers and assist in maintaining the
retention of business within India as close to the level achieved for the year 1999-2000 as possible. The arrangements
so made shall be submitted to the Authority within three months of these regulations coming into force, for approval.
(9)
Surplus over and above the domestic reinsurance arrangements class wise can be placed by the insurer independently
with any of the reinsurers complying with sub-regulation (7) subject to a limit of 10% of the total reinsurance premium
ceded outside India being placed with any one reinsurer. Where it is necessary in respect of specialised insurance to
cede a share exceeding such limit to any particular reinsurer the insurer may seek the specific approval of the Authority
giving reasons for such cession.
(10)
Every insurer shall offer an opportunity to other Indian insurers including the Indian reinsurer to participate in its
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (General Insurance-Reinsurance) Regulat...
facultative and treaty surpluses before placement of such cessions outside India.
(11)
The Indian reinsurer shall retrocede at least 50% of the obligatory cessions received by it to the ceding insurers after
protecting the portfolio by suitable excess of loss covers. Such retrocession shall be at original terms plus an overriding
commission to the Indian reinsurer not exceeding 2.5%. The retrocession to each ceding insurer shall be in proportion to
its cessions to the Indian reinsurer.
(12)
Every insurer shall be required to submit to the Authority statistics relating to its reinsurance transactions in such forms
as the Authority may specify, together with its annual accounts.
4.
Inward reinsurance business .-Every insurer wanting to write inward reinsurance business shall have a well-defined
underwriting policy for underwriting inward reinsurance business. The insurer shall ensure that decisions on acceptance
of reinsurance business are made by persons with necessary knowledge and experience. The insurer shall file with the
Authority a note on its underwriting policy stating the classes of business, geographical scope, underwriting limits and
profit objective. The insurer shall also file any changes to the note as and when a change in underwriting policy is made.
5.
Outstanding loss provisioning .-(1) Every insurer shall make outstanding claims provisions for every reinsurance
arrangement accepted on the basis of loss information advices received from Brokers/Cedants and where such advices
are not received, on an actuarial estimation basis.
(2)
In addition, every insurer shall make an appropriate provision for incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims on its
reinsurance accepted portfolio on actuarial estimation basis.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4