
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of India) Salaries, Allowances and other Cond...
The Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of India) Salaries,
Allowances and other Conditions of Service of Chairman, Whole-time
Members and Part-time Members Rules, 2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/85763144/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of India) Salaries, Allowances and other Conditions of Service of
Chairman, Whole-time Members and Part-time Members Rules, 2000
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of India) Salaries, Allowances and other Conditions of Service of
Chairman, Whole-time Members and Part-time Members Rules, 2000
Rule
THE-PRASAR-BHARATI-BROADCASTING-CORPORATION-OF-INDIA-SALARIES-ALLOWANCES-AND-OTHER-CON
DITIONS-OF-SERVICE-OF-CHAIRMAN-WHOLE-TIME-MEMBERS-AND-PART-TIME-MEMBERS-RULES-2000 of
2000
Published on 10 November 2000
Commenced on 10 November 2000
[This is the version of this document from 10 November 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of India) Salaries, Allowances and other Conditions of Service of
Chairman, Whole-time Members and Part-time Members Rules, 2000
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of India) Salaries, Allowances and other Cond...
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 863(E), dated 10th November, 2000
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
G.S.R. 863(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 32, read with sub-sections (7) and (8) of section 6, of the
Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of India) Act, 1990 (
25 of 1990
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules regulating the salaries, allowances and other terms of
conditions of service of Chairman, Whole-time Members and Part-time Members, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may he called the Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of India) Salaries, Allowances and other
Conditions of Service of Chairman, Whole-time Members and Part-time Members Rules, 2000.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of India) Act, 1990 (
25 of 1990
); and
(b)
the words and expressions used herein and not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Pay of Whole-time Members.
(1)
The pay of a Whole-time Member, being an Executive Member, shall be rupees twenty-six thousand per month (fixed).
(2)
The pay of Whole-time Members, being Member (Finance) and Member (Personnel), shall be in the scale of Rs.
22,400-525-24,500:
Provided that in the case of appointment of a person as a Whole-time Member, being Member (Finance) or Member
(Personnel), who has retired from service under the Central Government or a State Government, and who is in receipt of
or has received or has become entitled to receive any retirement benefits by way of pension (other than an invalid
pension or compensation pension), gratuity, employer's contribution to the Contributory Provident Fund or other forms of
retirement benefits, the pay of such Whole-time Member shall be reduced by the gross amount of pension and pension
equivalent of gratuity or employer's contribution to the Contributory Provident Fund or any other form of retirement
benefits, if any, drawn or to be drawn by him.
4.
Dearness Allowance and City Compensatory Allowance.
- A Whole-time Member shall receive dearness allowance and city compensatory allowance at the rate admissible to
Group 'A' officer of the Central Government drawing an equivalent pay.
5.
Provident Fund.
(1)
A Whole-time Member shall be governed by the provisions of the Contributory Provident Fund Rules, 1962 and no
option to subscribe under the provisions of the General Provident Fund (Central Services) Rules, 1960 shall be
available:
Provided that a whole time member who is
(a)
a Serving officer in Central Government or State Government
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of India) Salaries, Allowances and other Cond...
(b)
who is appointed as whole time member,
may opt to subscribe to The General Provident Fund Scheme under the provisions of General Provident Fund (Central
Services) Rule, 1960.
(2)
A Whole-time Member shall not be entitled to additional pension and gratuity for service rendered in the Corporation.
6.
Travelling Allowance.
- A Whole-time Member while on tour within India or on transfer (including the journey undertaken by self and family to
join the Corporation or on the expiry of his term with the Corporation to proceed to his home town with family) shall be
entitled to the journey allowance, daily allowance and transportation of personal effects at the same scale and at the
same rate as are applicable to a Group 'A' Officer of the Central Government drawing an equivalent pay.
7.
Leave Travel Concession.
- A Whole-time Member shall be entitled to leave travel concession at the same scale and at the same rate as applicable
to a Group 'A' Officer of the Central Government drawing an equivalent pay.
8.
Accommodation.
(1)
A Whole-time Member shall have the option of claiming house rent allowance for the residence located in Delhi or in one
of the satellite towns surrounding the National Capital Territory of Delhi as admissible to a Central Government Officer of
equivalent rank.
(2)
In case a Whole-time Member opts for leased accommodation in one of the satellite towns surrounding the National
Capital Territory of Delhi, he shall be entitled to rented unfurnished accommodation with built-up area measuring,around
300 sqm. with suitable open land area appurtenant as permissible under the regulations of the concerned municipal
bodies.
9.
Medical Facilities.
- A Whole-time Member shall be entitled to medical treatment and facility as provided in the Central Government Health
Scheme for Government servants:
Provided that where the Central Government Health Scheme is not applicable, a Whole-time Member, who is not a
Government servant, shall be entitled to facilities as provided in the Central (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1944.
10.
Transport.
- A Whole-time Member shall be eligible for fixed reimbursement of an amount not less than rupees three thousand and
an amount not exceeding rupees five thousand per month including salary of a driver, if any, employed by such
Whole-time Member for the usage and the maintenance of his personal car for transportation between residence and
office:
Provided that the Corporation may provide transport facility for Official use to a whole time member and in such case,
the Whole Time Member shall not be entitled for any reimbursement under this rule.
11.
Leave.
(1)
A Whole-time Member shall be entitled to thirty days of earned leave for every year of service.
(2)
The payment of leave salary during the leave shall be governed under the provisions of rule 40 of the Central Civil
Services (Leave) Rules, 1972.
(3)
A Whole-time Member shall be entitled to encashment of fifty per cent, of earned leave to his credit at any time.
12.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of India) Salaries, Allowances and other Cond...
Visit Abroad.
- The foreign tours to be undertaken by a Whole-time Member shall be in accordance with the orders issued by the
Central Government as are applicable to a Group 'A' Officer of the Central Government drawing an equivalent pay.
13.
Allowances payable to Chairman and Part-time Member.
(1)
The Chairman and a Part-time Member shall receive a meeting allowance at the rate of rupees one thousand per
meeting, subject to a maximum amount of rupees five thousand per month.
[Provided that the Chairman shall be paid an allowance of ten thousand rupees per day subject to a maximum amount
of one lakh rupees per month, for those days in the month when he is required to perform any official work or duty in the
discharge of his functions as Chairman of Prasar Bharati, including attending meetings of the Prasar Bharati Board and
its committees:
Provided further that no allowance shall be admissible separately for attending the meetings of the Prasar Bharati Board
and its committees.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1022(E), dated 17.8.2017 (w.e.f. 10.11.2000)]
(2)
The Chairman and the Part-time Member shall be entitled to reimbursement of actual taxi fare incurred for attending
each meeting.
14.
Travelling Allowance to Chairman and Part-time Member.
(1)
The Chairman, while on tour (including the journey undertaken to attend a meeting of the Corporation) shall also be
entitled to travelling allowances and daily allowance at the same rates as are applicable to the Secretary to the
Government of India.
(2)
A Part-time Member, while on tour (including the journey undertaken to attend a meeting of the Corporation) shall also
be entitled to travelling allowances and daily allowance at the same rates as are applicable to the Additional Secretary to
the Government of India.
15.
Residuary provisions.
- Matters relating to the conditions of service of a Whole-time Member with respect to which no express provision has
been made in these rules shall be referred in each case to the Central Government for its decision and the decision of
the Central Government thereon shall be binding on a Whole-time Member.
16.
Power to relax.
- The Central Government shall have power to relax the provisions of any of these rules in respect of any class or
category of persons.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4