
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Slaughter House) Rules, 2001
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Slaughter House) Rules, 2001
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/146162682/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
Union of India - Act
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Slaughter House) Rules, 2001
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Slaughter House) Rules, 2001
Rule THE-PREVENTION-OF-CRUELTY-TO-ANIMALS-SLAUGHTER-HOUSE-RULES-2001 of 2001
Published on 26 March 2001
Commenced on 26 March 2001
[This is the version of this document from 26 March 2001.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Slaughter House) Rules, 2001
Published vide S.O. 270(E), dated 26.3.2001, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(ii),
dated 26.3.2001.
19.
/891
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 38 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act,
1960 (
59 of 1960
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Slaughter House)
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Slaughter House) Rules, 2001
Rules, 2001.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions .-In these rules unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 (
59 of 1960
);
(b)
"Slaughter" means the killing or destruction of any animal for the purpose of food and includes all the processes and
operations performed on all such animals in order to prepare it for being slaughtered.
(c)
"Slaughter house" means a slaughter house wherein 10 or more than 10 animals are slaughtered per day and is duly
licensed or recognised under a Central, State or Provincial Act or any rules or regulations made thereunder.
(d)
"veterinary doctor" means a person registered with the Veterinary Council of India established under the Indian
Veterinary Council Act, 1984 (52 of 1984).
3.
Animals not to be slaughtered except in recognised or licensed houses .-(1) No person shall slaughter any animal within
a municipal area except in a slaughter house recognised or licensed by the concerned authority empowered under the
law for the time being in force to do so.
(2)
No animal which,-
(i)
is pregnant, or
(ii)
has an offspring less than three months old, or
(iii)
is under the age of three months or
(iv)
has not been certified by a veterinary doctor that it is in a fit condition to be slaughtered, shall be slaughtered.
(3)
The municipal or other local authority specified by the Central Government for this purpose shall, having regard to the
capacity of the slaughter house and the requirement of the local population of the area in which a slaughter house is
situated, determine the maximum number of animals that may be slaughtered in a day.
4.
Reception area or resting grounds .-(1) The slaughter house shall have a reception area of adequate size sufficient for
livestock subject to veterinary inspection.
(2)
The veterinary doctor shall examine thoroughly not more than 12 animals in an hour and not more than 96 animals in a
day.
(3)
The veterinary doctor after examining the animal shall issue a fitness certificate in the form specified by the Central
Government for this purpose.
(4)
The reception area of slaughter house shall have proper ramps for direct unloading of animals from vehicles or railway
wagons and the said reception area shall have adequate facility sufficient for feeding and watering of animals.
(5)
Separate isolation pens shall be provided in slaughter house with watering and feeding arrangements for animals
suspected to be suffering from contagious and infectious diseases, and fractious animals, in order to segregate them
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Slaughter House) Rules, 2001
from the remaining animals.
(6)
Adequate holding area shall be provided in slaughter house according to the class of animals to be slaughtered and the
said holding area shall have water and feeding facilities.
(7)
The resting grounds in slaughter house shall have overhead protective shelters.
(8)
Ante-mortem and pen area in slaughter house shall be paved with impervious material such as concrete non-slippery
herring-bone type suitable to stand wear and tear by hooves, or brick, and pitched to suitable drainage facilities and the
curbs of said impervious material 150 to 300 mm high shall be provided around the borders of livestock pen area, except
at the entrances and such pen shall preferably be covered.
5.
Lairages .-(1) Every animal after it has been subjected to veterinary inspection shall be passed on to a lairage for resting
for 24 hours before slaughter.
(2)
The lairage of the slaughter house shall be adequate in size sufficient for the number of animals to be laired;
(3)
The space provided in the pens of such lairage shall be not less than 2.8 sq.mt. per large animal and 1.6 sq.mt. per
small animal
(4)
The animals shall be kept in such lairage separately depending upon their type and class and such lairage shall be so
constructed as to protect the animals from heat, cold and rain
(5)
The lairage shall have adequate facilities for watering and post-mortem inspection.
6.
Slaughter .-(1) No animal shall be slaughtered in a slaughter house in sight of other animals.
(2)
No animal shall be administered any chemical, drug or hormone before slaughter except drug for its treatment for any
specific disease or ailment.
(3)
The slaughter halls in a slaughter house shall provide separate sections of adequate dimensions sufficient for slaughter
of individual animals to ensure that the animal to be slaughtered is not within the sight of other animals.
(4)
Every slaughter house as soon as possible shall provide a separate space for stunning of animals prior to slaughter,
bleeding and dressing of the carcasses.
(5)
Knocking section in slaughter house may be so planned as to suit the animal and particularly the ritual slaughter; if any
and such knocking section and dry landing area associated with it shall be so built that escape from this section can be
easily carried out by an operator without allowing the animal to pass the escape barrier.
(6)
A curbed-in bleeding area of adequate size as specified by the Central Government shall be provided in a slaughter
house and it shall be so located that the blood could not be splashed on other animals being slaughtered or on the
carcass being skinned.
(7)
The blood drain and collection in a slaughter house shall be immediate and proper.
(8)
A floor wash point shall be provided in a slaughter house for intermittent cleaning and a hand-wash basin and knife
steriliser shall also be provided for the sticker to sterilise knife and wash his hands periodically.
(9)
Dressing of carcasses in a slaughter house shall not be done on floor and adequate means and tools for dehiding or
belting of the animals shall be provided in a slaughter house with means for immediate disposal of hides or skins;
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Slaughter House) Rules, 2001
(10)
Hides or skins shall be immediately transported from a slaughter house either in a closed wheelbarrow or by a chute
provided with self-closing door and in no case such hides or skins shall be spread on slaughter floor for inspection.
(11)
Floor wash point and adequate number of hand wash basins with sterliser shall be provided in a dressing area of a
slaughter house with means for immediate disposal of legs, horns, hooves and other parts of animals through spring
load floor chutes or sidewall doors or closed wheelbarrows and in case wheelbarrows or trucks are used in a slaughter
house, care shall be taken that no point wheelbarrow or truck has to ply under the dressing rails and a clear passage is
provided for movement of the trucks.
(12)
Adequate space and suitable and properly located facilities shall be provided sufficient for inspection of the viscera of
the various types of animals slaughtered in a slaughter house and it shall have adequate facilities for hand washing, tool
sterilisation and floor washing and contrivances for immediate separation and disposal of condemned material.
(13)
Adequate arrangements shall be made in a slaughter house by its owner for identification, inspection and correlation of
carcass, viscera and head.
(14)
In a slaughter house, a curbed and separately drained area or an area of sufficient size, sloped 33 mm per metre to a
floor drain, where the carcasses may be washed with a jet of water, shall be provided by the owner of such slaughter
house.
7.
Slaughter house building .-The different construction of a slaughter house shall be built and maintained by its owner in
the manner as specified below, namely:-
(a)
Plant Building .-(i) Materials used shall be impervious, easily cleansable, and resistant to wear and corrosion. (ii)
Materials such as wood, plaster board, and porous acoustic-type boards, which are absorbent and difficult to keep clean
shall not be used;
(b)
Floors .-The floors shall be non-absorbent and non-slippery with rough finish and shall have suitable gradient for
drainage;
(c)
Coves .-Coves with radii sufficient to promote sanitation shall be installed at the juncture of floors and wall, in all rooms
and which shall not be less than 100 mm.;
(d)
Interior Walls .-(i) interior walls shall be smooth and flat and constructed of impervious materials such a glazed brick,
glazed tile, smooth surface Portland cement plaster, or other non-toxic, non-absorber material applied to a suitable
base. (ii) Walls shall b provided with suitable sanitary type bumpers to prevent damage by hand trucks, carcass shanks,
and the like. (iii) The interior walls shall have washable surface up to the height of 2 meters from the floor so that the
splashes may be washed and disinfected;
(e)
Ceilings .-(i) Ceilings shall be of the height of 5 mts or more in workrooms and so far as structure conditions permit,
ceilings shall be smooth and flat (ii) Ceilings shall be constructed of Portland cement plaster, large size cement asbestos
boards with join sealed with a flexible sealing compound, or other acceptable impervious material and finished so as
minimise condensation, mould development, flaking and accumulation of dirt. (iii) The walls above glazed type portion
and ceiling shall be painted with water resistant paint to maintain them clean;
(f)
Window Ledges .-Window ledges shall be sloped 45 degrees to promote sanitation and to avoid damage to glass in
windows from impact of hand trucks and similar equipment, the windowsills shall be 1200 mm above the floor level with
proper ventilation through mechanical venting or through working vents shall be provided in the roof structure;
(g)
Doorways and Doors .-(i) Doorways through which product is transferred on rails or in hand trucks shall be at least 1500
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Slaughter House) Rules, 2001
mm high and shall be atleast 1500 mm wide. (ii) Doors shall either be of rust-resistant metal construction throughout, or
if made with rust resistant metal having tight softwood, they shall be clad on both sides with soldered or welded seams.
(iii) Doorjambs shall be clad with rust-resistant metal securely affixed so as to provide no crevices for dirt or vermin and
the juncture at which the door joins the walls shall be effectively sealed with a flexible sealing compound;
(h)
Screens and Insect control .-All windows, doorways and other openings that may admit flies shall be equipped with
effective insect and rodent screens and 'Fly chaser' fans and ducts or air curtains shall be provided over doorways in
outside wall of food handing areas that are used for dispatch or receiving;
(i)
Rodent-Proofing .-Except in the case of solid masonry, walls constructed of glazed tile, glazed brick, and the like,
expanded metal or wire mesh not exceeding 12.5 mm mesh, shall be embedded in walls and floor at their junction and
such mesh shall extend vertically and horizontally to a sufficient distance to exclude the entrance of rats and other
rodents;
(j)
Vehicular areas for Trucks .-(i) Concrete paved areas, properly drained and extending at least 6 metres from building,
loading docks or livestock platforms shall be provided at places where vehicles are loaded or unloaded. (ii) Pressure
washing jets and disinfection facilities for trucks carrying animals shall also be provided at such places;
(k)
Drainage .-(i) All parts of floors where wet operations are conducted shall be well drained and as far as possible, one
drainage inlet shall be provided for each 37 metre square of floor space (ii) A slope of about 20 mm per metre to
drainage inlets shall be provided for usual conditions and it shall be ensured that the floor slopes uniformly to drains with
no low spots, which collect liquid. (iii) Floor drains shall not be provided in freezer rooms or dry storage areas and when
floor drains are installed in rooms where the water seal in traps is likely to evaporate without replenishment, they shall
be provided with suitable removable metal screw plugs;
(l)
Traps and vents on drainage lines .-(i) Each floor drain, including blood drains, shall be equipped with a deep seal trap
(P-, U-, or S-shape) (ii) Drainage lines shall be properly vented to the outside air and be equipped with effective rodent
screens;
(m)
Sanitary drainage lines .-Drainage line from toilet pans and urinals shall not be connected with other drainage lines
within the plant and shall not discharge into a grease catch basin and such lines shall be installed so that if leakage
develops, it shall not affect the product or the equipment;
(n)
Lighting and ventilation.-(i) Unrefrigerated work rooms shall be provided with adequate direct natural light and ventilation
or ample artificial light and ventilation by mechanical means. (ii) Uncoloured glass having a high transmissibility of light
shall be used in skylights and windows (iii) The glass area shall be approximately one-fourth of the floor area of a
workroom and such ratio shall be increased where there are obstructions, such as adjacent buildings, overhead
catwalks, and hoists, which interfere with the admittance of direct natural light. (iv) Distributed artificial lighting of much
quality and at such distances as may be specified by the Central Government shall be provided at all places where
adequate natural light is not available or is insufficient;
(o)
Every abattoir shall be provided with distributed artificial light of an overall intensity of not less than 200 lux at the
distances as may be specified by the Central Government throughout the slaughter hall and workrooms and at places
where meat inspection is carried out, the overall intensity of artificial light shall be not less than 500 lux;
(p)
every abattoir shall be provided with suitable and sufficient means of ventilation to the outside air and the construction of
the slaughter hall shall be so arranged that the dressed carcasses are not exposed to direct sunlight;
(q)
a sufficient, safe, potable and constant supply of fresh water shall be available at adequate pressure through the
premises;
(r)
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals (Slaughter House) Rules, 2001
the pressure for the general purpose of floor washing may preferably be 200 to 330 kPa for through floor cleaning;
(s)
for thorough and efficient washing of carcasses, a higher pressure between 1000 kPa to 1 700 kPa shall be maintained;
(t)
floor washing point shall be provided preferably for minimum 37 meter square on slaughter floor and working
departments;
(u)
a constant supply of clean hot water shall be available in the slaughter hall and workrooms during working hours and the
hot water required for frequent sterilising of equipment shall not be less than 82 degree celsius;
(v)
where necessary for sanitary maintenance, equipment shall be constructed and installed so as to be completely
self-draining;
(w)
the following materials shall not be used in an abattoir, namely:-
(i)
copper and its alloys in equipment used for edible products;
(ii)
cadmium in any form in equipment handling edible products;
(iii)
equipment with painted surface in product zone;
(iv)
enamel containers or equipment is not desirable; and
(v)
lead;
(x)
all permanently mounted equipment shall either be installed sufficiently away from walls (minimum 300 mm) to provide
access for cleaning and inspection;
(y)
all permanently mounted equipment shall either be installed sufficiently above the floor (minimum 300 mm) to provide
access for cleaning and inspection or be completely sealed (watertight) to the floor area.
8.
Engagement in slaughter house .-(1) No owner or occupier of a slaughter house shall engage a person for slaughtering
animals unless he possesses a valid license or authorisation issued by the municipal or other local authority.
(2)
No person who has not attained the age of 18 years shall be employed in any manner in a slaughter house.
(3)
No person who is suffering from any communicable or infectious disease shall be permitted to slaughter an animal.
9.
Inspection of slaughter house .-(1) The Animal Welfare Board of India or any person or Animal Welfare Organisation
authorised by it may inspect any slaughter house without notice to its owner or the person incharge of it at any time
during the working hours to ensure that the provisions of these rules are being complied with.
(2)
The person or the Animal Welfare Organisation authorised under sub rule (1) shall after inspection send its report to
Animal Welfare Board of India as well as to the municipal or local authority for appropriate action including initiation of
legal proceedings if any, in the event of violation of any provisions of these rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6