
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Textile Undertakings (Nationalisation) Claims Rules, 2001
The Textile Undertakings (Nationalisation) Claims Rules, 2001
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/5713196/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Textile Undertakings (Nationalisation) Claims Rules, 2001
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Textile Undertakings (Nationalisation) Claims Rules, 2001
Rule THE-TEXTILE-UNDERTAKINGS-NATIONALISATION-CLAIMS-RULES-2001 of 2001
Published on 27 November 2001
Commenced on 27 November 2001
[This is the version of this document from 27 November 2001.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Textile Undertakings (Nationalisation) Claims Rules, 2001
Published vide Notification in the Gazette of India, Extra, part 2, Section 3(1), dated 27th November, 2001
1740.
G.S.R. 865 (E) New Delhi, the 27th November, 2001. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 36 of the Textile
Undertakings, (Nationalisation) Act, 1995 (
39 of 1995
) the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Textile Undertakings (Nationalisation) Claims Rules, 2001.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Textile Undertakings (Nationalisation) Claims Rules, 2001
2.
Definition.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Textile Undertaking (Nationalisation) Act, 1995 (
39 of 1995
)
(b)
"section" means a section of the Act;
(c)
words and expressions used in these rules and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the meaning respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Time limit for intimation.
- Every mortgagee of any property which was vested under the Act in the Central Government or in an existing
Government (Company) as the case may be, and every person holding any charge, lien or other interest in, or in relation
to, any such property, shall give intimation of such mortgage, charge, lien or other interest to the Commissioner within a
period of thirty days from such date as may be specified by the Central Government under section 20 of the Act :
Provided that if the Commissioner is satisfied that the mortgagee or the person holding any charge, lien or other interest
was prevented by sufficient cause from giving the intimation within the said period of thirty days. he may, after recording
reasons in writing, receive the intimation within a further period of thirty days but not thereafter.
4.
Manner of intimation.
- (i) Every intimation to be given the commissioner under rule 3, shall be in writing, addressed to the Commissioner and
shall contain the following particulars namely :-
(a)
name, description and full address of the mortgagee or the person holding charge, lien or other interest in or in relation
to such property;
(b)
name, description and full address of the textile undertaking in respect of which the claim is made;
(c)
amount of claim (in Indian currency) :
(i)
under sub-section (5) of Section 4....... Rs. P.
(ii)
under section 8 ....Rs. P.
(iii)
under sub-section (1) of Section 9 ....Rs. P.
(iv)
under sub-section (2) of Section 9 .... Rs. P.
(v)
under sub-section (2) of Section 18 ....Rs. P.
(vi)
under sub-section (3) of Section 18 .... Rs. P.
(vii)
Total amount of claim
(d)
particulars of the instrument, if any, by which the mortgage, charge, lilen or other interest is secured, supported by by
attested copy of the instrument.
(e)
amount, if any, already received with particulars;
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Textile Undertakings (Nationalisation) Claims Rules, 2001
(f)
any other particulars relevant to the claim;
(g)
relief claimed.
(2)
Every intimation should be duly signed and verified by the mortgagee or the person holding the charge, lien or other
interest, or by a person duly authorised by the mortgagee or the person holding the charge, as the case may be.
(3)
Every intimation under sub-rule (1) shall be filed in the office of the Commissioner of Payments at NTC Premises
Core-IV Scope Complex, 7, Lodhi Road, New Delhi, on all working day during office hours or may be sent by registered
post with acknowledgment due.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3