
----- PAGE 1 -----
Screening Test Regulations, 2002
Screening Test Regulations, 2002
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/159747090/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Screening Test Regulations, 2002
UNION OF INDIA
India
Screening Test Regulations, 2002
Rule SCREENING-TEST-REGULATIONS-2002 of 2002
Published on 13 February 2002
Commenced on 13 February 2002
[This is the version of this document from 13 February 2002.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Screening Test Regulations, 2002
Published vide Notification No. MCI-203(9)/2001/Regn, dated 13.2.2002
Last Updated 19th March, 2019
No. MCI-203(9)/2001/Regn. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 33 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956
(
102 of 1956
), the Medical Council of India, with the previous sanction of the Central Government, hereby makes the following
regulations, namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Screening Test Regulations, 2002
These regulations may be called the Screening Test Regulations, 2002.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Indian Medical Council Act,1956 (102 of 1956);
(b)
"Council" means the Medical Council of India constituted under section 3 of the Act,
(c)
"Permanent Registration" means registration for the purpose of enrolment on any State Medical Register or Indian
Medical Register after obtaining the primary Medical qualification followed by completion of such practical training as
prescribed other in India or abroad as per the provisions of the Act;
(d)
"Prescribed" means prescribed by regulations made under this Act;
(e)
"Prescribed Authority" means a medical Institution or any other examining body authorized by the Central
Government/Medical Council of India to conduct Screening Test.
(f)
"Primary Medical qualification" means a medical qualification awarded by any medical institution outside India which is a
recognized qualification for enrolment as medical practitioner In the country In which the Institution awarding the said
qualification is situated and which is equivalent to MBBS in India;
(g)
"Provisional Registration" means provisional registration in a State MEdical Register or Indian Medical Register for the
purpose of undergoing practical training In India as prescribed and for no other purpose by an Indian citizen possessing
any primary medical qualification but has not undergone such practical training after obtaining that qualification as may
be required by the rules or regulations in force In the country granting the qualification;
(h)
"qualifying examination" means the examination to be qualified to become eligible for admission to MBBS course in India
as prescribed In the Graduate Medical Education Regulations, 1997.
(i)
"registration" means either Provisional Registration or Permanent Registration.
3.
An Indian citizen possessing a primary medical qualification awarded by any medical institution outside India who is
desirous of getting provisional or permanent registration with the Medical Council of India or any State Medical Council
on or after 15.03.2002 shall have to qualify a screening test conducted by the prescribed authority for that purpose as
per the provisions of section 13 of the Act:
Provided that a person seeking permanent registration shall not have to qualify the screening test if he/she had already
qualified the same before getting his/her provisional registration.
4.
Eligibility Criteria.
- No person shall be allowed to appear in the screening test unless:
(1)
he/she is a citizen of India and possesses any primary medical qualification, either whose name and the institution
awarding it are included in the World Directory of Medical Schools, published by the World Health Organisation; or which
is confirmed by the Indian Embassy concerned to be a recognised qualification for enrolment as medical practitioner in
the country in which the institution awarding the said qualification is situated;
(2)
he/she had obtained 'Eligibility Certificate' from the Medical Council of India as per the 'Eligibility Requirement for taking
admission in an undergraduate medical course in a Foreign Medical Institution Regulations, 2002'. This requirement
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Screening Test Regulations, 2002
shall not be necessary in respect of Indian citizens who have acquired the medical qualifications from foreign medical
institutions or have obtained admission in foreign medical institution before 15th March, 2002.
[2(A) Indian Citizens/Overseas Citizen of India intending to obtain primary medical qualification from any medical
institution outside India, on or after May 2018, shall have to mandatorily qualify the 'National- Eligibility-cum-Entrance
Test for Admission to MBBS course'. The result of the 'National-Eligibility-cum- Entrance Test for Admission to MBBS
course' shall deem to be treated as the Eligibility Certificate for such persons, provided that such persons fulfils the
Eligibility Criteria for admission to the MBBS course prescribed in the Regulations on Graduate Medical Education,
1997.]
[Added by Notification No. MCI-201/2017-Eligi./Gen./176484, dated 1.3.2018 (w.e.f. 13.2.2002).]
[Furthermore, the result of NEET shall be valid for a period of three (3) years from the date of declaration of result,
entitling a candidate to pursue MBBS or equivalent medical course including pre-medical/language course, if any,
followed by MBBS or equivalent medical course.]
[Added by Notification No. MCI-201/2019-Eligi./Gen./187274, dated 14.3.2019 (w.e.f. 13.2.2002).]
5.
The purpose of conducting the screening test shall be only to determine the eligibility or otherwise of a candidate for his
or her registration with the Medical Council of India or any State Medical Council and qualifying the same shall not
confer any other right, whatsoever, on a candidate.
6.
The details regarding the Scheme for conducting the screening test and the syllabus of the test shall be announced by
the Medical Council of India from time to time for the information of the candidates.
7.
The screening test shall be conducted twice every year as per the Schedule of examination announced by the
Prescribed Authority. The procedure of conducting the test shall be in accordance with the Scheme announced by the
Medical Council of India in this regard.
8.
There shall be three papers of multiple choice questions in Pre-clinical, Para-Clinical and Clinical Medicine and its allied
subjects including Obstetrics and Gynaecology. The language of the test shall be English. The test for each paper will
be of three hours duration.
9.
A candidate shall be declared as having passed only if he/she obtains a minimum of 50% (fifty percent) marks in each
paper separately. The minimum qualifying marks shall apply to all categories of candidates without exception.
10.
A candidate may avail of maximum three chances to appear and pass the test. Actual appearance at the test will
constitute an attempt. If he/she does not qualify even in his/her 3rd appearance in the test, the candidate will not be
eligible for registration by the Council or by any State Medical Council in India.
11.
The Prescribed Authority shall intimate the result of the Screening Test to the candidates as well as to the Secretary,
Medical Council of India and the State Medical Councils. The unsuccessful candidates shall also be appropriately
informed. The candidates who qualify the Screening Test may apply to the Secretary, Medical Council of India, New
Delhi or to any State Medical Council for provisional registration/permanent registration alongwith the requisite
registration fee in favour of Secretary, Medical Council of India or the State Medical Council. The Medical Council of
India or the State Medical Councils shall issue provisional registration to such successful candidates, who are yet to
undergo one year internship in an approved institution and issue permanent registration to such eligible candidates who
have already undergone one year internship, as the case may be.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3