
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Foreign Aircraft (Exemption From Taxes And Duties On Fuel And Lubricants) Act, 2000
The Foreign Aircraft (Exemption From Taxes And Duties On Fuel And
Lubricants) Act, 2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1370000/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
3
]
Union of India - Act
The Foreign Aircraft (Exemption From Taxes And Duties On Fuel And Lubricants) Act, 2000
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Foreign Aircraft (Exemption From Taxes And Duties On Fuel And Lubricants) Act, 2000
Act 36 of 2002
Published on 11 June 2002
Commenced on 11 June 2002
[This is the version of this document from 11 June 2002.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Foreign Aircraft (Exemption From Taxes And Duties On Fuel And Lubricants) Act, 2002 Act
NO. 36 OF 2002
1162.
[11th June, 2002]
An Act to implement Agreements entered into by India with other countries in pursuance of the Convention on
International Civil Aviation opened for signatures at Chicago on the 7th December, 1944.
WHEREAS  a Convention on International Civil Aviation was signed by India on the 7th December, 1944;
AND WHEREAS India, having signed the said Convention, entered into Agreements with the parties to the said
Convention to exempt the taxes and duties on fuel and lubricants supplied in India to the aircraft of the contracting
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Foreign Aircraft (Exemption From Taxes And Duties On Fuel And Lubricants) Act, 2000
parties.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
1.
Short title and extent.
(1)
This Act may be called the Foreign Aircraft (Exemption from Taxes and Duties on Fuel and Lubricants) Act, 2002.
(2)
It extends to the whole of India.
2.
Definitions.
-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Agreements" means the Air Services Agreements or Air Transport Agreements entered into by India with parties to the
Convention;
(b)
"Convention" means the Convention on International Civil Aviation opened for signatures at Chicago on the 7th
December, 1944.
3.
Exemption from levy of taxes and duties on fuel and lubricants supplied to aircraft of other countries.-
Where, in pursuance of the Convention or Agreement with any other country or countries, it is necessary to grant
exemption from levy of taxes and d ties on fuel and lubricants filled into receptacles forming part of any aircraft of any
other country or countries under any law of a State or Union territory in India, the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, make such provi ions as may be necessary for giving effect to the said Convention or
Agreement and thereupon the said provision shall apply accordingly and, notwithstanding anything contrary contained in
any other law, shall in such application have the force of law in ndia.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2