
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (Manner Of Receipt Of Premium) Regulati...
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (Manner Of
Receipt Of Premium) Regulations, 2002
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/162272611/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (Manner Of Receipt Of Premium) Regulations, 2002
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (Manner Of Receipt Of Premium) Regulations, 2002
Rule
THE-INSURANCE-REGULATORY-AND-DEVELOPMENT-AUTHORITY-MANNER-OF-RECEIPT-OF-PREMIUM-REGU
LATIONS-2002 of 2002
Published on 16 October 2002
Commenced on 16 October 2002
[This is the version of this document from 16 October 2002.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (Manner Of Receipt Of Premium) Regulations, 2002
Published vide Notification No. F. No. IRDA/Reg./10/2002, dated 16.10.2002, published in the Gazette of India,
Extraordinary, Part III, Section 4, dated 17.10.2002.
14.
/679
In exercise of powers conferred under sub-section (6) of section 64-VB and section 114-A of the Insurance Act, 1938 (
4 of 1938
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority (Manner Of Receipt Of Premium) Regulati...
) and in consultation with the Insurance Advisory Committee, the Authority hereby makes the following regulations,
namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement .-(1) These regulations may be called The Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority (Manner of Receipt of Premium) Regulations, 2002.
(2)
They shall come into force from the date of publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Interpretation .-All words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Insurance Act, 1938 (
4 of 1938
), or in the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (
41 of 1999
), or in any rules or regulations made thereunder shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in those Acts or
rules or regulations as the case may be.
3.
Manner of premium payments .-The premium to be paid by any person proposing to take an insurance policy
(hereinafter referred to as the proposer) or by the policyholder to an insurer may be made in any one or more of the
following manner(s), namely:-
(a)
cash;
(b)
any recognised banking negotiable instrument such as cheques, including demand drafts, pay orders, banker's cheques
drawn on any scheduled bank in India;
(c)
postal money orders;
(d)
credit or debit cards held in his name;
(e)
bank guarantee or cash deposit;
(f)
internet;
(g)
E-Transfer;
(h)
direct credits via  standing instructions of proposer or the policyholder or the life insured through bank transfers; and
(i)
any other method of payment as may be approved by the Authority from time to time.
4.
Commencement of risk .-In all cases of risks covered by the policies issued by an insurer, the attachment of risk to an
insurer will be in consonance with the terms of section 64-VB of the Act and except in the cases where the premium has
been paid in cash, in all other cases the insurer shall be on risk only after the receipt of the premium by the insurer:
Provided that in the case of a policy of general insurance that where the remittance made by the proposer or the
policyholder is not realised by the insurer, the policy shall be treated as void ab initio :
Provided further that in the case of a policy of life insurance, the continuance of the risk or otherwise shall depend on the
terms and conditions of the policy already entered into.
5.
Recovery of collection charges .-The insurer may as its option recover the collection charges of the instrument from the
proposer.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2