
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances And Protection Devices And Accessories (Quality C...
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances And Protection Devices And
Accessories (Quality Control) Order, 2003
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/71444681/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances And Protection Devices And Accessories (Quality Control) Order, 2003
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances And Protection Devices And Accessories (Quality Control) Order, 2003
Rule
THE-ELECTRICAL-WIRES-CABLES-APPLIANCES-AND-PROTECTION-DEVICES-AND-ACCESSORIES-QUALITY-C
ONTROL-ORDER-2003 of 2003
Published on 17 February 2003
Commenced on 17 February 2003
[This is the version of this document from 17 February 2003.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances And Protection Devices And Accessories (Quality Control) Order, 2003
Published by Notification Vide S.O. 189(E), dated 17-2-2003, published in the Gazette of India, Extra, Part 2, Section
3(ii), dated 17-2-2003
333.
S.O.189 (E), dated 17th February, 2003 - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the Bureau of Indian
Standards Act, 1986 (63 of 1986), the Central Government after consulting the Bureau of Indian Standards hereby
makes the following Order, namely:-
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances And Protection Devices And Accessories (Quality C...
1.
Short title and commencement
.-(1) This Order may be called the Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances and Protection Devices and Accessories (Quality
Control) Order, 2003.
(2)
In respect of items covered under serial numbers 1 to 7 of the Schedule, this Order shall come into force with immediate
effect. In respect of items covered under serial numbers 8 to 24 of the Schedule, this Order shall come into force after a
period of six months from the date of publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions
.-In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act "means the Bureau of Indian Standards Act, 1986 (63 of 1986);
(b)
"Appropriate Authority "means any officer not below the rank of an Under Secretary to the Government of India or an
officer not below the rank of a General Manager, District Industries Centre of a State Government as may be appointed
by the Central Government or the State Government by a notification published in the Official Gazette to implement the
provisions of this Order;
(c)
"Bureau "means the Bureau of Indian Standards;
(d)
"dealer ", in relation to Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances, Protection Devices and Accessories, means a person who,
or a firm or a Hindu undivided family which, carries on, directly or otherwise, the business of buying , selling, supplying
or distributing any such electrical wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and accessories, whether in cash or for
deferred payment or for commission, remuneration or other valuable consideration;
(e)
"electrical wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and accessories "mean the items specified in column (2) of the
Schedule;
(f)
"manufacturer ", in relation to electrical wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and accessories, means a person
who, or a firm or a Hindu undivided family which produces, makes, assembles or manufactures any such electrical
wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and accessories and includes a person who, or a firm or Hindu undivided
family which claims such electrical wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and accessories to be produced, made,
assembled or manufactured by such person or firm or Hindu undivided family, as the case may be;
(g)
"Schedule "means the Schedule annexed to this Order;
(h)
"Specified Standard "in relation to electrical wires, cables, appliances and protection devices and accessories means the
standard as specified in the corresponding entry in column (3) of the Schedule which is in force;
(i)
"State Government "includes a Union Territory Administration also;
(j)
All other words and expressions used but not defined in this Order shall have the meanings respectively assigned to
them in the Act.
3.
Prohibition regarding manufacture, storage, sale and distribution, etc
.-(1) No person shall by himself or through any person on his behalf manufacture or store for sale, sell or distribute any
electrical wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and accessories, which do not conform to the Specified
Standards and do not bear Standard Mark of the Bureau on obtaining certification marks license:
Provided that nothing in this Order shall apply in relation to export of electrical wires, cables, appliances, protection
devices and accessories required for export, which conform to any specification required by the foreign buyer and such
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances And Protection Devices And Accessories (Quality C...
specification shall not in any case be less than the Specified Standard.
(2)
The sub-standard or defective electrical wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and accessories or raw material or
components, which do not conform to the Specified Standard shall be deformed by the manufacturer beyond use and
disposed of as scrap within three months.
4.
Obligation for certification .-(1) All manufacturers of electrical wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and
accessories shall make an application to the Bureau for obtaining license for use of the Standard Mark, within forty-five
days of the issue of this Order, if not already obtained.
(2)
The grant of license by the Bureau for use of the Standard Mark shall be as per the provisions of the Act and rules and
regulations made thereunder.
(3)
When any person by himself or through any person on his behalf proposes to manufacture electrical wires, cables,
appliances, protection devices and accessories any of the items 8 to 24 specified in column (2) of the Schedule shall
commence regular production only after obtaining a valid license from Bureau for the use of Standard Mark.
(4)
Consequent to the expiry of any license or cancellation thereof by the Bureau for one or more of the electrical wires,
cables, appliances, protection devices and accessories mentioned in column (2) of the Schedule, the Appropriate
Authority shall also be informed of the same by the Bureau.
5.
Power to call for information, etc .-(1) The Appropriate Authority may, with a view to securing compliance with this Order-
(a)
require any person engaged in the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution of any electrical wires, cables,
appliances, protection devices and accessories to give such information as he deems necessary relating to the
manufacture, storage for sale or distribution of any electrical wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and
accessories for the implementation of this Order or require any such person to furnish to him samples of any such
electrical wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and accessories or any components of any such electrical wires,
cables, appliances, protection devices and accessories.
(b)
inspect or cause to be inspected any books or other documents and other electrical wires, cables, appliances, protection
devices and accessories or the components of any such electrical wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and
accessories kept by or belonging to or in the possession or under the control of any person engaged in the manufacture,
storage for sale, sale or distribution of any such electrical wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and accessories.
(c)
enter and search any premises and seize any electrical wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and accessories in
respect of which it has reason to believe that a contravention of this Order has been committed or the said electrical
wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and accessories are not of the Specified Standard.
(2)
The provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) relating to search and seizures shall so far as may
be, apply to searches and seizures under this clause.
6.
Testing of samples
.-Samples of any electrical wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and accessories bearing the Standard Mark
and drawn by the Appropriate Authority, for ascertaining whether they are of the Specified Standard, shall be tested in
the laboratory approved by the Bureau and in the manner as may be determined by the Bureau.
7.
Power to issue direction to manufacturers and dealers or sellers
.-The Appropriate Authority may issue such directions to manufacturers and dealers or sellers, consistent with the
provisions of the Act or this Order, as may be necessary for carrying out the purposes of this order.
8.
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances And Protection Devices And Accessories (Quality C...
Compliance of directions
.-Every person engaged in the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution of any electrical wire, cables,
appliances, protection devices and accessories to whom any direction is issued under this Order, shall comply with such
direction.
9.
Obligation to furnish information
.-No manufacturer or dealer shall with intent to evade the provisions of this Order, refuse to give any information lawfully
demanded from him under clause 5 or conceal, destroy, mutilate or deface any books or documents or any electrical
wires, cables, appliances, protection devices and accessories kept by, or in the possession or control of such person.
Schedule
(See clause 2 (e))
S.No.
Item
Standard
1
Safety of household and similar electrical appliances -Electrical immersion water heaters.
IS: 302-2-201 (1992)
2
Safety of household and similar electrical appliances - Electric Iron.
IS: 302-2-3 (1992)
3
Safety of household and similar electrical appliances - Electric stoves
IS: 302-2-202 (1992)
4
Safety of household and similar  electrical appliances - Electric radiators.
IS: 302-2-30 (1992)
5
Switches for domestic and similar purposes.
IS: 3854: 1988
6
2 Amp switches for domestic and similar purposes.
IS: 4949: 1968
7
Tungsten Filament General Services Lamps
IS 418
8
Self ballasted lamps for general lighting services: Part 1 safety requirements.
IS 15111 (Pt.1)
9
Self ballasted lamps for general lighting services: Part 2 Performance requirements.
IS 15111 (Pt.2)
10
Electrical Accessories -
Circuit Breakers for over current protection for household and similar installations
IS 8828
11
Residual current operated circuit  Breakers for household and similar uses (Pt.1) : Circuit breakers without Integral
overcurrent protection (RCCBs)
IS 12640 (Pt.1)
12
Residual current operated circuit breakers for household and similar uses - (Pt.2) : Circuit breakers with integral
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances And Protection Devices And Accessories (Quality C...
overcurrent protection (RCVOs)
IS 12640 (Pt.2)
13
Low voltage fuses for voltages not exceeding 1000 V AC or 1500 V DC (Pt. 2) fuses for use by authorised  persons
IS 13703 (Pt.2)
14
High voltage fuses (Pt.1) :  current limiting fuses
IS 9385 (Pt.1)
15
High voltage fuses (Pt.2):  expulsion similar fuses
IS 9385 (Pt.2)
16
Low voltage switchgear&  control gear- (Pt.2) circuit breakers
IS 13947 (Pt.2)
17
Low voltage switchgear &  control gear - (Pt.3) switches, disconnectors, switch  disconnectors and fuse combination
units.
IS 13947 (Pt.3)
18
Low voltage switchgear &  control gear- (Pt.4) contactors and motor starters
IS 13947 (Pt.4)
19
Low voltage switchgear &  control gear- (Pt.5) control circuit devices & switching elements
IS 13947 (Pt.5)
20
PVC insulated cables for working Voltages upto and including 1100 V
IS 694
21
Elastomer insulated cables
(Pt.1) : for working voltages upto and    including 1100 V
IS 9968 (Pt.1)
22
AC Watt-hour meters, class 0.5,
1 & 2 (KWH)
IS 13010
23
AC static watt-hour meters, class 1 &2 (KWH)
IS 13779
24
AC static transformer operated watt-hour and VAR - hour meters, class 0.2S & 0.5S
IS 14697
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5