
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Cement (Quality Control) Order, 2003
The Cement (Quality Control) Order, 2003
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/115716530/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Cement (Quality Control) Order, 2003
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Cement (Quality Control) Order, 2003
Rule THE-CEMENT-QUALITY-CONTROL-ORDER-2003 of 2003
Published on 17 February 2003
Commenced on 17 February 2003
[This is the version of this document from 17 February 2003.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Cement (Quality Control) Order, 2003
Publised vide Notification No. S.O.190(E), dated 17.2.2003.
1627.
S.O.190(E), dated 17.2.2003. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the Bureau of Indian Standards Act,
1986 (63 of 1986), the Central Government after consulting the Bureau of Indian Standards, hereby makes the following
Order, namely:-
1.
Short Title and commencement.
(1)
This Order may be called the Cement (Quality Control) Order, 2003.
(2)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Cement (Quality Control) Order, 2003
It shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires: -
(a)
"Act" means the Bureau of Indian Standards Act, 1986 (63 of 1986);
(b)
"Appropriate Authority" means an officer not below the rank of an Under Secretary to the Government of India or an
officer not below the rank of a General Manager, District Industries Centre of a State Government as may be appointed
by the Central Government or the State Government by a notification published in the Official Gazette to implement the
provisions of this Order;
(c)
"Bureau" means the Bureau of Indian Standards;
(d)
"cement" means any variety of cement manufactured or sold in India and includes blast furnace slag cement, portland
pozzolana cement, rapid hardening portland cement, white portland cement, hydrophobic portland cement, ordinary
portland cement, low heat portland cement, high strength ordinary portland cement, cement used for the manufacture of
railway sleepers, masonry cement, oil well cement, super sulphated cement or any other variety of cement which the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify for the purposes of this Order;
(e)
"dealer" in relation to cement, means a person who, or a firm or Hindu Undivided Family which, carries on directly or
otherwise the business of buying, selling, supplying or distributing cement, whether in cash or for deferred payment or
for commission, remuneration of other valuable consideration;
(f)
"manufacturer" in relation to cement, means a person who or a firm or Hindu Undivided Family which, produces, makes
or manufactures cement and includes a person who, or a firm or Hindu Undivided Family which, claims such cement to
be produced, made or manufactured by any such person or firm or Hindu Undivided Family, as the case may be;
(g)
"Specified Standard" means the Indian Standard Specification of cement prescribed by the Bureau of Indian Standards;
(h)
"State Government", includes a Union Territory Administration also;
(i)
All other words and expressions used but not defined in this Order shall have the meanings respectively assigned to
them in the Act.
3.
Prohibition regarding manufacture, sale, distribution etc.
(1)
No person shall himself or by any person on his behalf, manufacture or store for sale, sell or distribute cement which
does not conform to the Specified Standard and which do not bear the Standard Mark:
Provided that the Central Government may, on an application made, permit any person to manufacture or store for sale,
or sell or distribute cement without Standard Mark for a period of not exceeding one hundred and fifty days, if it is
satisfied that the grant of regular Standard Mark is pending with the authorities under the Act:
Provided further that the Central Government may, on an application made, grant exemption from Standard Mark, if it is
satisfied that the cement manufactured and dispatched is for export purpose and is as per the Overseas Standards or as
per Buyer's Specifications and do not coincide with the corresponding requirements of the Indian Standards.
(2)
The cement which do not conform to the Specified Standard shall be destroyed immediately within a month.
4.
Obligation for Certification.
(1)
the manufacturer of cement shall make an application to the Bureau for obtaining licence for use of the Standard Mark
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Cement (Quality Control) Order, 2003
within forty five days of the issue of this Order, if not already obtained.
(2)
The grant of licence by the Bureau for use of the Standard Mark shall be as per provisions of the Act and the rules and
regulations made thereunder.
(3)
When any person by himself or through any person on his behalf proposes to manufacture cement, he shall make an
application to the Bureau before the commencement of production.
(4)
Information relating to expiry or cancellation of any licence or rejection of application for grant of licence by the Bureau
for manufacture of one or more of the cement shall be sent to the Appropriate Authority immediately by the Bureau.
5.
Power to call for information etc.
- The Appropriate Authority may, with a view to secure compliance with this Order:-
(1)
require any person engaged in the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution of cement to give such information
as it deems necessary in relation to the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution of cement for the
implementation of this Order or require any such person to furnish to it samples of such cement;
(2)
inspect or cause to be inspected any books or other documents or cement kept by or belonging to or in possession or
under the control of any person engaged in the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution of such cement;
(3)
enter and search any premises and seize cement in respect of which it has reason to believe that a contravention of this
Order has been made or the said cement is not of the prescribed standard; and
(4)
the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) relating to search and seizure shall, so far as may
be, applied to searches and seizures under this clause.
6.
Testing of samples.
- Samples of cement bearing the Standard Mark and drawn by the Appropriate Authority, for ascertaining whether they
are of the Specified Standard, shall be tested in the laboratory approved by the Bureau and in the manner as may be
determined by the Bureau.
7.
Power to issue direction to manufacturers and dealers or sellers.
- The Appropriate Authority may issue such directions to manufacturers and dealers or sellers, consistent with the
provisions of the Act or this Order, as may be necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Order.
8.
Compliance of directions.
- Every person engaged in the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution of any cement, to whom any direction is
issued under this Order shall comply with such directions.
9.
Obligation to furnish information.
- No manufacturers or dealers shall, with intent to evade the provisions of this Order, refuse to give any information
lawfully demanded from him under clause 5 or conceal, destroy, mutilate or deface any books or documents or any
cement kept by, or in the possession or control of such person.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3