
----- PAGE 1 -----
Obligation Of Every Cable Operator To Transmit Programmes Of Pay Channels
Obligation Of Every Cable Operator To Transmit Programmes Of Pay
Channels
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/78879267/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Obligation Of Every Cable Operator To Transmit Programmes Of Pay Channels
UNION OF INDIA
India
Obligation Of Every Cable Operator To Transmit Programmes Of Pay Channels
Rule OBLIGATION-OF-EVERY-CABLE-OPERATOR-TO-TRANSMIT-PROGRAMMES-OF-PAY-CHANNELS of 2003
Published on 10 July 2003
Commenced on 10 July 2003
[This is the version of this document from 10 July 2003.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Obligation Of Every Cable Operator To Transmit Programmes Of Pay Channels
Published in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt. II, Section 300,S1. No. 610, dated 10th fitly, 2003
339.
Notification
New Delhi, the 10th July, 2003
S.O. 792(E).-In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 4-A, read with section 9 of the Cable
Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 (
7 of 1995
), the Central Government, having been satisfied that it is necessary in public interest so to do, and in supersession of
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Obligation Of Every Cable Operator To Transmit Programmes Of Pay Channels
the notification S.O. 39(E), dated 14th January, 2003, hereby notifies the 1st day of March, 2003 as the date within six
months from which it shall be obligatory for every cable operator to transmit/re-transmit programmes of every pay
channel through an addressable system in the areas specified below, namely:
(i)
[In the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai,]
[Substituted by S.O. 1027(E), dated 5.9.2003. ]
the area to the West of the main line of Central Railway between Chatrapathi Shivaji Terminus (CST) station and Sion
Railway Station, including the area from Navy Nagar (in the south) upto the CST railway Station (in the north), including
Ballard Estate, bound by the Sion-Bandra Link Road and the Mahim Causeway on the northern side and includes the
areas Colaba, RC Church, World Trade Centre, Maker Towers, Nariman Point, Cuffe Prade, Fort, Fountain, Bombay
Stock Market, Prince of Wales Museum, CIDCO, Marine Drive Gateway of India, Horniman Circle, Reserve Bank of
India, Churchgate, Ballard Estate, Town Hall, Shahid Bhagat Singh Road, Madam Cama Road, Veer Nariman Road,
Mahatma Gandhi Road, Dr. Dadabhai Navroji Marg, Marine Lines, Charni Road, Kalbadevi, Thakurdwar, Girgaum,
Walkeshwar Road, Nepensea Road, Cumbala Hill, Malabar Hill, Grant Road, Khetwadi, Breach Candy, Peddar Road,
Hajiali, Mahalaxmi, Worli, Tardeo, Altomout Road, Dr. Dadasheb Bhadkamkar Marg, Sardar Vallabhai Patel Road, Saat
Rasta, Lala Lajpatrai Marg, Mahalakshmi Race Course, Dr. Annie Besant Marg, N.M. Joshi Marg, Gokhale Road, Dr.
Moses Road, Prabhadevi, Dadar (West), Shivaji Park, Cadell Road, Lady Jamshedji Road, Sitladevi Road, Mahim, Gen
Arunkumar Vidya Marg.
(ii)
[* * *]
[Item (ii) deleted by S.O. 1000(E), dated 29.8.2003. Prior to its deletion, item (ii) read as under:-" (ii) In the National
Capital Territory or Delhi, the area covering Chanakyapuri, Motibagh, Vasant Vihar, Safdarjung, Vasantkunj, Chattarpur,
Madangir, Kalkaji, Sarita Vihar, Maharani Bagh; bounded in the East by Yamuna River (from Delhi-Haryana border near
Badarpur to Bhairon Marg; bounded in the West by Wellington Crescent, Sardar Patel Marg, NH8 (from Dhaulakuan to
Gurgaon Border); bounded in the South by Delhi-Haryana border (from Gurgaon to Badarpur and Yamuna river);
bounded in the North by Bhairon Marg, Rajpath (from National Stadium to Vijay Chowk), Parliament House, Talkatora
Road upto Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital" . ]
(iii)
In the Kolkata Metropolitan Area, the areas whose northern boundary is the eastern bank of the river Hooghly up to the
confluence with Tolly's Nalla on the right; eastern boundary is the line along the western bank of Tolly's Nalla starting
from its confluence with river Hooghly in the north, running south down along the Tolly's Nalla/Kaorapukur Khal to the
mouzas of Magurkhali; Southern Boundary is along the line following the southernboundaries of mouzas Magurkhali,
Ramjibanpur, Sajnaberia, Gopalnagar, Kalua, Hanspukuria area within Police Station Behala proceeding towards the
southern boundaries of mouzas Kalagachhia, Sankharipota, Naoabad, Khanberia, Chandigar, Shibhugli and
Rameshwarpur within Police Station Maheshtola.
Thereafter the same line following the southern boundaries of mouzas Betuabi Rajarampur, Santoshpur, Uttar Raipur,
Benjan Haria Charial, Eastern and southern mouzas of Nischintapur and southern boundaries of mouzas of Uttar
Ramchandrapur, Raghunathpur, Rajarampur, Achhipur within Police Station Budge Budge.
And then proceeding further westward in a straight line and meeting the western boundary-line of District 24 Parganas in
the river Hooghly; and western boundary is the line along the east bank of river Hooghly starting from the confluence of
Tolly's Nalla running south-south-west where it meets the line of District 24 Parganas in the river Hooghly.
(iv)
Chennai Metropolitan area.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2