
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Repatriation Of Prisoners Act, 2003
The Repatriation Of Prisoners Act, 2003
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/859184/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
28
]
Union of India - Act
The Repatriation Of Prisoners Act, 2003
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Repatriation Of Prisoners Act, 2003
Act 49 of 2003
Published in Gazette 49 on 28 September 2003
Assented to on 28 September 2003
Commenced on 28 September 2003
[This is the version of this document as it was from 30 September 2003 to None.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Repatriation Of Prisoners Act, 2003
(49 of 2003)
175.
Statement of Objects and Reasons.-Long detention of foreign prisoners in Indian jails has been causing considerable
concern to the Government of India and the foreign Governments concerned. It was, therefore, felt that if foreign
convicted nationals were transferred to their home countries to serve their remaining jails terms, it would take care of the
human aspect in as much as the said convicts would be near their families and have better chances of social
rehabilitation. Further, it would also take care of the problems which the Indian jail authorities are facing in keeping these
prisoners. There is presently no legal provisions either in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 or any other law under
which a foreign prisoner could be transferred outside India. The Bill proposes legislation, in conjunction with bilateral
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Repatriation Of Prisoners Act, 2003
treaties to enable the Central Government to transfer foreign convicted persons to their country and vice versa.
2. The salient features of the proposed legislation inter alia, are as follows:-
(a) a request for transfer will have to be made by the convicted prisoner or a person entitled to act on his behalf in view
of his age or physical or mental condition;
(b) the request for transfer will have to be agreed upon by the transferring State and the receiving State;
(c) the transfer will be effected if the judgment awarding the sentence is final in India i.e., no appeal or revision against
the judgment is pending in any Court;
(d) the transfer will be made if the convicted prisoner is a citizen of the receiving State notwithstanding that he may also
be citizen of any other foreign State;
(e) the enforcement of the sentence shall be governed by the law of the receiving State. However, the receiving State
shall be bound by the legal nature and duration of the sentence as determined by the transferring State;
(f) the enforcement of the sentence in the receiving State, to the extent that it has been enforced in the transferring
State, shall have the effect of discharging the sentence;
(g) the transferring State alone shall be competent to decide any application for review of the judgment and grant
pardon, amnesty or commutation in accordance with its Constitution or other laws;
(h) the convicted person shall not be transferred if-
(i) the transferring State is of the opinion that the request would prejudice its sovereignty, security, national interest or
other essential interests;
(ii) any other case is pending in the transferring State against the convicted prisoner;
(iii) he is convicted of an offence under military law not being an offence under the ordinary criminal law of the
transferring State; and
(iv) the death penalty has been awarded to the convicted prisoner in the transferring State.
3. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.
An Act to provide for the transfer of certain prisoners from India to country or place outside India and reception in India
for certain prisoners from country or place outside India.
Be  it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:
Received the assent of the President on 28.9.2003 and published in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt.II, Section 1, dated
30.9.2003.Enforced  on 1.1.2004.
1.
Short title and commencement
(1)
This Act may be called The Repatriation of Prisoners Act , 2003.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
2.
Definitions
.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,
(a)
contracting State means a Government of any country or place outside India in respect of which arrangement has been
made by the Central Government with the Government of such country or place through a treaty or otherwise for
transfer of prisoners from India to such country or place and vice versa and includes any other Government of such
country or place specified by the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, under sub-section (1) of
section 3;
(b)
prescribed means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(c)
prisoner means a person undergoing a sentence of imprisonment under an order passed by a Criminal Court including
the Courts established under the law for the time being in force in contracting States;
(d)
warrant means a warrant issued under sub-section (1) of section 7 or sub-section (2) of section 12, as the case may be;
(e)
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Repatriation Of Prisoners Act, 2003
words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)
have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Code.
3.
Application of Act
(1)
The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that the provisions of this Act shall apply to a
country or place outside India as may be specified in the notification.
(2)
If the notification under sub-section (1) relates to a country or place outside India with which a treaty has been entered
into by India for the transfer of prisoners between that country and India, then, such notification shall also set out the full
text of the said treaty and shall in no case remain in force longer than the period of the said treaty.
(3)
If the Central Government is of the opinion that, with respect to a country or place outside India, provisions of this Act
require to be modified to give effect to a treaty in relation to such country, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
direct that the application of this Act to such country shall be subject to such conditions, exceptions and modifications
specified in the notification.
4.
Application for transfer by a prisoner
.Any prisoner who is a citizen of a contracting State may make an application to the Central Government for transfer of
his custody from India to that contracting State:
Provided that if a prisoner is not able to make an application himself because of his ill health, mental condition, old age
or being a minor, then, the application may be made by any other person entitled to act on his behalf.
5.
Consideration of request by Central Government
(1)
On receipt of the application under section 4, the Central Government shall direct the officer-in-charge of the prison,
where the prisoner is confined, to furnish such information which in the opinion of that Government is relevant for the
purpose of transfer.
(2)
On receipt of the information under sub-section (1), if the Central Government is satisfied that
(a)
no inquiry, trial or any other proceeding is pending against the prisoner;
(b)
death penalty has not been awarded to the prisoner;
(c)
the prisoner has not been convicted for an offence under the [Military law]
[Substituted for the words "martial law" by Act No. 6 of 2011]
; and
(d)
transfer of custody of the prisoner to the contracting State shall not be prejudicial to the sovereignty, security or any
other interest of India, it shall pass an order for forwarding the application of the prisoner to the contracting State.
6.
Comments of contracting State
(1)
The application of the prisoner shall be forwarded by the Central Government through prescribed means to the
Government of the contracting State to deal with such application along with the following information, namely:
(a)
a copy of the judgment and a copy of the relevant provisions of the law under which the sentence has been passed
against the prisoner;
(b)
the nature, duration and date of commencement of the sentence of the prisoner;
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Repatriation Of Prisoners Act, 2003
(c)
medical report or any other report regarding the antecedents and character of the prisoner, where it is relevant for the
disposal of his application or for deciding the nature of his confinement; and
(d)
any other information which the Central Government may consider necessary.
(2)
Where any application of a prisoner forwarded by the Central Government has been accepted by the contracting State,
the Central Government may seek from such contracting State, all or any of the following information or documents
before taking decision to transfer the prisoner to the contracting State, namely:
(a)
a statement or document indicating that the prisoner is a citizen of the contracting State;
(b)
a copy of the relevant law of the contracting State constituting the act or omission as the offence, on account of which
the sentence has been passed in India, as if such act or omission was an offence under the law of that State;
(c)
a statement of the fact or any law or regulation relating to the duration and enforcement of the sentence of the prisoner
in the contracting State upon his transfer;
(d)
the willingness of the contracting State to accept the transfer of the prisoner and an undertaking to administer the
remaining part of the sentence of the prisoner;
(e)
an undertaking to comply with the conditions, if any, specified by the Central Government; and
(f)
any other information or document which the Central Government may consider necessary.
7.
Consideration of request by Central Government
(1)
If the Central Government, on receipt of a communication from the concerned contracting State,
(a)
expressing its willingness to accept the transfer of the prisoner; and
(b)
undertaking to comply with the conditions specified in the warrant, is satisfied that the prisoner should be transferred to
the said State, the Central Government may, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, issue a warrant in accordance with the provisions of section 8 in such form as may be prescribed.
(2)
Where a warrant is issued under sub-section (1), the Central Government shall inform the contracting State accordingly
and request that State to specify the person to whom and the place within India where custody of the prisoner shall be
delivered.
8.
Provision to issue warrant for transfer
(1)
The Central Government shall authorise an officer not below the rank of a Joint Secretary to a State Government, within
the limits of whose jurisdiction the place of imprisonment of the prisoner is situated, to issue a warrant on behalf of the
Central Government under sub-section (1) of section 7 directing the officer-in-charge of the prison therein to deliver the
custody of the prisoner to the person authorised by the contracting State to which the prisoner is to be transferred,
presenting such person a copy of the warrant together with all the records relating to the prisoner and the personal
effects taken from the prisoner at the time of his admission in the prison.
(2)
Upon the presentation of a warrant referred to in sub-section (1), the officer-in-charge of the prison shall forthwith
comply with the warrant and obtain thereon the signature of the person to whom delivery of the prisoner, records and the
personal effects relating to the prisoner to be removed from the prison is given.
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Repatriation Of Prisoners Act, 2003
(3)
After delivery of the prisoner to the person authorised by the contracting State under sub-section (2), the
officer-in-charge of the prison transferring the prisoner shall forward a copy of the warrant to the Court which committed
the prisoner to the prison, along with a statement that the prisoner has been delivered to the person authorised by the
contracting State under sub-section (1).
(4)
The delivery of the prisoner in compliance of the warrant issued under sub-section (1) shall discharge the
officer-in-charge of the prison from the responsibility of keeping the prisoner in his custody.
9.
Operation of warrant and retaking prisoner
.It shall be lawful for the person authorised by the contracting State to whom the custody of a prisoner is delivered under
the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 8 to receive and hold in custody such prisoner and to convey him out of India
and if the prisoner escapes from such custody within India, the prisoner may be arrested without warrant by any person
who shall without undue delay deliver such prisoner to the officer-in-charge of the nearest police station and the prisoner
so arrested shall be liable for committing an offence under section 224 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and shall
also be liable for such sentence of imprisonment in India which he would have to undergo if the delivery of custody of
such prisoner had not been made under section 8.
10.
Transfer of record
.Where a prisoner is or is to be transferred to a contracting State under the provisions of this Act, the Central
Government may requisition the records of any proceeding, including judicial proceedings relating to that prisoner from
any Court or office, and may direct that such records shall be sent to the Government of the contracting State.
11.
Power of Court and Central Government shall not be affected
.The transfer of a prisoner from India to a contracting State shall not affect the power of the Court which passed the
judgment to review its judgment and power of the Central Government or State Government to suspend, remit or
commute the sentence in accordance with any law for the time being in force.
12.
Transfer into India
(1)
The Central Government may accept the transfer of a prisoner, who is a citizen of India, from a contracting State
wherein he is undergoing any sentence of imprisonment subject to such terms and conditions as may be agreed to
between India and that State.
(2)
If the Central Government accepts the request for a transfer under sub-section (1), then, notwithstanding anything
contained in any other law for the time being in force, it may issue a warrant to detain the prisoner in prison in
accordance with the provisions of section 13 in such form as may be prescribed.
13.
Determination of prison and issue of warrant for receiving transfer in India
(1)
The Central Government shall, in consultation with a State Government, determine the prison situated within the
jurisdiction of such State Government where the prisoner with respect to whom a warrant has been issued under
sub-section (2) of section 12, shall be lodged and the officer who shall receive and hold him in custody.
(2)
The Central Government shall authorise any officer not below the rank of a Joint Secretary to that Government to issue
a warrant under sub-section (2) of section 12 and to direct the officer referred to in sub-section (1) to receive and hold
the prisoner, with respect to whom the warrant is issued, in custody.
(3)
It shall be lawful for the officer referred to in sub-section (1) to receive and hold in custody any prisoner delivered to him
under the direction made in the warrant issued under sub-section (2) of section 12 and to convey such prisoner to any
prison determined under sub-section (1) for being dealt with in accordance with the said warrant and if the prisoner
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Repatriation Of Prisoners Act, 2003
escapes from such custody, the prisoner may be arrested without warrant by any person who shall without undue delay
deliver such prisoner to the officer-in-charge of the nearest police station and the prisoner so arrested shall be liable for
committing an offence under section 224 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and shall also be liable to be dealt with
in accordance with the said warrant.
(4)
A warrant under sub-section (2) of section 12 shall provide for
(a)
the bringing of the prisoner into India from a contracting State or a place outside India;
(b)
the taking of such prisoner in any part of India being a place at which effect may be given to the provisions contained in
the warrant;
(c)
the nature and duration of imprisonment of the prisoner in accordance with the terms and conditions referred to in
sub-section (1) of section 12 and the imprisonment of such prisoner in India in such manner as may be contained in the
warrant; and
(d)
any other matter which may be prescribed.
(5)
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the imprisonment of a prisoner in
compliance with a warrant issued under sub-section (2) of section 12 shall be deemed to be imprisonment under a
sentence of a Court competent to pass such a sentence of imprisonment in India.
(6)
If the sentence of imprisonment passed against the prisoner in the contracting State is incompatible with the Indian law
as to its nature, duration or both, the Central Government may, by order, adapt the sentence of such punishment as to
the nature, duration or both, as the case may be, as is compatible to the sentence of imprisonment provided for a similar
offence had that offence been committed in India:
Provided that the sentence so adapted shall, as far as possible, correspond with the sentence imposed by the judgment
of the contracting State to the prisoner and such adapted sentence shall not aggravate the punishment, by its nature,
duration or both relating to the sentence imposed in the contracting State.
14.
Power to make rules
(1)
The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the provisions of this
Act.
(2)
In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the
following matters, namely:
(a)
the means through which an application may be forwarded under sub-section (1) of section 6;
(b)
the form in which a warrant may be issued under sub-section (1) of section 7;
(c)
the form in which a warrant may be issued under sub-section (2) of section 12; and
(d)
any other matter which may be prescribed under clause (d) of sub-section (4) of section 13.
15.
Laying of rules, etc.
Every notification issued under sub-sections (1) and (3) of section 3 and every rule made under section 14 shall be laid,
as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty
days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the
session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Repatriation Of Prisoners Act, 2003
modification in the notification or rule or both Houses agree that the notification or rule should not be made, the
notification or rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done
under that notification or rule.
16.
Power to remove difficulties
(1)
If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government may, by order published in the
Official Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear to it to be necessary for
removing the difficulty:
Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of two years from the date of commencement of
this Act.
(2)
Every order made under sub-section (1) shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7