
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Competition Commission of India (Salary, Allowances and other terms and Conditions of ...
The Competition Commission of India (Salary, Allowances and other
terms and Conditions of Service of Chairperson and other members)
Rules, 2003
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/66554883/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Competition Commission of India (Salary, Allowances and other terms and Conditions of Service of Chairperson
and other members) Rules, 2003
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Competition Commission of India (Salary, Allowances and other terms and Conditions of Service of Chairperson
and other members) Rules, 2003
Rule
THE-COMPETITION-COMMISSION-OF-INDIA-SALARY-ALLOWANCES-AND-OTHER-TERMS-AND-CONDITIONS-O
F-SERVICE-OF-CHAIRPERSON-AND-OTHER-MEMBERS-RULES-2003 of 2003
Published on 6 October 2003
Commenced on 6 October 2003
[This is the version of this document from 6 October 2003.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Competition Commission of India (Salary, Allowances and other terms and Conditions of Service of Chairperson
and other members) Rules, 2003
Published vide G.S.R. 784(E), dated 6.10.2003, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2, Section 3(1),
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Competition Commission of India (Salary, Allowances and other terms and Conditions of ...
dated 6.10.2003
393.
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 63, read with sub-section (1) of section
14, of the Competition Act, 2002 (
12 of 2003
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules regulating the salary and allowances payable to, and other
terms and conditions of service of, Chairperson and Members of the Competition Commission of India, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called The Competition Commission of India (Salary,
Allowances and Other Terms and Conditions of Service of Chairperson and Other Members) Rules, 2003.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions .-(1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Competition Act, 2002 (
12 of 2003
);
(b)
"Chairperson" means the Chairperson of the Commission appointed under sub-section (1) of section 8 of the Act;
(c)
"Commission" means the Competition Commission of India established under sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Act;
(d)
"Member" means a Member of the Commission appointed under sub-section (1) of section 8 of the Act and includes the
Chairperson.
(2)
All other words and expressions used in these rules but not defined, shall have the same meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
[ Pay
.- The Chairperson shall be paid a consolidated monthly salary of [four lakh rupees] and every Member shall be paid a
consolidated monthly salary of rupees two lakh fifty thousand. They shall not be entitled to house and car.]
[4. New Pension Scheme. - (1) The Chairperson and other Members shall be governed by the provisions of the New
Pension Scheme.
(2)
The New Pension Scheme to the Chairperson and other Members shall be based on pay as prescribed for the Secretary
to the Government of India.
(3)
The Chairperson and the other Members shall not be entitled to additional pension and gratuity for the services rendered
in the Commission.]
5.
[* * *]
6.
Leave .-(1) The Chairperson and every other Member shall be entitled to thirty days of Earned Leave for every year of
service.
(2)
The payment of leave salary during leave shall be governed by rule 40 of the Central Civil Services (Leave) Rules, 1972.
(3)
The Chairperson and every other Member shall be entitled to encashment of fifty per cent of Earned Leave standing to
their credit at any time.
7.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Competition Commission of India (Salary, Allowances and other terms and Conditions of ...
Travelling and daily allowances .-The Chairperson and other Members of the Commission while on tour within India or
on transfer (including the journey undertaken to join the Commission or on the completion of their tenure with the
Commission to proceed to their home town) shall be entitled to the travelling allowance, daily allowance, transportation
of personal effects and other similar matters at the same rates [as are prescribed for the Secretary to the Government of
India.]
8.
Official visits abroad . - Official visits abroad by the Chairperson or Members shall be undertaken only in accordance
with orders issued by the Central Government and they shall be entitled to draw such allowances in respect of such
visits [as are prescribed for the Secretary to the Government of India.]
9.
Leave Travel Concession .-The Chairperson and other Members of the Commission shall be entitled to Leave Travel
Concession (LTC) at the same rates [as are prescribed for the Secretary to the Government of India].
10.
[* * *]
11.
Facility for medical treatment .-The Chairperson and other Members shall be entitled to medical treatment and hospital
facilities as provided in the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) to a retired Government servant. At places
where the said Scheme is not in operation, the Chairperson and other Members shall be entitled to the facilities as
provided in the Central Service (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1944.
12.
Other conditions of service .-Matters relating to the terms and conditions of service of the Chairperson or other Members
with respect to which no express provision has been made in these rules, shall be referred by the Commission to the
Central Government for its decision, and the decision of the Central Government thereon shall be final.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3