
----- PAGE 1 -----
The National Biodiversity Authority (Salary, Allowances and Conditions of Service of Chair...
The National Biodiversity Authority (Salary, Allowances and
Conditions of Service of Chairperson and other Members) Rules, 2003
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/9100252/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The National Biodiversity Authority (Salary, Allowances and Conditions of Service of Chairperson and other Members)
Rules, 2003
UNION OF INDIA
India
The National Biodiversity Authority (Salary, Allowances and Conditions of Service of Chairperson and other Members)
Rules, 2003
Rule
THE-NATIONAL-BIODIVERSITY-AUTHORITY-SALARY-ALLOWANCES-AND-CONDITIONS-OF-SERVICE-OF-CHAIR
PERSON-AND-OTHER-MEMBERS-RULES-2003 of 2003
Published on 1 October 2003
Commenced on 1 October 2003
[This is the version of this document from 1 October 2003.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The National Biodiversity Authority (Salary, Allowances and Conditions of Service of Chairperson and other Members)
Rules, 2003
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 779(E), dated 1st October, 2003
Ministry of Environment and Forests
G.S.R. 779(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by the Sub-section (1) read with clause (a) of Sub-section (2) of
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The National Biodiversity Authority (Salary, Allowances and Conditions of Service of Chair...
Section 62 of the Biological Diversity Act, 2002 (
18 of 2003
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the National Biodiversity Authority (Salary, Allowances and Conditions of Service of
Chairperson and other Members) Rules, 2003.
(2)
They shall come into force on the 1st day of October, 2003.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context
otherwise requires :-
(a)
"Act" means the Biological Diversity Act, 2002 (
18 of 2003
);
(b)
"Authority" means the National Biodiversity Authority established under Sub-section (1) of Section 8;
(c)
"Chairperson" means the chairperson of the Authority;
(d)
"Member" means the Member of the Authority;
(e)
"Section" means a Section of the Act.
3.
Tenure.
- A Chairperson of the Authority shall hold office as such for a period of three years from the date on which he enters
upon his office but shall be eligible for reappointment for another term of three years :
Provided that no Chairperson shall hold office as such after he attains the age of sixty five years, whichever is earlier.
4.
Pay and Allowances of Chairperson.
(1)
A Chairperson shall be entitled to a fixed pay of Rs. 26,000 per month. In case of retired person is appointed as
Chairperson, his pay shall be fixed in accordance with the orders of the Central Government as applicable to such
persons.
(2)
A Chairperson shall be entitled to such allowances, leave, pension, provident fund, house and other perquisites etc. to
be decided by the Central Government from time to time.
5.
Term of Office and Allowances of Non-official Members.
(1)
Every non-official member of the Authority shall hold his office for a term not exceeding three years at a time from the
date of publication of his appointment in the Official Gazette.
(2)
Every non-official member attending the meeting of the Authority shall be entitled to sitting allowance, travelling
expenses, daily allowance and such other allowances as are applicable to non-official member of commissions and
committees of the Central Government attending the meeting(s) of such Commissions or Committees.
6.
Filling up Vacancies of non-official member.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The National Biodiversity Authority (Salary, Allowances and Conditions of Service of Chair...
(1)
A non-official member of the Authority may resign his office at any time by giving in writing under his hand addressed to
the Central Government and the seat of that member in the Authority shall become vacant.
(2)
A casual vacancy of a non-official member in the Authority shall be filled up by a fresh nomination and the person
nominated to fill the vacancy shall hold office only for the remainder of the term of the member in whose place he was
nominated.
7.
Removal of the members of the Authority.
- No member of the Authority shall be removed from his office on any ground specified in Section 11, without a due and
proper enquiry by an officer not below the rank of a Secretary to the Government of India appointed by the Central
Government and without giving such member a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3