
----- PAGE 1 -----
The University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by University Grants Commission) ...
The University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by
University Grants Commission) Rules, 2004
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/40863365/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by University Grants Commission) Rules, 2004
UNION OF INDIA
India
The University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by University Grants Commission) Rules, 2004
Rule
THE-UNIVERSITY-GRANTS-COMMISSION-RETURNS-OF-INFORMATION-BY-UNIVERSITY-GRANTS-COMMISSIO
N-RULES-2004 of 2004
Published on 10 March 2004
Commenced on 10 March 2004
[This is the version of this document from 10 March 2004.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by University Grants Commission) Rules, 2004
Published vide Notification in the Gazette of India, Extra, Part 2, Section 3(i) dated 10th March, 2004
1746.
G.S.R. 184 (E) dated 10th March, 2004. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sec (1) read with clause (i) of
sub-section (2) of Section 25 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956) the Central Government hereby
makes the following rules, namely :
1.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by University Grants Commission) ...
Short title and commencement.
- (i) These rules may be called the University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by University Grants
Commission) Rules, 2004.
(ii)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Returns and Information to be furnished.
- The University Grants Commission shall, on or or before 31st January and 31st July every year in this behalf, furnish
the following returns and information to the Central Government, namely :
1. Information about universities:
1. How may universities as on 30th June/31st December as defined under Section (2)(f) of the UGC exist (year and
State wise) in the following categories:
(A)
(i)
Central universities.
(ii)
Universities established under State law.
(a)
State Universities
(b)
Private Universities
(iii)
Institutes of National Importance.
(iv)
Institutes set up by State Legislatures.
(v)
Deemed to be Universities.
B. (i) General Universities
(ii)
Agricultural Universities.
(iii)
Technological Universities.
(iv)
Open. Universities.
(v)
Sports Universities.
(vi)
Fine Arts Universities.
C. How many of these universities are recognized under Section 12-B of the UGC Act?
2. How many applications for awarding recognition under Section 12-B have been pending with the UGC ? In how many
cases, such recognition was granted/refused during past six months ?
3.
How many private universities have been setup and how many have been notified under Section 2(f) of the commission
duly highlighting the developments during last six month?
4.
How many universities have been inspected during last six months under the provisions of the rules notified by the
Central Government under Section 25 (2) (g) of the UGC Act (State-wise) ?
5.
After such inspection, in how many cases major deficiencies have been noticed alongwith the details and the action
taken/proposed to be taken in this regard.
II. Information About UGC.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by University Grants Commission) ...
1. Action taken on the recommendations of the Expenditure Reforms Commission (ERC) and results achieved,
especially during last six months. Duly highlighting the progress made during the last six months.
2. Action taken by UGC on the issues contained in Memorandum of Understanding signed with the MHRD and results
achieved. Duly highlighting the progress during the last six months.
3. A progress report on the implementation of all the actionable points covered under the National Policy of Education
(NPE) and Programme of Action (POA).
4. A Brief of all plan Schemes being operated by the UGC.
5. A statement of physical results achieved under each and every plan scheme of UGC vis-a-vis the funds released by
UGC last financial year (To be submitted with the report due as on 1st January).
6.
Statement of funds released by the UGC during the last financial year and updated statement of funds released till date.
7.
Regulations formulated/updated under Section 26 of the UGC Act during last six months.
8.
Progress of the UGC-Infinite project.
9.
List of fake universities and progress on action taken against them duly highlighting the progress during last six months.
10.
Reasons for non-submission of replies to Parliament assurances pending for more than six months.
11.
Reasons for non-submission of VIP references pending for more than six months.
12.
Status of NAAC accreditation of universities and colleges.
13.
Any other information as may be prescribed by the Central Government from time to time.
Note. - The University Grants Commission shall keep the updated information as detailed out in para 2 of these rules on
its website.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3