
----- PAGE 1 -----
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2004
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules,
2004
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/157518565/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2004
UNION OF INDIA
India
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2004
Rule THE-UNIVERSITY-GRANTS-COMMISSION-INSPECTION-OF-UNIVERSITIES-RULES-2004 of 2004
Published on 10 March 2004
Commenced on 10 March 2004
[This is the version of this document from 10 March 2004.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2004
Published vide Notification in the Gazette of India, Extra, Part 2, Section 3(i), dated 10th March, 2004.
1747.
G.S.R. 183 (E) dated 10th March, 2004. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (x) of sub-section (2) of Section
(2) of Section 25 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (
3 of 1956
) and in supersession of the University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 1960, the Central
Government hereby makes the following rules :
1.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2004
(1)
These rules may be called the University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2004.
(2)
They shall come into force with immediate effect.
2.
In these rules unless the contexts otherwise requires :
(a)
"Commission" means the University Grants Commission;
(b)
"University" means a University established or incorporated by or under a Central act, a Provincial or a State Act; and
includes an institution of higher learning deemed to bed University under Section 3 of the said Act;
(c)
"Financial Year" means the year commencing from the Ist April and ending 31st March of the following calendar year;
and
(d)
"Academic Year" means the academic year of the respective Universities.
3.
The Commission may appoint a Committee, wherever or whenever necessary consisting of such persons as it may
decide in each case and subject to the provision of Rule 6, to examine and report on the financial needs of a University
or its standards of teaching, examination and research or both.
For the purpose of inspection, the universities may be categorized as follows :--
(i)
The universities which have been established during last five years and have not got NAAC accrediation may be
inspected by the UGC on annual basis.
(ii)
The universities which have been accredited by NAAC may not require further inspection by the UGC till the date of
accrediation is valid.
(iii)
The universities which are older than five years and are not accredited by NAAC may be inspected after two or three
years.
3A.
"A Schedule of inspection of universities during the year shall be prepared/provided by the Commission to the
universities concerned under intimation to the Central Government, every year in the month of January."
4.
Before the commission inspects the University, the Commission shall send to the Vice-Chancellor of the University a
questionnaire seeking information on all relevant matters relating to the Department/Departments or
institution/institutions to be inspected.
5.
After receipt of information under Rule 4, the Commission shall send to the date of inspection by the committee and
communicate the same to the University concerned.
5.
-A.
The Central Government may direct the University Grants Commission to conduct the inspection of a particular
university as and when necessary to safeguard the standards of teaching, examination and research.
6.
The University shall be associated with the inspection in the following manner namely :-
(a)
The University shall nominate not more than three representatives who may include the Vice-Chancellor or the
Registrar, the Dean or the Deans of Faculty/Faculties concerned and such other officer/teachers or the
department/departments or institutions as may be deputed by the University and their names shall be communicated to
the Commission.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2004
(b)
The representatives of the University shall be associated with the inspection for such time and in such manner as may
be determined by the Committee after consultation with the University.
(c)
In carrying out the inspection, the Committee may have discussions with such officer/teachers and other members of the
department(s) or institutions) to be inspected as may be considered necessary by the Committee.
7.
Within the time limit as may be prescribed by the Commission, the Committee shall report its findings to the commission.
7.
-A.
Cases of major financial irregularity or violation of standards of teaching, examination and research or both shall be
brought to the notice of the University authorities under intimation to the Central Government or the State Government
by the commission.
7.
-B.
The defaulting universities would rectify the shortcomings noticed and brought to their notice by the commission within a
period of three months.
8.
"The failure on the part of university to rectify such shortcomings within the time periosed stipulated by UGC shall render
the university to get derecognized under Section 12-B."
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3