
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bureau Of Energy Efficiency (Appointment Of Secretary) Rules, 2004
The Bureau Of Energy Efficiency (Appointment Of Secretary) Rules,
2004
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/183562710/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Bureau Of Energy Efficiency (Appointment Of Secretary) Rules, 2004
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Bureau Of Energy Efficiency (Appointment Of Secretary) Rules, 2004
Rule THE-BUREAU-OF-ENERGY-EFFICIENCY-APPOINTMENT-OF-SECRETARY-RULES-2004 of 2004
Published on 15 June 2004
Commenced on 15 June 2004
[This is the version of this document from 15 June 2004.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bureau Of Energy Efficiency (Appointment Of Secretary) Rules, 2004
Published vide G.S.R. 362(E), dated 15.6.2004, published in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt. II, Section 3(i), dated
16.6.2004.
10.
/524
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 56 of the Energy Conservation Act, 2001 (52 of 2001), the Central
Government hereby makes the following rules regulating the appointment of Secretary, Bureau of Energy Efficiency, a
body corporate under the Ministry of Power, namely:--
1.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bureau Of Energy Efficiency (Appointment Of Secretary) Rules, 2004
Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Appointment of
Secretary) Rules, 2004.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Number of post, classification and scale of pay .-The number of post, its classification and the scale of pay attached
thereto shall be as specified in columns 2 to 4 of the Schedule annexed to these rules.
3.
Method of recruitment, age limit, qualifications, etc .-The method of recruitment to the said post, age limit, qualifications
and other matters relating thereto shall be as specified in columns 5 to 14 of the said Schedule aforesaid.
4.
Disqualification .-No person,--
(a)
who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living; or
(b)
who, having a spouse living, has entered into or contracted a marriage with any person, shall be eligible for appointment
to the said post:
Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the personal law
applicable to such person and the other party to the marriage and that there are other grounds for so doing, exempt any
person from the operation of this rule.
5.
The conditions of service for which the provisions have not been made in these rules, including entitlement of leave
salary, leave travel concession, travelling allowances, medical facilities, shall be such as are admissible to a Group `A'
officer of the corresponding status in the Central Government.
6.
Power to relax .-Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by
order, for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class or
category of persons.
7.
Savings .-Nothing in these rules shall affect reservations, relaxation of age limit and other concessions required to be
provided for the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of persons in accordance with
the orders issued by the Central Government from time to time in this regard.
Schedule
Name of the Post
No. of the Post
Classification
Scale of pay
Whether selection post or non-selection post
Age limit for direct recruits
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Secretary
1 (One)
Group A
Rs. 14,300-400-18,300
Selection
Not applicable
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Bureau Of Energy Efficiency (Appointment Of Secretary) Rules, 2004
Whether benefit of added years of service admissible under rule 30 of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972
Educational and other qualifications required for direct recruits
Whether age and educational qualifications prescribed for direct recruits will apply in the case of promotee
Period of probation, if any?
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable
Method of recruitment whether by direct recruitment or by promotion or by deputation or transfer and percentage of the
vacancies to be filled by various methods
In case of recruitment by promotion or deputation or transfer, grades from which promotion or deputation or transfer to
be made
If Departmental Promotion Committee exists, what is its composition
Circumstances in which Union Public Service Commission is to be consulted in making recruitment
(11)
(12)
(13)
(14)
By deputation
Deputation.-[The officers of Central or State Government or statutory or autonomous bodies under the Central or State
Governments]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 127(E), dated 14.2.2017 (w.e.f. 16.6.2004).]
holding a post not below the rank of Deputy Secretary to the Government of India.
Desirable.-(i) Experience in the field of generation, trans mission, distribution of power or energy conservation.
(ii) Experience in administrative, financial and budgetary matters.
Period of deputation.-The term of office of Secretary shall be three years, from the date on which he enters upon his
office or the date of his super-annuation in his parent cadre, whichever is earlier. The term of deputation may be
extended where considered necessary upto a period of five years.
Departmental Promotion Committee for deputation.-
1. Secretary /Special Secretary Ministry of Power.
-Chairman
2. Director-General, Bureau of Energy Efficiency.
-Member
3. Additional Secretary/Joint Secretary, Ministry of Power in-charge of Energy Conservation.
-Member
Consultation with Union Public Service Commission not necessary
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3