
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Procedure For Making Of application For Det...
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Procedure For
Making Of application For Determination Of Tariff, Publication Of The
Application And Other Related Matters) Regulations, 2004
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/104393780/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Procedure For Making Of application For Determination Of Tariff,
Publication Of The Application And Other Related Matters) Regulations, 2004
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Procedure For Making Of application For Determination Of Tariff,
Publication Of The Application And Other Related Matters) Regulations, 2004
Rule
THE-CENTRAL-ELECTRICITY-REGULATORY-COMMISSION-PROCEDURE-FOR-MAKING-OF-APPLICATION-FOR-
DETERMINATION-OF-TARIFF-PUBLICATION-OF-THE-APPLICATION-AND-OTHER-RELATED-MATTERS-REGULAT
IONS-2004 of 2004
Published on 29 July 2004
Commenced on 29 July 2004
[This is the version of this document from 29 July 2004.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Procedure For Making Of application For Determination Of Tariff,
Publication Of The Application And Other Related Matters) Regulations, 2004
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Procedure For Making Of application For Det...
Published Vide Notification No.L-7/25(7)/2004-CERC,dated 29.7.2004, published in the Gazette of India, Extra, Part 3,
Section 4, dated 3.8.2004
9.
/494
Notification No. L-7/25(7)/2004-CERC dated 29.7.2004.- In exercise of powers conferred by section 178 of the Electricity
Act, 2003 (
36 of 2003
) and all other powers enabling in this behalf and after previous publication, the Central Electricity Regulatory
Commission hereby makes the following regulations, namely:
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
These regulations may be called The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Procedure For Making Of Application
For Determination Of Tariff, Publication Of The Application And Other Related Matters) Regulations, 2004.
(2)
These regulations shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Gazette of India.
2.
Definitions and interpretation.-
(1)
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,
(a)
"Act" means the Electricity Act, 2003 (
36 of 2003
);
(b)
"applicant" means the person who has made an application for determination of tariff;
(c)
"application" means the application alongwith annexures and enclosures made to the Commission for determination of
tariff under sub-section (1) of section 64 of the Act;
(d)
"beneficiary" means the person having firm allocation of electricity from a generating station or using the transmission
system for transfer of electricity allocated to it from a generating station; and
(e)
"Commission" means the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission referred to in section 76 of the Act;
(2)
The words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act, shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Procedure for making application.
(1)
The application shall be made to the Commission in the form appended as Appendex I to the Central Electricity
Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions of Tariff) Regulations, 2004 and shall be accompanied by such fee as
may be specified by the Commission from time to time.
(2)
Before making the application, the applicant shall serve a copy of the application on each of the beneficiary.
(3)
The applicant shall post complete application on its own webite or any other authorised website, before making the
application to the Commission.
(4)
While making the application to the Commission, the applicant shall indicate whether copy of the complete application
has been served on each of the beneficiary and whether the application has been posted on its own website or any
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Procedure For Making Of application For Det...
other authorised website, with address of the website whereon the application has been posted.
(5)
The application made shall be supported by affidavit of the person acquainted with the facts stated in the application.
The application shall be kept on the website at least for 30 days from the date of publication of the notice of application
in accordance with clause (6) of the regulation.
(6)
The applicant shall, within 7 days after making the application, publish a notice of his application in at least two daily
newspapers, one in English language and one in vernacular language, having circulation in each of the State/Union
territory where the beneficiaries are situate in the same language as of the daily newspaper in which the notice of the
application is published, as per the specimen given in the Schedule to these regulations:
[Provided that it shall not be necessary to publish notice of the application made for approval of provisional tariff.]
(7)
The suggestions and objections, if any, to the proposal for determination of tariff, may be filed before the Secretary,
Central Electricity Regulatory Commission, 7th Floor, Core-3, Scope Complex, Lodi Road, New Delhi-110 003 (or other
address where the office of the Commission is situate) by any person, including the beneficiaries within 30 days of
publication of the notice with a copy to the applicant.
(8)
The applicant shall within 15 days from the date of publication of the notice as aforesaid submit to the Commission on
affidavit the details of the notice published and shall also file before the Commission relevant copies of the newspapers
in which the notice has been published.
(9)
The applicant may file his comments on affidavit on the suggestions and objections, if any, received in response to the
public notice within 45 days of its publication in the newspapers, with an advance copy to the person who has filed the
suggestions and objections on the proposals made in the application.
4.
Decision on application.-
(1)
The Commission may after considering the proposal made in the application and the suggestions and objections
received on the proposals made in such application in response to the public notice
(a)
issue the tariff order accepting the application with such modifications or such conditions as may be specified in the
order; or
(b)
reject the application for reasons to be recorded in writing if such application is not in accordance with the provisions of
the rules or regulations made thereunder or the provisions of any other law for the time being in force:
Provided that the Commission may in its discretion, afford an opportunity of hearing to the applicant, the beneficiary, or
any person who has filed suggestions or objections, or any one or more of them before issuing the tariff order:
Provided further that the applicant shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard before rejecting his
application.
(2)
The Commission shall, within seven days of making the order, send a copy of the order to the appropriate Gdvernment,
the Central Electricity Authority, the applicant and the beneficiaries.
5.
Overriding effect.-
The provisions of these regulations shall have effect so far as an application for determination of tariff is concerned,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Conduct of
Business) Regulations, 1999.
Schedule
[To be published in pursuance of clause (6) of regulation 3]
Name of the Company
(In bold letters)
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Procedure For Making Of application For Det...
(Registered Office Address ..................................................................)
1. The applicant above-named has made an application before the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission, New
Delhi for determination of tariff for ............................... (Give name of the generating station transmission system).
2. The beneficiaries of the generating station/ transmission system are:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
3. Capacity of the generating station/line length, number of bays of the transmissionsystem:
4. Approved capital cost of the project (Rs. in lakh)- Original:
Final (Revised):
5. Authority which has approved the capital cost:
6.
Scheduled date of commercial operation-Original:
Final (Revised):
7.
Actual date of commercial operation:
8.
Capital cost on the date of commercial operation (Rs. in lakh):
9. Details of tariff (publish only applicable portion):
Tariff for the previous year
Yearwise tariff sought to be determined
Ist year
2ndyear
3rdyear
4thyear
5thyear
Thermal Power Generating Station
1.Capacity Charges
2.Energy Charges
Hydro Power Generating Station
1.Annual Fixed Charges
2.Primary Energy Charges
Transmission System
Transmission Charges
10.
A copy of the application made for determination of tariff is posted on the website (indicate here the address of the
website).
11.
The suggestions and objections, if any, on the proposals for determination of tariff contained in the application be filed
by any person, including the beneficiary before the Secretary, Central Electricity Regulatory Commission, 7th Floor,
Core-3, Scope Complex, Lodi Road, New Delhi-110 003 (or other address where the office of the Commission is
situate), with a copy to the applicant within 30 days of publication of this notice.
..........................................................................................
Place ............................ Name and Designation of the Authorised Signatory
Date ............................
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4