
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Prohibition On Sale Of Cigarettes And Other Tobacco Products Around Educational Instit...
The Prohibition On Sale Of Cigarettes And Other Tobacco Products
Around Educational Institutions Rules, 2004
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/78685857/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Prohibition On Sale Of Cigarettes And Other Tobacco Products Around Educational Institutions Rules, 2004
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Prohibition On Sale Of Cigarettes And Other Tobacco Products Around Educational Institutions Rules, 2004
Rule
THE-PROHIBITION-ON-SALE-OF-CIGARETTES-AND-OTHER-TOBACCO-PRODUCTS-AROUND-EDUCATIONAL-IN
STITUTIONS-RULES-2004 of 2004
Published on 1 September 2004
Commenced on 1 September 2004
[This is the version of this document from 1 September 2004.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Prohibition On Sale Of Cigarettes And Other Tobacco Products Around Educational Institutions Rules, 2004
Published vide Notification G.S.R. 561(E), dated 1.9.2004, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2,
Section 3(i), Sl. No. 379, dated 1.9.2004.
360.
No. G.S.R. 561 (E), dated 1st September, 2004 - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 31 read with section 6
of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce,
Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003 (
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Prohibition On Sale Of Cigarettes And Other Tobacco Products Around Educational Instit...
34 of 2003
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called The Prohibition on Sale of Cigarettes and Other
Tobacco Products Around Educational Institutions Rules, 2004.
(2)
They shall extend to the whole of India.
(3)
They shall come into force on the 1st day of December, 2004.
2.
Definitions .-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and
Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003;
(b)
"Educational Institution" means places/centres where educational instructions are imparted according to the specific
norms and include schools, colleges and institutions of higher learning established or recognised by an appropriate
authority;
(c)
"Section" means a section of the Act; and
(d)
words and expressions used herein and not defined in these rules but defined in the Act, shall have the meanings,
respectively, assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Prohibition on sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products around educational institutions .-(1) Display of board .-The
owner or manager or any person in-charge of affairs of the educational institution shall display and exhibit a board at a
conspicuous place(s) outside the premises, prominently stating that sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products in an
area within a radius of one hundred yards of the educational institution is strictly prohibited and that it is an offence
punishable with the fine which may extend to two hundred rupees.
(2)
Measurement of distance .-Distance of one hundred yards shall be measured radially starting from the outer limit of
boundary wall, fence or as the case may be, of the educational institution.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2