
----- PAGE 1 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of the Sudan for the Avoidance of double
taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to Taxes on
Income
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/188343888/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of the Sudan for the
Avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to Taxes on Income
UNION OF INDIA
India
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of the Sudan for the
Avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to Taxes on Income
Rule
AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-R
EPUBLIC-OF-THE-SUDAN-FOR-THE-AVOIDANCE-OF-DOUBLE-TAXATION-AND-THE-PREVENTION-OF-FISCAL-E
VASION-WITH-RESPECT-TO-TAXES-ON-INCOME of 2004
Published on 1 November 2004
Commenced on 1 November 2004
[This is the version of this document from 1 November 2004.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/14
----- PAGE 2 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of the Sudan for the
Avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to Taxes on Income
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 723(E), dated 1st November 2004
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Revenue)
(Income Tax)
G.S.R. 723(E). - Whereas the annexed Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of the Sudan for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with
respect to taxes on income, has come into force on the 15th day of April, 2004 on date of receipt of the later of the
notifications by both the Contracting States to each other, under Article 29 of the said Agreement of the completion of
the procedures required by the respective laws for the entry into force of this Agreement.
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Income tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central
Government hereby directs that all the provisions of the said Agreement shall be given effect to in the Union of India.
Annexure
The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of the Sudan desiring to conclude an
Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income,
and with a view to promoting economic cooperation between the two countries, have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Persons Covered
This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting states.
Article 2
Taxes Covered
1.
This Agreement shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its political subdivisions or
local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
2.
There shall be regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income, or on elements of income, including
taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property and taxes on the total amounts of wages or
salaries paid by enterprises
3.
The existing taxes to which the Agreement shall apply are in particular:
(a)
in India, the income tax, including any surcharge thereon;
(Hereinafter referred to as "Indian Tax")
(b)
in the Sudan
(1)
the income tax which includes:
(i)
Business profit tax on individuals and companies;
(ii)
Rental income tax;
(iii)
Personal income tax on wages and salaries.
(2)
the capital gains tax.
(Hereinafter referred to as "the Sudanese Tax");
4.
The Agreement shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes that are imposed after the date of signature
of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The competent authorities of the Contracting States
shall notify each other of any significant changes that have been made in their respective taxation laws.
Page 2/14
----- PAGE 3 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
Article 3
General Definitions
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
the term "India" means the territory of India and includes the territorial sea and airspace above it, as well as any other
maritime zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and jurisdiction, according to the Indian law and in
accordance with international law, including the U.N. Agreement on the Law of the Sea;
(b)
the term "the Sudan" means the Republic of the Sudan and, when used in the geographical sense, it includes any area
outside the territorial sea of the Republic of the Sudan, which in accordance with international law, has been or may
hereafter be designated under the laws of the Republic of the Sudan, concerning the continental shelf, as an area within
which the sovereign right of the Republic of the Sudan with respect to the seabed and sub-soil and their natural
resources may be exercised.
(c)
the terms "Contracting State" and "the other Contracting state" mean the Republic of India or the Republic of the Sudan
as the context requires;
(d)
the term "person" includes an individual, a company, a body of persons and any other entity which is treated as a
taxable unit under the taxation laws in force in the respective Contracting States;
(e)
the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(f)
the term "enterprise" applies to the carrying on of any business;
(g)
the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the other Contracting state" mean respectively an
enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting state and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other
Contracting state;
(h)
the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise of a Contracting State,
except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting State;
(i)
the term "competent authority" means:
(i)
in India the Central Government in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) or its authorized representative;
(ii)
in the Sudan the Minister of Finance and National Economy or his authorized representative;
(j)
the term "national" means:
(i)
any individual possessing the nationality of a Contracting State;
(ii)
any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in a Contracting State;
(k)
the term "tax" means Indian or the Sudanese tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any amount which is
payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this Agreement applies or which represents
a penalty or fine imposed relating to those taxes;
(l)
The term "fiscal year" means:
(i)
in the case of India: the financial year beginning on the 1st day of April;
(ii)
Page 3/14
----- PAGE 4 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
in the case of the Sudan: the financial year beginning on the first day of January.
2. As regards the application of the Agreement by a Contracting State any term not defined therein shall, unless the
context otherwise requires, have the meaning which it has under the law of that State concerning the taxes to which the
Agreement applies and any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that state shall prevail over a meaning given to the
term under other laws of that State.
Article 4
Resident
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the laws
of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management, or any other criterion of
a similar nature. This term however, does not include any person who is liable to tax in that state in respect only of
income from sources in that State.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his
status shall be determined as follows:
(a)
he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a
permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State with which his
personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);
(b)
if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home
available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an habitual abode,
(c)
if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State of
which he is a national;
(d)
if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall
endeavour to settle the question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an Individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which its place of effective management is situated.
If the State in which its place of effective management is situated cannot be determined, then the competent authorities
of the Contracting States shall endeavour to settle the question by mutual agreement
Article 5
Permanent Establishment
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially
(a)
a place of management;
(b)
a branch;
(c)
an office;
(d)
a factory;
(e)
a workshop;
(f)
a sales outlet;
(g)
a warehouse in relation to a person providing storage facilities for others;
(h)
a farm, plantation or other place where agricultural, forestry, plantation or related activities are carried on; and
Page 4/14
----- PAGE 5 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
(i)
a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources.
3. A building site or construction, installation or assembly project or supervisory activities in connection therewith
constitutes a permanent establishment only if such site, project or activities last more than six months.
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to
include :
(a)
the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise;
(b)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage,
display or delivery;
(c)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by
another enterprise;
(d)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of collecting
information, for the enterprise ;
(e)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity of
a preparatory or auxiliary character;
(f)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in subparagraphs (a) to
(e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or
auxiliary character.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person - other than an agent of an independent status to
whom paragraph 7 applies - is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned Contracting State in respect of
any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, if such a person:
(a)
has and habitually exercises in that State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise, unless the
activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through a fixed place of
business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that
paragraph, or
(b)
has no such authority, but habitually maintains in the first-mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise from which
he regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise; or
(c)
habitually secures orders in the first-mentioned State, wholly or almost wholly for the enterprise itself; or
(d)
in so acting he manufactures or processes in that Contracting State goods and merchandise on behalf of the enterprise.
6.
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall, except in
regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collects
premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of an
independent status to whom paragraph 7 applies.
7.
An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State merely because it carries
on business in that State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status,
provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. However when the activities of such an
Page 5/14
----- PAGE 6 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise he will not be considered an agent of an
independent status within the meaning of this paragraph.
8.
The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a
resident of the other Contracting State or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent
establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
Article 6
Income from Immovable Property
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture or
forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which
the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed
property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working
of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources, but ships, boats and aircraft shall not be
regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of
immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and to
income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
Article 7
Business Profits
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on
business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment Situated therein. If the enterprise carries on
business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in, the other State but only so much of them as is
attributable to that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other
Contracting State, through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be
attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly
independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are
incurred for the purposes of the permanent establishment, including executive and general administrative expenses so
incurred, whether in the state in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere, in accordance with the
provisions of and subject to the limitations of the tax laws of that state.
4. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
5. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent Establishment shall be
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
6. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Agreement, then the
provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
Article 8
Shipping and Air Transport
1. Profits derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of Ships or aircraft in international traffic
shall be taxable only in that state.
2. If the place of effective management of a shipping enterprise is aboard a ship, then it shall be deemed to be situated
in the Contracting state in which the home harbor of the ship is situated, or, if there is no such home harbor, in the
Contracting state of which the operator of the ship is a resident.
3. Profits derived by a transportation enterprise which is a resident of a Contracting State from the use, maintenance or
rental of containers (including trailers and other equipment for the transport of containers) used for the transport of
goods or merchandise in international traffic shall be taxable only in that Contracting State unless the containers are
Page 6/14
----- PAGE 7 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
used solely within the other Contracting State.
4. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or an
international operating agency.
Article 9
Associated Enterprises
1. Where
(a)
an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an
enterprise of the other Contracting State, or
(b)
the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting
State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations
which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for
those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may
be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of the State - and taxes accordingly - profits on
which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included
are profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between the
two enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State
shall make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such
adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Agreement and the competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall if necessary consult each other.
Article 10
Dividends
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the dividends the tax so
charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends. This paragraph shall not affect the taxation
of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares or other rights, not being debt-claims,
participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment
as income from shares by the laws of the State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal
services from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the
case may be, shall apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting state derives profits or income from the other contracting State,
that other state may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends are
paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other state, nor subject the company's
undistributed profits to a tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits
consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in such other State.
Article 11
Interest or Gains
1. Interest or gains arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in
that other State.
2. However, such interest or gains may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises, and according to the
Page 7/14
----- PAGE 8 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
laws of that state, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the interest or gains, the tax so charged shall not exceed
10 per cent of the gross amount of the interest or gains.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest or gains arising in a Contracting state shall be exempt from tax
in that State, provided that it is derived and beneficially owned by:
(a)
the Government, a political sub-division or a local authority of the other Contracting State; or
(b)
(i)
in the case of India, the Reserve Bank of India, the Industrial Finance Corporation of India, the Industrial Development
Bank of India, the Export-Import bank of India, the National Housing bank, the Small Industries Development Bank of
India and the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI); and
(ii)
in the case of the Sudan, the Bank of Sudan and the Sudanese Development Corporation; or
(c)
any other institution as may be agreed upon from time to time between the Competent authorities of the Contracting
States through exchange of letters.
4. The term "interest or gains" as used in this Article means income from debt claims of every kind, whether or not
secured by mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtors profits, and in particular, income
from government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest or gains for the
purpose of this Article.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest or gains, being a resident of
a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest or gains arises, through a
permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed
base situated therein, and the debt claim in respect of which the interest or gains is paid is effectively connected with
such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be,
shall apply.
6. Interest or gains shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where,
however, the person paying the interest or gains, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a
Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the indebtedness on which the
interest or gains is paid was incurred, and such interest or gains is borne by such permanent establishment or fixed
base, then such interest or gains shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or fixed
base is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the interest or gains, having regard to the debt claim for which it is paid, exceeds the
amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship,
the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the
payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting state, due regard being had to the other
provisions of this Agreement.
Article 12
Royalties and Fees for Technical Services
1. Royalties or fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such royalties or fees for technical services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise,
and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical services is a
resident of the other Contracting State the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the
royalties or fees for technical services.
3. (a) The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of,
or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films or films or tapes used
for television or radio broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or for the
use of, or the right to use,industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, or for information concerning industrial,
Page 8/14
----- PAGE 9 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
commercial or scientific experience.
(b)
The term "fees for technical services" as used in this Article means payments of any kind, other than those mentioned in
Articles 14 and 15 of this Agreement as consideration for managerial or technical or consultancy services, including the
provision of services of technical or other personnel.
4. The provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical
services being a resident of a Contracting state, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the royalties
or fees or technical services arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, of performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the
royalties or fees for technical services are paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment at fixed
base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
5. Royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of
that State. Where, however, the person paying the royalties or fees for technical services, whether he is a resident of a
Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which
the liability to pay the royalties or fees for technical services was incurred, and such royalties or fees for technical
services are borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such royalties or fees for technical services
shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the royalties or fees for technical services, having regard to the use, right or
information or which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the
beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned
amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting
State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Agreement.
Article 13
Capital Gains
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6
and situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed
base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the Purpose of performing
independent personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or
with the whole enterprise) or of such fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international traffic, or movable property pertaining to the
operation of such ships or aircraft shall be taxable only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
4. Gains from the alienation of shares of the capital stock of a company the property of which consists directly or
indirectly principally of immovable property situated in a Contracting State may be taxed in that State.
5. Gains from the alienation of shares other than those mentioned in paragraph 4 in a company which is a resident of a
Contracting State may be taxed in that State.
6. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
Article 14
Independent Personal Services
1. Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State from the performance of professional
services or other independent activities of a similar character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following
circumstances when such income may also tie taxed in the other Contracting State:
(a)
if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing his activities;
in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in that other State; or
(b)
if his stay in the other Contracting State is for a period or periods amounting to or exceeding in the aggregate 183 days
in any period of 12-months; in that case, only so much of the income as is derived from his activities performed in that
Page 9/14
----- PAGE 10 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
other State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "professional services" includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching
activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, surgeons, dentists and
accountants.
Article 15
Dependent Personal Services
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18, 19, 20 and 21, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by
a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment
is exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration is derived therefrom
may be taxed in that other State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by resident of a Contracting State in respect of
an employment exercised in the other Contracting state shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if:
(a)
the recipient is present in the other State for a period or period not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any twelve
month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned, and
(b)
the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State, and
(c)
the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in the other State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised
aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic, by an enterprise of a Contracting State may be taxed in that
State.
Article 16
Directors Fees
Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of
the board of directors having supervisory functions in a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may
be taxed in that other State.
Article 17
Artistes and Sports persons
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from
personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an entertainer or a sportsperson in his capacity as such
accrues not to the entertainer or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the
provisions of Articles 7, 14 and 15, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the entertainer or
sportsperson are exercised.
3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, shall not apply to income from activities performed in a Contracting State by
entertainers or sports persons if the activities are substantially supported by public funds of one or both of the
Contracting States or of political subdivisions or local authorities thereof. In such a case, the income shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the entertainer or sportsperson is a resident.
Article 18
Pensions
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, pensions and similar remuneration paid to a resident of a
Contracting State in consideration of past employment shall be taxable only in that State.
Article 19
Government Service
1. (a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a political
subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or
authority shall be taxable only in that State.
(b)
However, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the
Page 10/14
----- PAGE 11 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
service are rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who:
(i)
is a national of that State; or
(ii)
did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. (a) Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority
thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in
that state.
(b)
However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of, and a
national of, that State.
3. The provisions of Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 shall apply to salaries, wages and other similar remuneration and to
pensions in respect or services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting state or a political
subdivision or a local authority thereof.
Article 20
Professors, Teachers and Research Scholars
1. A professor, teacher or research scholar who is or was a resident of the Contracting State immediately before visiting
the other Contracting State for the purpose of teaching or engaging in research, or both, at a university, College or other
similar institution in that other Contracting State shall the exempt from tax in that other State on any remuneration for
such teaching or research for a period not exceeding two years from the date of his arrival in that other State.
2. This Article shall apply to income from research only if such research is to undertaken by the individual in the public
interest and not primarily for the benefit of some private person or persons.
3. For the purposes of this Article, an individual shall be deemed to be a resident of a Contracting  State if he is resident
in that State in the fiscal year in which he visits the other Contracting State or in the immediately preceding fiscal year.
Article 21
Students
1. A student who is or was a resident of one of the Contracting States immediately therefore visiting the other
Contracting State and who is present in that other Contracting State solely for the purpose of his education or training,
shall besides grants, loans and scholarships be exempt from tax in that other State on:
(a)
payments made to him by persons residing outside that other State for the purposes of his maintenance, education or
training; and
(b)
remuneration which he derives from an employment which he exercises in the other Contracting State if the employment
is directly related to his studies.
2. The benefits of this Article shall extend only for, such period of time as may be reasonable or customarily required to
complete the education or training undertaken, but in no event shall any individual have the benefits of this Article, for
more than six consecutive years from the date of his first arrival in that other state.
Article 22
Other Income
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting state, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this
Agreement shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in
paragraph 2 of Article 6 if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in
the other Contracting state through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the
income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of
Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
3. Notwithstanding the previsions of paragraph 1, if a resident of a Contracting State derives income from sources within
the other Contracting state in form of lotteries, crossword puzzles, races including horse races, card games and other
games of any sort or gambling or betting of any nature whatsoever, such income may be taxed in the other Contracting
Page 11/14
----- PAGE 12 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
State.
Article 23
Methods for Elimination of Double Taxation
1. Where a resident of a Contracting State derives income from the other Contracting State which in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement, may be taxed in the other Contracting State, the first mentioned Contracting State shall
allow as a deduction from the tax on the, income of that resident an amount equal to the income-tax paid in that other
Contracting State. Such deduction shall not however exceed that part of the income-tax as computed before the
deduction is given, which is attributable, as the case may be to the income which may be taxed in that other Contracting
State.
2. Where in accordance with any provision of the Agreement income derived by a resident of a Contracting State is
exempted from tax in that Contracting State, such State may nevertheless, in calculating the amount of tax on the
remaining income of such resident, take into account the exempted income.
3. The tax payable in the Contracting state mentioned in paragraph 1 and 2 of this Article shall be deemed to include the
tax which would have been payable but for the tax incentives gained under the laws of the Contracting state and which
are designed to promote economic development.
Article 24
Non-Discrimination
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any
requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to
which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may be
subjected. This provision shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not residents of
one or both of the Contracting states.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favorably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State
carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to residents
of the other Contracting State any personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for taxation purposes on account of civil
status or family responsibilities which it grants to its own residents. This provision shall not be construed as preventing a
Contracting state from charging the profits of a permanent establishment which a company of the other Contracting
State has in the first mentioned State at a rate of tax which is higher than that imposed on the profits of a similar
company of the first mentioned Contracting State, nor as being in conflict with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 7.
3. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 7 or Article 11, or paragraph 7 of Article 12 apply,
interest, royalties and other disbursements paid by an enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of the other
Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible under the
same conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State. Similarly, any debts of an enterprise
of a Contracting state to a resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable capital
of such enterprise, be deductible under the same conditions as if they had been contracted to a resident of the
first-mentioned State.
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by
one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any taxation
or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
5. The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2, apply to taxes of every kind and
description.
Article 25
Mutual Agreement Procedure
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in
taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the
domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a
resident or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 24, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national.
The case must be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in
accordance with the provisions of the Agreement.
Page 12/14
----- PAGE 13 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if is not itself able to arrive at
a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracting
State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Agreement. Any agreement reached
shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties
or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Agreement. They may also consult together for the
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Agreement.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of
reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs. When it seems advisable in order to reach agreement
to have an oral exchange of opinions, such exchange may take place through a Commission consisting of
representatives of the competent authorities of the Contracting States
Article 26
Exchange of Information
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information (including documents or certified
copies of the documents) as is necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Agreement or of the domestic laws of the
Contracting States concerning taxes covered by the Agreement insofar, as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the
Agreement. The exchange of information is not restricted by Article 1. Any information received by a Contracting State
shall be treated as secret in the same manner as information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall
be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) concerned the assessment or
collection of the enforcement or prosecution in respect of, or the determination of appeals in relation to the taxes
covered by the Agreement. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may
disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions.
2. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:
(a)
to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other
Contracting State;
(b)
to supply information (including documents or certified copies of the documents) which is not obtainable under the laws
or in the normal course of the administration of that or of the other Contracting State;
(c)
to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade
process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (order public).
Article 27
Collection Assistance
1. The Contracting states undertake to lend assistance to each other in the collection of taxes to which this Agreement
relates, together with interest, costs, and civil penalties relating to such taxes, referred to in this Article as a 'revenue
claim'.
2. Request for assistance by the Competent Authority of a Contracting state in the collection of a revenue claim shall
include:
(i)
a certification by such authority that, under the laws of that state, the revenue claim has been finally determined and
concerns a tax covered by the Agreement;
(ii)
an official copy of the notice issued by the authority collecting the tax.
3. For the purposes of this Article, a revenue claim is finally determined when a Contracting state has the right under its
internal law to collect the revenue claim and the taxpayer has no further rights to restrain collection. The requesting state
shall certify that it has exhausted all means of recovery of the revenue claim.
4. Amount collected by the competent Authority of a Contracting State pursuant to this Article shall be forwarded to the
Competent Authority of the other Contracting State. However, the first mentioned Contracting State shall be entitled to
reimbursement of costs, if any, incurred in the course of rendering such assistance to the extent mutually agreed
between the Competent Authorities of the two States.
Page 13/14
----- PAGE 14 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
5. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing on either Contracting State the obligation to carry out
administrative measures of a different nature from those used in the collection of its own taxes or those which would be
contrary to its public policy.
Article 28
Members of Diplomatic Missions and Consular Posts
Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts under
the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 29
Entry into Force
1. The Contracting States shall notify each other in writing, through diplomatic channels, of the completion of the
procedures required by the respective laws for the entry into force of this Agreement.
2. This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the later of the notifications referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Article.
3. The provisions of this Agreement shall have effect:
(a)
In India, in respect of income derived in any fiscal year beginning on or after the first day of April next following the
calendar year in which the Agreement enters into force; and
(b)
In the Sudan, in respect of income derived in any fiscal year beginning on or after the first day of January next following
the calendar year in which the Agreement enters into force.
Article 30
Termination
This Agreement shall remain in force indefinitely until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State may
terminate the Agreement, through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination at least six months before the end
of any calendar year beginning after the expiration of five years from the date of entry into force of the Agreement. In
such event, the Agreement shall cease to have effect:
(a)
In India, in respect of income derived in any fiscal year on or after the first day of April next following the calendar year in
which the notice is given;
(b)
In the Sudan, in respect of income derived in any fiscal year on or after the first day of January next following the
calendar year in which the notice is given;
In witness whereof the undersigned, duly authorized thereto, have signed this Agreement.
Done in duplicate at Khartoum this twenty-second day of October two thousand and three, each in the Hindi, Arabic and
English languages, all texts being equally authentic. In case of divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
For the Government of the Republic of India
For the Government of the Republic of Sudan
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 14/14