
----- PAGE 1 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and
The Government of The Republic of Armenia for The Avoidance of
Double Taxation and The Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect
to Taxes on Income
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/120728106/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Republic of Armenia for
The Avoidance of Double Taxation and The Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
UNION OF INDIA
India
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Republic of Armenia for
The Avoidance of Double Taxation and The Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
Rule
CONVENTION-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-R
EPUBLIC-OF-ARMENIA-FOR-THE-AVOIDANCE-OF-DOUBLE-TAXATION-AND-THE-PREVENTION-OF-FISCAL-EVA
SION-WITH-RESPECT-TO-TAXES-ON-INCOME of 2004
Published on 8 December 2004
Commenced on 8 December 2004
[This is the version of this document from 8 December 2004.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/17
----- PAGE 2 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Republic of Armenia for
The Avoidance of Double Taxation and The Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 800(E), dated 8th December, 2004
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Revenue)
Income Tax
G.S.R. 800(E). - Whereas the annexed Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of the Armenia for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion
with respect to taxes on income, has come into force on the 9th day of September, 2004 on date of the later of the
notifications by both the Contracting States to each other, under Article 30 of the said Convention, of the completion of
the procedures required by their respective laws for the entry into force of the said Convention:
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Income tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central
Government hereby directs that all the provisions of the said Convention shall be given effect to in the Union of India.
Annexure
The Government of the Republic of India and Government of the Republic of Armenia, desiring to conclude a
Convention for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income
and with a view to promoting economic cooperation between the two countries, have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Persons Covered
This Convention shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
Article 2
Taxes Covered
1.
This Convention shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its political subdivisions
or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
2.
There shall be regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income, or on elements of income, including
taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property and taxes on the total amounts of wages or
salaries paid by enterprises.
3.
The existing taxes to which the Convention shall apply are in particular:
(a)
in India, the income tax, including any surcharge thereon;
(hereinafter referred to as "Indian tax");
(b)
in Armenia:
(i)
the profit tax;
(ii)
the income tax;
(iii)
the land tax;
(hereinafter referred to as "Armenian tax").
4.
The Convention shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes that are imposed after the date of
signature of the Convention in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The competent authorities of the Contracting
States shall notify each other of any significant changes that have been made in their taxation laws.
Article 3
General Definitions
1. For the purposes of this Convention, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
Page 2/17
----- PAGE 3 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
the term "India" means territory of India and includes the territorial sea and airspace above it, as well as any other
maritime zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and jurisdiction, according to the Indian law and in
accordance with international law, including the U.N. Agreement on the Law of the Sea;
(b)
the term "Armenia" means the Republic of Armenia;
(c)
the terms "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State" mean the Republic of India or the Republic of Armenia
as the context requires;
(d)
the term "person" includes an individual, a company, a body of persons and any other entity which is treated as a
taxable unit under the taxation laws in force in the respective Contracting States;
(e)
the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(f)
the term "enterprise" applies to the carrying on of any business;
(g)
the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively an
enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other
Contracting State;
(h)
the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise of a Contracting State,
except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting State;
(i)
the term "competent authority" means:
(i)
in India the Central Government in the Ministry of Finance (Department of
Revenue) or its authorised representatives;
(ii)
in Armenia the Ministry of Finance and Economy or its authorised representatives or State Tax Service at the
Government or its authorised representatives,
(j)
the term "national", in relation to a Contracting State means:
(i)
any individual possessing the nationality or citizenship of that Contracting State; and
(ii)
any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in that Contracting State;
(k)
the term "tax" means Indian tax or Armenian tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any amount which is
payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this Convention applies or which
represents a penalty or fine imposed relating to those taxes;
(l)
the term "fiscal year" means:
(i)
in the case of India: the financial year beginning on the 1st day of April;
(ii)
in the case of Armenia: calendar year.
2. As regards the application of the Convention at any time by a Contracting State, any term not defined therein shall,
unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the law of that State for the
purposes of the taxes to which the Convention applies, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State
prevailing over a meaning given to the term under either laws of that State.
Article 4
Page 3/17
----- PAGE 4 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
Resident
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the
laws of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management or any other
criterion of a similar nature, and also includes that State and any political subdivision or local authority thereof. This
term, however, does not include any person who is liable to tax in that State in respect only of income from sources in
that State.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his
status shall be determined as follows:
(a)
he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a
permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State with which his
personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);
(b)
if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home
available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an habitual abode;
(c)
if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State of
which he is a national;
(d)
if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the
question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an  individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which its place of effective management is situated.
If the State in which its place of effective management is situated cannot be determined, the competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
Article 5
Permanent Establishment
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:
(a)
a place of management;
(b)
a branch;
(c)
an office;
(d)
a factory;
(e)
a workshop;
(f)
a sales outlet;
(g)
a warehouse in relation to a person providing storage facilities for others;
(h)
a farm, plantation or other place where agricultural, forestry, plantation or related activities are carried on; and
(i)
a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of exploration or
extraction of natural resources.
3. A building site or construction, installation or assembly project or supervisory activities in connection therewith
constitutes a permanent establishment only if such site, project or activities last more than 270 days.
Page 4/17
----- PAGE 5 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to
include:
(a)
the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;
(b)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage or
display;
(c)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by
another enterprise;
(d)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of collecting
information, for the enterprise;
(e)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purposes of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity
of a preparatory or auxiliary character;
(f)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in subparagraphs (a) to
(e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or
auxiliary character.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person - other than an agent of an independent status to
whom paragraph 7 applies - is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned Contracting State in respect of
any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, if such a person:
(a)
has and habitually exercises in that State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise, unless the
activities of such person are limited to, those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through a fixed place of
business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that
paragraph, or
(b)
has no authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise, but habitually maintains in the first-mentioned State
a stock of goods or merchandise from which he regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise; or
(c)
habitually secures orders in the first-mentioned State, wholly or almost wholly for the enterprise itself.
6.
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall, except in
regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collects
premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of an
independent status to whom paragraph 7 applies.
7.
An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State merely because it carries
on business in that State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status,
provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. However, when the activities of such an
agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise, he will not be considered an agent of an
independent status within the meaning of this paragraph.
8.
The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a
resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent
establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
Article 6
Page 5/17
----- PAGE 6 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
Income from Immovable Property
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture or
forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which
the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed
property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working
of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources; ships, boats and aircraft shall not be
regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of
immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraph 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and to
income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
Article 7
Business Profits
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on
business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on
business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is
attributable to that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other
Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be
attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly
independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are
incurred for the purposes of the business of the permanent establishment, including executive and general
administrative expenses so incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or
elsewhere, in accordance with the provisions of and subject to the limitations of the tax laws of that State.
However, no such deduction shall be allowed in respect of amounts, if any, paid (otherwise than towards reimbursement
of actual expenses) by the permanent establishment to the enterprise, by way of royalties, fees or other similar
payments in return for the use of patents or other rights, or by way of commission, for services performed or for
management, or, except in the case of a banking enterprise, by way of interest on moneys lent to the permanent
establishment.
Likewise, no account shall be taken, in determining the profits of a permanent establishment, for amounts charged
(otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual expenses) by the permanent establishment to the enterprise, by way
of royalties, fees or other similar payments in return for the use of patents or other rights, or by way of commission for
services performed or for management, or, except in the case of a banking enterprise by way of interest on moneys lent
to the enterprise.
4. Insofar as it has been customary in a Contracting State to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanent
establishment on the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in
paragraph 2 shall preclude that Contracting State from determining the profits to be taxed by such an apportionment as
may be customary; the method of apportionment adopted shall, however, be such that the result shall be in accordance
with the principles contained in this Article.
5. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
6. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
7. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Article of this Convention, then the
provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
Article 8
Shipping and Air Transport
Page 6/17
----- PAGE 7 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
1. Profits derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic
shall be taxable only in that State.
2. Profits derived by a transportation enterprise which is a resident of a Contracting State from the use, maintenance, or
rental of containers (including trailers and other equipment for the transport of containers) used for the transport of
goods or merchandise in international traffic shall be taxable only in that Contracting State unless the containers are
used solely within the other Contracting State.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or an
international operating agency.
Article 9
Associated Enterprises
1. Where
(a)
an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an
enterprise of the other Contracting State, or
(b)
the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting
State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations
which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for
those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may
be included In the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State - and taxes accordingly - profits on
which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included
are profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first mentioned State if the conditions made between the
two enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State
shall make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such
adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Convention and the competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall if necessary consult each other.
Article 10
Dividends
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the dividends the tax so
charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends. This paragraph shall not affect the taxation
of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares or other rights, not being debt-claims,
participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment
as income from shares by the laws of the State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal
services from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the
case may be, shall apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting
State, that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends
are paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the company's
undistributed profits to a tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits
consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in such other State.
Page 7/17
----- PAGE 8 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
Article 11
Interest
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises, and according to the laws of that
State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the interest, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the
gross amount of the interest.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest arising in a Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that
State, provided that it is derived and beneficially owned by:
(a)
the Government, a political sub-division or a local authority of the other Contracting State; or
(b)
(i)
in the case of India the Reserve Bank of India;
(ii)
in the case of Armenia the Central Bank of Armenia;
(c)
any other institution as may be agreed upon from time to time between the competent authorities of the Contracting
States through exchange of letters.
4. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by
mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from
government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of
this Article.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where, however,
the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a
permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was
incurred, and such Interest is borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base then such interest shall be deemed
to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last - mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments
shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this
Convention.
Article 12
Royalties and Fees for Technical Services
1. Royalties or fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such royalties or fees for technical services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise
and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical services is a
resident of the other Contracting State the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 percent of the gross amount of the
royalties or fees for technical services.
3. (a) The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of,
or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films or films or tapes
used, for television or radio broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or
Page 8/17
----- PAGE 9 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
for the use of, or the right to use, industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, or for information concerning industrial,
commercial or scientific experience.
(b)
The term "fees for technical services" as used in this Article means payments of any kind, other than those mentioned in
Article 14 and Article 15 of this Convention as consideration for managerial or technical or consultancy sentences,
including the provision of services of technical or other personnel.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical
services being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the royalties
or fees for technical services arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the
royalties or fees for technical services are paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed
base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
5. Royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of
that State. Where, however, the person paying the royalties or fees for technical services, whether he is a resident of a
Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which
the liability to pay the royalties or fees for technical services was incurred, and such royalties or fees for technical
services are borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such royalties or fees for technical services
shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the royalties or fees for technical services, having regard to the use, right or
information for which they are paid exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the
beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned
amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting
State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.
Article 13
Capital Gains
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6
and situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed
base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing
independent personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or
with the whole enterprise) or of such fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international
traffic, or movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships or aircraft shall be taxable only in that State.
4. Gains from the alienation of shares of the capital stock of, or other corporate rights in, a company the property of
which consists directly or indirectly principally of immovable property situated in a Contracting State may be taxed in that
State.
5. Gains from the alienation of shares other than those mentioned in paragraph 4 in a company which is a resident of a
Contracting State may be taxed in that State.
6. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
Article 14
Independent Personal Services
1. Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State from the performance of professional
services or other independent activities of a similar character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following
circumstances when such income may also be taxed in the other Contracting State:
(a)
if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing his activities,
in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in that other State; or
(b)
Page 9/17
----- PAGE 10 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
if his stay in the other Contracting State is for a period or periods amounting to or exceeding in the aggregate 183 days
in any period of 12-months; in that case, only so much of the income as is derived from his activities performed in that
other State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "professional services" includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching
activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, surgeons, dentists and
accountants.
Article 15
Dependent Personal Services
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18, 19, 20 and 21, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by
a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment
is exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom
may be taxed in that other State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of
an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if:
(a)
the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any twelve
month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned, and
(b)
the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State, and
(c)
the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in the other State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised
aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a Contracting State may be taxed in that
State.
Article 16
Directors' Fees
Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of
the board of directors of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
Article 17
Artistes and Sportspersons
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from his
personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an entertainer or a sportsperson in his capacity as such
accrues not to the entertainer or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the
provisions of articles 7, 14 and 15, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the entertainer or
sportsperson are exercised.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from his
personal activities as an entertainer or as a sportsperson shall be taxable only in that State if the activities are exercised
in the other Contracting State within the framework of a cultural or sports exchange programs approved by both
Contracting States.
Article 18
Pensions
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, pensions and other similar remuneration paid to a resident of a
Contracting State in consideration of past employment shall be taxable only in that State.
Article 19
Government Service
1. (a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a political
subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or
authority shall be taxable only in that State.
(b)
Page 10/17
----- PAGE 11 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
However, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the
services are rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who:
(i)
is a national of that State; or
(ii)
did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. a) Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority
thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in
that State.
b) However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of, and a
national of, that State.
3. The provisions of Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 shall apply to salaries, wages and other similar remuneration and to
pensions in respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political
subdivision or a local authority thereof.
Article 20
Professors, Teachers and Research Scholars
1. A professor, teacher or research scholar who is or was a resident of the Contracting State immediately before visiting
the other Contracting State for the purpose of teaching or engaging in research, or both, at a university, college or other
similar institution in that other Contracting State recognised by the Government of that other Contracting State shall be
exempt from tax in that other State on any remuneration for such teaching or research for a period not exceeding 2
years from the date of his arrival in that other State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not apply to remuneration from research if such research is
undertaken not in the public interest but primarily for the private benefit of a specific person or persons.
3. For the purposes of this Article, an individual shall be deemed to be a resident of a Contracting State if he is resident
in that State in the fiscal year in which he visits the other Contracting State or in the immediately preceding fiscal year.
Article 21
Students
1. A student who is or was a resident of one of the Contracting States immediately before visiting the other Contracting
State and who is present in that other Contracting State solely for the purpose of his education or training, shall besides
grants, loans and scholarships be exempt from tax in that other State on payments made to him for the purpose of his
maintenance, education or training, provided that such payments arise from sources outside that State.
2. In respect of grants, scholarships and remuneration from employment not covered by paragraph 1, a student or
business apprentice referred to in paragraph 1 shall, in addition, be entitled during such education or training to the
same exemptions, reliefs or reductions in respect of taxes available to residents of the Contracting State which he is
visiting.
3. The benefits of this Article shall extend only for such period of time as may be reasonable or customarily required to
complete the education or training undertaken.
Article 22
Other Income
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this
Convention shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in
paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in
the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the
income is paid is  effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of
Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, if a resident of a Contracting State derives income from sources within
the other Contracting State in form of lotteries, crossword puzzles, races including horse races, card games and other
games of any sort or gambling or betting of any nature whatsoever, such income may be taxed in the other Contracting
State.
Page 11/17
----- PAGE 12 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
4. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, items of income of a resident of a Contracting State not dealt
with in the foregoing Articles of this Convention and arising in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other
State.
Article 23
Methods for Elimination of Double Taxation
Double taxation shall be eliminated as follows:
1. In India:
(a)
Where a resident of India derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, may be taxed in
Armenia, India shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident, an amount equal to the income tax
paid in Armenia.
Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the income tax as computed before the deduction is given, which
is attributable, as the case may be, to the income which may be taxed in Armenia.
(b)
Where in accordance with any provision of the Convention income derived by a resident of India is exempt from tax in
India, India may nevertheless, in calculating the amount of tax on the remaining income of such resident, take into
account the exempted income.
2. In Armenia:
(a)
Where a resident of Armenia derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, may be taxed
in India, Armenia shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident, an amount equal to the income
tax paid in India.
Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the income tax, as computed before the deduction is given,
which is attributable, as the case may be, to the income which may be taxed in India.
(b)
Where in accordance with any provision of the Convention income derived by a resident of Armenia is exempt from tax
in Armenia, Armenia may nevertheless, in calculating the amount of tax on the remaining income of such resident take
into account the exempted income.
Article 24
Non-Discrimination
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any
requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to
which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may be
subjected. This provision shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not residents of
one or both of the Contracting States.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State
carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to residents
of the other Contracting State any personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for taxation purposes on account of civil
status or family responsibilities which it grants to its own residents. This provision shall not be construed as preventing a
Contracting State from taxation of the profits of a permanent establishment of the company of the other Contracting
State within the framework of provisions of domestic law of the first mentioned Contracting State, nor as being in conflict
with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 7.
3. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 7 of Article 11, or paragraph 6 of Article 12, apply,
interest, royalties and other disbursements paid by an enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of the other
Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible under the
same conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State. Similarly, and debts of an enterprise
of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable
capital of such enterprise, be deductible under the same conditions as if they had been contracted to a resident of the
first-mentioned State.
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled directly or indirectly, by
Page 12/17
----- PAGE 13 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any taxation
or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
5. The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2, apply to taxes of every kind and
description.
Article 25
Mutual Agreement Procedure
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in
taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the
domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a
resident or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 24, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national.
The case must be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in
accordance with the provisions of the Convention.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive
at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the Contracting State,
with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Convention. Any Agreement reached shall
be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties
or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Convention. They may also consult together for the
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Convention.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of
reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs. When it seems advisable in order to reach agreement
to have an oral exchange of opinions, such exchange may take place through a Commission consisting of
representatives of the competent authorities of the Contracting States.
[Article 26]
[Replaced by Notification No. S.O. 3266(E), dated 5.7.2018.]
Exchange of Information
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information (including documents or certified
copies of the documents) as is foreseeably relevant for carrying out the provisions of this Convention or to the
administration or enforcement of the domestic laws concerning taxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of
the Contracting States, or of their political subdivisions or local authorities, insofar as the taxation thereunder is not
contrary to the Convention. The exchange of information is not restricted by Articles 1 and 2.
2. Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as
information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities
(including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of , the enforcement or
prosecution in respect of, the determination of appeals in relation to the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the oversight
of the above. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the
information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, information received by a
Contracting State may be used for other purposes when such information may be used for such other purposes under
the laws of both Contracting States and the competent authority of the supplying Contracting State authorises such use.
3. In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the
obligation:
(a)
to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other
Contracting State;
(b)
to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of that or of the
other Contracting State;
(c)
to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade
process, or information the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (ordre public).
Page 13/17
----- PAGE 14 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
4. If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance with this Article the other Contracting State shall use
its information gathering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that other Contracting State may
not need such information for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to the
limitations of paragraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to
supply information solely because it has no domestic interest in such information.
5. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply
information solely because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution, nominee or person acting in an
agency or a fiduciary capacity or because it relates to ownership interests in a person.
Article 27
Assistance in the Collection of Taxes
1. The Contracting States shall lend assistance to each other in the collection of revenue claims. This assistance is not
restricted by Articles 1 and 2. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may by mutual agreement settle the
mode of application of this Article.
2. The term "revenue claim" as used in this Article means an amount owed in respect of taxes of every kind and
description imposed on behalf of the Contracting States, or of their political subdivisions or local authorities insofar as
the taxation thereunder is not contrary to this Convention or any other instrument to which the Contracting States are
parties, as well as interest, administrative penalties and costs of collection or conservancy related to such amount.
3. When a revenue claim of a Contracting State is enforceable under the laws of that State and is owed by a person
who, at that time, cannot, under the laws of that State, prevent its collection, that revenue claim shall, at the request of
the competent authority of that State, be accepted for purposes of collection by the competent authorities of the other
Contracting State. That revenue claim shall be collected by that other State in accordance with the provisions of its laws
applicable to the enforcement and collection of its own taxes as if the revenue claim were a revenue claim of that other
State.
4. When a revenue claim of a Contracting State is a claim in respect of which that State may, under its law, take
measures of conservancy with a view to ensure its collection, that revenue claim shall, at the request of the competent
authority of that State, be accepted for purposes of taking measures of conservancy by the competent authority of the
other Contracting State. That other State shall take measures of conservancy in respect of that revenue claim in
accordance with the provisions of its laws as if the revenue claim were a revenue claim of that other State even if, at the
time when such measures are applied, the revenue claim is not enforceable in the first-mentioned State or is owed by a
person who has a right to prevent its collection.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4, a revenue claim accepted by a Contracting State for purposes
of paragraph 3 or 4 shall not, in that State, be subject to the time limits or accorded any priority applicable to a revenue
claim under the laws of that State by reason of its nature as such. In addition, a revenue claim accepted by a
Contracting State for the purposes of paragraph 3 or 4 shall not, in that State, have any priority applicable to that
revenue claim under the laws of the other Contracting State.
6. Proceedings with respect to the existence, validity or the amount of a revenue claim of a Contracting State shall only
be brought before the courts or administrative bodies of that State. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as creating
or providing any right to such proceedings before any court or administrative body of the other Contracting State.
7. Where, at any time after a request has been made by a Contracting State under paragraph 3 or 4 and before the
other Contracting State has collected and remitted the relevant revenue claim to the first-mentioned State, the relevant
revenue claim ceases to be
(a)
in the case of a request under paragraph 3, a revenue claim of the first-mentioned State that is enforceable under the
laws of that State and is owed by a person who, at that time, cannot, under the laws of that State, prevent its collection,
or
(b)
in the case of a request under paragraph 4, a revenue claim of the first-mentioned State in respect of which that State
may, under its laws, take measures of conservancy with a view to ensure its collection.
The competent authority of the first-mentioned State shall promptly notify the competent authority of the other State of
that fact and, at the option of the other State, the first-mentioned State shall either suspend or withdraw its request.
8. In no case shall the provisions of this Article be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:
Page 14/17
----- PAGE 15 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
(a)
to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other
Contracting State;
(b)
to carry out measures which would be contrary to public policy (ordre public);
(c)
to provide assistance if the other Contracting State has not pursued all reasonable measures of collection or
conservancy, as the case may be, available under its laws or administrative practice;
(d)
to provide assistance in those cases where the administrative burden for that State is clearly disproportionate to the
benefit to be derived by the other Contracting State.
Article 28
Limitation of Benefits
1. Except as otherwise provided in this Article, a resident of a Contracting State who derives income from the other
Contracting State shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Convention otherwise accorded to residents of a Contracting
State only if such resident is a "qualified person" as defined in paragraph 2 and meets the other conditions of this
Convention for the obtaining of such benefits.
2. A resident of a Contracting State is a qualified person for a fiscal year only if such resident is either:
(a)
an individual;
(b)
a qualified governmental entity;
(c)
a company, if
(i)
the principal class of its shares is listed on a recognized stock exchange specified in subparagraph (a) or (b) of
paragraph 6 and is regularly traded on one or more recognized stock exchanges, or
(ii)
at least 50 per cent of the aggregate vote and value of the shares in the company is owned directly or indirectly by five
or fewer companies entitled to benefits under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, provided that, in the case of indirect
ownership, each intermediate owner is a resident of either Contracting State;
(d)
a charity or other tax-exempt entity, provided that, in the case of a pension trust or any other organization that is
established exclusively to provide pension or other similar benefits, more than 50 per cent of the person's beneficiaries,
members or participants are individuals resident in either Contracting State; or
(e)
a person other than an individual, if:
(i)
on at least half the days of the fiscal year persons that are qualified persons by reason of subparagraph (a), (b) or (d) or
subdivision (c)(i) of this paragraph own, directly or indirectly, at least 50 per cent of the aggregate vote and value of the
shares or other beneficial interests in the person, and
(ii)
less than 50 per cent of the person's gross income for the taxable year is paid or accrued, directly or indirectly, to
persons who are not residents of either Contracting State in the form of payments that are deductible for purposes of the
taxes covered by this Convention in the person's State of residence (but not including arm's length payments in the
ordinary course of business for serviced or tangible property and payments in respect of financial obligations to a bank,
provided that where such a bank is not a resident of a Contracting State such payment is attributable to a permanent
establishment of that bank located in one of the Contracting States).
3. (a) A resident of a Contracting State will be entitled to benefits of the Convention with respect to an item of income,
derived from the other State, regardless of whether the resident is a qualified person, if the resident is actively carrying
on business in the first-mentioned State (other than the business of making or managing investments for the resident's
Page 15/17
----- PAGE 16 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
own account, unless these activities are banking, insurance or securities activities carried on by a bank, insurance
company or registered securities dealer), the income derived from the other Contracting State is derived in connection
with, or is incidental to, that business and that resident satisfies the other conditions of this Convention for the obtaining
of such benefits.
(b)
If the resident or any of its associated enterprises carries on a business activity in the other Contracting State which
gives rise to an item of income, subparagraph (a) shall apply to such item only if the business activity in the
first-mentioned State is substantial in relation to business carried on in the other State. Whether a business activity is
substantial for purposes of this paragraph will be determined based on all the facts and circumstances.
(c)
In determining whether a person is actively carrying on business in a Contracting State under subparagraph (a),
activities conducted by a partnership in which that person is a partner and activities conducted by persons connected to
such person shall be deemed to be conducted by such person. A person shall be connected to another if one possesses
at least 50 per cent of the beneficial interest in the other (or, in the case of a company, at least 50 per cent of the
aggregate vote and value of the company's shares) or another person possesses, directly or indirectly, at least 50 per
cent of the beneficial interest (or, in the case of a company, at least 50 per cent of the aggregate vote and value of the
company's shares) in each person. In any case, a person shall be considered to be connected to another if, based on all
the facts and circumstances, one has control of the other or both are under the control of the same person or persons.
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, if a company that is a resident of a Contracting State, or a
company that controls such a company, has outstanding a class, of shares
(a)
which is subject to terms or other arrangements which entitle its holders to a portion of the income of the company
derived from the other Contracting State that is larger than the portion such holders would receive absent such terms or
arrangements ("the disproportionate part of the income"); and
(b)
50 per cent or more of the voting power and value of which is owned by persons who are not qualified persons.
The benefits of this Convention shall not apply to the disproportionate part of the income.
5. A resident of a Contracting State that is neither a qualified person pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 or entitled
to benefits under paragraph 3 or 4 shall, nevertheless, be granted benefits of the Convention if the competent authority
of that other Contracting State determines that the establishment, acquisition or maintenance of such person and the
conduct of its operations did not have as one of its principal purposes the obtaining of benefits under the Convention.
6. For the purposes of this Article the term "recognized stock exchange" means:
(a)
in India, a stock exchange which is for the time being recognised by the Central Government under section 4 of the
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956.
(b)
in Armenia, Armmex; and
(c)
any other stock exchange which the competent authorities agree to recognise for the purposes of this article.
Article 29
Members of Diplomatic Missions and Consular Posts
Nothing in this Convention shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts under
the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 30
Entry into Force
1. The Contracting States shall notify each other in writing, through diplomatic channels, of the completion of the
procedures required by the respective laws for the entry into force of this Convention.
2. This Convention shall enter into force on the date of the later of the notifications referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Article.
3. The provisions of this Convention shall have effect:
(a)
Page 16/17
----- PAGE 17 -----
Convention Between The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The Repub...
In India:
in respect of income derived in any fiscal year beginning on or after the first day of April next following the calendar year
in which the Convention enters into force; and
(b)
in Armenia:
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at source - on income derived on or after the first day of January in the calendar year next
following the year in which the Convention enters into force;
(ii)
in respect of other taxes on income - for taxes chargeable for any tax year beginning on the first day of January in the
calendar year next following the year in which the Convention enters into force.
Article 31
Termination
This Convention shall remain in force indefinitely until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State may
terminate the Convention, through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination at least six months before the end
of any calendar year beginning after the expiration of five years from the date of entry into force of the Convention. In
such event, the Convention shall cease to have effect:
(a)
In India:
in respect of income derived in any fiscal year on or after the first day of April next following the calendar year in which
the notice is given;
(b)
in Armenia:
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at source - on income derived on or after the first day of January in the calendar year next
following the year in which the notice of termination has been given;
(ii)
in respect of other taxes on income - for taxes chargeable for any tax year beginning on the first day of January in the
calendar year next following the year in which the notice of termination has been given.
In Witness Whereof the undersigned, duly authorized thereto, have signed this Convention.
Done in duplicate at this Thirty first day of October, 2003, each in the Hindi, Armenian and English languages, all texts
being equally authentic. In case of divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 17/17