
----- PAGE 1 -----
The State Emblem Of India (Prohibition Of Improper Use) Act, 2005
The State Emblem Of India (Prohibition Of Improper Use) Act, 2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1511119/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
28
]
Union of India - Act
The State Emblem Of India (Prohibition Of Improper Use) Act, 2005
UNION OF INDIA
India
The State Emblem Of India (Prohibition Of Improper Use) Act, 2005
Act 50 of 2005
Published on 1 January 2005
Commenced on 1 January 2005
[This is the version of this document from 22 July 2010.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
[Amended by
The State Emblem of India (Regulation of Use) Amendment Rules, 2010 (Rule G-S-R-629-E- of 2010)
on
22 July 2010
]
The State Emblem Of India (Prohibition Of Improper Use) Act, 2005
(50 of 2005)
086.
Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The use of State Emblem of India is presently governed by a set of executive
instructions, which cover various aspects, such as, standard design of the State Emblem of India, its adoption by the
State Governments, its use in the official seals and on stationery, design of official seal, display on vehicles and on
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The State Emblem Of India (Prohibition Of Improper Use) Act, 2005
public buildings, use for educational and various other purposes, etc. However, these instructions or orders do not have
any legal sanction. The State Emblem of India being the official seal of the Government, its use on any document or
thing tends to create an impression that it is an official document or thing of the Government. Therefore, there is a need
to prevent its. misuse by unauthorised persons.
2. In order to regulate the use of State Emblem of India with a view to (i) prohibiting the use of the State Emblem of India
by members of the public, including retired/former Government officials/ public servants, etc., unless specifically
authorised by. the Central Government; (ii) prohibiting the improper use of State Emblem of India for professional and
commercial purposes and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto; and (iii) regulating its use by
Government functionaries, it is proposed to enact a self-contained legislation.
3. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.
[20th  December, 2005]
An Act to prohibit the improper use of State Emblem of India for professional and  commercial purposes and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Be  it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-sixth Year of the  Republic of India as follows:
1.
Short title, extent, application and commencement
(1)
This Act may be  called The State Emblem of India (Prohibition of Improper Use) Act , 2005.
(2)
It extends to the whole of India,  and also applies to citizens of India outside India.
(3)
It shall come into force on such [date]
[12th September, 2007, vide notification No. S.O. 1526(E) dated 12th September, 2007.]
as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,  appoint.
2.
Definitions
.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,
(a)
competent authority means any authority competent under any law for the time being in force to register any company,
firm, other body of persons or any trade mark or design or to grant a patent;
(b)
emblem means the State  Emblem of India as described and specified in the Schedule to be used as an official seal of
the Government.
3.
Prohibition of improper use of emblem
.Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, no person shall use the emblem or any
colourable  imitation thereof in any manner which tends to create an impression that it relates to the Government or that
it is an official document of the Central  Government or, as the case may be, the State Government, without the previous
permission of the Central Government or of such officer of that Government as may be authorised by it in this behalf.
Explanation.  For the  purposes of this section, person includes a former functionary of the Central  Government or the
State Governments.
4.
Prohibition of use of emblem for wrongful gain
.No person shall use the emblem for the purpose of any trade, business, calling or profession or in the title  of any
patent, or in any trade mark or design, except in such cases and under such conditions as may be prescribed.
5.
Prohibition of registration of certain companies, etc
(1)
Notwithstanding  anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, no competent authority shall,
(a)
register a trade mark or design which bears the emblem, or
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The State Emblem Of India (Prohibition Of Improper Use) Act, 2005
(b)
grant a patent in respect of an invention which bears a title containing the emblem.
(2)
If any question arises before a competent authority whether any emblem is an emblem specified in the Schedule  or a
colourable imitation thereof, the competent authority shall refer the  question to the Central Government and the
decision of the Central Government thereon shall be final.
6.
General  powers of Central Government to regulate use of emblem
(1)
The  Central Government may make such provision by rules as appears to it to be  necessary, to regulate the use of the
emblem in official seal that is used in offices of the Central Government and the State Governments and their
organisations including diplomatic missions abroad, subject to such  restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government shall have powers
(a)
to notify the use of  emblem on stationery, the method of printing or embossing it on demi-official  stationery by the
constitutional authorities, Ministers, Members of Parliament,  Members of Legislative Assemblies, officers of the Central
Government and the  State Governments;
(b)
to specify the design of  the official seal consisting of the emblem;
(c)
to restrict the display of  emblem on vehicles of constitutional authorities, foreign dignitaries,  Ministers of the Central
Government and the State Governments;
(d)
to provide for guidelines for display of emblem on public buildings in India, the diplomatic missions and  on the buildings
occupied by India's consulates abroad;
(e)
to specify conditions for the use of emblem for various other purposes including the use for educational  purposes and
the armed forces personnel;
(f)
to do all such things (including the specification of design of the emblem and its use in the manner whatsoever) as the
Central Government considers necessary or expedient for the  exercise of the foregoing powers.
7.
Penalty
(1)
Any person who contravenes the provisions of section 3 shall be punishable with  imprisonment for a term which may
extend to two years, or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both, or if having been previously
convicted of an offence under this section, is again convicted of any such  offence, he shall be punishable for the second
and for every subsequent offence  with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six months, which may
extend to two years and with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.
(2)
Any person who contravenes the  provisions of section 4 for any wrongful gain shall be punishable for such  offence with
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six months,  which may extend to two years and with fine which
may extend to five thousand  rupees.
8.
Previous sanction for prosecution
.No prosecution for any offence punishable under this Act shall be instituted, except with the previous sanction of the
Central  Government or of any officer authorised in this behalf by general or special  order of the Central Government.
9.
Savings
.Nothing  in this Act shall exempt any person from any suit or other proceedings which might be brought against him
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The State Emblem Of India (Prohibition Of Improper Use) Act, 2005
under any other law for the time being in force.
10.
Act to have overriding effect
.The provisions of this Act or any rule made  thereunder shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent
therewith  contained in any other enactment or instrument having effect by virtue of such  enactment.
11.
Power to make rules
(1)
The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
In particular, and without prejudice  to the generality of the foregoing powers, such rules may provide for all or any of the
following matters, namely:
(a)
cases and conditions regulating the use of emblem under section 4;
(b)
making rules to regulate  the use of the emblem in official seal of the Government and specifying  restrictions and
conditions relating thereto under sub-section (1) of section 6;
(c)
the use of emblem on stationery, design of official seal consisting of emblem and other matters under sub-section (2) of
section 6;
(d)
authorising officer by general or special order for giving previous sanction for instituting  prosecution under section 8;
and
(e)
any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.
(3)
Every rule made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of  Parliament,
while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions, and if,  before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the  successive
sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should
not be made, the rule shall  thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the  case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be  without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done
under that rule.
The  Schedule
See section 2(b)]
State  Emblem of India
Description and Design
The State Emblem of India is an adaptation from the Sarnath Lion Capital of Asoka which is preserved in the  Sarnath
Museum. The Lion Capital has four lions mounted back to back on a circular abacus. The frieze of the abacus is
adorned with sculptures in high  relief of an elephant, a galloping horse, a bull and a lion separated by intervening
Dharma Chakras. The abacus rests on a bell-shaped lotus.
The profile of the Lion Capital showing three lions mounted on the abacus with a Dharma Chakra in the  centre, a bull on
the right and a galloping horse on the left, and outlines of  Dharma Chakras on the extreme right and left has been
adopted as the State  Emblem of India. The bell-shaped lotus has been omitted.
The motto Satyameva Jayate Truth alone triumphs written in Devanagari script below the profile of  the Lion Capital is
part of the State Emblem of India.
The State Emblem of India shall conform to the designs as set out in Appendix I or Appendix II.
Appendix I
Note .This design is in simplified form and meant for reproduction in small sizes, such as for use in stationery, seals and
die-printing.
Appendix II
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The State Emblem Of India (Prohibition Of Improper Use) Act, 2005
Note .This design is more  detailed and meant for reproduction in bigger sizes.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5