
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Intimation Of Accidents (Form And Time Of Service Of Notice) Rules, 2005
The Intimation Of Accidents (Form And Time Of Service Of Notice)
Rules, 2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/195295184/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Intimation Of Accidents (Form And Time Of Service Of Notice) Rules, 2005
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Intimation Of Accidents (Form And Time Of Service Of Notice) Rules, 2005
Rule THE-INTIMATION-OF-ACCIDENTS-FORM-AND-TIME-OF-SERVICE-OF-NOTICE-RULES-2005 of 2005
Published on 1 January 2005
Commenced on 1 January 2005
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Intimation Of Accidents (Form And Time Of Service Of Notice) Rules, 2005
Published vide G.S.R. 1(E), dated 1.1.2005, published in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt. II, Section 3(i), dated 1.1.2005 as
 amended by G.S.R. 529(E), dated 11.8.2005,. published in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt. II, Section 3(i), dated
11.8.2005(w.e.f. 11.8.2005).
8.
/456
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (w) of sub-section (2) of section 176 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (
36 of 2003
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules regarding the form and time of service of notices of
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Intimation Of Accidents (Form And Time Of Service Of Notice) Rules, 2005
electrical accidents, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called The Intimation of Accidents (Form and Time of Service of
Notice) Rules, 2005.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions .-(1) In these rules unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Electricity Act, 2003;
(b)
"Inspector" means the Chief Electrical Inspector or the Electrical Inspector appointed under sub-section (1) of section
162 of the Act.
(2)
Words and expression used and not defined in these rules but defined in the Electricity Act, 2003 (
36 of 2003
), shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.
3.
Intimation of accidents .-(1) If any accident occurs in connection with the generation, transmission, supply or use of
electricity in or in connection with, any part of the electric lines or other works of any person and the accident results in
or is likely to have resulted in loss of human or animal life or in any injury to a human being or an animal, such person or
any authorized person of the generating company or licensee, not below the rank of a Junior Engineer or equivalent
shall send to the Inspector a telegraphic report within 24 hours of the knowledge of the occurrence of the fatal accident
and a report in writing in Form A within 48 hours of the knowledge of occurrence of fatal and all other accidents. Where
possible a telephonic message should also be given to the Inspector immediately, if the accident comes to the
knowledge of the authorized officer of the generating company/licensee or other person concerned.
(2)
For the intimation of the accident, telephone numbers, fax numbers and addresses of Chief Electrical Inspector or
Electrical Inspectors, District Magistrate, police station, Fire Brigade and nearest hospital shall be displayed at the
conspicuous place in the generating station, sub-station, enclosed sub-station/switching station and maintained in the
Office of the in-charge/owner of the Medium Voltage (MV)/High Voltage (HV)/Extra High Voltage (EHV) installations.
FORM A
Form For Reporting Electrical Accidents
1. Date and time of accident.
2. Place of accident.
(Village/Town, Tehsil/Thana, District and State).
3. System and voltage of supply (Whether Extra High Voltage (EHV)/High Voltage (HV)/Low Voltage (LV) Line,
sub-station/generation station/consumer's installations/service lines/other installations).
4.
Designation of the Officer-in-charge of the generating company/licensee in whose jurisdiction the accident occurred.
5.
Name of owner/user of energy in whose premises the accident occurred.
6.
Details of victim(s):
(a)
Human
Sl. No.
1
Name
2
Father's Name
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Intimation Of Accidents (Form And Time Of Service Of Notice) Rules, 2005
3
Sex of victim
4
Full Postal address
5
Approximate age
6
Fatal/non-fatal
7
(b)
Animal
Sl. No.
1
Description of animal(s)
2
Number(s)
3
Name(s) of owner(s)
4
Address(es) of owner(s)
5
Fatal/non-fatal
6
7.
In case the victim(s) is/are employee(s) of supplier:-
(a)
designation of such person(s);
(b)
brief description of the job undertaken, if any;
(c)
whether such person/persons was/were allowed to work on the job.
8. In case the victim(s) is/are employee(s) of a licensed contractor, -
(a)
did the victim(s) possess any electric workmen's permit(s), supervisor's certificate of competency ?
If yes, give number and date of issue and the name of issuing authority;
(b)
name and designation of the person who assigned the duties of the victim(s).
9.
In case of accident in the system of the generating company/licensee, was the permit to work (PTW) taken?
10.
(a) Describe fully the nature and extent of injuries, e.g. , fatal/disablement (permanent or temporary) of any portion of the
body or burns or other injuries.
(b)
In case of fatal accident, was the post mortem performed?
11.
Detailed causes leading to the accident.
(To be given in a separate sheet annexed to this form).
12.
Action taken regarding first aid, medical attendance etc. immediately after the occurrence of the accident (give details).
13.
Whether the District Magistrate and Police Station concerned have been informed of the accident (if so, give details).
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Intimation Of Accidents (Form And Time Of Service Of Notice) Rules, 2005
14.
Steps taken to preserve the evidence in connection with the accident to extent possible.
15.
Name and designation(s) of the person(s) assisting, supervising the person(s) killed or injured.
16.
What safety equipments were given to or used by the person(s) who met with this accident (e.g. rubber gloves, rubber
mats, safety belts and ladders etc.)?
17.
Whether isolating switches and other sectionalizing devices were employed to deaden the sections for working on the
same? Whether working section was earthed at the site of work?
18.
Whether the work on the live lines was undertaken by authorised person(s)? If so, the name and the designation of such
person(s) may be given.
19.
Whether artificial resuscitation treatment was given to the person(s) who met with the electric accident? If yes, how long
was it continued before its abandonment?
20.
Names and designations of persons present at, and witnessed, the accident.
21.
Any other information/remarks.
Place:
Time:
Date:
Signature
Name
Designation
Address of the person reporting.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4