
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation Of Annual Report) Rules, 2005
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation Of
Annual Report) Rules, 2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/187349126/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation Of Annual Report) Rules, 2005
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation Of Annual Report) Rules, 2005
Rule
THE-CENTRAL-ELECTRICITY-REGULATORY-COMMISSION-PREPARATION-OF-ANNUAL-REPORT-RULES-2005
of 2005
Published on 28 January 2005
Commenced on 28 January 2005
[This is the version of this document from 28 January 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation Of Annual Report) Rules, 2005
Published vide G.S.R. 48(E), dated 28.1.2005, published in the Gazette of India, Ext. Pt. II, Section 3(i), dated
28.1.2005.
8.
/461
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (o) of sub-section (2) of section 176 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (
36 of 2003
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation Of Annual Report) Rules, 2005
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.- [(1) These rules may be called The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission
(Preparation of Annual Report) Rules, 2005.]
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions .-.In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Electricity Act, 2003 (
36 of 2003
);
(b)
"Schedule" means the Schedule annexed to these rules;
(c)
words and expressions used and not defined herein but defined in the said Act shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the said Act.
3.
Preparation of Annual Report .-(1) Every year the Central Commission shall prepare an Annual Report giving/containing
a summary of its activities during the previous year commencing from the 1st day of April to the 31st day of March of the
following year in the form specified in the Schedule.
(2)
The Annual Report shall give an account of the activities during the previous financial year, containing, inter alia -
(a)
a statement of goals and objectives of the Central Commission;
(b)
annual targets set for various activities in the background of clause (a) together with a brief review of actual performance
with reference to those targets and including in particular a report on the number of cases filed before the Central
Commission during the year, number of cases disposed of, time taken to dispose of the cases and number of cases
pending;
(c)
important additions/changes in the regulations of the Central Commission;
(d)
functioning of the Central Advisory Committee and other consultation with the shareholders;
(e)
trends of important parameters such as capital cost, cost of electricity, new investment, efficiency gains;
(f)
number and details of cases in which orders/regulations of the Commission were challenged in Courts/Appellate
Tribunal and the outcome of such cases;
(g)
resolution of disputes including the disputes pending at the end of the year.
4.
Submission of Annual Report .-The copies of the Annual Report shall be forwarded by the Central Commission to the
Central Government by the end of October each year.
Schedule
THE CENTRAL ELECTRICITY REGULATORY COMMISSION (PREPARATION OF ANNUAL REPORTS) RULES,
2004
(See rule - 3)
FORM OF ANNUAL REPORT OF THE CENTRAL ELECTRICITY REGULATORY COMMISSION
1. The Commission in Brief.
2. The Mandate of the Commission
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation Of Annual Report) Rules, 2005
3. Mission Statement.
4. The Year in Retrospect.
5.
Annual Accounts of the Commission showing Receipts and Expenditure.
6.
Outcome of Regulatory Process in terms of benefits to consumers and Development of Sector.
7.
Work plan for the year ahead.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3