
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation of Annual Reports) Rules, 2004
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation of
Annual Reports) Rules, 2004
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/183992991/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation of Annual Reports) Rules, 2004
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation of Annual Reports) Rules, 2004
Rule
THE-CENTRAL-ELECTRICITY-REGULATORY-COMMISSION-PREPARATION-OF-ANNUAL-REPORTS-RULES-2004
of 2004
Published on 28 January 2005
Commenced on 28 January 2005
[This is the version of this document from 28 January 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation of Annual Reports) Rules, 2004
Published vide Notification in the Gazette of India, Extra, Part 2, Section 3(i), dated 28.1.2005
1677.
G.S.R. 48(E), dated 28.1.2005.- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (o) of sub-section (2) of section 176 of
the Electricity Act, 2003 (
No. 36 of 2003
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely.-
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation of Annual Reports) Rules, 2004
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
These rules may be called the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation of Annual Reports) Rules, 2004.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.-
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a)
"Act" means the Electricity Act, 2003;
(b)
"Schedule" means the Schedule annexed to these rules;
(c)
Words and expressions used and not defined but defined in the said Act shall have the meanings respectively assigned
to them in the said Act.
3.
Preparation of annual report.-
(1)
Every year the Central Commission shall prepare an annual report giving/containing a summary of its activities during
the previous year commencing from the 1st day of April to the 31st day of March of the following year in the form
specified in the Schedule.
(2)
The Annual Report shall give an account of the activities during the previous financial year, containing inter alia -
(a)
A statement of goals and objectives of the Central Commission;
(b)
Annual targets set for various activities in the background of clause (a) together with a brief review of actual
performance with reference to those targets and including in particular a report on the number of cases filed before the
Central Commission during the year, number of cases disposed of, time taken to dispose of the cases and number of
cases pending;
(c)
Important additions/ changes in the regulations of the Central Commission;
(d)
Functioning of the Central Advisory Committee and other consultation with the stakeholders;
(e)
Trends of important parameters such as capital cost, cost of electricity, new investment, efficiency gains;
(f)
Number and details of cases in which orders/regulations of the Commission were challenged in Courts/Appellate
Tribunal and the outcome of such cases.
(g)
Resolution of disputes including the disputes pending at the end of the year.
4.
Submission of annual report.-
The copies of the annual report shall be forwarded by the Central Commission to the Central Government by the end of
October each year.
Schedule
THE CENTRAL ELECTRICITY REGULATORY COMMISSION (PREPARATION OF ANNUAL REPORTS) RULES,
2004
(See rule 3)
Form of Annual Report of the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Preparation of Annual Reports) Rules, 2004
1. The Commission in Brief.
2. The Mandate of the Commission
3. Mission Statement.
4. The Year in Retrospect.
5.
Annual Accounts of the Commission showing Receipts and Expenditure.
6.
Outcome of Regulatory Process in terms of benefits to consumers and Development of Sector.
7.
Work plan for the year ahead.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3