
----- PAGE 1 -----
National Load Despatch Centre Rules, 2004
National Load Despatch Centre Rules, 2004
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/53441181/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
National Load Despatch Centre Rules, 2004
UNION OF INDIA
India
National Load Despatch Centre Rules, 2004
Rule NATIONAL-LOAD-DESPATCH-CENTRE-RULES-2004 of 2004
Published on 7 March 2005
Commenced on 7 March 2005
[This is the version of this document from 7 March 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
National Load Despatch Centre Rules, 2004
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extra; Part 2, Section 3(i), dated 7.3.2005
1601.
G.S.R. 158(E), dated 2.3.2004.- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 176 of
the Electricity Act, 2003 (
36 of 2003
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules regarding the constitution and functions of the National
Load Despatch Centre, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.-
[(1) These rules may be called the National Load Despatch Centre Rules, 2005.]
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
National Load Despatch Centre Rules, 2004
[Sustituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 629(E) dated 10.10.2006 (w.e.f. 7.3.2005)]
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.-
(1)
In these rules unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Act" means the Electricity Act, 2003;
(b)
Words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the meaning respectively assigned
to them in the Act.
3.
Constitution of National Load Despatch Centre.-
(1)
There shall be a centre at the national level to be known as National Load Despatch Centre for optimum scheduling and
despatch of electricity among the Regional Load Despatch Centres.
(2)
The National Load Despatch Centre shall be located at New Delhi with a back up at its centre in Kolkata.
4.
Functions of National Load Despatch Centre.-
The National Load Despatch Centre shall be the apex body to ensure integrated operation of the national power system
and shall discharge the following functions, namely:-
(a)
supervision over the Regional Load Despatch Centres;
(b)
scheduling and despatch of electricity over inter-regional links in accordance with grid standards specified by the
Authority and grid code specified by Central Commission in coordination with Regional Load Despatch Centres;
(c)
coordination with Regional Load Despatch Centres for achieving maximum economy and efficiency in the operation of
National Grid;
(d)
monitoring of operations and grid security of the National Grid;
(e)
supervision and control over the inter-regional links as may be required for ensuring stability of the power system under
its control;
(f)
coordination with Regional Power Committees for regional outage schedule in the national perspective to ensure optimal
utilization of power resources;
(g)
coordination with Regional Load Despatch Centres for the energy accounting of inter-regional exchange of power;
(h)
coordination for restoration of synchronous operation of national grid with Regional Load Despatch Centres;
(i)
coordination for trans-national exchange of power;
(j)
providing operational feed back for national grid planning to the Authority and the Central Transmission Utility;
(k)
levy and collection of such fee and charges from the generating companies or licensees involved in the power system,
as may be specified by the Central Commission.
(l)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
National Load Despatch Centre Rules, 2004
dissemination of information relating to operations of transmission system in accordance with directions or regulations
issued by Central Electricity Regulatory Commission and the Central Government from time to time.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3