
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Appointment of Financial Adviser) Rules 2005
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Appointment of Financial Adviser)
Rules 2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/199835452/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Appointment of Financial Adviser) Rules 2005
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Appointment of Financial Adviser) Rules 2005
Rule THE-DAMODAR-VALLEY-CORPORATION-APPOINTMENT-OF-FINANCIAL-ADVISER-RULES-2005 of 2005
Published on 3 August 2005
Commenced on 3 August 2005
[This is the version of this document from 3 August 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Appointment of Financial Adviser) Rules 2005
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 518(E), dated 3rd August, 2005
Ministry of Power
G.S.R. 518(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section-7, sub section-(a) of the Damodar Valley Corporation
Act 1948 XIV of 1948 the Central Government hereby makes the following rules regulating the appointment of Financial
Advisor (FA), Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), a Corporation under the Ministry of Power, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Appointment of Financial Adviser) Rules 2005
These rules may be called the Damodar Valley Corporation (Appointment of Financial Adviser) Rules 2005.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Number of post, classification and scale of pay.
- The number of post, its classification and the scale of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in columns 2 to 4 of
the Schedule annexed to these rules.
3.
Method of recruitment, age, qualification etc.
- The method of recruitment to the said post, age limit, qualification and other matters relating thereto shall be as
specified in columns 5 to 14 of the said Schedule aforesaid.
4.
Disqualification.
- No person shall be eligible for appointment to the said post:
(a)
Who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living; or
(b)
Who having a spouse living, has entered into or contracted a marriage with any person,
Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the personal law
applicable to such person and the other party to the marriage and that there are other grounds for so doing, exempt any
person from the operation of this rule.
5.
The conditions of service for which the provisions have not been made in these rules, including entitlement of leave
salary, leave travel concession traveling allowances, medical facilities, shall be such as are admissible to a Group 'A'
officer of the corresponding status in the Central Government.
6.
Power to relax.
- Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by order, for reasons
to be recorded in writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class or category of persons.
7.
Savings.
- Nothing in these rules shall affect reservations, relaxation of age limit and other concessions required to be provided
for the Schedule Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of persons in accordance with the orders
issued by the Central Government from time to time in this regard.
Schedule
Name of the post
No. of post
Classification
Scale of pay
Whether Selection or Non-selection Post
Whether benefit of added years of service
Admissible Under Rule 30 of the Central Civil Service (Pension)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Financial Adviser
1 (one)
Group A
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Appointment of Financial Adviser) Rules 2005
Rs. 18,400 ? 22,400
Selection
Not applicable
Age limit for direct recruits
Educational and other qualification required for
direct recruit
Whether age and education qualification prescribed
for direct recruits will apply in the case of promotee
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment
whether by direct recruitment or by promotion or by deputation
or transfer and percentage of the vacancies to be filled by
various methods
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable
By deputation
In case of recruitment by promotion or deputation
or transfer, grades from which Promotion or deputation or
transfer to be made
If Departmental Promotion Committee exists, what
is composition
Circumstances in which Union Public Service
Commission is to be consulted in making recruitment
(12)
(13)
(14)
Deputation ?The Officers of Central or State Government holding a post not
below the Rank of Director to the Government of India.Desirable
?Experience in
administrative financial and budgetary matters.Period
of deputation ?The
term of office of Financial Adviser shall be five years from the
date on which he joins the post in Damodar Valley Corporation.
Search-cum-Selection
Committee
Consultation with Union Public Service Commission
not required
(i) Secretary,
Ministry of Power(ii) Chairman, Damodar Valley Corp.(iii)
Chairman, Central Electricity(iv) Representatives of Deptt.
of Public Enterprises (not below the rank of Addl. Secy)(v)
Representative of Department of Expenditure (not below the rank
of Additional Secretary
-Chairman-Member-Member-Member-Member
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Appointment of Financial Adviser) Rules 2005
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4