
----- PAGE 1 -----
The National Commission For The Scheduled Tribe (Specification Of Other Functions) Rules, ...
The National Commission For The Scheduled Tribe (Specification Of
Other Functions) Rules, 2005.
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/97352461/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The National Commission For The Scheduled Tribe (Specification Of Other Functions) Rules, 2005.
UNION OF INDIA
India
The National Commission For The Scheduled Tribe (Specification Of Other Functions) Rules, 2005.
Rule
THE-NATIONAL-COMMISSION-FOR-THE-SCHEDULED-TRIBE-SPECIFICATION-OF-OTHER-FUNCTIONS-RULES-2
005 of 2005
Published on 23 August 2005
Commenced on 23 August 2005
[This is the version of this document from 23 August 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The National Commission For The Scheduled Tribe (Specification Of Other Functions) Rules, 2005.
Published Vide Notification S.O. 1175(E), dated 23.8.2005, published in the Gazette of India, Extra, Point 2, Section
3(ii), dated 24.8.2005
17.
/790
S.O.1175(E), dated 23rd August, 2005- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (f) of clause 5 of article 338-A
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules to specifi/ the other functions of the National
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The National Commission For The Scheduled Tribe (Specification Of Other Functions) Rules, ...
Commission for the Scheduled Tribes, namely:
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
These rules may be called The National Commission for the the Scheduled Tribe (Specfication of other function) Rules,
2005
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
The Commission shall discharge the following other functions in relation to the protection, welfare and development and
advancement of the Scheduled Tribes, namely:
(i)
Measures that need to be taken over conferring ownership rights in respect of minor forest produce to the Scheduled
Tribes living in forest areas;
(ii)
Measures to be taken to safeguard rights of the tribal communitiesover mineral resources, water resources, etc., as per
law;
(iii)
Measures to be taken for the development of tribals and to work for more viable livelihood strategies;
(iv)
Measures to be taken to improve the efficacy of relief and rehabilitation measures for tribal groups displaced by
development projects;
(v)
Measures to be taken to prevent alienation of tribal people from landand to effectively rehabilitate such people in whose
case alienation has already taken place;
(vi)
Measures to be taken to elicit maximum cooperation and involvement of tribal communities for protecting forests and
undertaking social afforestation;
(vii)
Measures to be taken to ensure full implementation of the Provisions of Panchayats (Exten+-ion to the Scheduled
Areas) Act, 1996 (
40 of 1996
);
(viii)
Measures to be taken to reduce and ultimately eliminate the practice of shifting cultivation by tribals that lead to their
continuous disempowerment and degradation of land and the environment.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2