
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Central Information Commission (Appeal Procedure) Rules, 2005
The Central Information Commission (Appeal Procedure) Rules, 2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/193997998/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Central Information Commission (Appeal Procedure) Rules, 2005
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Central Information Commission (Appeal Procedure) Rules, 2005
Rule THE-CENTRAL-INFORMATION-COMMISSION-APPEAL-PROCEDURE-RULES-2005 of 2005
Published on 28 October 2005
Commenced on 28 October 2005
[This is the version of this document from 28 October 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Central Information Commission (Appeal Procedure) Rules, 2005
Published vide Notification G.S.R. 650(E), dated 28.10.2005 published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2,
Section (i), dated 25.10.2005.
22.
/961
In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (e) and (f) of sub-section (2) of section 27 of the Right to Information Act,
2005 (
22 of 2005
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Central Information Commission (Appeal Procedure) Rules, 2005
.-(1) These rules may be called The Central Information Commission (Appeal Procedure) Rules, 2005.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions
.-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Right to Information Act, 2005;
(b)
"section" means section of the Act;
(c)
"Commission" means the Central Information Commission;
(d)
words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act, shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in that Act.
3.
Contents of appeal
.-An appeal to the Commission shall contain the following information, namely:-
(i)
name and address of the appellant;
(ii)
name and address of the Central Public Information Officer against the decision of whom the appeal is preferred;
(iii)
particulars of the order including number, if any, against which the appeal is preferred;
(iv)
brief facts leading to the appeal;
(v)
if the appeal is preferred against deemed refusal, the particulars of the application, including number and date and name
and address of the Central Public Information Officer to whom the application was made;
(vi)
prayer or relief sought;
(vii)
grounds for the prayer or relief;
(viii)
verification by the appellant; and
(ix)
any other information which the Commission may deem necessary for deciding the appeal.
4.
Documents to accompany appeal
.-Every appeal made to the Commission shall be accompanied by the following documents, namely:-
(i)
self-attested copies of the Orders or documents against which the appeal is being preferred;
(ii)
copies of documents relied upon by the appellant and referred to in the appeal; and
(iii)
an index of the documents referred to in the appeal.
5.
Procedure in deciding appeal
.-In deciding the appeal the Commission may,-
(i)
hear oral or written evidence on oath or on affidavit from concerned or interested person;
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Central Information Commission (Appeal Procedure) Rules, 2005
(ii)
peruse or inspect documents, public records or copies thereof;
(iii)
inquire through authorised officer further details or facts;
(iv)
hear Central Public Information Officer, Central Assistant Public Information Officer or such Senior Officer who decide
the first appeal, or such person against whom the complaint is made, as the case may be;
(v)
hear third party; and
(vi)
receive evidence on affidavits from Central Public Information Officer, Central Assistant Public Information Officer, such
Senior Officer who decided the first appeal, such person against whom the complaint lies or the third party.
6.
Service of notice by Commission
.-Notice to be issued by the Commission may be served in any of the following modes, namely:-
(i)
service by the party itself;
(ii)
by hand delivery (dasti) through Process Server;
(iii)
by registered post with acknowledgement due; or
(iv)
through Head of Office or Department.
7.
Personal presence of the appellant or complainant
.-(1) The appellant or the complainant, as the case may be, shall in every case be informed of the date of hearing at
least seven clear days before that date.
(2)
The appellant or the complainant, as the case may be, may at his descretion at the time of hearing of the appeal or
complaint by the Commission by present in person or through his duly authorised representative or may opt not to be
present.
(3)
Where the Commission is satisfied that the circumstances exist due to which the appellant or the complainant, as the
case may be, is being prevented from attending the hearing of the Commission, the, the Commission may afford the
appellant or the complainant, as the case may be, another opportunity of being heard before a final decision is taken or
take any other appropriate action as it may deem fit.
(4)
The appellant or the complainant, as the case may be, may seek the assistance of any person in the process of the
appeal while presenting his points and the person representing him may not be a legal practitioner.
8.
Order of the Commission
.-Order of the Commission shall be pronounced in open proceedings and be in writing duly authenticated by the
Registrar or any other officer authorised by the Commission for this purpose.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3