
----- PAGE 1 -----
Equity Linked Savings Scheme, 2005
Equity Linked Savings Scheme, 2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/142540614/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Equity Linked Savings Scheme, 2005
UNION OF INDIA
India
Equity Linked Savings Scheme, 2005
Rule EQUITY-LINKED-SAVINGS-SCHEME-2005 of 2005
Published on 3 November 2005
Commenced on 3 November 2005
[This is the version of this document from 3 November 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Equity Linked Savings Scheme, 2005
Published in the Gazette of India, Extra, Part 2, Section 3(ii), dated 3.11.2005
1615.
S.O. 1563(E), dated 3.11.2005.- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (xiii) of sub-section (2) of section 80C of
the Income-tax Act, 1961 (
43 of 1961
), the Central Government hereby makes the following scheme, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
This scheme may be called the Equity Linked Savings Scheme, 2005.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Equity Linked Savings Scheme, 2005
(2)
It shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.-
In this scheme, unless the context otherwise requires :-
(a)
"Act" means the Income-tax Act (
43 of 1961
)
(b)
"assessee" means:-
(i)
an individual; or
(ii)
a Hindu undivided family; or
(iii)
an association of persons or a body of individuals consisting, in either case, only of husband and wife governed by the
system of community of property in force in the State of Goa and Union Territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and
Daman and Diu by whom, or on whose behalf, investment is made;
(c)
"investment" means an investment in Units of the Unit Trust or a Mutual Fund by an assessee under a plan formulated in
accordance with this scheme;
(d)
"Mutual Fund" means any Mutual Fund specified under Clause (23-D) of section 10 of the Act;
(e)
"plan" means any plan formulated in accordance with this scheme;
(f)
"Unit Trust" means the 'Administrator' referred to in clause (a) or the 'specified company' referred to in clause (h) of
section 2 of the Unit Trust of India (Transfer of Undertaking and Repeal) Act, 2002 (
58 of 2002
);
(g)
"year" means a year commencing on 1st day of April;
(h)
words and expressions used herein and not defined shall have the meanings respectively, assigned to them in the
Income-tax Act.
3.
Investment and Repurchase.-
(a)
Amount to be invested in a plan of the Unit Trust or of a Mutual Fund shall be in multiples of Rs. 500 with a minimum of
Rs. 500.
(b)
The Unit Trust or a Mutual Fund shall allot the Units in respect of all complete applications, made in the form specified
by that Trust or Fund, not later than on 31st March, every year.
(c)
The plan shall be open for a minimum period of one month during the financial year 2005-06 and a minimum period of
three months during the subsequent years.
(d)
Investment in the plan will have to be kept for a minimum period of three years from the date of allotment of units. After
the said period of three years, the assessee shall have the option to tender the units to the Unit Trust or the Mutual
Fund, for repurchase.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Equity Linked Savings Scheme, 2005
(e)
In the event of the death of the assessee, the nominee or legal heir, as the case may be, shall be able to withdraw the
investment only after the completion of one year from the date of allotment of the units to the assessee or anytime
thereafter.
4.
Transferability.-
Units issued under the plan can be transferred, assigned or pledged after three years of its issue.
5.
Investment of Equity Linked Saving Funds.-
(a)
The funds collected under a plan shall be invested in equities, cumulative convertible preference shares and fully
convertible debentures and bonds of companies. Investment may also be made in partly convertible issues of
debentures and bonds including those issued on rights basis subject to the condition that, as far as possible, the
non-convertible portion of the debentures so acquired or subscribed, shall be disinvested within a period of twelve
months.
(b)
It shall be ensured that funds of a plan shall remain invested to the extent of at least eighty per cent in securities
specified in clause (a). The Unit Trust and Mutual Fund shall strive to invest their funds in the manner stated above
within a period of six months from the date of closure of the plan in every year. In exceptional circumstances, this
requirement may be dispensed with by the Unit Trust or the Fund, in order that the interests of the assessee are
protected.
(c)
Pending investment of funds of a plan in the required manner, the Unit Trust and Mutual Fund may invest the funds in
short-term money market instruments or other liquid instruments or both. After three years of the date of allotment of the
units, the Unit Trust or Mutual Fund may hold upto twenty per cent of net assets of the plan in short-term money market
instruments and other liquid instruments to enable them to redeem investment of those unit holders who would seek to
tender the units for repurchase.
6.
Repurchase Price.-
(a)
The Unit Trust and other Mutual Funds shall announce the repurchase price one year after the date of allotment of the
units and thereafter on a half-yearly basis.
(b)
After a period of three years from the date of allotment of units, when the repurchase of units is to commence, the Trust
and the Mutual Fund shall announce a repurchase price every month or as frequently as may be decided by them.
(c)
In calculating the repurchase price, the Unit Trust and the Mutual Fund shall take into account the unrealised
appreciation in the value of the investment of the funds of a plan to the extent they deem fit provided that it shall not be
less than fifty per cent of such unrealised appreciation. While calculating the repurchase price, the Unit Trust and Mutual
Funds may deduct such sums as are appropriate to meet management, selling and other expenses including realisation
of assets and such sums shall not exceed five per cent per annum of the average Net Asset Value of a plan.
(d)
Repurchase of Units will be at the repurchase price prevailing on the date the units are tendered for repurchase.
7.
Evidence of Investment or Repurchase.-
The investment made in any plan by an assessee will be acknowledged by the Unit Trust and Mutual Fund by issue of
certificate of investment or a statement of account as may be decided by them.
8.
Termination of a Plan.-
(a)
A plan operated by Unit Trust or a Mutual Fund would be terminated at the close of the 10th year from the year in which
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Equity Linked Savings Scheme, 2005
the allotment of units is made under the plan.
(b)
If ninety per cent or more of the units under any plan are repurchased before completion of ten years, the Unit Trust and
Mutual Fund may at their discretion, teminate that plan even before the stipulated period of ten years, and redeem the
outstanding units at the final repurchase price to be fixed by them.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4