
----- PAGE 1 -----
Indian Council Of World Affairs Rules, 2006
Indian Council Of World Affairs Rules, 2006
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/173651514/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Indian Council Of World Affairs Rules, 2006
UNION OF INDIA
India
Indian Council Of World Affairs Rules, 2006
Rule INDIAN-COUNCIL-OF-WORLD-AFFAIRS-RULES-2006 of 2006
Published on 21 February 2006
Commenced on 21 February 2006
[This is the version of this document from 21 February 2006.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Indian Council Of World Affairs Rules, 2006
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extra Part 2, Section 3(i), dated 21.2.2006
1626.
G.S.R. 74(E), dated 21st February, 2006. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2)of Section 25 of the
Indian Council of World Affairs Act, 2001 (29 of 2001), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules,
namely,
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Indian Council of World Affairs Rules, 2006.
(2)
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
Indian Council Of World Affairs Rules, 2006
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,
(a)
"Act" means the Indian Council of World Affairs Act, 2001 (29 of 2001);
(b)
"Form" means a Form annexed to these rules;
(c)
"section" means a section of the Act;
(d)
words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the meanings as respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Manner of filling vacancies among members.
(1)
The nomination under Section 7 to fill the vacancy caused by the expiration of the term of office of a member shall be
made before the expiration of the term of the office of such member.
(2)
The Director-General shall before four months of the expiration of the term of office of the member take action for the
filling up of the vacancy and make a request to,
(a)
the Speaker of the Lok Sabha or the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, as the case may be, in case the member is to be
nominated under clause (d);
(b)
the Council, in case the member is to be nominated under clause (e) or clause (J);
(c)
the Governing Body, in case the member is to be nominated under clause (g) or clause (h);
(d)
the Central Government, in case the member is to be nominated under clause (j) of sub-section (2) of Section 7 to
nominate a member to fill up such vacancy.
(3)
The nomination to fill the casual vacancy in the office of a member shall be made as soon as possible after the date of
occurrence of such vacancy.
4.
Functions of the Council.
- In addition to the functions specified in Section 16, the Council shall have the following functions, namely:
(a)
to consider and formulate the matters relating to policy of the Council; and
(b)
to consider and approve programme and specific projects of the Council as proposed by the Governing Body.
5.
Power of the President.
- Subject to the provisions of the Act, the President shall have the following powers and functions, namely:
(a)
to preside over meetings of the Council and the Governing Body;
(b)
to be the highest authority on matters pertaining to the administration of the Council;
(c)
to nominate the member to represent the Council in India and abroad;
(d)
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
Indian Council Of World Affairs Rules, 2006
to advise, and provide guidance to, the Council and Governing Body on policy matters impinging on the work of the
Council; and
(e)
to delegate such of his powers and functions as he may think necessary to the Vice-President or, as the case may be,
the Director-General.
6.
Allowances of members.
(1)
Members covered under clauses (b) and (d) to (h) of sub-section (2) of Section 7 shall be entitled to allowances in
accordance with the O.M.No.F.6(26)-EIV/59, dated the 5th September, 1960 of the Government of India in the Ministry
of Finance, as amended from time to time.
(2)
A person who is holding a post under the Central Government, the State Government or, as the case may he, a
Statutory Authority established or constituted under any law for the time being in force and nominated as a member
under sub-section (2) of Section 7, shall get the same allowances as are admissible to his post in accordance with the
relevant rules or regulations for the time being in force.
7.
Annual statement of accounts.
(1)
The Council shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records and shall prepare an annual statement of
accounts, including balance sheet in Form A.
(2)
The annual statement of accounts referred to in sub-section (1) shall be signed and authenticated by the
Director-General.
8.
Annual report.
- The Council shall prepare every year an annual report giving true and full account of its activity during the previous
year in Form B and forward copies of such annual report to the Central Government before the end of the month of
September of succeeding financial year.
9.
Residuary provisions.
- If any difficulty arises in implementing these rules, the matter may be referred to the Central Government for its
clarifiation and the action shall be taken in accordance with such clarification.
FORM A
[See Rule 7(i)]
Indian Council Of World Affairs Form Of Financial Statements Name Of Entity .............
Income and Expenditure Account for the Period/Year ended.........
Schedule
Current Year
Previous Year
INCOME
Income from Sales/Services
12
Grants/Subsidies
13
Fees/Subscriptions
14
Income from Investments (Income on Invest from earmarked/endowment Funds transferred to Funds)
15
Income from Royalty, Publication etc.
16
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
Indian Council Of World Affairs Rules, 2006
Interest earned
17
Other income
18
Increase
(decrease) in stock of Finished goods and works in-progress
19
TOTAL
(A)
EXPENDITURE
Establishment Expenses
20
Other Administrative Expenses etc.
21
Expenditure on Grants, Subsidies, etc.
22
Interest
23
Depreciation
(Net total at the year-end-corresponding to Schedule 8)
TOTAL
(B)
Balance being excess of Income over Expenditure (A-B)
Transfer to Special Reserve (Specify each) Transfer to/from General Reserve
Balance being surplus/(Deficit) carried to corpus/capital fund significant accounting policies
24
Contingent liabilities and notes on accounts
25
Schedule Forming Part of Balance Sheet as at...................
Current year
Previous year
SCHEDULE 1-CORPUS/CAPITAL FUND
Balance as at the beginning of the year
Add:  Contributions towards Corpus/Capital Fund
Add/(Deduct):  Balance of net income/(expenditure) transferred from the income and Expenditure Account
BALANCE AS AT THE YEAR-END
Capital Reserve:
Current year
Previous year
SCHEDULE 2-RESERVE AND SURPLUS
1. As per last account addition during the year.
Less:  Deductions during the year
2. Revaluation Reserve: As per last account additional during the year.
Less:  Deductions during the year
3. Special Reserve: As per last account additional during the year.
Less:  Deduction during the year
4. General Reserve as per last account addition during the year.
Less:  Deductions during the year
TOTAL
SCHEDULE 3-EARMARKED/ENDOWMENT FUNDS
FUND WISE BREAK UP
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
Indian Council Of World Affairs Rules, 2006
TOTALS
Fund WW
Fund XX
Fund YY
Fund ZZ
Current year
Previous year
(a) Opening balance of the funds
(b)
additions to the Funds:
(i) Income from Investments made on account of funds
(ii) Donations/Grants
(iii) Other additions (specify nature)
TOTAL
(a+b)
(c) Utilization/Expenditure toward objectives of funds
(i) Capital expenditure
-Fixed Assets
-Other
Total
(ii) Revenue Expenditure
-Salaries, Wages and allowances etc.
-Rent
-Other Administrative expenses
Total
TOTAL
(c)
NET BALANCE AS AT THE YEAR-END (a+b+c)
Form Of Financial Statements (Non-Profit Organisations) Name Of Entity..........
Forming Part of Balance Sheet as at .............
Current year
Previous year
SCHEDULE 4-SECURED LOANS AND BORROWINGS:
1. Central Government
2. State Government (Specify)
3. Financial Institutions:
(a) Term Loans
(b) Interest accrued and due
4. Banks:
(a) Term Loans, interest accrued and due
(b) Other Loans (Specify), interest accrued and due
5. Other Institution and agencies
6. Debentures and Bonds
7. Other
(Specify)
TOTAL
Form Of Financial Statements (Non-Profit Organisations) Name Of Entity...............
Forming Part of Balance Sheet as at.............
Current year
Previous year
SCHEDULE 5-SECURED LOANS AND BORROWINGS:
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
Indian Council Of World Affairs Rules, 2006
1. Central Government
2. State Government (Specify)
3. Financial Institutions:
(a) Term Loans
(b) Interest accrued and due
4. Banks:
(a) Term Loans, interest accrued and due
(b) Other Loans (Specify), interest accrued and due
5. Other Institution and agencies
6. Debentures and Bonds
7. Other
(Specify)
TOTAL
INSTRUCTIONS AND ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES
(1)
The financial statements of non-profit and other similar organisations (viz. Balance Sheet and Income and Expenditure
Account) shall be prepared on accrual basis; and shall be in the form suggested, or as near thereto as possible.
If the information required to be given under any of the items or sub-items in this Form cannot be conveniently included
in the Balance Sheet or the Income and Expenditure Account itself, as the case may be, it can be furnished in a
separate Schedule or Schedules to be annexed to and forming part of the Balance Sheet or the Income and Expenditure
Account. This recommended where items are numerous.
(2)
A statement of all significant accounting policies, adopted in the preparation of the Balance Sheet and the Income and
Expenditure Account shall be included in the financial statements, and the significant Accounting Policies should be
disclosed at one place. Accounting Policies refer to the specific accounting principles and the method of applying those
principals adopted by the Entity in the preparation of the Financial Statements. Where any of the accounting policies is
not in conformity with accounting standards, and the effect of departures from accounting standards is material, the
particulars of the departure shall be disclosed, together with the reasons therefore and the financial effect thereof,
except where such effect is not ascertainable.
(3)
Accounting policies shall be applied consistently from one financial year to the next. Any change in the accounting
policies which has a material effect in the current period or which is reasonably expected to have a material effect in
latter periods, shall be disclosed. In case of a change in accounting policies which has a material effect in the current
period, the amount by which nay item in the Financial Statements is affected by such change, shall also be disclosed to
the extent ascertainable. Where such amount is not ascertainable wholly or in part, the fact shall be disclosed.
(4)
The accounting treatment and presentation in the Balance Sheet and the Income and Expenditure Account, of
transactions and events shall be governed by their substance and not merely by the legal form.
(5)
In determining the accounting treatment and manner of disclosure of an item in the Balance Sheet and/or the Income
and Expenditure Account, due consideration shall be given to the concept of immateriality.
(6)
Provision shall be made for all known liabilities and losses even though the amount carulot be determined with
substantial accuracy (and the amount of provision represents only a best estimate in the light of available information).
'Provision' means any amount written off or retained by way of providing for depreciation, renewals of diminution in value
of assets, or retained by way of providing for any known liability, the amount of which cannot be determined with
substantial accuracy.
Provision shall be made for contingent loss if;
(a)
it is possible that future events will confirm that, after taking into account any related probable recovery, an asset has
been impaired or a liability has been incurred at the balance sheet date, and
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
Indian Council Of World Affairs Rules, 2006
(b)
a reasonable estimate of the amount of the resulting loss can be made.
If either of the above conditions is not met, the existence of the contingent loss shall be disclosed by way of a note of the
Income and Expenditure account, unless the possibility of the loss is remote.
FORM B
(See Rule 8)
Indian Council Of World Affairs Annual Report
Annual Report for the Financial Year ..............
1. Introduction
2. Constitution of Council, including changes therein
3. Meetings of the Council
4. Constitution of Committees
5. Meetings of the Committees
6. Grant-in-aid
7. Publications
8. Library
9. Seminars/Symposia/Conference
10.
Award
11.
Research and Analysis
12.
Visits of Foreign Dignitaries to the Council
13.
Report on the matters referred to the Council by the Central Government or Governing Body.
14.
Council for Security and Co-operation in the Asia-Pacific (CSCAP) India Secretariat and Africa Centre Functioning within
the premises of Council.
New Delhi:
Dated:
Sd/
Director General
Indian Council of World Affairs.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7