
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Coconut Development Board, (Audit Officer) Recruitment Regulations, 2006
The Coconut Development Board, (Audit Officer) Recruitment
Regulations, 2006
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/14674755/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Coconut Development Board, (Audit Officer) Recruitment Regulations, 2006
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Coconut Development Board, (Audit Officer) Recruitment Regulations, 2006
Rule THE-COCONUT-DEVELOPMENT-BOARD-AUDIT-OFFICER-RECRUITMENT-REGULATIONS-2006 of 2006
Published on 19 May 2006
Commenced on 19 May 2006
[This is the version of this document from 19 May 2006.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Coconut Development Board, (Audit Officer) Recruitment Regulations, 2006
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 297(E), 19th May, 2006
Ministry of Agriculture
(Department of Agriculture and Cooperation)
G.S.R. 297(E). - In exercise of powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the Coconut Development Board
Act, 1979 (5 of 1979) and with the prior sanction of the Central Government, the Coconut Development Board hereby
makes the following recruitment regulations to regulate the method of recruitment to the post of Audit Officer in the
Coconut Development Board, namely:-
1.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Coconut Development Board, (Audit Officer) Recruitment Regulations, 2006
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These regulations may be called the Coconut Development Board, (Audit Officer) Recruitment Regulations, 2006.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Application.
- These regulations shall apply to the post specified in column 1 of the Schedule annexed to these regulations.
3.
Number of Posts, Classification and Scale of Pay etc.
- The number of posts, their classification and the scale of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in columns (2) to
(4) of the Schedule.
4.
Method of recruitment, age limit and other qualifications.
- The method of recruitment, age limit and qualifications and other matters relating to the said post shall be as specified
in columns (5) to (13) of the said Schedule.
5.
Disqualification.
- No person,-
(a)
who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living; or
(b)
who having a spouse living, has entered into or contracted a marriage with any person,
shall be eligible for appointment to the said post:
Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the personal law
applicable to such persons and other party to the marriage and that there are other grounds for so doing exempt any
person from the operation of this regulation.
6.
Power to relax.
- Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by order, for reasons
to be recorded in writing, relax any of the provisions of these regulations with respect of any class or category of
persons.
7.
Saving.
- Nothing in these regulations shall effect reservations, relaxation of age-limit and other concessions required to be
provided for the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, Ex-servicemen and other special
categories of persons in accordance with orders issued by the Central Government from time to time in this regard.
Schedule
Name of post
No. of post
Classification
Scale of pay
Whether Selection or non-selection Post
Age limit for direct recruits
1
2
3
4
5
6
Audit Officer
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Coconut Development Board, (Audit Officer) Recruitment Regulations, 2006
1 *(2006)*Subject to variation Depending on
workload
Group A
Rs. 8000-275-13500
Not applicable
Not exceeding 35 years(relaxable for
Government servants and employees of the Coconut Development
Board upto 5 years in accordance with the instructions or orders
issued by the Central Government)
Educational and other qualification required for
direct recruits
Whether age and educational qualifications
prescribed for direct recruits will apply in the case of
promotees
Period of probation, if any
7
8
9
Essential(i) A Degree in any discipline
of a recognized University,(ii) Pass in Subordinate
Accounts Services / Junior Accounts Officer (Civil) conducted by
the Comptroller and Auditor General / Comptroller General of
Accounts; and(iii) 5 years experience in auditing in a
Government / Recognised Research Institutes / Universities /
Public Sector Undertakings / Statutory / Autonomous Bodies.
(i) Age :
No(ii) Educational Qualification : Yes(as at column 7)
2 Years
Method of recruitment, whether by direct
recruitment or by promotion or by deputation / transfer and
percentage of the vacancies to be filled by various methods
In case of recruitment by promotion /
deputation / transfer, the grade from which promotion, transfer
/ transfer on deputation to be made
10
11
By Deputation (Including short-term contract /
promotion failing which by Direct Recruitment.
Deputation (including short-terms contract /
Promotion:-Officers under Central / State Governments /
Indian Council of Agricultural Research / Agricultural
Universities / Public Sector Undertakings / Recognised Research
Institutions or Council / Semi-Government / Autonomous or
Statutory Organisations:-
(a)
(i) holding analogous
posts on regular basis in the scale of pay of Rs.
8000-275-13,500; or(ii) officers holding scale of pay of Rs.
7,450-225-11,500 with 3 years regular service in the grade;
or(iii) officers holding scale of pay of Rs.
6,500-200-10,500 with 5 years regular service in the grade; and
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Coconut Development Board, (Audit Officer) Recruitment Regulations, 2006
(b) possessing
educational qualification and experience prescribed for direct
recruits under column 7(Note:The Finance Officer
in the scale of pay of Rs. 7,450-225-11,500 in the Coconut
Development Board and possessing the qualifications prescribed
in column 7, will be considered and in case if he/she is
selected and appointed he/she will be treated as having been
appointed on promotion).(period of deputation including
period of deputation in another Ex-cadre-Post held immediately
preceding this appointment in the same or other Organisations /
Department of the Central Government shall ordinarily not exceed
3 (three) years. The maximum age limit for appointment on
deputation (including short term contract) shall be not
exceeding 56 years as on the closing date of the receipt of
applications).
If a DPC exists is its composition
Circumstances in which UPSC is to be consulted in making
rectt.
12
13
1.
Chairman, Coconut Development Board
- Chairman
Not applicable
2.
Chief Coconut Development Officer, Coconut
Development Board
- Member
3.
Secretary, Coconut Development Board
- Member
4.
An officer not below the rank of Under
Secretary to Government of India in the Department to
Agriculture & Cooperation
- Member
5.
An officer of appropriate status of the Board
or in his absence an officer of the Central Government situated
locally belonging to Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribe Community
- Member
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4