
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Qualifications, Powers And Functions Of Chief Electrical Inspector And Electrical Insp...
The Qualifications, Powers And Functions Of Chief Electrical
Inspector And Electrical Inspectors Rules, 2006
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/146183146/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Qualifications, Powers And Functions Of Chief Electrical Inspector And Electrical Inspectors Rules, 2006
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Qualifications, Powers And Functions Of Chief Electrical Inspector And Electrical Inspectors Rules, 2006
Rule
THE-QUALIFICATIONS-POWERS-AND-FUNCTIONS-OF-CHIEF-ELECTRICAL-INSPECTOR-AND-ELECTRICAL-INS
PECTORS-RULES-2006 of 2006
Published on 17 August 2006
Commenced on 17 August 2006
[This is the version of this document from 17 August 2006.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Qualifications, Powers And Functions Of Chief Electrical Inspector And Electrical Inspectors Rules, 2006
Published vide G.S.R. 481(E), dated 17.8.2006, published in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt. II, Section 3(i), dated
17.8.2006.
464.
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 162 and clause (z) of sub-section (2) of section 176 of
the Electricity Act, 2003 (
36 of 2003
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Qualifications, Powers And Functions Of Chief Electrical Inspector And Electrical Insp...
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules for Qualifications, Powers and Functions of Chief Electrical
Inspector and Electrical Inspectors.
1.
Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called The Qualifications, Powers and Functions of Chief
Electrical Inspector and Electrical Inspectors Rules, 2006.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions .-(1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Electricity Act, 2003;
(b)
"Appellate Authority" in respect of an appeal against the order of an Electrical Inspector, means the Chief Electrical
Inspector, and in respect of an appeal against the order of the Chief Electrical Inspector, means the Central
Government;
(c)
"Section" means section of the Act;
(d)
"Inspector" means a Chief Electrical Inspector or Electrical Inspector as the case may be.
(2)
Words and expression used and not defined in these rules but defined in the Electricity Act, 2003 (
36 of 2003
), shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.
3.
Applicability of rules .-These rules shall apply in respect of following:-
(i)
a generating company wholly or partly owned by the Central Government;
(ii)
any inter-State generation, transmission, trading or supply of electricity and with respect to any mines, oil-fields,
railways, national highways, airports, telegraphs, broadcasting stations and any works of defense, dockyard, nuclear
power installations;
(iii)
National Load Dispatch Center and Regional Load Dispatch Center; and
(iv)
any works or electric installation belonging to the Central Government or under its control.
4.
Qualification for Chief Electrical Inspector .-No person shall be appointed to be a Chief Electrical Inspector unless-
(a)
he possesses a degree in electrical engineering or its equivalent from a recognized University or Institution; and
(b)
he has been regularly engaged for a period of at least twenty years in the practice of electrical engineering of which not
less than two years has been spent in an electrical or mechanical engineering workshop or in generation or transmission
or distribution of electricity, or in the administration of the Act and rules thereunder, in a position of responsibility.
5.
Qualifications for Electrical Inspectors .-(1) No person shall be appointed to be an Electrical Inspector unless-
(a)
he possesses a degree in Electrical Engineering or its equivalent from a recognized University or Institution; and
(b)
he has been regularly engaged for a period of [at least five years] in the practice of electrical engineering, of which not
less than one year has been spent in an electrical or mechanical engineering workshop or in generation or transmission
or distribution of electricity, or in the administration of the Act and rules thereunder, in a position of responsibility.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Qualifications, Powers And Functions Of Chief Electrical Inspector And Electrical Insp...
(2)
The person appointed as Electrical Inspector shall undergo such training as the Central Government may consider it
necessary for the purpose and such training shall be completed to the satisfaction of the Government.
6.
Powers of the Chief Electrical Inspector and Electrical Inspector .-The Chief Electrical Inspector and the Electrical
Inspector shall have powers to inspect the works and electrical installations in his area in respect of which, such an
Inspector has been directed by the Central Government to exercise his powers and perform functions under sub-section
(1) of section 162 of the Act.
7.
Powers of entry and inspection .-For carrying out inspections as referred to in rule 6 above,-
(1)
The Inspector may enter, inspect and examine any place, carriage or vessel in which he has reason to believe that there
is any appliance or apparatus used in the generation, transmission, transformation, conversion, distribution or use of
energy and may carry out tests therein.
(2)
Every supplier, consumer, owner and occupier shall afford all reasonable facilities to any such inspector to make such
examinations and tests as may be necessary to satisfy himself as to the due observance of the safety regulations as
specified by the Authority under section 53 of the Act. The Indian Electricity Rules, 1956 made under section 37 of the
Indian Electricity Act, 1910 (now repealed) shall continue to be in force till the regulations under section 53 of the Act are
made.
(3)
An Inspector may require a supplier of the electricity to submit to him a list of all persons supplied with energy by him,
the addresses at which such energy is supplied, the month of connecting services, the voltage of supply, the connected
load and the purpose of supply and the supplier shall comply with such requisitions.
(4)
Every licensee and every owner of a generating station shall, if required so to do by an Inspector, provide reasonable
means for carrying out all tests, specified under the Act or regulations thereunder, of the appliances or apparatus used
for the supply or use of energy by him, as the case may be.
(5)
Upon such inspection, an Inspector may serve an order, within 15 days from the date of such inspection, in the Form A,
to any licensee, consumer, owner or occupier, calling upon him to comply with any specified regulation and the person
so served shall thereupon comply with the order within the period specified therein, and shall report in writing to the
Inspector serving the order mentioning therein as to when the order has been complied with:
Provided that, if within the period specified in the aforesaid order an appeal is filed against the order by the person on
whom such order has been served, the appellate authority may suspend its operation pending the decision of the
appeal.
8.
Appeals .-(1) An appeal against an order served under these rules shall lie-
(a)
if the order is served by an Electrical Inspector, to the Chief Electrical Inspector;
(b)
if the order is served by a Chief Electrical Inspector, to the Central Government.
(2)
In the case of an order of Chief Electrical Inspector on an appeal preferred to him under clause (a) of sub-rule (1), a
further appeal shall lie to the Central Government.
(3)
Every appeal made under sub-rule (1) shall be in writing and shall be accompanied by a copy of the order appealed
against and shall be presented within three months of the date on which such order has been served or delivered, as the
case may be.
(4)
An appeal shall be disposed off within ninety days from the date of receipt of the appeal.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Qualifications, Powers And Functions Of Chief Electrical Inspector And Electrical Insp...
FORM A
Form Of Order
To
1. Whereas the installation was inspected on .....and whereas it appears to me that you have not complied with the rules
made under sub-section (1) of section 162 and the regulations made under section 53 of the Act, in the following respect
(particulars to be given where necessary) namely ......you are hereby called upon to comply with the said
rule(s)/regulations(s) on or before .......... Day of .......and to report compliance in writing to me.
2. An appeal may be filed against this order under rule 8 of the aforesaid Rules, within three months of the date on
which this order is served or delivered but this order must be complied with, notwithstanding such appeal, unless the
appellate authority on or before the date specified in paragraph above, suspends its operation.
Dated..........................................................................................
The ...............................day of..........................................
........................................................................
Signature
Chief Electrical Inspector or
Electrical Inspector
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4