
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Salaries, Allowances and other Conditions ...
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Salaries,
Allowances and other Conditions of Service of Chairperson and
Members) Rules, 2006
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/33616102/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Salaries, Allowances and other Conditions of Service of Chairperson
and Members) Rules, 2006
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Salaries, Allowances and other Conditions of Service of Chairperson
and Members) Rules, 2006
Rule
THE-PETROLEUM-AND-NATURAL-GAS-REGULATORY-BOARD-SALARIES-ALLOWANCES-AND-OTHER-CONDITI
ONS-OF-SERVICE-OF-CHAIRPERSON-AND-MEMBERS-RULES-2006 of 2006
Published on 15 September 2006
Commenced on 15 September 2006
[This is the version of this document from 15 September 2006.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Salaries, Allowances and other Conditions of Service of Chairperson
and Members) Rules, 2006
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 570(E), 15th September, 2006
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Salaries, Allowances and other Conditions ...
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas
G.S.R. 570(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-section (4) of Section 5 read with clause (a) of Sub-section
(2) of Section 60 of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006 (19 of 2006), the Central Government
hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Salaries, Allowances and other Conditions
of Service of Chairperson and Members) Rules, 2006.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context other wise requires, -
(a)
"Act", means the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006;
(b)
"Board", means the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board established under sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the
Act;
(c)
"Chairperson", means the Chairperson of the Board appointed under Section 4 of the Act;
(d)
"Member", means a whole-time Member of the Board appointed under Section 4 of the Act;
(e)
All other words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act, shall have the Same meanings
respectively as assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Salaries and allowances.
(a)
The Chairperson shall be entitled to a monthly salary of Rs. 26,000 (fixed).
(b)
The Member shall be entitled to a monthly salary in the pay scale of Rs. 22,400-525-24,500.
(c)
The Chairperson and a Member shall be entitled to draw dearness allowance and city compensatory allowance at the
rate applicable to a Group 'A' officer of the Central Government drawing an equivalent pay:
Provided that in case of appointment of a person as the Chairperson or a Member who has retired from the service
under Central Government or State Government and who is in receipt of, or has received or has become entitled to
receive any retirement benefits by way of pension, gratuity, employers contribution to the Contributory Provident Fund or
other forms of retirement benefits, the pay of such Chairperson or Member, shall be reduced by the gross amount of
pension or employers contribution to the Contributory Provident Fund or any other form of retirement benefits, if any
(except pension equivalent of gratuity), drawn or to be drawn by him:
Provided further that if a person who has retired from any service including service under Central Government or State
Government, Public Sector Undertakings and/or Autonomous Bodies is appointed as the Chairperson or a Member, he
shall be entitled to receive dearness allowance at the same rate as applicable to a Group 'A' officer of the Central
Government drawing an equivalent pay, but he shall not be entitled to receive dearness relief on pension during the
period he holds office as such Chairperson or a Member.
4.
Leave.
- The Chairperson and a Member shall be entitled to thirty days of earned leave for every year of service. The payment
of leave salary during leave shall be governed by rule 40 of the Central Civil Service (Leave) Rules, 1972. The
Chairperson and a Member shall be entitled to encashment of fifty percent of earned leave to his credit at any time.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Salaries, Allowances and other Conditions ...
5.
GPF or CPF, Pension and Gratuity.
- The Chairperson and Members would be governed by contributory Provident Fund Rules and no option to subscribe
under GPF Rules will be available. Additional Pension and Gratuity will not be admissible for service rendered in the
Regulatory Authority.
6.
Leave Travel Concession, Travelling Allowance and Daily Allowance.
- The Chairperson and a Member shall be entitled to travelling allowance and Daily allowance on tour as applicable to
Government Servants drawing that basic pay and they shall also be entitled to facility of temporary Government
accommodation in Guest Houses or Inspection Bungalows under the control of the Central Government, wherever
applicable, on payment of normal rent at outstations, of the class to which Government Servants of equivalent pay are
eligible.
7.
Medical Treatment.
- The Chairperson and a Member shall be entitled to Medical treatment and Hospital facilities as provided in the Central
Government Health Service Scheme for retired Government servants and at places where the CGHS Scheme is not in
operation, the Chairperson and Members who are not Government servants shall be entitled to the facilities as provided
in the Central Service (Medical Attendance) Rules.
8.
Official Visits Abroad.
- The Chairperson and a Member shall be entitled to undertake official visits abroad with the prior approval of the
Minister-in-charge of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas and after political clearance from the Ministry of External
Affairs. The daily allowance and the provision for hotel accommodation during the period of tour abroad shall be
regulated in accordance with the Government instructions as applicable from time to time to officers of equivalent pay in
the Government of India and Indian Missions abroad shall take care of arrangements and extend facilities as applicable
to Group "A" officers of the Central Government drawing an equivalent pay.
9.
Transport allowance.
- The Chairperson and a Member shall be eligible for fixed reimbursement of transport allowance between Rs.3,000/-
and Rs.5,000/- per month as laid down by the Department of Personnel and Training from time to time for the use and
maintenance of his personal car for transportation between residence and office and it shall include the salary of a driver
who would not be a Government servant.
10.
Accommodation.
- The Chairperson and a Member shall be given the option of claiming House Rent Allowance @ 30% of the basic pay
drawn if they stay at Delhi but no house shall be hired by the Board or allotted by the Government and in case of a
satellite town surrounding the National Capital Territory of Delhi, the Chairperson and a Member shall be entitled to
rented unfurnished accommodation with built-up area measuring around 350 square meters for Chairperson and 300
square meters for a Member with suitable open land area appurtenant as permissible under the regulations of the
concerned municipal bodies.
11.
Oath of Officer and Secrecy.
- The Chairperson and Members shall, before entering upon their office, make and subscribe an Oath of Office and
Secrecy, in the forms I and II annexed to these rules.
12.
Telephone facility, official meetings and entertainment expenses.
- The Chairperson and a Member shall be eligible for telephone facilities, official meetings and entertainment expenses
as admissible to a Group "A" officer of the Central Government drawing an equivalent pay.
13.
Residuary matters.
- Matters relating to the terms and conditions of service of the Chairperson or a Member with respect to which no
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Salaries, Allowances and other Conditions ...
express provision has been made in these rules, shall be such as are admissible to a Group "A" officer of the Central
Government drawing an equivalent pay.
14.
Power to relax.
- The Central Government shall have power to relax, after recording in writing the reasons thereof, any provision of
these rules in respect of Chairperson or any Member.
15.
Interpretation.
- If any question arises relating to the interpretation of these rules, the decision of the Central Government there-upon
shall be final.
Form-I
(see rule 13)
Form of Oath of Office for the Chairperson and Members of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board
I,____________________________________ having been appointed as the Chairperson or Member (cross out portion
not applicable) solemnly affirm and do swear in the name of God that I will faithfully and conscientiously discharge my
duties as the Chairperson or Member (cross out portion not applicable), of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory
Board, to the best of my ability, knowledge and judgement, without fear or favour, affection or ill-will.
Dated.
(Name of the Chairperson or Member)
Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board
Form-II
(see rule 13)
Form of Oath of Secrecy for the Chairperson or Members of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board
I,______________________________________ having been appointed as the Chairperson or Member (cross out
portion not applicable) do solemnly affirm and swear in the name of God that I will directly or indirectly communicate or
reveal to any person or persons any matter which shall be brought under my consideration or shall become known to me
as the Chairperson or Member (cross out portion not applicable), of the said Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory
Board, except as may be required for the due discharge of my duties as the Chairperson or Member (cross out portion
not applicable).
Dated:
(Name of the Chairperson/Member)
Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4