
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Annual Report) Rules, 2006
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Annual Report)
Rules, 2006
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/124227088/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Annual Report) Rules, 2006
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Annual Report) Rules, 2006
Rule THE-PETROLEUM-AND-NATURAL-GAS-REGULATORY-BOARD-ANNUAL-REPORT-RULES-2006 of 2006
Published on 15 September 2006
Commenced on 15 September 2006
[This is the version of this document from 15 September 2006.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Annual Report) Rules, 2006
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 572(E), 15th September, 2006
G.S.R. 572(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-section (1) of Section 41 read with clause (h) of Sub-section
(2) of Section 60 of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006 (
19 of 2006
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Annual Report) Rules, 2006
These rules may be called the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Annual Report) Rules, 2006.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Act" means the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006;
(b)
"Appendix" means an Appendix annexed to these rules;
(c)
All other words and expressions used in these rules and not defined, but defined in the Act shall have the same
meanings as assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Form, manner and the time of furnishing of returns, statements and Annual Report.
(1)
The Board shall prepare and furnish to the Central Government an annual report giving a true and full account of its
activities including proceedings and policies during the previous financial year in the form and manner prescribed in the
Appendix.
(2)
The Annual Report of the previous financial year referred to in sub-rule (1) above shall be submitted by the Board to the
Central Government after adoption at a meeting of the Board and being signed by the members and authenticated by
affixing the common seal of the Board within nine months after the close of each financial year.
Appendix
[see rule 3]
Form of Annual Report of The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board comprising inter-alia of following items:-
Part I ? General
(a)
Review of General Economic Environment;
(b)
Global Oil and Gas Scenario;
(c)
Domestic Oil and Gas Scenario;
(d)
Best international Oil and Gas regulatory practices and adoption thereof in the Indian context.
Part II ? Review of working and operations of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board in respect of the
following activities :-
(i)
Registration and Authorization of entities;
(ii)
Protection of interest of consumers by fostering fair trade and competition amongst the entities;
(iii)
Monitoring of uninterrupted and adequate supply of petroleum and petroleum products in all parts of the Country;
(iv)
Declaring, laying, building and operating or expanding the pipelines as common carrier or contract carrier;
(v)
Declaring, laying, building and operating or expanding the City gas distribution networks;
(vi)
Regulation of transportation rates for common carriers and contract carriers;
(vii)
Monitoring of prices and transportation rates in respect of notified petroleum, petroleum products and natural gas and
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Annual Report) Rules, 2006
corrective measures taken to prevent restrictive trade practice by the entities;
(viii)
Enforcing of retail service obligations for retail outlets and marketing service obligations for entities;
(ix)
Technical standards and specifications including safety standards in construction and operation of pipeline and
infrastructure projects related to downstream petroleum and natural gas sector;
(x)
Gist of important dispute resolutions, directions/orders, appeals and court orders;
(xi)
Gist of powers and functions delegated by the Board;
(xii)
New regulations, if any, framed during the year.
Part III ? Statement of Annual Accounts of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board.
Part IV ? Organisational matters of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3