
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Quality Of Service Of Broadband Service Regulations, 2006
The Quality Of Service Of Broadband Service Regulations, 2006
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/33009050/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Quality Of Service Of Broadband Service Regulations, 2006
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Quality Of Service Of Broadband Service Regulations, 2006
Rule THE-QUALITY-OF-SERVICE-OF-BROADBAND-SERVICE-REGULATIONS-2006 of 2006
Published on 6 October 2006
Commenced on 6 October 2006
[This is the version of this document from 6 October 2006.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Quality Of Service Of Broadband Service Regulations, 2006
Published vide Notification No. 304-6/2004-QoS, dated 6th, October, 2006
1042.
Notification No. 304-6/2004-QoS, dated 6th October, 2006- In exercise of the powers conferred upon it under section 36
read with sub-clauses (i) and (v) of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 11 of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of
India Act 1997(24 of 1997), the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India hereby makes the following regulations, namely:-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement .-(i) These regulations shall be called as Quality of Service of Broadband Service
Regulations 2006.
(ii)
These regulations shall be applicable to all the Internet Service Providers, Basic Service Providers, Unified Access
Page 1/11
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Quality Of Service Of Broadband Service Regulations, 2006
Service Providers and Cellular Mobile Telecom Service Providers including Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited and
Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited., providing Broadband Service.
(iii)
These regulations shall come into force with effect from 1st January, 2007.
2.
Definitions .-In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997;
(b)
"Authority" means the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI);
(c)
"Basic Service" means service derived from a Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) as specified in the license;
(d)
"Broadband" is defined in the Broadband Policy 2004 as "An always-on data connection that is able to support
interactive services including Internet access and has the capability of the minimum download speed of 256 kilo bits per
second (kbps) to an individual subscriber from the Point of Presence (POP) of the service provider intending to provide
Broadband service where multiple such individual Broadband connections are aggregated and the subscriber is able to
access these interactive services including the Internet through this POP. The interactive services will exclude any
services for which a separate license is specifically required, for example, real-time voice transmission, except to the
extent that it is presently permitted under ISP license with Internet Telephony";
(e)
"CPE" means Customer Premises Equipment;
(f)
"Customer" or "Consumer" means a subscriber of Broadband service;
(g)
"DSLAM" means Digital Subscriber Line Access Multiplexer;
(h)
"Internet" is a global information system that is-
*logically linked together by a globally unique address, based on Internet Protocol (IP) or its subsequent
enhancements/upgradations;
*able to support communications using the Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) suite or its
subsequent enhancements/upgradations, and all other IP compatible protocols;
(i)
"IP Address": Operation of Internet Service requires IP addresses which is at present a 32 bit binary address. This
address is required for each permanent connection on Internet. Typically, it is required for ports of routers and other ISP
equipment and also for leased line connections to be provided to end users;
(j)
"IGSP" means International Gateway Service Provider for Internet services;
(k)
"ILDO" means International Long Distance Operator;
(l)
"ISP" means Internet Service Provider licensed to provide access to Internet Service;
(m)
"ISP Node" means a location where the ISP's Gateway Router is connected with upstream service provider;
(n)
"LAN" means Local Area Network. It is a group of computers and associated devices that share a common
communications line or wireless link;
(o)
"License" means a license granted or having effect as if granted under section 4 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 and
Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1933;
(p)
Page 2/11
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Quality Of Service Of Broadband Service Regulations, 2006
"Licensee" means a registered Indian Company that has been awarded license for providing specified public
telecommunication service under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 (
13 of 1885
) for providing;
(q)
"NAP" means Network Access Point. It is a major overseas Internet interconnection point that serves to logically link
global Internet;
(r)
"NIXI" means National Internet Exchange of India;
(s)
"NLDO" means National Long Distance Operator;
(t)
"PC" means Personal Computer;
(u)
"POP" means Point of Presence of the service provider intending to provide Broadband service where multiple such
individual Broadband connections are aggregated and the subscriber is able to access interactive services including the
Internet through this POP;
(v)
"Quality of Service": The term "Quality of Services" (QoS) is defined as "the collective effect of service performance
which determines the degree of satisfaction of a user of the service indicating the performance of a broadband network
and of the degree to which the network conforms to the stipulated norms";
(w)
"Service Provider" means a licensee of Internet Service, Basic Service, Unified Access Service and Cellular Mobile
Service, Commercial VSAT Service, etc., including Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited/Bharat Sanchar Nigam
Limited, who is licensed to provide Internet service;
(x)
"Time Consistent Busy Hour" (TCBH): The one hour period starting at the same time each day for which the average
traffic of the resource group concerned is greatest over the days under consideration. ITU recommends analysis of 90
days to establish TCBH;
(y)
"UASP" means Unified Access Service Provider.
3.
Benchmarks for Quality of Service (QoS) Parameters .-The service providers shall meet the benchmarks for the Quality
of Service Parameters for Broadband as laid down below:-
Sl.
No.
Qos Parameters
Benchmarks
Averaged over a period of
(i)
Service Provisioning/Activation Time
100% cases in=<15 working days (subject to technical feasibility). In all cases where payment towards installation
charge and security deposit is taken and the Broadband connection is not provided within 15 working days, a credit at
the rate of Rs. 10 per day, subject to a maximum of installation charge or equivalent usage allowance shall be given to
the customer, at the time of issue of first bill.
(ii)
Fault Repair/Restoration Time
By next working day:>90% and within 3 working days: 99% Rebate:
(a) Faults Pending for>3 working days and <7 working days: rebate equivalent to 7 days of minimum monthly charge or
equivalent usage allowance
(b) Faults  Pending for>7 working days and <15 working days: rebate equivalent to 15 days of minimum monthly charge
Page 3/11
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Quality Of Service Of Broadband Service Regulations, 2006
or equivalent usage allowance
(c) Faults Pending for>15 working days: rebate equivalent to one month of minimum monthly charge or equivalent usage
allowance
(iii)
Billing Performance
·          Billing complaints per 100 bills issued
·          Percentage of Billing complaints resolved
·          Time taken for refund of deposits after closure:
<2%
100% within 4 weeks
100% within 60 days
One month
(iv)
Response time to the customer for assistance
Percentage of calls answered by operator
(Voice to Voice) Within 60 seconds>60% Within 90 seconds>80%
One month
(v)
Bandwidth
Utilization/Throughput:
(a) (Bandwith Utilization)
(i)                  POP to ISP Gateway Node
[Intra-network]
Link(s)
<80% link(s)/route bandwidth utilization during peak hours
(ii)                ISP Gateway Node to IGSP/NIXI Node upstream Link(s) for International connectivity
(b) Broadband Connection Speed (download)
(TCBH). If on any link(s)/route bandwidth utilization exceeds 90%, then network is considered to have congestion. For
this additional provisioning of Bandwidth on immediate basis, but not later than one month, is mandated.
Subscribed Broadband Connection Speed to be met>80% from ISP Node to User.
(vi)
Service Availability/Uptime (for all users)
>90% quarter ending June 2007;
>98% with effect from quarter ending September 2007 and onwards
One quarter
(vii)
Packet Loss (for wired broad-band access)
<1%
One month
(viii)
Network Latency (for wired broadband access)
One month
·          User reference point at POP/ISP Gateway (IGSP/NIXI)
<120 m sec
·          User reference point at ISP Gateway Node to International nearest NAP port abroad (Terrestrial)
<350 m sec
·          User reference point at ISP Gateway Node to International nearest NAP port abroad (Satellite)
<800 m sec
(ix)
Customer perception of services
One quarter
Page 4/11
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Quality Of Service Of Broadband Service Regulations, 2006
(a)
% satisfied with the provision of service
>90%
(b)
% satisfied with the billing performance
>90%
(c)
% satisfied with help services
>90%
(d)
% satisfied with network performance, reliability and availability
>85%
(e)
% satisfied with maintainability
>85%
(f)
% satisfied with overall customer satisfaction
>85%
(g)
% satisfied with customer satisfaction with offered supplementary services such as allocation of static/fixed IP
addresses, e-mail IDs, etc.
>85%
4.
Reporting requirement .-The service providers shall submit the Performance Monitoring Reports on the QoS
benchmarks for all the parameters in the format to be prescribed by the Authority on Quarterly basis, ending 31st March,
30th June, 30th September and 31st December, but not later than 6 weeks from the end of the Quarter. The Authority
may review from time to time the periodicity and the format of such report.
5.
Registration of Demands for Broadband Connections .-5.1 Service Providers, who intend to provide Broadband service,
in a particular service area or exchange area/locality/city shall advertise and make public the Broadband availability plan
at periodic interval of at least once in 6 months so that prospective customers can make registration.
5.2
In order to ensure that applications for Broadband connections are registered without any discrimination, the service
provider shall register all demands for Broadband connections and give registration number to the prospective customer.
If it is technically feasible to provide the Broadband connection on demand, the same shall be provided within the time
frames indicated in the regulation. In all other cases, waiting list shall be maintained and connections released in a
non-discriminatory manner as per the waiting list.
6.
Auditing .-6.1 The service providers shall maintain complete and accurate records of Service Provisioning/Activation,
Fault Repair/ Restoration, Billing Complaints, Response time to the customer for assistance, Bandwidth
Utilisation/Throughput, Service Availability/Uptime, Packet Loss and Latency measurements.
6.2
Network performance parameters like Bandwidth Utilisation/Throughput including Broadband Connection Speed, Packet
Loss and Latency shall be measured on sample basis by the Authority from time to time, directly or if need so arises,
through an independent agency.
6.3
The Authority shall audit/inspect, either directly or through an independent agency, the records relating to the reporting
of compliance to the QoS parameters. The Authority, if it thinks fit, may require the service providers to get the reports
submitted to the Authority audited, at its own cost, through independent and qualified agencies.
7.
Customer Perception of Service .-The Quality of Service parameter for Customer perception regarding Broadband
Page 5/11
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Quality Of Service Of Broadband Service Regulations, 2006
service shall be measured through customer survey conducted by the Authority through an independent agency. The
result of this survey may be made public for the information of the customers to generate healthy competition amongst
service providers to improve service.
8.
Broadband Connection Speed (download).-The service providers shall make available a facility for measuring
Broadband Connection Speed (download) at ISP node within a period of three months of coming into force of these
regulations.
9.
Review .-The Authority  suo motu or on reference from any affected party, or for good and sufficient reasons, may
review and modify these regulations.
10.
Interpretation .-In case of any doubt regarding interpretation of any of the provisions of these regulations, the decision of
the Authority shall be final and binding.
11.
Explanatory memorandum .-These regulations contain at Annex-an Explanatory Memorandum to provide the
background and reasons for the issuance of these regulations, detailed meaning of the various parameters and their
measurement methods.
ANNEXURE
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM
BACKGROUND:
1. The Broadband Policy issued by the Government in October, 2004 provides forfixation of the Quality of Service
standards for Broadband Service by TRAI. At the time of issue of the Broadband Policy, Broadband connections in India
were of the order of 50,000 only. This has crossed 17 lakhs connections by August, 2006. Along with the increase in the
numbers of customers, the numbers of consumer complaints pertaining to Broadband Services are also increasing. The
analysis of complaints received by the Authority indicates the customers concern for fault repair, service provisioning,
and network & billing related problems. To address customers' concern and to create conditions for consumer
satisfaction, a need is, therefore, felt to fix the Quality of Service benchmarks for Broadband.
2. The Authority had undertaken public consultation by releasing a Consultation Paper on 23rd May, 2006 and
comments of stakeholders were sought by 16th June, 2006. Open House Discussions with the stakeholders were held
at Delhi on 28th June, 2006. After the Open House Discussions, a core group, consisting of representatives from COAL
AUSPI, ISPAI, BSNL, MTNL, VSNL, Spectranet and an independent Consultant, was formed to further deliberate on
some of the issues relating to Quality of Service for Broadband.
3. The Authority considered the comments received from stakeholders during the consultation process and the
deliberations of the core group while finalizing the Quality of Service norms for Broadband. The meaning of the various
parameters, its measurement methodology and rationale for the Quality of Service Benchmarks is given below.
Objective of laying down Quality of Service Parameters:
4. The objective of laying down Quality of Service Parameters for Broadband service is to:
(i)
Create transparency and monitorable standards in services through predetermined Quality of Service norms for
Broadband which the service provider is required to provide and the user has a right to expect.
(ii)
Measure the Quality of Service for Broadband provided by the Service Providers from time to time and to compare them
with the norms so as to assess the level of performance.
(iii)
Protect the interests of consumers of Broadband service and thus enhance consumer satisfaction.
MEANING OF THE QoS PARAMETERS AND MEASUREMENT METHODOLOGY
(a)
Service Provisioning/Activation Time:
5. The service provisioning/ activation time means the time taken from the date of receipt of an application to the date
when the service is activated.
6. Core group, recommended that in case an advance payment of any sort, for installation or service provisioning, has
Page 6/11
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Quality Of Service Of Broadband Service Regulations, 2006
been taken, then the service must be activated within 15 days. If this is not done, then the service provider must return
the money to the customer. The service provisioning benchmark of 15 days has been prescribed accordingly.
7. Technically Non Feasible (TNF) cases such as unavailability of Broadband infrastructure/ equipment in the Area or
Spare Capacity, i.e., Broadband Ports including equipment to be installed at the customer premises for activating
Broadband connection shall be excluded from the calculation of this parameter. Also, problems relating to customer
owned equipment such as PC, LAN Card/USB Port and internal wiring or non-availability of such equipment shall be
excluded from the calculation of this parameter.
(b)
Fault Repair/Restoration Time:
8. Fault Repair/ Restoration Time means the time taken to restore an existing customer's service to operational level
from the time that a problem or fault is reported.
9. Only those complaints, which have been registered till the close of the business hours of the day, will be taken into
account. Complaints registered after the business hours will be taken as being registered in the next day business
hours. At the same time, faults due to the customer premises equipment which is owned by customer such as computer
hardware and software including LAN card/USB Ports, etc., shall be excluded from the measurement of performance
against this benchmark, as the service provider is not directly responsible for these faults.
10. The benchmarks proposed for this parameter in the Consultation Paper was different from the benchmarks
prescribed in these regulations. This is mainly because during discussions with the core group members, it was felt that
the benchmark for Fault Restoration Time given in the ISP license agreement cannot be diluted. Accordingly, similar
benchmarks have been prescribed in these regulations for Fault Repair/ Restoration Time.
11. During consultation, the service providers, core group members and consumer organizations had accepted the
proposal to give rebate/credit for downtime, although there were different views regarding the quantum of rebate for
downtime including provision for rebate of excess down time on the same principles as voice telephony services. In
order to have uniformity in the QoS regulations, the Authority has prescribed rebates on the same principles as for basic
service (wireline) for excessive downtime. In all cases where the fault is not rectified within 3 working days, rebate shall
be given as per the provisions in regulation 3(ii).
(c)
Billing Performance:
12.
The percentage of bills resulting in a customer complaint indicates the billing performance.
Billing complaints per 100 bills issued =
Total number of disputed bills X100
Total number of bills issued during one billing cycle.
The benchmark for this parameter has been prescribed, in line with the proposal in the consultation paper and the views
of the stakeholders. The Billing Performance parameters have been specified for online charging systems as well as for
offline billing system. It also includes charging errors in preparation of bills by the service providers.
(d)
Response Time to the customer for Assistance:
13.
The duration from the instant a call is made to helpline number and a ring back is received to the instant the human
operator answers the calling user to provide the service requested.
14.
The calculations shall be provided based on the percentage of calls answered within 60 seconds and within 90 seconds,
averaged over a period of one month.
15.
This parameter was not proposed in the Consultation Paper. But considering the fact that complaints/ service requests
are normally made over on telephone, it is necessary to measure the effectiveness of the customer care helpline
numbers. Only voice to voice calls to the customer care helpline/call centre/help desk numbers are included in the
regulation and this does not mean IVR response from the customer care centre of the service provider.
(e)
Bandwidth Utilization/Throughput:
Page 7/11
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Quality Of Service Of Broadband Service Regulations, 2006
16.
During consultation process there were different suggestions regarding measurement of the parameter and in the core
group discussions it was generally agreed that the benchmark proposed in the Consultation Paper was difficult to
measure and implement. It was deliberated in the core group discussions and generally agreed that measurement of the
bandwidth utilisation for network links can be made using Multi Router Traffic Grapher (MRTG).
17.
The Internet Service Provider could offer a good quality of service to the customers only if there is enough bandwidth in
the Access segment, long distance segment and Overseas NAP segment. The Access segment is entirely managed
and operated by the ISP. The broadband service can be provided through DSL, OFC, Cable TV Network, VSAT and
Broadband Wireless Access (BWA) technologies. The national long distance segment is usually taken on lease from
NLDOs/ UASPs and the Overseas NAP segment is generally provided by the ILDOs in the form of International Private
Leased Circuit (IPLC) or Internet Leased Line (ILL). Therefore, enough bandwidth should be made available in, all the
three segments for ensuring good quality of service.
18.
The Authority has considered the deliberations of the core group while fixing the benchmarks for this parameter and
decided that the service providers are required to monitor the bandwidth utilization during Time Consistent Busy Hours
(TCBH) for all network link(s)/route. ISPs/ Service Providers shall report to TRAI the bandwidth utilization (loading) of all
the upstream links going to IGSP/NIXI with Multi Router Traffic Grapher (MRTG). However, for local links/intra-network
links the service provider need to report, only, exceptions having loading more than 80%. In case there is more than one
link, then the average utilization of all the route links should not exceed 90% of loading level for a period of at least one
month. The broadband service provider is required to make provision for additional bandwidth if the bandwidth utilization
of the network links exceeds the 90% loading level for a period of at least one month. Average utilization of bandwidth in
a route means utilization of bandwidth capacity on all the links of the route. For example, if there are 3 links consisting of
one link of 34 Mbps, two links of 155 Mbps each, in a route from ISP gateway to IGSP then the total bandwidth available
in the route is 344 Mbps (34+'155+155) and 90% of loading means bandwidth utilization of 309.06 Mbps.
MEASUREMENT METHODOLOGY FOR LINK BANDWIDTH UTILIZATION/THROUGHPU:
19.
Both in Broadband access network/intra-network links and links to upstream service provider, the bandwidth utilization
shall be monitored using Multi Router Traffic Grapher (MRTG). This is a tool to monitor the traffic load on network links.
MRTG generates HTML pages containing images which provide a live visual representation of the traffic. It works on
UNIX platforms and Windows NT. MRTG uses a highly portable Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)
implementation to read the traffic counters of routers and create graphs representing the traffic on the monitored
network connections. These graphs can be embedded into web pages which can be viewed from.any Web-browser. In
addition to detailed daily view, MRTG also creates visual representations of the traffic over a period. The measurement
for reporting purposes is to be made only on working days during TCBH.
(f)
Broadband Connection Speed (download):
20.
In the consultation paper under the proposed benchmark Bandwidth utilization/ throughput, it was proposed that "the
bandwidth utilization between the user and the nearest serving ISP node during download shall not be less than 70% of
the subscribed level-for 95% of the time". Views of stakeholders are different such as:
(i)
proposed benchmark can be committed and achieved between the user and nearest ISP Node;
(ii)
the dependency of link utilization on the availability of the content/application to be supplied from the other end is one of
the factors to be considered here and dependency is on the other end server, far end ISP link and far end ISP's
upstream connectivity;
(iii)
beyond POP there is always a sharing of bandwidth and the effective throughput at any instant depends on the
contention which increases manifold in the International domain;
(iv)
Page 8/11
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Quality Of Service Of Broadband Service Regulations, 2006
it is not possible to measure throughput as a historic measure; (v) it is not possible to establish that the traffic as less
than 70% due to non-usage of the circuit, or less usage;
(vi)
any measurement has to be on current basis; and
(vii)
bandwidth can be effectively measured by a down-loaded server dedicated for this purpose.
21.
The Authority has considered the views of the stakeholders while fixing the benchmarks for this parameter. This
parameter has been prescribed to enable the users and service providers to measure the connection speed. As per
Broadband Policy, the Broadband has been defined as "an always on data connection that has the capability of the
minimum download speed of 256 kbps to an individual subscriber from the Point of Presence (POP) of the service
provider where multiple such individual broadband connections are aggregated". In order to facilitate measurement of
download speed from POP by the user independently, a measurement facility is needed at each POP. However, it would
be difficult for the Broadband service provider to install the measurement facility in each POP to facilitate the user to test
independently the download speed. Therefore, service providers can install the facility at a central location or at an ISP
Node. The measurement in this way shall include the intra-network links and loading of intra-network links may affect the
speed measurement sometime. Therefore, keeping the reasonable loading level in intra-network links upto ISP Node,
the benchmark has been prescribed that service providers shall ensure the speed of Broadband connection is >80% of
the subscribed speed.
Measurement of Broadband Connection Speed (download):
22.
The parameter can be measured on a sample basis by the user and service provider. The service providers need to
install download speed measurement software in the Server at ISP Node to facilitate the user to measure independently
the download connection speed through a web link. The facility shall be made available and the required procedure and
information to facilitate such testing by the customer shall be made known to the customers by the service provider
within a period of three months of coming into effect of these regulations.
Date download speed =
Size of the test file (data) in ISP Server
Transmission time required for error free transfer of the entire data
(g)
Service Availability/uptime:
23.
Service availability /uptime is the measure of the degree to which the Broadband access network including ISP Node is
operable and not in a state of failure or outage at any point of time for all users. It also includes the upstream
connectivity uptime. Therefore, it measures the total downtime of the network for all users, including the LAN Switches,
Routers, Servers, e-mail facilities, etc., at ISP Node and connectivity to upstream service providers over a period of one
quarter.
Service Availability=
(Total operation hours – Total hours of service downtime) X 100%
Total operational hours
During consultation, some of the stakeholders had suggested a lower benchmark for this parameter. However, the
Authority has fixed the benchmark for this parameter, keeping in view the fact that Broadband being an always on
connection the downtime should be minimal.
24.
Downtime for the purpose of upgrading or routine maintenance of the network system shall be excluded from the
calculation of the service availability/uptime provided that users are informed in advance of any such upgradation or
maintenance action.
(h)
Latency:
25.
During consultation process the general view was that the proposed benchmark of <90 msec for latency from User to
Page 9/11
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Quality Of Service Of Broadband Service Regulations, 2006
IGSP Gateway is too inadequate. There were also suggestions that the measurement to be made on a sample basis
and there should be a reference point for measurement. The reference point was discussed in the core group and the
group considered reference points as User, ISP Node/POP and NIXI/IGSP nodes. Considering the fact that the latency
measurement to NIXI/IGSP Gateway reference point is more holistic than measuring the latency for each component of
the network, the Authority felt that latency in the national leg from the User (Reference Point) to International Gateway
(IGSP/NIXI) shall be specified and decided that the benchmark shall be <120 msec, which is achievable.
26.
The ISPAI also accepted that latency of 300 msec in the international link from NIXI Node/ IGSP Gateway to the nearest
NAP is reasonable. Since the measurement of latency for the international link to the nearest NAP port cannot be made
by the Broadband service provider from IGSP, it is considered to measure the latency for international link from ISP
Node, which is under the control of the service provider. As such, the benchmark will also include the latency from the
ISP Node to the NIXI Node/IGSP Gateway. Considering this aspect, the Authority has decided that the latency for the
terrestrial link from the ISP Node to the nearest NAP be < 350 msec. The core group and stakeholders have generally
agreed to the proposal in the consultation paper for the latency for satellite media as <800msec and the same is
accepted by the Authority.
(i)
Packet Loss:
27.
On Packet loss, different views emerged during consultation process. Some stakeholders had raised doubt about
measurement of packet loss, while some had agreed with the parameter proposed in the Consultation Paper. In the core
group, industry representatives had proposed packet loss of <2%, while others had indicated that it is too lenient.
Considering the International practices and the fact that benchmark of <2% is too lenient, the Authority has decided to
retain the benchmark of <1% proposed in the consultation paper.
Packet Loss and Latency Measurement:
28.
Packet Loss: Packet loss is the percentage of packets lost to the total packets transmitted between two designated
CPE/Router Ports.
29.
Network Latency: Latency is the measure of duration of a round trip for a data packet between specific source and
destination Router Port/Customer Premises Equipment (CPE).
30.
Packet Loss and Latency Parameters indicate the quality of Broadband accessnetwork equipment including leased line
resources used as well as the equipment at the ISP/Service Provider Node. Being responsible to the customer for end to
end QoS, the Broadband service provider needs to ensure that QoS is maintained on all the connected links. For this
purpose, the service provider should negotiate Service Level Agreements (SLA) with the upstream service providers,
i.e., leased line providers (NLD/UASP/BSO/ IP-II) and IGSP/ILDO. There is a need to measure the packet loss and
latency at different points using ping tests.
31.
The Packet Loss and Latency parameters proposed are for wired Broadband access network only having Optical Fibre
Technologies, Digital Subscriber Lines (DSL) on copper loop and Cable TV Network in the access network and
terrestrial media in the national backbone. For the broadband wireless access (BWA), since the technology is evolving
and implementation is at the nascent stage, no benchmark for packet loss and latency is proposed. The Authority would
revisit this issue later.
32.
The measurement will be made for Packet Loss and Latency by the service provider on a sample, basis taking the
Broadband customer (User) configuration as User Reference Test Point at ISP Node/ POP. This configuration shall
have local loop, CPE, ADSL-router/ modem or Cable modem and PC/Laptop. The PC/Laptop shall have a minimum
configuration of Pentium-IV, Windows 2000 operating system/XP/UNIX with 256 MB RAM, hard disk 40 GB which
normally a broadband user is expected to have for getting broadband speed.
33.
Minimum sample reference points for each service area shall be three in number or multiple reference points, if needed.
Page 10/11
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Quality Of Service Of Broadband Service Regulations, 2006
The Packet Loss and Latency shall be measured from user reference points at ISP Node/POP to IGSP/NIXI Gateway
location and also to the nearest NAP port abroad.
34.
Ping Test will be generated during the time consistent busy hour (TCBH). For Ping test the defined Packet size shall be
of 64 bytes. The test conducted on daily basis shall be averaged for a month and the result of the Ping Test to be
indicated for the Packet Loss and Latency.
35.
Packet Loss Measurement shall be done by computing the percent packet loss of 1000 pings (with acknowledgement
for each previous packet received) of 64 byte packet each. This packet loss is the measurement of packet lost from
Broadband customer (User) configuration /User Reference Point at ISP Node/POP to the IGSP/NIXI Gateway and to the
nearest NAP Port abroad.
36.
Latency Measurement shall be done from user reference points at ISP Node/POP to IGSP/ NIXI Gateway location and
to the nearest NAP Port abroad. The round trip delay for the Ping packets from ISP premises to the IGSP/NIXI Gateway
and to the nearest NAP port abroad will be measured by computing the delay for 1000 Pings of 64 bytes each, where
pings are only sent subsequent to an acknowledgement being received for the same for the previous ping.
The following figure shows the various locations from where the packet loss and latency can be measured by the
Service Providers on sample basis during TCBH:
37.
All the measurements of engineering standards such as Bandwidth Utilisation/ Throughput, Packet Loss and Latency
are to be carried out in the Time Consistent Busy Hour (TCBH) as specified by ITU-T.
(j)
Static I.P. Address Allocation:
38.
IP address allocation for Broadband users is normally done by dynamic allocation method on per session basis.
Static/Fix IP address allocation is required for few applications as per the requirement of customer. During consultation
process the stakeholders had generally opined that this should not form part of the QoS benchmarks for Broadband.
Therefore, considering the views of the service providers and the normal practice followed, Static IP address allocation
is not proposed for the QoS benchmarking criteria. But in case a Broadband customer desires to have one or more
static IP addresses, it is expected to be made available by service provider as per normal commercial conditions.
(k)
Customer Perception of Service:
39.
This parameter has been prescribed to assess the customer perception of service.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 11/11