
----- PAGE 1 -----
The National Tiger Conservation Authority (Salaries, Allowances And Other Conditions Of Ap...
The National Tiger Conservation Authority (Salaries, Allowances And
Other Conditions Of Appointment) Rules, 2006
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/161153240/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The National Tiger Conservation Authority (Salaries, Allowances And Other Conditions Of Appointment) Rules, 2006
UNION OF INDIA
India
The National Tiger Conservation Authority (Salaries, Allowances And Other Conditions Of Appointment) Rules, 2006
Rule
THE-NATIONAL-TIGER-CONSERVATION-AUTHORITY-SALARIES-ALLOWANCES-AND-OTHER-CONDITIONS-OF-A
PPOINTMENT-RULES-2006 of 2006
Published on 25 October 2006
Commenced on 25 October 2006
[This is the version of this document from 25 October 2006.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The National Tiger Conservation Authority (Salaries, Allowances And Other Conditions Of Appointment) Rules, 2006
Published vide G.S.R. 661(E), dated 25.10.2006, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, part II, Section 3(ii),
dated 25.10.2006.
24.
/404
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (gii) of sub-section (1) of section 63 read with sub-section (4) of section
38-M of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The National Tiger Conservation Authority (Salaries, Allowances And Other Conditions Of Ap...
53 of 1972
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules regulating the salaries, allowances and other conditions of
appointment of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson, Member and Member-Secretary of the National Tiger
Conservation Authority, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called The National Tiger Conservation Authority (Salaries,
Allowances and other Conditions of Appointment) Rules, 2006.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions .-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (
53 of 1972
);
(b)
"Chairperson" means the Chairperson of the Tiger Conservation Authority;
(c)
"Fund" means the Tiger Conservation Authority Fund constituted under sub-section (2) of section 38-Q;
(d)
"member" means a member of the Tiger Conservation Authority;
(e)
"Member-Secretary" means the Member-Secretary of the Tiger Conservation Authority;
(f)
"section" means section of the Act;
(g)
"Tiger Conservation Authority" means the National Tiger Conservation Authority constituted under section 38-L;
(h)
"Vice-Chairperson" means the Vice-Chairperson of the Tiger Conservation Authority.
3.
Travelling and other allowances to the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and members .-(1) The Chairperson,
Vice-Chairperson and members shall be entitled to travelling allowances and daily allowances in respect of journeys
performed by them in connection with the work of the Tiger Conservation Authority at the rates as are admissible to a
Union Minister, Union Ministers of State and a Secretary to the Government of India respectively.
(2)
Nothwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the Chairperson or any other member, who is a Member of
Parliament, shall not be entitled to any remuneration other than the allowances, defined in clause (a) of section 2 of the
Parliament (Prevention of Disqualification) Act, 1959 (
10 of 1959
) or as the case may be, other than the allowances, if any, receive without incurring such disqualification.
4.
Appointment of Member-Secretary on re-constitution of the Tiger Conservation Authority .-(1) The Central Government
shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint a Member-Secretary of the Tiger Conservation Authority on its
re-constitution, who shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as are assigned to him under the Act and those
assigned by the Authority.
(2)
A person to be appointed as Member-Secretary shall be an Inspector-General of Forests of an Officer of equivalent rank
in the Indian Forest Service, having at least ten years experience in a tiger reserve or wildlife management.
5.
Terms and other conditions of service of Member-Secretary .-The Member-Secretary of the Tiger Conservation
Authority, subject to the provisions contained in the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 38-N of the Act, shall be entitled
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The National Tiger Conservation Authority (Salaries, Allowances And Other Conditions Of Ap...
to the salary in the pay scale of rupees 18400-500-22400/- and shall also be entitled to such allowances, leave,
provident fund, pension and other retirement bebefits, official accomodation and medical facilities as are for the time
being admissible to the officers of the Central Government belonging to Group `A' of the corresponding scale of pay.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3