
----- PAGE 1 -----
Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario Regulations, 200...
Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network
Scenario Regulations, 2006
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/121469341/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario Regulations, 2006
UNION OF INDIA
India
Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario Regulations, 2006
Rule
INTELLIGENT-NETWORK-SERVICES-IN-MULTI-OPERATOR-AND-MULTI-NETWORK-SCENARIO-REGULATIONS-2
006 of 2006
Published on 27 November 2006
Commenced on 27 November 2006
[This is the version of this document from 27 November 2006.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario Regulations, 2006
Published Vide Notification Gazette of India, Extra., Part 3, Section 4, dated 27.11.2006.
1700.
Notification No. 416-2/2003-FN, dated 27.11.2006. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 36, read with
sub-clauses (ii), (iii), (iv), (vi) and (vii) of clause (b) of sub section (1) of section 11 of the Telecom Regulatory Authority
of India Act, 1997(24 of 1997), the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India hereby makes the following regulations,
namely :-
Page 1/11
----- PAGE 2 -----
Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario Regulations, 200...
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These regulations may be called the Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario
Regulations, 2006 (13 of 2006).
(2)
These regulations shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Act" means the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997(24 of 1997);
(b)
"Access Providers" includes the Basic Operator, Cellular Mobile Service Provider and Unified Access Service Provider;
(c)
" Authority' means the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India established under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act;
(d)
"Basic Operator" means a service provider who has been granted a licence under section 4 of the Indian Telegraph Act,
1885 (
13 of 1885
) and who provides basic telephone service in accordance with the terms and conditions of the licence;
(e)
"Cellular Mobile Telephone Service Provider" means a Cellular Mobile Telephone Service provider who has been
granted a licence under section 4 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 (
13 of 1885
) and who provides Cellular Mobile Telephone Service in a specified service area in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the licence;
(f)
"Eligible Service Provider" means service provider who has been granted a licence under section 4 of the Indian
Telegraph Act, 1885 (
13 of 1885
) and who is eligible to provide the service in accordance with terms and conditions of licence;
(g)
"Interconnection" means the commercial and technical arrangements under which the service providers connect their
equipment, networks and services to enable their customers to have access to the customers, services and networks of
other service providers;
(h)
"Intelligent Network" means a network architecture for the operation and provision of new services which is
characterized by -
(A)
extensive use of information processing techniques;
(B)
efficient use of network resources;
(C)
modularisation and reusability of network functions;
(D)
integrated service creations and implementation by means of the modularised reusable network functions;
(E)
flexible allocation of network functions to physical entities;
(F)
portability of network functions among physical entities; standardised communication between network functions via
Page 2/11
----- PAGE 3 -----
Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario Regulations, 200...
service independent interfaces;
(G)
service subscriber control of some subscriber-specific service attributes;
(H)
service user control of some user-specific service attributes; standardised management of service logic;
(i)
"Service Control Point" means a real time database -
(A)
which stores customer records;
(B)
which executes one of the range of software routines customized for particular applications, when accessed by an
enquiry from it ;
(C)
which sends instruction back to the Service Switching Point to process the call ;.
(j)
"National Numbering Plan" means the National Numbering Plan 2003, or, any such plan, made subsequently by the
Government of India, Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, Department of Telecommunication;
(k)
"Service Switching Point" means the Switching Point providing the users with access to the network and performing any
necessary switching functionality which -
(A)
consists of the hardware switch and basic call control software with the added functionality of Intelligent Network;
(B)
allows access to the set of Intelligent Network capabilities; and
(C)
contains detection capability to detect request for Intelligent Network based services;
(l)
"regulations" means the Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario Regulation, 2006; 4
(m)
"Unified Access Service Provider" means a Unified Access Service provider who has been granted a licence under
section 4 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 (
13 of 1885
) and who provides Unified Access Service in a specified service area in accordance with the terms and conditions of
the licence;
(n)
all other words and expressions used in these regulations but not defined, and defined in the Act and the rules and other
regulations made there under, shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act or the rules or other
regulations, as the case may be.
3.
Provision for interconnection to all Eligible Service Providers.
- All Basic Operators, Cellular Mobile Service Providers and Unified Access Service Providers shall provide
interconnection to all the Eligible Service Providers for the purpose of giving an option to subscribers of all Access
Providers to exercise option for using the Intelligent Network Services of other Eligible Service Providers.
4.
Prohibition to deny to subscribers access to Intelligent Network.
- No Basic Operator, Cellular Mobile Service Provider and Unified Access Service Provider shall directly or indirectly
deny its consumers accessing Intelligent Network Services of his choice which are available in multi-operator
multinetwork scenario.
5.
Switches to be capable of resolving the access codes allotted as per National Numbering Plan 2003.
- All Basic Operators, Cellular Mobile Service Providers and Unified Access Service Providers shall have switches
Page 3/11
----- PAGE 4 -----
Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario Regulations, 200...
capable of resolving the access codes allotted as per National Numbering Plan made by the Government of India
,Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, Department of Telecommunication for the Intelligent Network
Services available in multi-operator multi-network scenario.
6.
Obligation to follow Numbering plan.
-  All Eligible Service Providers shall follow the Numbering plan for the Intelligent Network Services in accordance with
the National Numbering Plan.
7.
Intelligent Network Services to be launched after obtaining access code allocation.
-  All Eligible Service Providers shall launch the Intelligent Network Services in Multi-Operator Multi-Network scenario
after obtaining adequate access code allocation from the Administrator of the National Numbering Plan or the Licensor,
as the case may be.
8.
Network equipment (including circuit or packet switches) to conform to the International Telecommunication Union and
Telecommunication Engineering Centre standards and Standards of the industry.
-  All Eligible Service Providers providing the Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator Multi-Network scenario shall
use such type of network equipment (including circuit or packet switches ) which conform to the International
Telecommunication Union and Telecommunication Engineering Centre standards and standards of the industry :
Provided that in the case of new technologies where no standards have been determined, all Eligible Service Providers
shall deploy type of network equipment (including circuit or packet switches) approved by the Central Government and
the Licensor:
9.
Compliance with Quality of Service standards.
(1)
All Eligible Service Providers engaged in providing, directly or indirectly, Intelligent Network services shall ensure that
there shall be no deterioration in the Quality of Service standards applicable to the underlying bearer network.
(2)
The Quality of Service standards specified for voice services or applicable to voice services shall apply to Intelligent
Network Services, which includes all circuit switched, or Packet Switched Voice Services.
10.
Intelligent Network Services under commercial and technical arrangements or agreement.
(1)
All Eligible Service Providers shall provide the Intelligent Network Services in accordance with the terms and conditions
of the licence granted to them under section 4 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 (
13 of 1885
).
(2)
Without prejudice to the conditions of the licence granted to the Basic Operator, Cellular Mobile Service Provider and
Unified Access Service Provider and other telecom service provider under section 4 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 (
13 of 1885
), such Basic Operators, Cellular Mobile Service Provider and Unified Access Service Provider and other telecom
service provider may use resources of any other telecom service provider for Intelligent Network Services under
commercial and technical arrangements or agreements entered among themselves as per mutually agreed terms and
conditions.
(3)
Every arrangement or agreement entered under sub-regulation (2) shall specify architecture for implementation of
Intelligent Network Services.
(4)
Every arrangement or agreement under sub-regulation (2) shall be entered into within ninety days from the date of
commencement of these regulation for providing Intelligent Network Services to subscriber of other telecom service
providers:
Page 4/11
----- PAGE 5 -----
Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario Regulations, 200...
Provided that in a case any Basic Operator or Cellular Mobile Service Provider or Unified Access Service Provider fails
to enter into arrangements or agreement under sub-regulation (2), the Authority may, on an application made by the
concerned service provider and having regard to the interest of the service providers and consumers of the telecom
sector, extend the said period of three months to six months.
(5)
All Eligible Service Providers providing Intelligent Network Services shall furnish call data records of all the calls handled
by him as and when required by the Central Government or any authority specified by it or the Authority.
(6)
Every arrangement or agreement entered under sub-regulation (2) shall be submitted to the Authority for registration
within fifteen days from the date of entering into such agreement.
(7)
The arrangements or agreement entered under sub-regulation (2) shall come into force within thirty days from the date
of entering into such arrangements or agreements.
(8)
In case any Basic Operator, Cellular mobile service provider or Unified Access Service Provider fails to enter into
agreements or arrangements within the stipulated time, they shall intimate within fifteen days of such failure to the
Authority with complete details thereof and after examining such failure and details furnished by the service providers,
the Authority shall specify the interconnection arrangement.
(9)
All the provisions of these regulations shall apply to the commercial and technical arrangements or agreement entered
into under which licensed Access Service Providers shall connect their equipment, networks and services to enable their
customers to have access to the Intelligent Network of other Service Providers.
11.
Usage Charges under the arrangements or agreement entered under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 10.
(1)
Without prejudice to provisions of the rules made under the Act, other regulations made and directions issued
thereunder, the charges and sharing of revenues for the service features, network architecture and resources used for
Intelligent Network Services shall be determined on reciprocal basis and on non discriminatory basis by the Basic
Operators, Cellular Mobile Service Providers or Unified Access Service Providers themselves under the arrangements
or agreements entered under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 10.
(2)
Every Basic Operator, Cellular Mobile Service Provider, Unified Access Service Provider and other telecom service
provider (here referred to as the first party) shall pay the same charges and share the same revenues for the service
network architecture and resources used for Intelligent Network Services referred to in under sub-regulation (1) to the
other Basic Operator, Cellular Mobile Service Provider, Unified Access Service Provider and other telecom service
provider (hereafter referred to as the second party) which are payable by the second party to the first party for similar
service network architecture and resources used for Intelligent Network Services.
(3)
The charges and sharing of revenues under sub-regulation (1) shall be in addition to the interconnection charges
specified under the Telecommunication Interconnection Usage Charges Regulation, 2003 (4 of 2003) made under the
Act.
Note. - An Explanatory Memorandum below explains the provisions of these regulations.
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM
1. Intelligent Network (IN) as a concept was born amidst the inability of the competing Service Providers to offer
advanced Services to their subscribers in the face of dissimilar Service implementation in the Switching Systems
supplied by different vendors. Intelligent Network is a Telecommunication Network Architecture for provisioning of
advanced Services quickly.
2. IN Services add value to Voice and Data Bearer Services through Number Translation, Alternate Billing etc. These
features are provided with the help of Network databases (also known as Service Control Points-SCPs) endowed with
query-response protocols using which the underlying bearer Network entities such as PSTN/ ISDN Switches, Mobile
Switching Centres (MSC) and Media Gateways (MG) communicate with it. The bearer Network entities designated to
Page 5/11
----- PAGE 6 -----
Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario Regulations, 200...
communicate with the SCPs are known as the Service Switching Points (SSPs).
3. With respect to the physical Architecture, the SCPs and the SSPs can be within the same Node, co-located or
remotely located and communicate over the SS7 signalling Network. The rest of the bearer Network entities are
independent of the IN Nodes. This independence lets the Network providers to utilize the same IN Infrastructure for a
variety of Networks viz. Fixed, WLL-F, WLL-M, Cellular Mobile, VoIP. Therefore, IN can provide twin advantages of new
revenue streams and investment protection.
4. With the induction of new Basic and Cellular Operators in the Indian Telecommunication network, a Multi-Operator
environment has emerged and therefore Authority decided to constitute an Expert Committee (herein after referred as
committee) vide its Order no. 416-2/2003-FN, dated 28th February 2003 on IN Services in Multi-Operator Multi-Service
scenario. The Committee included members from TRAI, DOT, TEC, CDOT, NLDOs & ILDOs (BSNL, VSNL, Reliance,
BTSOL), MTNL and other Access Providers represented through Associations of Operators, i.e. COAI and ABTO (now
AUSPI).
5. The Authority had mandated the Committee mainly to finalize necessary Technical and Regulatory inputs as may be
required for the introduction of Intelligent Network (IN) Services based on the IN platform and Inter Network accessibility
in a Multi-Service Multi-Operator environment in the country along with consideration of Network Architecture,
Interconnection, Interoperability and Charging and Billing issues.
6. The Committee held a number of meetings to deliberate upon the issues and submitted its Report in September 2005.
In its Report, the Committee observed that from a Regulator's perspective, Intelligent Network (IN) Services pose a
challenge due to -
(a)
Non-availability of B number, i.e. Called Party Number at the Originating Network Interfaces, in many cases.
(b)
Alternate billing options, i.e. Calling Party pays in full or part,
(c)
Called party pays in full or part or a third party pays, and,
(d)
Distributed location of Functional Entities,
(e)
Difficulties in transparent application of the Interconnect regime that could be termed as equitable and mutually
beneficial to the Interconnecting operators.
7. Authority analyzed the Committee's Report in great detail and observed that there was consensus among all Service
Providers for sharing their Intelligent Network (IN) platform. The Authority also observed that there is consensus among
all service providers on all issues except Architecture.
8. Authority also examined all the pros and cons of all the three Architecture suggested by the Committee in the
background of the present License conditions of various categories of Service Providers. 11
9. IN Services as defined in TEC Generic Requirement (GR) document are shown in Appendix-I, Table 1. The Table
also defines present allocation for Intelligent Network (IN) Services in the National Numbering Plan (NNP) 2003 and
Rental/ Revenue Share components.
10. It was also noted by Authority that, in most of the developed countries, Intelligent Network (IN) Services are easily
accessible by all the users. As such, any subscriber of any Access Provider is able to access the Intelligent Network (IN)
Services provided by any other Service Provider from anywhere in the Access Provider's Network. In contrast, in India at
present subscribers are able to access the Intelligent Network (IN) platform of their own Access Service Provider only.
11. All telecom Service Providers in India operate their Network under the provision of their respective licenses granted
by Department of Telecommunication. The operators have been granted full freedom by the licensor to deploy
technology of their own choice within their Network. Also, Intelligent Network (IN) Service is not a separate Service, as
neither New Telecom Policy (NTP) 99 recognizes this as a separate Service nor licensor has categorized it as a
separate Service. It is a Network Architecture wherein centralized logic is built in to enable the Service Providers to
provide services to its customers in their licensed Service Areas as per the terms and conditions of their License.
12.
Taking all these aspects into account, the authority released a draft IN regulation dated 02.12.2005 to all the
stakeholders for consultation. This draft regulation discussed various issues, in particular three different network
Page 6/11
----- PAGE 7 -----
Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario Regulations, 200...
architecture suggested by IN committee.
13.
The regime notified in this draft regulation took account of all the divergent inputs on number of issues provided during
the consultation process. The Authority thus had to weigh the various inputs and licence conditions and an attempt has
been made to provide a regulation which mainly caters towards benefits to the consumers. This regulation was a step
toward the overall policy framework being developed by the Authority for improving the availability of modern
telecommunication services across the country.
14.
The draft Regulation recalled many issues in particular wide range of issues arising out of implementing one or other
architecture. The extensive comments were received from the stakeholders as written submission and during the
meeting held with COAI, AUSPI and BSNL. Authority further analyzed the matter especially regarding Implementation
Architecture and decided to have a meeting with the service providers on 08.08.06. Summary of the main comments are
as follows:-
15.
Summary of the main comments of Stakeholders :-
(i)
Network architecture wherein the SSP of originating access provider connects to the SCP of the interconnecting
operator over CCS-7 link for authentication and other purposes has a number of technological pitfalls, integrating SSPs
based on different technologies within existing SCPs is a difficult task.
(ii)
It would be very difficult and cost prohibitive for any Access Provider to not only procure SCP equipment to cater to its
own customer base but also to size it for current and future customer base of all other Access Provider's in the absence
of any knowledge of the business plans of the competitor.
(iii)
For services which rely only on signalling network, and do not rely at all on bearer network, this would require
investment on small signalling platforms to be able to screen and account signalling messages and generate CDRs for
inter-operator billing.
(iv)
Appropriate TEC GR does not define the capability set for SCPs supporting all protocols on one platform. In the absence
of this and limitations of existing SCPs, implementation and that too uniform implementation across all operators is
doubtful.
(v)
IN service is a value addition over Basic services. Such value added services have so far not been regulated by TRAI.
Accordingly, IN services also need a similar treatment.
(vi)
All efforts should be made for Integrating SSP of all technologies with SCP of different technologies as SSP of one
Service Provider interacting with SCP of different Service Providers at signalling interconnect level is the final solution
for all kind of IN services. Protocol for IN services needs to standardized.
(vii)
There is an overlap in the domains of Access Providers and NLDOs and the service can be provided jointly by Access
Provider and NLDO. These services will yield the best result if left for mutual arrangements to be made amongst the
operators.
(viii)
Commercial arrangements and revenue share for IN services should be left for the mutual negotiation between the
operators.
(ix)
IN regulations should be in conformity with the various court orders/license agreements/commercial requirements.
(x)
Security aspect will need to be kept in mind while finalising the IN Regulation.
(xi)
The issue of interconnect seeker and interconnect provider will need to be addressed.
Page 7/11
----- PAGE 8 -----
Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario Regulations, 200...
(xii)
A list of allowed/not allowed services should be given to help in avoiding potential misinterpretation of the Regulation
and subsequent litigations.
(xiii)
In order to avoid ambiguity and achieve the objective of providing free choice to all subscribers for IN services of all
Intelligent Network Service Providers (INSPs), very clear billing, charging and revenue share guidelines for each type of
IN service need to be specified.
(xiv)
The start up cost for IN services and also for continued investment for platform upgrades for deployment in a Multi
Operator, Multi Service environment will have to be borne by INSPs.
(xv)
The issue who provides intelligent peripherals (like announcement) needs to be addressed.
(xvi)
How the location based IN services - when accessed by a subscriber of other access provider will be handled.
(xvii)
Issue of how the national and international roamers could use the IN services needs to be addressed.
(xviii)
There are chances of misuse, if 18xx call is handed over by the access provider to the INSP. Access provider will not
able to know what service INSP is providing, once call is handed over to INSP.
(xix)
The interest of access provider should be protected.
(xx)
There are IN service providers (generally vendors) outside India who already have infrastructure and workable
architecture for providing these services. These models should be studied and analysed in our context. Option of IN
services provided by the third parties should also be explored.
16.
Analysis of the issues. - The Authority has taken the various comments and inputs into consideration and analysed the
matter in details. The views of the Authority on main issues are as follows :
(i)
The Authority observed that most of the service providers are of the opinion that integrating SSP based on different
technologies with an existing SCP of other operators may not be feasible at all times. Inter-working of SSP and SCP of
different vendors may require software and hardware modification. This may be time consuming process. This may also
add unnecessary cost to the operators. Because of this, most of the service providers are of the opinion that SSP and
SCP are to be owned by the Service provider who is providing IN services and All access provider would hand over the
18xx(IN) calls as voice call to the closest POI switch designated for this purpose.
(ii)
Authority has also noted the points made by the representatives of MTNL that integrating SSP based on different
technologies with an existing SCP of other operators would be the final solution for all IN services. Authority has also
noted that TEC GR does not define the capability set for SCP supporting all protocols at one platform. Therefore,
operator may also require to implement different protocols for fixed line, wireless (WLL(M), WLL(F), Cellular) etc.
Therefore Integrating SSP of one service provider with all SCP of all other service providers would be a time consuming
process.
(iii)
In view of the above, Authority is of opinion that exact implementation of the architecture should be left open to the
operators. They themselves may decide the Architecture on caseby-case basis.
(iv)
A crucial factor in favour of leaving architecture open for service providers is that IN service would get implemented
quickly at least for Free Phone service and VCC. The Authority has also noted the technical difficulties in implementing
location based Intelligent Network Services as well as provision of services through Intelligent Peripherals in case the
architecture is specified. IN committee also recognised that Free Phone and VCC (Voice 16 Calling Cards) should be
the first set of IN services to be implemented.
Page 8/11
----- PAGE 9 -----
Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario Regulations, 200...
(v)
Authority has also noted the fact that as of now all operators have dimensioned their IN resources as per their own
requirements and subscribers base. Once it is opened for interconnection with other operators there may be
requirement of more signalling links and other resources like enhancement of Intelligent Peripherals etc. In fact,
requirement of signalling will increase substantially as many IN services rely more on signalling network i.e. tele-voting
etc. There may also be some legacy switches in the incumbent's network which may require extensive up-gradation in
hardware and software.
(vi)
Therefore, Authority is of the opinion that one more month after agreement be required to the operators for implementing
the IN in multi operator multi network scenario after their mutual agreement take place. Authority expects that at many
places implementation may happen in a shorter span where switches do not require much up-gradation or no
up-gradation at all.
(vii)
Authority considered the fact that signalling information may cross the boundaries of the service area to make IN
services available nationwide, it may lead to usage of SCPs of NLDOs by Basic Operators/CMSP/UASL as provision of
the services by Access Provider is limited to their service areas only. Authority has also noted that as per license
conditions NLDOs/ILDOs cannot access subscriber directly. In a communication to one of the NLDOs on 28.10.2005 the
licensor had clarified that Toll Free number services and split charge (UAN) services by NLD operator is in contravention
to the NLD license conditions because these services are subscriber based and an NLDO cannot directly access the
subscriber in terms of clause 2.2 (a) of NLD license.
(viii)
In this regard, submission has been received from one of the NLDOs on 15.09.06 wherein it was requested that decision
on the subject of IN regulation should be in the perspective of its general applicability and need of the industry taking
care of the interconnection issues of the IN network/services of the Long distance Service Providers as well. It further
mentioned that any restriction on provision of IN based bearer services by the Long distance operators would
tantamount to rewriting of the license provision of these Long Distance operators in terms of placing new prohibitions in
the license.
(ix)
Authority has taken note of the submissions of the NLDO and of the view that all service provider should provide the IN
services as per terms and conditions of their Licenses and legal position and access the subscriber only if they are
permitted to do so by the licensor.
(x)
During the meeting with Cellular Operators' Association of India (COAI), members of the Association mentioned that
charging and revenue sharing guidelines for each type of the IN Services need to be specified. But for this purpose
COAI has not been able to provide the relevant data for analyzing the above requirement, yet.
(xi)
Authority has taken note of the fact that in general members of the Committee were of the opinion that charging, billing
and sharing of the revenue depends on the service features and therefore, charging, billing and sharing of revenue for
resources used for IN Services may be decided by the concerned service provider through mutual commercial
arrangement. The Authority accordingly, accepts the suggestion of the Committee in this regard. However, Authority is
also in the process of finalising the standard agreement which would be applicable if service providers are not able to
arrive at mutually acceptable agreement within a specific time. Authority would also ask the relevant data from the
service providers shortly.
(xii)
IN Services as such, is not a separate class of Services Neither NTP' 99 recognizes this as a separate Service nor has
licensor categorized it as a separate Service. It is only a different means of providing a service. Therefore, Interconnect
Usage Charges (IUC) as applicable from time to time will apply for the IN services provided by operator in multi-operator
multi-network scenario. Interconnect Agreement between Service Providers shall include Intelligent Network (IN)
access.
(xiii)
In the interest of security, the Service providers shall make suitable arrangement so that Service providers in mutual
Page 9/11
----- PAGE 10 -----
Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario Regulations, 200...
association can provide data records of all the calls handled by them as per the requirement of Security
Agencies/License Conditions.
(xiv)
During the meeting, members of the COAI have also raised issue of seeker and provider for IN Services. As mentioned
above, IN service as such is not a separate class of service, it is only a means of providing advanced services.
Therefore, there is no separate case of seeker and provider in this scenario. Present Point of Interconnection (POI) will
continue for IN Services also. There would be only additional requirement of signalling links which may be mutually
negotiated among the service providers.
(xv)
As set of IN services currently defined are all Circuit Switched or Packet Switched Voice Services, the Quality of Service
(QoS) already mandated for voice services, shall apply. Therefore, all Service Providers involved will be required to
ensure that there shall be no dilution in the Quality of Service (QoS) standards applicable to the underlying Bearer
Network.
(xvi)
The Numbering plan for the IN Services shall be as per applicable National Numbering Plan (NNP). All Service
Providers shall ensure that IN Services on Multi-Operator, Multi-Network platform are launched after getting adequate
Access Code allocations from the NNP Administrator (Licensor).
APPENDIX-I
Table 1
In Services as Defined in TEC GR's
In Service
Paying Party
Old Levels
Level as per National Number Plan 2003
Network Charge
Information Charge
Rental/Revenue Share
Free phone
(National)
Called
1-600
1-800
Yes
No
Rental
Universal Access (Local)
Calling
1-901
1-860
Yes
No
No
Universal Access (Long Distance)
Calling &  Called
0-901
0-901
Yes
No
Rental
Virtual Private Networks (VPN)
Group ID
Page 10/11
----- PAGE 11 -----
Intelligent Network Services in Multi Operator and Multi Network Scenario Regulations, 200...
1-901
1-801
Yes
No
Rental according to VPN size
Tele-voting
(Chargeable to caller)
Calling
1-902
1-803
Yes
No
Yes (subscriber)
Tele-voting
(not chargeable to caller)
Caller
1-603
1-861
Yes
No
Yes (subscriber)
Prepaid calling (VCC, ACC,  CCC)
Card
1-602 (VCC)
1-802 (VCC)
Yes
No
No
1-604 (ACC)
1-804 (ACC)
No
No
Premium Rate
Calling
0-900
0-900
Yes
Yes
Yes
Universal Personal Telecommunication
Calling &  Called
0-902
0-902
Yes
No
Yes
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 11/11