
----- PAGE 1 -----
Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Manner of Increasing and Maintaining Public Shareholdin...
Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Manner of Increasing and
Maintaining Public Shareholding in Recognised Stock Exchanges)
Regulations, 2006
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/122030304/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Manner of Increasing and Maintaining Public Shareholding in Recognised Stock
Exchanges) Regulations, 2006
UNION OF INDIA
India
Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Manner of Increasing and Maintaining Public Shareholding in Recognised Stock
Exchanges) Regulations, 2006
Rule
SECURITIES-CONTRACTS-REGULATION-MANNER-OF-INCREASING-AND-MAINTAINING-PUBLIC-SHAREHOLDIN
G-IN-RECOGNISED-STOCK-EXCHANGES-REGULATIONS-2006 of 2006
Published on 13 November 2006
Commenced on 13 November 2006
[This is the version of this document from 13 November 2006.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Manner of Increasing and Maintaining Public Shareholding in Recognised Stock
Exchanges) Regulations, 2006
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extra, Part 3, Section 3(ii), No. 1359, dated 13.11.2006
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Manner of Increasing and Maintaining Public Shareholdin...
1554.
S.O. No. 1950(E), dated November 13, 2006.- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 31 read with sub-section
(8) of section 4B of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (
42 of 1956
), the Board hereby makes the following regulations, namely:-
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
These regulations may be called the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Manner of Increasing and Maintaining Public
Shareholding in Recognised Stock Exchanges) Regulations, 2006.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.-
(1)
In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a)
"Act" means the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (
42 of 1956
);
(b)
"associate" in relation to a shareholder having trading rights in a recognised stock exchange means a person-
(i)
who directly or indirectly, by himself or in combination with other persons, exercises control over such shareholder or
holds substantial shares entitling not less than fifteen per cent. of the voting rights in such shareholder being a body
corporate; or
(ii)
over whom such shareholder, directly or indirectly, by itself or in combination with other persons, exercises control; or
(iii)
whose director or partner is also a director or a partner of such  shareholder, being a body corporate or a partnership
firm, as the case  may be; or
(iv)
who is a holding company or subsidiary company of such shareholder or a  company under the same management as
such shareholder; or
(v)
who is a relative of the shareholder being a natural person under Schedule IA of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);
or
(vi)
who is a sub-broker of the shareholder in that stock exchange; or
(vii)
who acts in accordance with instructions of such shareholder in the exercise of voting rights and other rights in the
recognised stock exchange, directly or indirectly.
(c)
"Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under provisions of Section 3 of the Securities
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (
15 of 1992
);
(d)
"company" means a company as defined in Section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Manner of Increasing and Maintaining Public Shareholdin...
(e)
"control" has the meaning assigned to it in clause (c) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997;
(f)
"offer for sale" means offer for sale of equity shares, by shareholders of a recognised stock exchange having trading
rights therein to the public;
(g)
"private placement" means an issue of equity shares made by a recognised stock exchange on preferential basis and/or
through private placement to any person or group of persons not being a shareholder having trading rights or an
associate of any such shareholder, pursuant to a special resolution passed under sub-section (1A) of section 81 of the
Companies Act, 1956;
(h)
"public" includes any member or section of the public but does not include any shareholder of the recognised stock
exchange having trading rights therein or any associate of such shareholder;
(i)
"scheme" means the scheme for corporatisation or demutualisation of a recognised stock exchange approved by the
Board under section 4B of the Act;
(2)
All other words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations, but  defined in the Act or in the Companies
Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or in Securities and  Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (
15 of 1992
) or the rules and the regulations  made thereunder or in the scheme, shall have the same meanings respectively 
assigned to them in such Acts or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder  or the scheme or any statutory
modification or re-enactment thereto, as the case  may be.
3.
Applicability.-
These Regulations shall be applicable to all recognised stock  exchanges in respect of which the scheme for
corporatisation or demutualisation  has been approved by the Board under Section 4B of the Act.
Chapter II
Manner Of Increasing Public Shareholding
4.
Manner of increasing the public shareholding.-
Subject to the provisions of  sub-section (8) of Section 4B of the Act and the scheme, the recognised stock  exchange
shall ensure that at least fifty-one per cent. of its equity share capital is  held by the public, either by fresh issue of equity
shares to the public through  issue of prospectus or in the following manner:-
(a)
offer for sale, by issue of prospectus, of shares held by shareholders having trading rights therein;
(b)
placement of shares held by shareholders having trading rights to such persons or institutions as may be shortlisted by
the recognised stock exchange with the approval of the Board;
(c)
issue of equity shares on private placement basis by the recognised stock exchange to any person or group of persons
not being shareholders having trading rights or their associates subject to the approval of the Board; or
(d)
any combination of the above.
5.
Procedure for fresh issue of equity shares or offer for sale to the public.-
(1)
Any fresh issue of equity shares or offer for sale to the public through a  prospectus shall be in compliance with the
provisions of the Companies Act,  1956 (1 of 1956) and Guidelines or Regulations of the Board relating to issue of 
capital.
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Manner of Increasing and Maintaining Public Shareholdin...
(2)
Where any fresh issue of equity shares or offer for sale to the public is made  under clause (a) of regulation 4, an
application for listing thereof shall be made to  the same recognised stock exchange or any other recognised stock
exchange  and Section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) shall apply to such  application and the provisions of
the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 (or any statutory
Page 6 of 12  modification or replacement thereof) relating to public issue shall as far as may  be apply to such offer for
sale.
(3)
Listing of equity shares or other securities of a recognised stock exchange on  the same recognised stock exchange
shall be in compliance with such conditions  as may be specified by the Board.
6.
Private placement.-
(1)
Where a recognised stock exchange whose shares  are not listed on any recognised stock exchange makes a private
placement for  the purposes of clause (c) of regulation 4, such private placement shall be in  compliance with applicable
legal provisions, including those of the Companies  Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and the Unlisted Public Companies
(Preferential Allotment)  Rules, 2003.
(2)
Where a recognised stock exchange whose equity shares are listed on any  recognised stock exchange, makes a
private placement of equity shares, such  placement shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act,
1956  and Guidelines or Regulations of the Board relating to preferential issue of  capital:
Provided that where a placement is made under sub-regulation (1) or subregulation (2) to fifty or more persons, it shall
be in compliance with provisions of  the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and Guidelines or Regulations of the Board 
relating to public issue of capital.
7.
Confirmation of compliance with Sub-section (8) of Section 4B.-
When the  Board is satisfied that any recognised stock exchange has complied with the  provisions sub-section (8) of
section 4B read with this Chapter, it shall issue a  confirmation to the recognised stock exchange to that effect.
Chapter III
Share Holding Restrictions
8.
Shareholding and transferability restrictions.-
(1)
No person shall, directly or indirectly, acquire or hold more than five per cent in the paid  up equity capital of a
recognised stock exchange at any time after commencement of these  regulations:
Provided that any person holding equity shares in a recognised stock exchange in excess of  the limits specified in this
regulation at the commencement of these regulations shall reduce  his holding to ensure compliance with this regulation
within the time specified in sub-section  (8) of Section 4B of the Act or the time extended under the proviso thereto.
(2)
No shareholder having trading rights in a recognised stock exchange shall,  prior to issuance of the confirmation under
regulation 7, transfer his shares in  such recognised stock exchange to any person otherwise than in accordance  with
Chapter II.
9.
Eligibility criteria for persons acquiring or holding more than one per  cent equity shares in a recognised stock
exchange.-
(1)
No person shall, either individually or together with persons acting in concert with him,  acquire and/or hold more than
one per cent of the paid up equity capital of a recognised stock  exchange after commencement of these regulations,
unless he is a fit and proper person and  has taken prior approval of the Board for doing so.
(2)
For the purpose of sub-regulation (1),  a person shall be deemed to be a fit and proper person, if-
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Manner of Increasing and Maintaining Public Shareholdin...
(i)
such person has a general reputation and record of fairness and integrity, including but not limited to-
(a)
financial integrity;
(b)
good reputation and character; and
(c)
honesty.
(ii)
such person has incurred any of the following disqualifications-
(a)
the person or any of its whole time directors or managing partners has  been convicted by a Court for any offence
involving moral turpitude or any  economic offence, or any offence against the securities laws;
(b)
an order for winding up has been passed against the person;
(c)
the person or any of its whole time directors or managing partners has been declared insolvent and has not been
discharged;
(d)
an order, restraining, prohibiting or debarring the person, or any of its  whole time directors or managing partners from
dealing in securities in the  capital market or from accessing the capital market has been passed by  the Board or any
other regulatory authority and a period of three years  from the date of the expiry of the period specified in the order has
not  elapsed;
(e)
any other order against the person or any of its whole time directors or  managing partners which has a bearing on the
capital market, has been  passed by the Board or any other regulatory authority and a period of  three years from the
date of the order has not elapsed;
(f)
the person has been found to be of unsound mind by a Court of  competent jurisdiction and the finding is in force; and
(g)
the person is financially not sound.
(3)
If any question arises as to whether a person is a fit and proper person, the  Board's decision on such question shall be
final.
10.
Dematerialization.-
A recognised stock exchange which has issued equity  shares or whose equity shares are offered for sale in the manner
provided in  these regulations shall-
(a)
enter into an agreement with the depositories for dematerialization of the equity shares proposed to be issued or
proposed to be sold; and
(b)
it shall give an option to the subscribers or transferees to receive the share certificate or hold the shares in
dematerialized form with a depository.
11.
Obligations of the recognised stock exchange.-
(1)
A recognised stock  exchange shall monitor and ensure:-
(a)
that no transfer or issue of equity shares therein is made otherwise than in accordance with these regulations;
(b)
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Manner of Increasing and Maintaining Public Shareholdin...
that at least fifty-one per cent. of its equity share capital is continuously held by the public; and
(c)
that the restrictions contained in regulations 8 and 9 are complied with in respect of the shareholding therein.
(2)
Without prejudice to the provisions of the Act and the rules made  thereunder, the recognised stock exchanges shall
submit a report to the Board  disclosing the following on a quarterly basis within fifteen days from the end of  each
quarter:-
(a)
the names of ten largest shareholders along with the number of shares held by them and their percentage shareholding;
(b)
the names of the shareholders falling under regulation 8 who had acquired shares in that quarter;
(c)
the shareholding pattern in the recognised stock exchange in such format as may be specified by the Board.
(3)
The recognised stock exchange shall submit an undertaking confirming  the compliance of the provisions of
sub-regulation (1) to the Board on a quarterly  basis within fifteen days from the end of each quarter.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, the Board may from  time to time call for any information from the
recognised stock exchange, any  shareholder having trading rights or any transferee of shares held by such 
shareholder, under the provisions of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956  and the Securities and Exchange
Board of India Act, 1992 and the rules and  regulations made thereunder.
(5)
Without prejudice to the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956, the  recognised stock exchange shall maintain and
preserve all the books, registers,  other documents and records relating to, the issue or sale of equity shares under 
these regulations for a period of ten years.
Chapter IV
Powers Of The Board
12.
Power of Inspection.-
(1)
The Board may at any time undertake inspection,  conduct inquiries and audit of any recognised stock exchange or any
shareholder  having trading rights therein or any associate of such shareholder, in accordance  with the provisions of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, the  Act and the rules made thereunder.
(2)
Where an inspection of any recognised stock exchange or any  shareholder having trading rights therein or any
associate of such shareholder is  undertaken by the Board, every manager, managing director, officer and other 
employee of such recognised stock exchange or shareholder or associate shall  co-operate with the Board.
13.
Action in case of default.-
Without prejudice to power to impose monetary  penalty, initiate prosecution or issue directions under the provisions of
the Act or  the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, the Board may, issue  such directions as it deems fit,
including -
(a)
directing disinvestment of shares held by shareholders having trading rights in breach of sub-section (8) of section 4B of
the Act, in such manner as may be specified in the direction;
(b)
directing a person holding equity shares in a recognised stock exchange in contravention of regulations 8 or 9 to divest
his holding, in such manner as may be specified in the direction;
(c)
directing transfer of any proceeds or securities to the investors protection fund of a recognised stock exchange;
(d)
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Manner of Increasing and Maintaining Public Shareholdin...
debarring any recognised stock exchange, any shareholder having trading rights therein, any associate of such
shareholder or any transferee of shares from such shareholder from accessing the capital market or dealing in securities
for such period as may be determined by the Board.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7