
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
The Insecticides Act, 1968
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1313723/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1130
]
Union of India - Act
The Insecticides Act, 1968
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Insecticides Act, 1968
Act 46 of 1968
Published on 28 September 2007
Commenced on 28 September 2007
[This is the version of this document from 28 September 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
[Amended by
The Insecticides (Amendment) Act,   2000 (Act 23 of 2000)
on
1 January 2000
]
The Insecticides Act, 1968
Statement of Objects and Reasons.-In the months of April and May, 1958, many persons died in the States of Kerala
and Madras as a result of food-poisoning arising from contamination of food with a poisonous organo-phosphorous
insecticide "Parathion" (Falido]). There were also cases of persons who fell seriously ill though not fatally on account of
food-poisoning in the same areas. The Government of India appointed the Kerala and Madras Food-poisoning Cases
Enquiry Commission under the chairmanship of Shri Justice J.C. Shah, then a Judge of the High Court of Bombay and
Page 1/79
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
now a Judge of the Supreme Court, to inquire into and report on the circumstances in which the foodstuffs came to be
contaminated and the measures to be taken against similar occurrences in future.
2. The recommendations of the Enquiry Commission were accepted by the Government. The Government then
appointed an Inter-Ministerial Committee to suggest measures to give effect to the recommendations made by the
Commission. Accordingly, the Inter-Ministerial Committee suggested certain short-term and long-term measures. The
short-term measures suggested by the Committee have already been given effect to. The long-term measures
suggested by the Commission envisaged the enactment of legislation to regulate the manufacture, sale, storage,
transport, distribution and use of insecticides including pesticides, herbicides or fungicides in the country.
3. Subsequent to the poisoning cases in 1958 in Kerala and Madras, cases of food-poisoning were also reported in 1962
in Malda and Dinajpur Districts of West Bengal and Assam, respectively, as a result of which 450 persons were crippled
by paralysis. Contamination of wheat flour with "tri-ortho-cresyl phosphate" was the cause of poisoning. Cases of
food-poisoning were reported in Bombay in January and February, 1963, as a result of ingestion of rice stored in bags
which were reportedly sprayed with 5 per cent. Benzene Hexachloride. Reports have also been received about cases of
poisoning due to indiscriminate use of organo-phosphorous compounds like Parathion, Malathion, Diazinon, Baytex,
etc., which are said to be marketed in concentrated form for extermination of bed bugs. Cases of poisoning resulting
from the use of copper sulphate among the shoe-workers of Agra have also been brought to notice.
4. This Bill follows the recommendations of the Commission referred to in paragraph 2. The salient features of this Bill
are as follows:
(i) establishment of a Central Insecticides Board and the setting up of a Committee called the "Registration Committee"
for the purpose of granting certificates of registration to persons desiring to import or manufacture insecticides;
(ii) licensing of persons desiring to manufacture, sell or exhibit for sale or distribute any insecticide;
(iii) establishment of a Central Insecticide Laboratory for, carrying out certain functions under the Act;
(iv) prohibition of import, manufacture, sale, etc., of insecticides in contravention of the provisions of the Act;
(v) regulation of transport and storage of insecticides so as to prevent cases of accidental contamination of food with
insecticides;
(vi) provision for taking immediate action by way of prohibition of sale, distribution or use of any insecticide where it is
found that the sale, distribution or use of the insecticide is being done in such a way as to involve risk to human beings
or vertebrate animals and where immediate action is necessary.
Amendment Act 46 of 1972-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The proviso to sub-section (1) of section 9 of the
Insecticides Act, 1968 (hereinafter referred to as the Act), requires every person engaged in the business of import or
manufacture of any insecticide immediately before the commencement of that section, to make an application to the
Registration Committee constituted under the Act within a period of six months from such commencement for the
registration of such insecticide. Under the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 13 of the Act, every person engaged in
the business of manufacturing or selling, stocking or exhibiting for sale or distributing any insecticide immediately before
the commencement of that section is required to make an application within a period of three months from such
commencement for the grant of a license to continue such business. The aforesaid sections were brought into force on
the 1st August of 1971, and applications for such registration or for the grant of a license should have been made before
the 31st of January, 1972 or the 31st October, 1971, as the case may be. It has come to the notice of Government that a
large number of importers, manufacturers and other persons specified above had not applied for registration or for
registration or for the grant of a license before the date applicable to them. In order to ensure that there is no dislocation
in the manufacture, import or sale of insecticides which will affect plant protection measures being taken against pest
diseases, it is considered necessary to extend 'the time-limits specified in the provisos to sections 9(1) and 13(1) of the
Act up to the 31st December, 1972 and to make the necessary amendments in the Act retrospectively from the 1st
August, 1971.
Amendment Act 24 of 1977-Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Insecticides Act, 1968 was brought into force with
effect from 1st August, 1971 with a view to regulating the import, manufacture, sale, transport, distribution and use of
insecticides in order to prevent risks to human beings or animals.
2. Under section 9 of the Act every person desiring to import or manufacture any insecticide is required to obtain a
certificate of registration from the Registration Committee. The certificate is to be subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed by the Central Government. While examining the rules regulating the grant of certificate of registration, the
Committee on Subordinate Legislation desired that the conditions of registration be codified and incorporated in the
Page 2/79
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
rules or the Act be amended to delegate the power to specify the conditions of registration to the Registration
Committee. Since it was not possible to prescribe any set of conditions, the second alternative of empowering the
Registration Committee to specify the conditions of registration is considered to be more feasible and section 9 is
proposed to be amended accordingly.
3. Under the Act, applications for registration were required to be disposed of within the time prescribed in the Act. The
number of applications being very large, it has not been possible for the Registration Committee to dispose of the
applications within the prescribed time. It is proposed to extend the time limit by one year.
4. In the light of the experience gained in the implementation of the Act, it is proposed to enlarge the membership of the
Central Insecticides Board by including persons associated with Animal Husbandry, Fisheries, Wild-life, Ecology and
Chemicals. It is also proposed to enlarge the scope of section 9 of the Act by making a provision for recall and for the
issue of provisional registration certificates.
5. It is also proposed to amend section 13 to provide for differential license fee as well as also for bringing the
commercial pest control operations under the purview of licensing.
6. It is also proposed to avail of this opportunity to make certain other amendments in the Act such as the insertion of a
provision to the effect that the proceedings of the Central Insecticides Board, Registration Committee and other
Committees set up under the Act shall not be questioned on the ground of existence of any vacancy in order to defect in
constitution of the Board, the Registration Committee or other Committees and the recasting of the provision for laying of
rules before Parliament in line with the pattern which is being adopted in all recent legislation.
Amendment Act 23 of 2000-Objects and Reasons.-The Insecticides Act, 1968 was enacted to regulate the import,
manufacture, sale, transport, distribution and use of insecticides with a view to prevent risk to human beings or animals
and matters connected therewith.
2. In Dr. Ashok v. Union of India [(1997) 5 S.C.C. 10: A.I.R. 1997 S.C. 2298], the Supreme Court has held that once a
substance is specified in the Schedule as contemplated under section 3(e)(i), then there is no power for cancelling the
registration certificate issued in respect of the same substance even if on scientific study, it appears 'Iiat the substance
in question is grossly detrimental to the human health. This is a lacuna in the legislation itself, and therefore, steps
should be taken for appropriate amendment to the legislation. It is, therefore, proposed to amend section 27 of the said
Act to remove the said lacuna.
3. In the administration and implementation of the Act, certain difficulties were experienced. To remove the said
difficulties, the following further amendments are also proposed:
(i) clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 21 provides for stopping distribution, sale or use of an insecticide in
contravention of the provisions of the Act for a period not exceeding twenty days or unless the alleged contravention is
such that the defect may be removed by the possessor of the insecticide, seize the stock of such insecticides. The
maximum period of twenty days is proposed to be enhanced to thirty days to make the period of stop sale in conformity
with the period of testing of an insecticide;
(ii) as per existing provisions of sub-section (3) of section 22, the payment is required to be made for the samples at the
time it is drawn including the samples found to be misbranded. It is, therefore, proposed to amend section 22 to provide
for payment of the sample only, if after the test or analysis, it is not found to be misbranded;
(iii) in order to make the period of test or analysis in conformity with the stop distribution, sale or use, sub-section (1) of
section 24 is being amended to make it compulsory for the Insecticide Analyst to deliver to the Insecticide Inspector a
signed report of test or analysis within a period of thirty days. Similarly, it is proposed to fix time limit for testing of a
sample by the Central Insecticide Laboratory with a period of thirty days;
(iv) it is experienced that punishment under section 29 of the Act is not stringent enough. Therefore, it is proposed to
amend:-
(a) sub-section (1) of section 29 to provide minimum punishment of ten thousand rupees which may extend up to fifty
thousand rupees for first offence and a minimum punishment of fifteen thousand rupees which may extend up to
seventy-five thousand rupees for the second and subsequent offences;
(b) sub-section (2) of section 29 to provide for a minimum fine of five hundred rupees which may extend up to five
thousand rupees or imprisonment for six months or with both;
(c) sub-section (3) of section 29 to provide for a minimum fine of five thousand rupees which may extend up to
twenty-five thousand rupees or with imprisonment which may extend to one year or with both for first offence. For the
second and subsequent offence with a minimum fine of ten thousand rupees which may extend up to fifty thousand
Page 3/79
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
rupees or with imprisonment which may extend up to two years or with both;
(v) it is also observed that trials in the Courts take a long time and conviction for misbranded insecticides is not possible
without trial. At the same time, manufacturers or dealers continue to manufacture or trade in misbranded insecticides. In
order to provide for speedy trial of offences, the State Governments are proposed to be empowered to notify special
Courts for speedy trial of offences relating to violation of the said Act by amending sub-section (2) of section 31 of the
Act.
[2nd September, 1968]
An Act to regulate the import, manufacture, sale, transport, distribution and use of insecticides with a view to prevent risk
to human beings or animals, and for matters connected therewith.
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Nineteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Sections 4, 7, 8 and 36 brought into force on 1.3.1971 vide G.S.R. 300, dated 27.2.1971 and all the remaining
provisions on 1.8.1971 vide G.S.R. 1108, dated 28.7.1971.
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.-
(1)
This Act may be called The Insecticides Act, 1968.
(2)
It extends to the whole of India.
(3)
It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint and
different dates may be appointed for different States and for different provisions of this Act.
2.
Application of other laws not barred.-The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other
law for the time being in force.
3.
Definitions
.-Inthis Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"animals" means animals useful to human beings and includes fish and fowl, and such kinds of wild life as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify, being kinds which, in its opinion, it is desirable to protect
or preserve;
(b)
"Board" means the Central Insecticides Board constituted under section 4;
(c)
"Central Insecticides Laboratory" means the Central Insecticides Laboratory established,or, as the case may be, the
Institution specified, under section 16;
(d)
"import" means bringing into any place within the territories to which this Act extends from a place outside those
territories;
(e)
"insecticide" means-
(i)
any substance specified in the Schedule; or
(ii)
such other substances (including fungicides and weedicides) as the Central Government may, after consultation with the
Board, by notification in the Official Gazette, include in the Schedule from time to time; or
(iii)
any preparation containing any one or more of such substances;
(f)
"Insecticide Analyst" means an Insecticide Analyst appointed under section 19;
(g)
Page 4/79
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
"Insecticide Inspector" means an Insecticide Inspector appointed under section 20;
(h)
"label" means any written, printed or graphic matter on the imme-diate package and on every other covering in which the
package is placed or packed and includes any written, printed or graphic matter accompanying the insecticide;
(i)
"licensing officer" means a licensing officer appointed under section 12;
(j)
"manufacture", in relation to any insecticide, includes-
(i)
any process or part of a process for making, altering, finishing, packing, labelling, breaking up or otherwise treating or
adopting any insecticide with a view to its sale, distribution or use but does not include the packing or breaking up of any
insecticide in the ordinary course of retail business; and
(ii)
any process by which a preparation containing an insecticide is formulated;
(k)
"misbranded"-an insecticide shall be deemed to be misbranded-
(i)
if its label contains any statement, design or graphic represen-tation relating thereto which is false or misleading in any
material particular, or if its package is otherwise deceptive in respect of its contents; or
(ii)
if it is an imitation of, or is sold under the name of, another insecticide; or
(iii)
if its label does not contain a warning or caution which may be necessary and sufficient, if complied with, to prevent risk
to human beings or animals; or
(iv)
if any word, statement or other information required by or under this Act to appear on the label is not displayed thereon
in such conspicuous manner as the other words, statements, designs or graphic matter have been displayed on the
label and in such terms as to render it likely to be read and understood by any ordinary individual under customary
conditions of purchase and use; or
(v)
if it is not packed or labelled as required by or under this Act; or
(vi)
if it is not registered in the manner required by or under this Act; or
(vii)
if the label contains any reference to registration other than the registration number; or
(viii)
if the insecticide has a toxicity which is higher than the level prescribed or is mixed or packed with any substance so as
to alter its nature or quality or contains any substance which is not included in the registration;
(l)
"package" means a box, bottle, casket, tin, barrel, case, receptacle, sack, bag, wrapper or other thing in which an
insecticide is placed or packed;
(m)
"premises" means any land, shop, stall or place where any insecticide is sold or manufactured or stored or used, and
includes any vehicle carrying insecticide;
(n)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(o)
"registered", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means registered under this Act;
(p)
"sale", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means the sale of any insecticide, whether for cash or
on credit and whether by wholesale or retail, and includes an agreement for sale, an offer for sale, the exposing for sale
Page 5/79
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
or having in possession for sale of any
insecticideand includes also an attempt to sell any such insecticide;
(q)
"State Government", in relation to a Union Territory, means the administrator thereof;
(r)
"worker" means a person employed under a contract of service or apprenticeship.
4.
The Central Insecticides Board
.-(1) The Central Government shall, as soon as may be, constitute a Board to be called the Central Insecticides Board to
advise the Central Government and State Governments on technical matters arising out of the administration of this Act
and to carry out
theother functions assigned to the Board by or under this Act.
(2)
The matters on which the Board may advise under sub-section (1) shall include matters relating to-
(a)
the risk to human beings or animals involved in the use of insecticides and the safety measures necessary to prevent
such risk;
(b)
the manufacture, sale, storage, transport and distribution of insecticides with a view to ensure safety to human beings or
animals.
(3)
The Board shall consist of the following members, namely:-
(i)
the Director General of Health Services, exofficio, whoshall be the Chairman;
(ii)
the Drugs Controller, India, ex officio;
(iii)
the Plant Protection Adviser to the Government of India, ex officio;
(iv)
the Director of Storage and Inspection, Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Community Development and Co-operation
(Department of Food), ex officio;
(v)
the Chief Advisor of Factories, exofficio;
(vi)
the Director, National Institute of Communicable Diseases, ex officio;
(vii)
the Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, ex officio;
(viii)
the Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research, ex officio;
(ix)
the Director, Zoological Survey of India, exofficio;
(x)
the Director General, Indian Standards Institution, ex officio;
(xi)
the Director General of Shipping or, in his absence, the Deputy Director General of Shipping, Ministry of Transport and
Shipping, ex officio;
(xii)
the Joint Director, Traffic (General), Ministry of Railways (Railway Board), ex officio;
(xiii)
the Secretary, Central Committee of Food Standards, ex officio;
[(xiii-a) the Animal Husbandry Commissioner, Department of Agriculture, ex officio;
Page 6/79
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
(xiii-b) the Joint Commissioner (Fisheries), Department of Agriculture, ex officio;
(xiii-c) the Deputy Inspector General of Forests (Wild Life), Department of Agriculture, ex officio;
(xiii-d) the Industrial Adviser (Chemicals), Directorate General of Technical Development, ex officio;]
(xiv)
one person to represent the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals, to be nominated by the Central Government;
(xv)
one pharmacologist to be nominated by the Central Government;
(xvi)
one medical toxicologist to be nominated by the Central Government;
(xvii)
one person who shall be in charge of the department dealing with public health in a State, to be nominated by the
Central Government;
(xviii)
two persons who shall be Directors of Agriculture in States, to be nominated by the Central Government;
(xix)
four persons, one of whom shall be an expert in industrial health and occupational hazards, to be nominated by the
Central Government;
(xx)
one person to represent the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, to be nominated by the Central Government;
(xxi)
[ one ecologist to be nominated by the Central Government.]
[ Inserted by Act 24 of 1977, Section 2 (w.e.f. 2.8.1977).]
(4)
The persons nominated under clauses (xiv) to [(xxi)]
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1977, Section 2, for " (xx)"  (w.e.f. 2.8.1977).]
inclusive, of sub-section (3) shall, unless their seats become vacant earliest by resignation, death or otherwise, hold
office for three years from the date of their nomination, but shall be eligible for re-nomination:
Providedthat the persons nominated under clauses (xvii) and (xviii) shall hold office only for so long as they hold the
appointments by virtue of which their nominations were made.
(5)
[No act or proceeding of the Board, the Registration Committee or any Committee appointed under section 6, shall be
called in question on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of, the
Board, the Registration Committee or such Committee, as the case may be.]
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1977, Section 2, for sub-S. (5) (w.e.f. 2.8.1977).]
5.
Registration Committee.-(1) The Central Government shall constitute a Registration Committee consisting of a
Chairman, and not more than five persons who shall be members of the Board (including the Drugs Controller, India and
the Plant Protection Adviser to the Government of India)-
(i)
to register insecticides after scrutinising their formulae and verifying claims made by the importer or the manufacturer, as
the case may be, as regards their efficacy and safety to human beings and animals; and
(ii)
to perform such other functions as are assigned to it by or under this Act.
(2)
Where the Chairman is not a member of the Board, his term of office and other conditions of service shall be such as
may be determined by the Central Government.
(3)
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), a member of the Registration Committee shall hold office for so long as he
is a member of the Board.
(4)
The Committee may also co-opt such number of experts and for such purpose or period as it may deem fit, but any
Page 7/79
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
expert so co-opted shall have no right to vote.
(5)
The Registration Committee shall regulate its own procedure and the conduct of business to be transacted by it.
6.
Other Committees
.-TheBoard may appoint such Committees as it deems fit and may appoint to them persons who are not members of the
Board, to exercise such powers and perform such duties as may, subject to such conditions, if any, as the Board may
impose, be delegated to them by the Board.
7.
Procedure for Board.-The Board may, subject to the previous approval of the Central Government, make bye-laws for
the purpose of regulating its own procedure and the procedure of any Committee thereof and the conduct of all business
to be transacted by it or such Committee.
8.
Secretary and other officers
.-The Central Government shall-
(i)
appoint a person to be the Secretary of the Board who shall also function as Secretary to the Registration Committee;
and
(ii)
provide the Board and the Registration Committee with such technical and other staff as the Central Government
considers necessary.
9.
Registration of insecticides
.-(1) Any person desiring to import or manufacture any insecticide may apply to the Registration Committee for the
registration of such insecticide and there shall be a separate application for each such insecticide:
Providedthat any person engaged in the business of import or manufacture of any insecticide immediately before the
commencement of this section shall make an application to the Registration Committee within a period of [seventeen
months] from the date of such commencement for the registration of any insecticide which he has been importing or
manufacturing before that date:
[Providedfurther that where any person referred to in the preceding proviso fails to make an application under that
proviso within the period specified therein, he may make such application at any time thereafter on payment of a penalty
of one hundred rupees for every month or part thereof after the expiry of such period for the registration of each such
insecticide.]
[ Inserted by Act 46 of 1972, Section 2 (w.r.e.f. 1.8.1971).]
(2)
Every application under sub-section (1) shall be made in such form and contain such particulars as may be prescribed.
(3)
On receipt of any such application for the registration of an insecticide, the Committee may, after such enquiry as it
deems fit and after satisfying itself that the insecticide to which the application relates conforms to the claims made by
the importer or by the manufacturer, as the case may be, as regards the efficacy of the insecticide and its safety to
human beings and animals, register, [on such conditions as may be specified by it]
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1977, Section 3, for " on such conditions"  (w.e.f. 2.8.1977).]
and on payment of such fee as may be prescribed, the insecticide, allot a registration number thereto and issue a
certificate of registration in token thereof within a period of twelve months from the date of receipt of the application:
Providedthat the Committee may, if it is unable within the said period to arrive at a decision on the basis of the materials
placed before it, extend the period by a further period not exceeding six months:
Providedfurther that if the Committee is of opinion that the precautions claimed by the applicant as being sufficient to
ensure safety to human beings or animals are not such as can be easily observed or that notwithstanding the
observance of such precautions the use of the insecticide involves serious risk to human beings or animals, it may
refuse to register the insecticide.
[(3-A)In the case of applications received by it prior to the 31st day of March, 1975, notwithstanding the expiry of the
Page 8/79
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
period specified in sub-section (3) for the disposal of such applications, it shall be lawful and shall be deemed always to
have been lawful for the Registration Committee to dispose of such applications at any time after such expiry but within
a period of one year from the commencement of the Insecticides (Amendment) Act, 1977:
Providedthat nothing contained in this sub-section shall be deemed to make any contravention before the
commencement of the Insecticides (Amendment) Act, 1977, of a condition of a certificate of registration granted before
such commencement, an offence punishable under this Act.
(3-B)Where the Registration Committee is of opinion that the insecticide is being introduced for the first time in India, it
may, pending any enquiry, register it provisionally for a period of two years on such conditions as may be specified by it.
(3-C)The Registration Committee may, having regard to the efficacy of the insecticide and its safety to human beings
and animals, vary the conditions subject to which a certificate of registration has been granted and may for that purpose
require the certificate holder by notice in writing to deliver up the certificate to it within such a time as may be specified in
this notice.]
[ Inserted by Act 24 of 1977, Section 3 (w.e.f. 2.8.1977).]
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, where an insecticide has been registered on the application of any
person, any other person desiring to import or manufacture the insecticide or engaged in the business of, import or
manufacture thereof shall on application and on payment of prescribed fee be allotted a registration number and granted
a certificate of registration in respect thereof on the same conditions on which the insecticide was originally registered.
10.
Appeal against non-registration or cancellation.-Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Registration Committee
under section 9 may, within a period of thirty days from the date on which the decision is communicated to him, appeal
in the prescribed manner and on payment of the prescribed feeto the Central Government whose decision thereon shall
be final:
Providedthat the Central Government may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period, if it is satisfied that the
appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.
11.
Power of revision of Central Government.-
The Central Government may, at any time, call for the record relating to any case in which the Registration Committee
has given a decision under section 9 for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the legality or propriety of any such decision
and may pass any such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit:
Provided that no such order shall be passed after the expiry of one year from the date of the decision:
Provided further that the Central Government shall not pass any order pre-judicial to any person unless that person has
had a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the proposed order.
12.
Licensing Officers.-
The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint such persons as it thinks fit to be licensing
officers for the purposes of this Act and define the areas in respect of which they shall exercise jurisdiction.
13.
Grant of license.-
(1)
Any person desiring to manufacture or to sell, stock or exhibit for sale or distribute any insecticide, [or to undertake
commercial pest control operations with the use of any Insecticide], may make an application to the licensing officer for
the grant of a license:
Providedthat any person engaged in the business of manufacturing or selling, stocking or exhibiting for sale or
distributing any insecticide immediately before the commencement of this section shall make an application to the
licensing officer for the grant of a license within a period of [seventeen months]
[ Substituted by Act 46 of 1972, Section 3, for " three months"  (w.r.e.f. 1.8.1971).]
from the date of such commencement:
[Providedfurther that any person engaged in the commercial pest control operations immediately before the
commencement of the Insecticides (Amendment) Act, 1977, shall make an application to the licensing officer for the
grant of a license within a period of six months from the commencement
Page 9/79
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
ofthe said Act.]
[ Inserted by Act 24 of 1977, Section 4 (w.e.f. 2.8.1977).]
(2)
Every application under sub-section (1) shall be made in such form and shall contain such particulars as may be
prescribed.
(3)
On receipt on any such application for the grant of a license, the licensing officer may grant a license in such form, on
such conditions and on payment of such fee as may be prescribed.
(4)
A license granted under this section shall be valid for the period specified therein and may be renewed from time to time
for such period and on payment of such fee as may be prescribed:
Provided that where a license has been granted to any person who has made an application under [the first proviso or,
as the case may be, the second proviso]
[ Substituted by Act 46 of 1972, Section 4, for " the proviso"  (w.e.f. 1.8.1971).]
to sub-section (1), that license shall be deemed to be cancelled in relation to any insecticide, the application for
registration whereof has been refusedor the registration whereof has been cancelled, under this Act, with effect from the
date on whichsuch refusal or cancellation is notified in the Official Gazette.
(5)
[In prescribing fees for the grant or renewal of licenses under this section, different fees may be prescribed for the sale
or distribution of insecticides for purposes of domestic use and for other purposes.]
[Inserted by Act 24 of 1977, Section 4 (w.e.f. 2.8.1977). ]
14.
Revocation, suspension and amendment of licenses.-
(1)
If the licensing officer is satisfied, either on a reference made to him in this behalf or otherwise, that-
(a)
the license granted under section 13 has been granted because of misrepresentation as to an essential fact; or
(b)
the holder of a license has failed to comply with the conditions subject to which the license was granted or has
contravened any of the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder, then, without prejudice to any other penalty
to which the holder of the license may be liable under this Act, the licensing officer may, after giving the holder of the
license an opportunity of showing cause, revoke or suspend the license.
(2)
Subject to any rules that may be made in this behalf, the licensing officer may also vary or amend a license granted
under section 13.
15.
Appeal against the decision of a licensing officer.-
(1)
Any person aggrieved by a decision of a licensing officer under section 13 except under the proviso to sub-section (4) or
section 14 may, within a period of thirty days from the date on which the decision is communicated to him, appeal to
such authority in such manner and on payment of such fee as may be prescribed:
Provided that the appellate authority may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period if it is satisfied that the
appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.
(2)
On receipt of an appeal under sub-section (1), the appellate authority shall, after giving the appellant an opportunity of
showing cause, dispose of the appeal ordinarily within a period of six months and the decision of the appellate authority
shall be final.
16.
Central Insecticides Laboratory.-
The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, establish a Central Insecticides Laboratory under
the control of a Director to be appointed by the Central Government to carry out the functions entrusted to it by or under
Page 10/79
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
this Act:
Provided that if the Central Government so directs by a notification in the Official Gazette, the functions of the Central
Insecticides Laboratory shall, to such extent as may be specified in the notification, be carried out at any such institution
as may be specified therein and thereupon the functions of the Director of the Central Insecticides Laboratory shall, to
the extent so specified, be exercised by the head of that institution.
17.
Prohibition of import and manufacture of certain insecticides.-
(1)
No person shall, himself or by any person on his behalf, import or manufacture-
(a)
any misbranded insecticide;
(b)
any insecticide the sale, distribution or use of which is for the time being prohibited under section 27;
(c)
any insecticide except in accordance with the conditions on which it was registered;
(d)
any insecticide in contravention of any other provision of this Act or of any rule made thereunder:
Provided that any person who has applied for registration of an insecticide [under any of the provisos] to sub-section (1)
of section 9 may continue to import or manufacture any such insecticide and such insecticide shall not be deemed to be
a misbranded insecticide within the meaning of sub-clause (vi) or sub-clause (vi) or sub-clause (viii) of clause (k) of
section 3, until he has been informed by the Registration Committee of its decision to refuse to register the said
insecticide.
(2)
No person shall, himself or by any person on his behalf, manufacture any insecticide except under, and in accordance
with the conditions of, a license issued for such purpose under this Act.
18.
Prohibition of sale, etc., of certain insecticides.-
(1)
No person shall, himself or by any person on his behalf, sell, stock or exhibit for sale, distribute, [transport, use, or cause
to be used] by any worker-
(a)
any insecticide which is not registered under this Act;
(b)
any insecticide, the sale, distribution or use of which is for the time being prohibited under section 27;
(c)
any insecticide in contravention of any other provision of this Act or of any rule made thereunder.
(2)
No person shall, himself or by any person on his behalf, sell, stock or exhibit for sale or distribute [or use for commercial
pest control operations]
[ Inserted by Act 24 of 1977, Section 5 (w.e.f. 2.8.1977).]
any insecticide except under, and in accordance with the conditions of, a license issued for such purpose under this Act.
Explanation.-For the purposes of this section an insecticide in respect of which any person has applied for a certificate of
registration [under any of the provisos]
[ Substituted by Act 46 of 1972, Section 5, for " under the proviso"  (w.r.e.f. 1.8.1971).]
to sub-section (1) of section 9, shall be deemed to be registered till the date on which the refusal to register such
insecticide is notified in the Official Gazette.
19.
Insecticide Analysts.-
The Central Government or a State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint persons in such
number as it thinks fit and possessing such technical and other qualifications as may be prescribed to be Insecticide
Analysts for such areas and in respect of such insecticides or class of insecticides as may be specified in the
Page 11/79
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
notification:
Providedthat no person who has any financial interest in the manufacture, import or sale of any insecticide, shall be so
appointed.
20.
Insecticide Inspectors.-
(1)
The Central Government or a State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint persons in such
number as it thinks fit and possessing such technical and other qualifications as may be prescribed to be Insecticide
Inspectors for such areas as may be specified in the notification:
Provided that any person who does not possess the required qualifications may be so appointed only for the purposes of
clause (a) and clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 21:
Providedfurther that no person who has any financial interest in the manufacture, import or sale of any insecticide, shall
be so appointed.
(2)
Every Insecticide Inspector shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal
Code (45 of 1860) and shall be officially subordinate to such authority as the Government appointing him, may specify in
this behalf.
21.
Powers of Insecticide Inspectors.-
(1)
An Insecticide Inspector shall have power-
(a)
to enter and search, at all reasonable times and with such assistance, if any, as he considers necessary, any premises
in which he has reason to believe that an offence under this Act or the rules made thereunder has been or is being or is
about to be committed, or for the purpose of satisfying himself that the provisions of this Act or the rules made
thereunder or the conditions of any certificate of registration or license issued thereunder are being complied with;
(b)
to require the production of, and to inspect, examine and make copies of, or take extracts from, registers, records or
other documents kept by a manufacturer, distributor, carrier, dealer or any other person in pursuance of the provisions of
this Act or the rules made thereunder and seize the same, if he has reason to believe that all or any of them, may furnish
evidence of the commission of an offence punishable under this Act or the rules made thereunder;
(c)
to make such examination and inquiry as he thinks fit in order to ascertain whether the provisions of this Act or the rules
made thereunder are being complied with and for that purpose stop any vehicle;
(d)
to stop the distribution, sale or use of an insecticide which he has reason to believe is being distributed, sold or used in
contravention of the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder, for a specified period not exceeding [thirty]
days, or unless the alleged contravention is such that the defect may be removed by the possessor of the insecticide,
seize the stock of such insecticide;
(e)
to take samples of any insecticide and send such samples for analysis to the Insecticide Analyst for test in the
prescribed manner; and
(f)
to exercise such other powers as may be necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act or the rules made
thereunder.
(2)
[The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) shall, as far as may be, apply to any search or
seizure under this Act as they apply to any search or seizure made under the authority of a warrant issued under section
94 of the said Code.]
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1977, Section 6, for sub-S. (2) (w.e.f. 2.8.1977).]
(3)
Page 12/79
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
An Insecticide Inspector may exercise the powers of a police officer under [section 42 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)]
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1977, Section 6, for " section 57 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)"  (w.e.f.
2.8.1977).]
, for the purpose of ascertaining the true name and residence of the person from whom a sample is taken or an
insecticide is seized.
22.
Procedure to be followed by Insecticide Inspectors.-
(1)
Where an Insecticide Inspector seizes any record, register or document under clause () of sub-section (1) of section 21,
he shall, as soon as may be, inform a Magistrate and take his orders as to the custody thereof.
(2)
Where an Insecticide Inspector takes any action under clause () of sub-section (1) of section 21-
(a)
he shall use all despatch in ascertaining whether or not the insecticide or its sale, distribution or use contravenes any of
the provisions of section 18 and if it is ascertained that the insecticide or its sale, distribution or use does not so
contravene, forthwith revoke the order passed under the said clause or, as the case may be, take such action as may be
necessary for the return of the stock seized;
(b)
if he seizes the stock of the insecticide he shall, as soon as may be, inform a Magistrate and take his orders as to the
custody thereof;
(c)
without prejudice to the institution of any prosecution, if the alleged contravention be such that the defect may be
remedied by the possessor of the insecticide, he shall, on being satisfied that the defect has been so remedied, forthwith
revoke his order and in case where the Insecticide Inspector has seized the stock of insecticide, he shall, as soon as
may be, inform a Magistrate and obtain his orders as to the release thereof.
(3)
[Where an Insecticide Inspector takes any sample of an insecticide, he shall issue a receipt therefor stating therein that
the fair price of such sample shall be tendered if the sample, after test or analysis is not found to be misbranded and the
Insecticide Analyst has reported to that effect and on such price having been tendered may require a written
acknowledgment therefor.]
(4)
[* * *]
[ The words " Where the price tendered under sub-section (3) is refused, or"  omitted by Act 23 of 2000, Section 3 (w.e.f.
5.8.2000).]
where the Insecticide Inspector seizes the stock of any insecticide under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 21, he
shall tender a receipt therefor in the prescribed form.
(5)
Where an Insecticide Inspector takes a sample of an insecticide for the purpose of test or analysis, he shall intimate
such purpose in writing in the prescribed form to the person from whom he takes it and, in the presence of such person
unless he wilfully absents himself, shall divide the sample into three portions and effectively seal and suitably mark the
same and permit such person to add his own seal and mark to all or any of the portions so sealed and marked:
Providedthat where the insecticide is made up in containers of small volume, instead of dividing a sample as aforesaid,
the Insecticide Inspector may, and if the insecticide be such that it is likely to deteriorate or be otherwise damaged by
exposure shall, take three of the said containers after suitably marking the same and, where necessary, sealing them.
(6)
The Insecticide Inspector shall restore one portion of a sample so divided or one container, as the case may be, to the
person from whom he takes it and shall retain the remainder and dispose of the same as follows:-
(i)
one portion or container, he shall forthwith send to the Insecticide Analyst for test or analysis; and
(ii)
Page 13/79
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
the second, he shall produce to the Court before which proceedings, if any, are instituted in respect of the insecticide.
23.
Persons bound to disclose place where insecticides are manufactured or kept.-
Every person for the time being in charge of any premises where any insecticide is being manufactured or is kept for
sale or distribution shall, on being required by an Insecticide Inspector so to do, be legally bound to disclose to the
Insecticide Inspector the place where the insecticide is being manufactured or is kept, as the case may be.
24.
Report of Insecticide Analyst.-
(1)
The Insecticide Analyst to whom a sample of any insecticide has been submitted for test or analysis under sub-section
(6) of section 22, shall, within a period of [thirty] days, deliver to the Insecticide Inspector submitting it a signed report in
duplicate in the prescribed form.
(2)
The Insecticide Inspector on receipt thereof shall deliver one copy of the report to the person from whom the sample
was taken and shall retain the other copy for use in any prosecution in respect of the sample.
(3)
Any document purporting to be a report signed by an Insecticide Analyst shall be evidence of the facts stated therein,
and such evidence shall be conclusive unless the person from whom the sample was taken has within twenty-eight days
of the receipt of a copy of the report notified in writing the Insecticide Inspector or the Court before which any
proceedings in respect of the sample are pending that he intends to adduce evidence in controversion of the report.
(4)
Unless the sample has already been tested or analysed in the Central Insecticides Laboratory, where a person has
under sub-section (3) notified his intention of adducing evidence in controversion of the Insecticide Analyst's report, the
Court may, of its own motion or in its discretion at the request either of the complainant or of the accused, cause the
sample of the insecticide produced before the Magistrate under sub-section (6) of section 22 to be sent for test or
analysis to the said laboratory [which shall, within a period of thirty days, which shall make the test or analysis]
[ Substituted by Act 23 of 2000, Section 4, for " which shall make the test or analysis"  (w.e.f. 5.8.2000).]
and report in writing signed by, or under the authority of, the Director of the Central Insecticides Laboratory the result
thereof, and such report shall be conclusive evidence of the facts stated therein.
(5)
The cost of a test or analysis made by the Central Insecticides Labo-ratory under sub-section (4) shall be paid by the
complainant or the accused, as the Court shall direct.
25.
Confiscation.-
(1)
Where any person has been convicted under this Act for contravening any of the provisions of this Act or of the rules
made thereunder, the stock of the insecticide in respect of which the contravention has been made, shall be liable to
confiscation.
(2)
Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-section (1), where the Court is satisfied on the application of an
Insecticide Inspector or otherwise and after such inquiry as may be necessary, that the insecticide is a misbranded
insecticide, such insecticide shall be liable to confiscation.
26.
Notification of poisoning.-
The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, require any person or class of persons specified
therein to report all occurrences of poisoning (through the use or handling of any insecticide) coming within his or their
cognizance to such officer as may be specified in the said notification.
27.
Prohibition of sale, etc., of insecticides for reasons of public safety.-
(1)
If, on receipt of a report under section 26 or otherwise, the Central Government or the State Government is of opinion,
Page 14/79
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
for reasons to be recorded in writing, that use of any insecticide specified in [* * *] clause (e) of section (3) or any specific
batch thereof is likely to involve such risk to human beings or animals as to render it expedient or necessary to take
immediate action then that Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, prohibit the sale, distribution or use
of the insecticide or batch, in such area, to such extent and for such period (not exceeding sixty days) as may by
specified in the notification pending investigation into the matter:
Provided that where the investigation is not completed within the said period, the Central Government or the State
Government, as the case may be, may extend it by such further period or periods not exceeding thirty days in the
aggregate as it may specify in a like manner.
(2)
If, as a result of its own investigation or on receipt of the report from the State Government, and after consultation with
the Registration Committee, the Central Government is satisfied that the use of the said insecticide or batch is or is not
likely to cause any such risk, it may pass such order (including an order refusing to register the insecticide or cancelling
the certificate of registration, if any, granted in respect thereof), as it deems fit, depending on the circumstances of the
case.
28.
Notification of cancellation of registration, etc.-
A refusal to register any insecticide or a cancellation of the certificate of registration of any insecticideshall be notified in
the Official Gazette and in such other manner as may be prescribed.
29.
Offences and punishment.-
(1)
Whoever,-
(a)
imports, manufactures, sells, stocks or exhibits for sale or distributes any insecticide deemed to be misbranded under
sub-clause (i) or sub-clause (iii) or sub-clause (viii) of clause (k) of section 3; or
(b)
imports or manufactures any insecticide without a certificate of registration; or
(c)
manufactures, sells, stocks or exhibits for sale or distributes an insecticide without a license; or
(d)
sells or distributes an insecticide, in contravention of section 27; or
(e)
causes an insecticide, the use of which has been prohibited under section 27, to be used by any worker; or
(f)
obstructs an Insecticide Inspector in the exercise of his powers or discharge of his duties under this Act or the rules
made thereunder, [shall be punishable-
(i)
for the first offence, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine which shall not be less
than ten thousand rupees but which may extend to fifty thousand rupees, or with both;
(ii)
for the second and a subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine
which shall not be less than fifteen thousand rupees but which may extend to seventy-five thousand rupees, or with
both.]
(2)
Whoever uses an insecticide in contravention of any provision of this act or any rule made thereunder shall be
punishable with fine [which shall not be less than five hundred rupees but which may extend to five thousand rupees, or
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or withboth.]
[ Substituted by Act 23 of 2000, Section 6, for " which may extend to five hundred rupees" (w.e.f. 5.8.2000).]
(3)
Whoever contravenes any of the other provisions of this Act or any rule made thereunder or any condition of a certificate
of registration or license granted thereunder, shall be punishable-
Page 15/79
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
(i)
for the first offence, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to [one year, or with fine which shall not be less than
five thousand rupees but which may extend to twenty-five thousand rupees, or with both]
[ Substituted by Act 23 of 2000, Section 6, for " six months, or with fine, or with both"  (w.e.f. 5.8.2000).]
;
(ii)
for the second and a subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to [two years, or with fine
which shall not be less than ten thousand rupees but which may extend to fifty thousand rupees, or with both]
[ Substituted by Act 23 of 2000, Section 6, for " one year, or with fine, or with both"  (w.e.f. 5.8.2000).]
.
(4)
If any person convicted of an offence under this Act commits a like offence afterwards it shall be lawful for the Court
before which the second or subsequent conviction takes place to cause the offender's name and place of residence, the
offence and the penalty imposed to be published in such newspapers or in such other manner as the Court may direct.
30.
Defences which may or may not be allowed in prosecutions under this Act.-
(1)
Save as hereinafter provided in this section, it shall be no defence in a prosecution under this Act to prove merely that
the accused was ignorant of the nature or quality of the insecticide in respect of which the offence was committed or of
the risk involved in the manufacture, sale or use of such insecticide or of the circumstances of its manufacture or import.
(2)
For the purposes of section 17, an insecticide shall not be deemed to be misbranded only by reason of the fact that-
(a)
there has been added thereto some innocuous substance or ingre-dient because the same is required for the
manufacture or the preparation of the insecticide as an article of commerce in a state fit for carriage or consumption, and
not to increase the bulk, weight or measure of the insecticide or to conceal its inferior quality or other defect; or
(b)
in the process of manufacture, preparation or conveyance some extraneous substance has unavoidably become
intermixed with it.
(3)
A person not being an importer or a manufacturer of an insecticide or his agent for the distribution thereof, shall not be
liable for a contravention of any provision of this Act, if he proves-
(a)
that he acquired the insecticide from an importer or a duly licensed manufacturer, distributor or dealer thereof;
(b)
that he did not know and could not, with reasonable diligence, have ascertained that the insecticide in any way
contravened any provision of this Act; and
(c)
that the insecticide, while in his possession, was properly stored and remained in the same state as when he acquired it.
31.
Cognizance and trial of offences.-
(1)
No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall be instituted except by, or with the written consent of, the State
Government or a person authorised in this behalf by the State Government.
(2)
No Court inferior to that of a [Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the first class] shall try any offence
under this Act.
[
31-A.Special Courts
.-
(1)
Page 16/79
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
If the State Government is satisfied that it is necessary for the purpose of providing for speedy trial of offences under this
Act in any district or metropolitan area, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette and after consultation with the High
Court, notify one or more Courts of Judicial Magistrates of the first class, or, as the case may be, Metropolitan
Magistrates, in such district or metropolitan area to be Special Courts for the purposes of this Act.
(2)
Unless otherwise directed by the High Court, a Court notified under sub-section (1) shall exercise jurisdiction only in
respect of cases under this Act.
(3)
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), the jurisdiction and powers of the presiding officer of Court notified under
sub-section (1) in any district or metropolitan area shall extend throughout the district or the metropolitan area, as the
case may be.
(4)
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this section, a Court notified under sub-section (1) in any district or metropolitan
area shall be deemed to be a Court established under sub-section (1) of section 11, or, as the case may be, sub-section
(1) of section 16 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,1973 (2 of 1974) and the provisions of that Code shall apply
accordingly in relation to such Courts.
Explanation-In this section, "High Court" has the same meaning as in clause (e) of section 2 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).]
32.
Magistrate's power to impose enhanced penalties.-
[Repealed by the Insecticides (Amendment) Act, 1977 (24of 1977), section 8 (w.e.f. 2-8-1977).]
33.
Offences by companies.-
(1)
Whenever an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every person who at the time the offence was
committed, was in charge of, or was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of, the company, as
well as the company,shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment under this Act
if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of such offence.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to
any neglect on the part of, any Director, Manager, Secretary or other officer of the company, such Director, Manager,
Secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly.
Explanation.-For the purpose of this section,-
(a)
"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals;and
(b)
"director", in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.
34.
Power of Central Government to give directions.-
The Central Government may give such directions to any State Government as may appear to the Central Government
to be necessary for carrying into execution in the State any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule or order made
thereunder.
35.
Protection of action taken in good faith.-
No prosecution, suit or other proceeding shall lie against the Government or any officer of the Government or the Board,
the Registration Committee or any Committee of the Board, for anything in good faith done or intended to be done under
Page 17/79
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
this Act.
36.
Power of Central Government to make rules.-
(1)
The Central Government may, after consultation with the Board and subject to the condition of previous publication, by
notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act:
Provided that consultation with the Board may be dispensed with if the Central Government is of opinion that
circumstances have arisen which render it necessary to make rules without such consultation, but in such a case the
Board shall be consulted within six months of the making of the rules and the Central Government shall take into
consideration any suggestions which the Board may make in relation to the amendment of the said rules.
(2)
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may prescribe-
(a)
the method of packing and labelling;
(b)
the manner of registration of an insecticide;
(c)
the functions of the Board and of the Registration Committee and the travelling and other allowances payable to
members of the Board, the Registration Committee and any Committee of the Board;
(d)
the places at which insecticides may be imported and prohibit their import at any other place;
(e)
the form of application for registration of an insecticide and the particulars relating thereto;
(f)
[* * * ] the fee payable in respect of registration;
(g)
the manner of appeal to the Central Government under section 10 and the fee payable therefor;
(h)
the form of application for the grant of license and the particulars relating thereto;
(i)
the form of license, the conditions attached thereto and the fee payable therefor;
(j)
the period for which a license may be renewed and the fee for such renewal;
(k)
the circumstances in which a license may be varied or amended under sub-section (2) of section 14;
(l)
the functions of the Central Insecticides Laboratory;
(m)
the qualifications, powers and duties of an Insecticide Analyst and an Insecticide Inspector;
(n)
the manner of testing or analysing the samples of any insecticide and the fee payable therefor;
(o)
the form in which intimation shall be given by an Insecticide Inspector under sub-section (5) of section 22 to a person
from whom a sample of an insecticide is taken for test or analysis;
(p)
the form in which an Insecticide Analyst shall submit a report of his test or analysis to the Insecticide Inspector under
sub-section (1) of section 24;
(q)
the protective clothing and equipment to be used by workers during the manufacture, formulation, transport, distribution
and application of insecticides and other facilities to be provided to keep themselves and things supplied to them free
from any contamination;
Page 18/79
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
(r)
the use by the workers of any such protective clothing, equipment and other facilities;
(s)
the precautions to be taken against poisoning through the use or handling of insecticides;
(t)
the measures for detecting and investigating cases in which poisoning has occurred;
(u)
the facilities to be provided for ensuring first-aid treatment;
() the instruction and training to be provided regarding the use of things supplied to the workers for ensuring their safety;
(w)
the facilities for medical examination of workers engaged in the manufacture or handling of insecticides;
(x)
[* * * ]
[ Cl. (x) omitted by Act 24 of 1977, Section 9 (w.e.f. 2.8.1977).]
(y)
the equipment for, and method of, application of, an insecticide and the disposal of surplus material, washings and
containers, following application;
(z)
the maintenance and inspection of records and returns;
(za)
the restrictions on storage of insecticides during transport or otherwise alongwith articles of food;
(zb)
the maximum proportion of any insecticide which may be added to, or contained in, any preparation for domestic use
and the restrictions thereon;
(zc)
the manner in which refusal to register an insecticide or cancellation of certificate of registration thereof may be notified;
(zd)
the officer or authority to whom the Central Government may delegate any of the powers and functions conferred on it
by this Act;
(ze)
any other matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed.
(3)
Every rule made by the Central Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each
House of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session [or in
two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or
successive sessions aforesaid]
[ Substituted by Act 24 of 1977, Section 9, for certain words (w.e.f. 2.8.1977).]
, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the
rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.
37.
Power of the State Government to make rules.-
(1)
The State Government may, after consultation with the Board and subject to the condition of previous publication, by
notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act and not
inconsistent with the rules, if any, made by the Central Government.
(2)
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for-
(a)
the authority to which, the manner in which, and the fee on payment of which, an appeal may be filed under section 15
and the procedure to be followed by the appellate authority in disposing of the appeal;
Page 19/79
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
(b)
the delegation of any of the powers and functions conferred by this Act on the State Government to any officer or
authority specified by that Government.
(3)
[Every rule made by the State Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before the
State Legislature.]
38.
Exemption.-
(1)
Nothing in this Act shall apply to-
(a)
the use of any insecticide by any person for his own household purposes or for kitchen, garden or in respect of any land
under his cultivation;
(b)
any substance specified or included in the Schedule or any preparation containing any one or more such substances, if
such substance or preparation is intended for purposes other than preventing, destroying, repelling or mitigating any
insects, rodents, fungi, weeds and other forms of plant or animal life not useful to human beings.
(2)
The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, and subject to such conditions, if any, as it may
specify therein, exempt from all or any of the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder, any educational,
scientific or research organisation engaged in carrying out experiments with insecticides.
THE SCHEDULE
[See Section 3 (e)]
LIST OF INSECTICIDES
Acrylonitrile
Aldrin (1 : 2: 3 : 4 : 10 : 10 = hexachloro-1 : 4 : 4a; 5 : 8; 8a-hexahydro-1 : 4 5 : 8-dimethanonaphthalene)
[Allethrin and its stereo isomers]
Aluminium Phosphide
Amiton
Antu (Alpha-naphthyl thiourea)
Aramite [2 (p-tert-butylphenoxy) is propyl 1-2 chloroethyl sulphite]
Barium Carbonate
Barium Fluro Silicate
BHC (Benzene Hexachloride (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6-hexachlorohexane)
Bisdimethylamino Flourophosphine Oxide
[Cadusafos (Sebuphos)]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 744(E), dated 16-11-2004, "Sebuphos".]
Calcium Arsenate
Calcium Cynide
Captan (N-trichloromethylmercapto-4-cyclohexane), 1, 2-discarboximide
Carbaryl (1-naphthyl-N-methyl carbamate) Carbon Disulphide
Carbon Tetrachloride
Chlorbenside (p-chlorobenzyl-p-chlorophenyll sulphide)
Chlorobis ethyl amino triazine
Chlordane (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 1-Octachlore-2, 3, 3a, 4, 7, 7a-hexahydro-4,-7- methanoindane)
Chlorobenzilate (Ethyl 4, 4-dichlorobenzilate)
Chlorothion (o, o-dimethyl-o-3chloro, 4-nitrophenyl thiono phosphate)
Chloro-I.P.C.
Chloropicrin
Chlorofension (p-chlorophenyl-p-chlorobenzene sulphonate) S-pchlorophenylthio) methyl-o-o-diethyl phosphorodithioate
(Trithion)
Page 20/79
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
CIPC [isopropyl-N (3-chlorophenyl) carbamate]
CMU (Manuron)
Copper Arsenate
Copper Cyanide
Copper napthanate
Copper Sulphate
Coumachlor [3-(a-acetonyl-4-chlorobenzyl-4-hydroxy coumarin)]
Copper Oxychloride
Cuprous Oxide
Dalapon (Sodium 2,2, dichloropropionate)
D-D Mixture
DDD (Dichloro Diphenyl Dichloroethane)
DDT [a mixture of 1, 1-trichloro-2-bis (p-chlorophenyl) ethane and 1-1, 1 trichloro-2-o-chlorophenyl)-2 (p-chlorophenyl)
ethane
DDVP (2,2-dichlorovinyl dimethyl phosphate)
Demeton-O(O, O-diethyl-S [(9-ethylthio)-ethyl] phosphorothloate)
Diazinon (O, O-d ethyl-O [e-isopropyl-6-menthyl-4-pyrimldinyl] phosphorothioate)
Dibrom (1, 2-dibromo, 1, 2, 2-dichloroethyl dimethyl phosphate)
Dichlorophenoxy acetic add (2, 4-D)
Dieldrin (1 : 2 : 3 : 4 : 10 ; 10-hexachloro-6, 6-epoxy-1; 4a : 5 : 6 : 7 : 8 : 8a-Octahydro-1 : 4 : 5 :
8-dimethanonaphthalene)
Dimethoate [O, O-dimethyl-S (N-methylcarbamoyl methyl) phosphorodithioate,
Dipterex (O, O-dimethyl-2, 2, 2-trichloro hydroxy ethyl phosphonate)
DNOC (Dinitro-ortho-compound) (3 : 5-dinitro-o-cresol)
EDCT mixture (ethylene Dichloride Carbon Tetrachloride mixture)
Ekatin
Endrin (1, 2, 3, 4, 10-10-hexachloro-6, 7-epoxy-1, 4, 4a, 5, 6, 7, 8, 8a-Octahydro-1, 4-endo-endo
5-8-dimethanonaphthalene)
E.P.N. (O-ethyl-O-p nitriphenyl benzene, thiophosphonate)
Ethroxy ethyl mercury chloride
Ethyl di-n-prophylthiolcarbamate (Eptam)
Ethyl mercury phosphate
Ethyl mercury chloride
Ethylene dibromide
Ethylene dichloride
Fenson (Parachlorophenyl benzene sulphonate)
Fenthion (3-methyl-4methyl thiophenyl phosphorothionate)
Ferbam (Ferric Dimethyl dithio carbamate)
Gusathion (0, O-dimethyl S (4-oxo-1,2) 3-benzotriazinyl-3-methyl (phosphorothioate)
Heptachlor (1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 8-heptachloro-4-7-methano-3a, 4, 7, 7a-tetrahydroindene)
HETP(Hexaethyl tetraphosphate)
Hexaclorobenzene
Hydrogen cyanide
Hydrogen phosphide
Lead arsenate
Lime Sulphur (Calcium polysulphide, water-free sulphur, calcium thiosulphate mixture)
Lindane (gamma, B.H.C.)
Malathion [S-(1, 2-Bis (ethoxycarbonyl ethyl) O, O-dimethyl-phosphorodithioate)
Maleic hydrazide (1, 2-dihydropyroridazine 3,6-dione)
Maneb Manganese ethylene bisdithiocarbamate)
MCPA-(4-chloro-2 Methyl phenoxy acetic acid)
Page 21/79
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
Mercuric chloride
Metaldehyde
Metasystox
Methoxychlor (1, 1, 1-trichloro-2, 2-di-p-methoxyphenylethane)
Methoxy ethyl mercury chloride
Methyl bromide
Methyl demeton (Dimeton-methyl and Dimeton-Methyl)
Methyl Mercury Chloride
Methyl Parathion (O, O-dimethyl-O-nitrophenolthiophosphate)
Metox (Chlorsulphicide)
Nabam (Disodium ethylene-1, 1 bisdithiocarbamate)
Nicotine sulphate
Octa methyl pyrophoramide
Para-dichloro benzene
Parathion (O, O-diethyl-O-p-nitrophenylthiophosphate)
Paris Green (Copper Aceto arsenite)
Pentachloronitrobenzene (P.C.N.B.) Pentachlorophenol
Phenyl mercury acetate
Phenyl mercury chloride
Phenyl mercury urea
Phosdrine
Phthalimidomethyl-O-O-dimethyl phosphorodithioate (Imidan)
Piperonyl butoxide (butyl carbityl) (6-propyl piperonyl) either O
Pival (2-Pivalyl-indiane 1-3-dione),
Potassium cyanide
n-propyl ethyl-n-butyl thiocarbamate (Tillam)
Phyrethrins (insectically active principles of Chrysanthemum cinerariaefolium)
Rotenone
Ryania
Sodium fluoroacetate
Sodium cyanide
Sodium Fluro Silicate
Sulphur (wettable or colloidal sulphur)
Strechinine
Sulphoxide (1, 2-methylene-dioxy-4 (1-octylsulphinyl) propyl benzene)
TCA (tichlor acetic acid sodium and ammonium salts)
Tedion (tetrachlor diphenyl sulphone)
TEPP (tetraethyl Pyrophosphate)
Tetrachloro-p-benzoquinone Thanite
Thiram [bis(dimethyl Thiocarbamyl) disulphide
Tolyl mercury acetate
Trichiorphon
Triorthoeresyl phosphate
Thallium sulphate
Thiometon
Taxaphene (chlorinated camphene containing 67-69% chlorine)
Trichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2, 4, 5-T)
Warfarin (3-a-acetonyl benzyl-4 hydroxy-coumarin)
Zinc phosphide
Zimet
Zineb (Zinc ethylene bis-dithiocarbamate)
Page 22/79
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
Ziram (Zinc dimethyl dithiocarbamate)
Zulate
[Abamectin
(Vertimac)]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 10(E), dated 3-1-1996]
...
Mixture
of Avermectins (Abatnectin: a mixture containing a minimum of 80%
avermectin B, a (5-0-demethyl avermectin A, a) and a maximum of
20% avermectin B, b (5-0-demethyl-25-de-(l-Methyl
propyl)-25-(1-methylethyl) avermectin A, a)
Ancymidol
...
a(-Cyclopropyl-4-methoxy-a-pyrimidin-5-yl)
benzyl alcohal
Bifenox
...
Methyl-5-(2,
4-dichlorophenoxy)-2-nitrobenzoate
Butralin
...
N-Sec-butyl-4-tert-butyl-2,
6-dinitroaniline
Chlorophonium
chloride
...
Tributyl
(2, 4-dichloro-benzyl) phosphonium
Daminozide
...
N-dimethylaminosuccinamic
acid
Demeton-S-Methyl
...
S-2-ethylthioethyl
O, O-di-methylphosphorothioate (IUPAC)
Dichlorprop
...
(±)-2-(2,
4-dichlorophenoxy) Propionic acid (IUPAC)
Fludiexonil
...
4-(2,
2-defluoro benzo (1, 3) dioxol-4-yl)-1 H-pyrrole-3-Carbonitrile
HP-ROPE
...
ZZ/EZ-7,
11-Hexadecadien-lYL Acetate
...
Z-11-Hexadecenal
...
Page 23/79
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
Z-9-Hexadecenal
HL-ROPE
...
Z-11-Hexadecenal
...
Z-9-Hexadecenal
Z-11-HEXADECENAL
...
Z-11-16AL+Z-11-16AC
Lufenumn
...
(RS)-1-2,5-dichloro-4-(1,1,
2, 3, 3, 3,
hexefluoropro-poxy)-Phenyl)-3-(2,6-difiuorobenzyl)-Urea
Metamitron
...
4-Amino-45
dihydro-3-Methyl-6-phenyl-1, 2, 3-triazin-5-one (IUPAC)
Dodemorph
(Meltatox)
...
4-Cyclodedecyl-2,
6-dimethyl-morpholine
Mopiquat chloride
...
1,
1-dimethyl-piperidinium
Naproamide
...
(RS)-N,N,
diethyl-2-(A-Naphthyl6xy) propionamide
Oxadiargyl
...
5-tert-buty
1-3-(2, 4-dichloro-5-propargyloxy-phenyl)-13, 4-oxadiazol-2
(3H)-one (IUPAC)
Phenmedipham
...
methyl
3-(3-methyl carbaniloyloxy) carbanilate (IUPAC)
Pymetrozine
...
6-methyl-4-[(pyridin-3-yl
methylene)-amino]-4, 5-dihydro-12, 4-triazin-3 (2H)-One
Propyzamide
...
3,
5-dichloro-N-(1,1-dimethylpropynyl) benzamide (IUPAC)
PB-ROPE L
...
ZZ/EZ-7,
Page 24/79
----- PAGE 25 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
11-Hexadecadien-1-YL-Acetate
Paclobutrazol
...
(2RS,
3RS)-1-(4-Chlorophenyl-4,4-dimethyl-1-2-(1H-1, 2,4-triazol-1-yl)
pen tan-3-ol
Triacontanol
...
1-triacontanol
Thiourea
(Thiocarbamide)
...
Thiourea
Triflumizole
...
(E)-4-Chloro-a,
a,
a,-trifluoro-N-[1H-imidazol-1-yl)-2-propoxyethylidene]-O-toluidine
(IUPAC)
Triticonazole
...
(IRS)-(E)-5-[(4-chlorophenyl)
methylene)-2, 2-dimethyl-l-(1H-1, 2, 4-triazole-1-yl-methyl)
cyclopentan-l-ol.
Uniconazole
...
(E)-1-(RS)-1-(4-chlorophenyl)-4,
4-demethyl 1-2-(1 H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl) pent-l-en-3-ol]
[Acrinathrin]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 538(E), dated 21-11-1996]
...
(S)-oc
cyno-3-phenoxy benzyl (z)-(1 R, 3S)-2, 2-dimethyl-3-[2-2, 2,
2-trifluoro-l-trifluoro-l-trifluromethyl ethoxycarbonyl) vinyl]
cyclopropanne carboxylate
[Acrolkein]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 9(E), dated 9-1-1975]
...
2-Propenal
or Acrylaldehyde
Actellic
(Pirimiphosmethyl)
...
2-diethylamino-6-methylpyrimidin-4-yl
dimethyl phosphorothionate
Afugon
...
Diethyl
methyl ethoxycarbonyl pyrazolopyrimidine-yl-phosphorothionate
Alachlor
...
Page 25/79
----- PAGE 26 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
2-Chloro-2',
6'-diethyl-n-(methoxymethyl)-acetanilide
Aldicarb
...
2-methyl-2-(methylthio)
propionaldehyde-o-(methylcarbamoyl) oxime
Amidithion
...
S-(N-2-methoxyethyl-Carlomoyl-methyl)
dimethyl phosphorothiolothionate
[Amidosulfuron]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 730(E), dated 30-10-1995.]
...
3-(4,
6 dimethoxyprimiolin
2-yl)-l-(N-methyl-N-methyl-Sulphonyl-amino-sulphonyl)urea
Amitrole
...
3-Amino-1,
2, 4-triazole
Ammonium
Sulphamate
...
Ammonium
Sulphamate
Asulam
...
Methyl-N
(4-aminobenzenesulphonyl) carbamate
Atrazine
...
2-Chloro-4-ethylamino-6-isopropylamino-1,
3, 5-triazine
Aureofungin
...
Aureofungin
Azinphos-ethyl
...
S-(3,
4-dihydro-4-oxobenzo-(d)-(1, 2, 3)-triazin-3-yl-methyl) diethyl
phosphorothiolothionate
Barban
...
4-chloro-2-ynyl-3-chlophenyl
carbamate
Barium
Polysulphide
...
Barium
Polysulphide
Bassa BCPE
Page 26/79
----- PAGE 27 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
(Chlorphenithel)
...
O-Secondary-butylphenylmethylcarbamate
1, 1, bis-(4-Chlorophenyl) etharol
Benomyl
...
Methyl-N-benzimidazol-2-yl-N
(butylearbemoyal carbonate)
Bensulide
...
S
(O, O-Di-isopropyl phosphorodithionate) ester with
N-(2-mercaptoethyl) benzene sulphenamide
Binapacryl
...
2-(1
methyl-n-propyl)-4, 6-dinitropheniyl-2-methylcrotonate
Bromacil
...
5-bromo-6-methyl-3-(I-methylpropyl)
uracil
Brompyrazen
...
5-amino-4-bromo-2-phenylpridazin-3-one
Bromoxynil
...
3,
5-dibromo-4-hydroxybenzonitrile
Bromuconazde
...
[(4-bromo
2-(2, 4-dichlorophenyl) tetrahydro-2-furnayl) methyl]-1 H-1, 2,
4-triazole]
Brozone
...
Methyl
bromide and chloropicrin in petroleum solvent
Buturon
...
3-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-methyl-l-(1-methyl
prop-2-ynyl) urea
Butylate
...
S-ethyl-N,
N-diisobutylthiocarbamate
Bux
...
Mixture
of m-1-(methylbutyl) phenylmethyl carbamate and m-(1-ethylpropyl)
phenylmethyl carbamate
Cadmium based
Page 27/79
----- PAGE 28 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
compounds
...
(Cadmium
Chloride, Cadmium sulphate, Cadmium succinate)
Captafel
...
N-O
(1, 1, 2, 2-tetrachloroethylthio) cyelohex-4-ene-1-2
dicarboxymide
Carbefuran
...
2,
3-dihydro-2, 2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl methylcarbamate
Carbophenothion
...
S[(p-Chlorophenylthio)]-(methyl)-o,
o-diethyl phosphoro dithioate
Carboxin (DCMO)
...
5,
6-Dihydro-2-methyl-1, 4-oxathiin-3-carboxanilide
Chinomethionate
...
6-methyl-2-oxo-1,
3-dithio (4, 5-b)quinoxaline
Chloramben
...
3-amine-2,
5-dichlorobenzonic acid
Chlorbufam (BIPC)
...
1-methyl-2-propynyl-m-chlorocarbanilate
Chlorfenyinphos
...
2-chloro-1
(2,4-dichloropheny 1)-Vinyl-phosphate
Chloromequat
Chloride
...
(2-chloroethyl)
trimethylammonium chloride
Chloroneb
...
1,
4-dichloro-2, 5-dimethexybenzine
Chloropropane
...
Chloropropane
Chloroxur-n
...
N'-4-(4-Chlorophenoxy)
Page 28/79
----- PAGE 29 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
phenyl-NN-dimethyl-ureat
Citicide
...
Chlorinated
turpene
Citowett
...
Alkylarylpolyglykelether
[Clofentenzine]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 730(E), dated 30-10-1995]
...
3,
6-bis (2-chlorophyenyl)-1, 2,4, 5-tetrazine)
Clonitralid
...
5,
2-dichlore-4'-nitro-salicylic-anilide-ethanolamine
Copper hydroxide
...
Copper
Hydroxide
Coumafuryl
...
3(a-Acetonylfurfuryl)
4 hydro-cyceumarin
Coumaphos
...
3-chloro-4-methyl-7-coumarinyl
diethyl phosphorothionate
Coumatetralyl
...
4-hydroxy-3-(1,
2, 3, 4-tetraphydro-I-naphthyl) coumarin
Coyden
...
3,
5-dichloro-2, 6-dimethyl-4-pyridinol
CPAS
...
4-chlorophenyl
1,2,4, 5-trichloro-4-phynylazosulphide
[Cyanophos]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 538(E) dated 21-11-1996]
...
O-4-Cyanophenyl
O, O-dimethyl phosphoro-thioate, 4-(dimethpxyphosphino-thioyloxy)
benzonitrile.]
Cyclomorph
...
N-Cyclodedecyl-2,
6-dimethyl-morpholinacetate
Page 29/79
----- PAGE 30 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
Cycluren (OMU)
...
N'Cycle'-oetyl-N-N-dimethyl,
urea
Cytrolane
...
2-(diethoxy
phosphraylimino)-4-methyl-1, 3-dithiolane
Decarbofuran
...
2,
3-dihydro-methyloben Izofuren-7-byl-methyl-carbamate
Decazolin
...
1-(alpha,
alpha-dimethyl-beta-acetoxypropioryl-3-isoprophyl-2,
4dioxodeoahydroquinazoline
DEET
...
N,
N-Diethyl-m-toluamide
Dibromochloropropane
...
1,
2-dibromo-3-chloropropane
Dicamba
...
3,
6-dichloro-2-methoxybenzoic acid
Dichlobenil
...
2,
6-dichlorobanzo nitrile
Dichlofenthion
...
O-(2,
4-dichlorophenyl) 0, O-diethyl phosphorothioate
Dichlone
...
2,
3-dichloro-1, 4-naphthoquinone
Dichloropropane
...
1,
3-dichloropropane
Dicloran
...
2,
6-dichloro-4-nitroaniline
Dicofol
...
Page 30/79
----- PAGE 31 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
2,2,
2-trichloro-1,1-di-(4-chloro-phenyl) etharol
Dicrotophos
...
Dimethyl
phosphate ester with (E)-3-Hydroxy-N, N-dimethylciscrotonamide
dimethyl phosphate
2,4-D B
...
4-(2,
4-Dichlorophenoxy) butyric acid
Difenphos (Abate)
...
O.O.O.
'O'-Tetramethyl, 0, O'-thiodi-p-phenylene phosphorothioate
[Difenzoquat
Mythyl]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 730(E), dated 30-10-1995.]
...
1,
2-dimethyle 3, 5-diphenyl-pyrazolium-methyl sulphate
Dikar
...
A
blend of Dithane M-45 and Tech. Karathane
Dimas (Alar)
...
N-dimethylamino
suceinic acid
Dinocap
...
Mixture
of 4 & 5 parts of 2, 4-dinitro-6-octophynyl crotonates to 2
parts of the isomer of 2,6 dinitro-4-octylphenyl crotonates
Dinoseb
...
2,
4-dinitro-6-s-butylphenol
Dinoseb acetate
...
2,
4-dinitro-6-s-butylphenol acetate
Dioxathion
...
S.S.1.4-dioxane-2,
3-ylidene (bis) 0, 0-diethyl phosphorothiolothionate
Diphacinene
...
2-diphenylacetyl
1, 3-indanediene
Diphenamid
Page 31/79
----- PAGE 32 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
...
NN-dimethyl-2,
2-diphenylacetamide
Disulfoton
...
diethyl
S-I[2-(ethylthio) ethyl] phosphorothiolothionate
Diuron
...
N'3,
(4-dichlorophenyl)-NN-dimethylurea
DMPA
...
O-(2-4-Dichlorophenyl)
O' methyl N-isoprophylphosphoroamidi thicate
Dodine
...
Dodecylguanidine-monoacetate
Dodomorph
...
4-Cylcododeeyl-2,
6-dimethyl-morpholine
Dart
(Chlorophacinone)
...
2-(a-P-Chlorophenyl-a-pheylacetyl)
indane-1, 3-dione
DSMA
...
Disodium
methanearsonate
Dursban
...
0,
O-diethyl 0-(3, 5, 6-trichloro-2-phyridyl) phosphorothioate
Dusting Sulphur
...
Ediphenphos
...
O-ethyl-s,
s-diphenyl-dithiophosphate
Endosulfan
...
6,7,8,9,
10, 10-hexachloro-1, 5, 5a, 6,9, 9a-hexahydro 6, 9-methano-2, 4,
3-benzo(e)-dioxathiepin-3-oxide
Endothall
...
7-oxabicylo
(2,2, I)-hepatane-2,3-dicarboxylate
EPTC
Page 32/79
----- PAGE 33 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
...
S-ethyl-dip
rophylthiocarbamate
Erbon
...
2-(2,
4, 5-trichlorphenoxy) methyl 2, 2-dichioropropionate
Ethion
...
Tetraethyl
SS' methylene bis (phosphero-thiolothionate)
[Ethoxysulfuron]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 730(E), dated 30-10-1995]
...
IUPAC
: 3-(4, 6-din-iethoxypgrimidin-2-yl)-I-(2-ethoxyphenoxysulfonyl)
Urea
Ethrel
...
2-chloroethane
phosphonic acid
Fenac
...
Sodium
2,3 6-trichlorophenylacetate
Fenazeflor
...
Phenyl
5, 6-dichlore-2-trifluoro-methyl benzimidazole-l-carboxylate
Fenitrothion
...
dimethyl
3-methyl-4-nitrophenyl phosphorothionate
Fensulfothion
...
diethyl
4-(methyl suphinyl) phenyl phosphorothionate
Fentinacetate
...
triphenyltin
acetate
Fentin chloride
...
triphenyltin
chloride
Fentin-hydroxide
...
triphenyltin
hydroxide
[Fluquiconazole]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 538(E), dated 21-11-1996]
Page 33/79
----- PAGE 34 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
...
3-(2,
4-dichloro phenyl)-6-fluoro-2(111-1, 2, 4-triazol-1-yl)
quinazolin-4-(3H)-one
Folex
...
SSS-Tributyl
phosphorotrithioate
Formethion
...
S-(N-formyl-N-methylcarbamoyl
methyl) 00-dimethyl phosphorodithioate
Fonofos (Dyfonate)
...
O-ethyl-s-phenyl
ethyl phosphorodithioate
Fujithion
...
O,
O-Dimethyl-s-Parachlorophenyl phosphorothis
Gibberellins
...
Gibberellic
Acid
Herban
...
3-(5-3-a,
4,5,6,7, 8-a-hexahydro-4, 7-methanoindanyl)-1, ldimethyl urea
Indole acetic &
Butyric Acid
...
Indole
acetic Acid, Indole Butyric Acid
loxynil (Pantrol)
...
3,
5-di-iodo-4-hydroxy benzenitrile
Isobenzan
...
1,3,4,5,6,7,
7-Octachloro,-1, 3, 3a, 4,7, 7a, hexahydro-4, 7methanois
olbenzofuran
Isononuron
...
N'
(hexahydro-4, 7-methanoindan-l-yl) NN dimethyl urea
Kitazin
...
0-0-Di-isopropyl-s-Benzyle
thiophosphate
[Lactofen]
Page 34/79
----- PAGE 35 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
[Inserted by G.S.R. 730(E), dated 30-10-1995]
...
1-(Carboethoxy)
ethyl 5-[-2-chloro-4-(trifluoro-methyl) phenoxy]2-nitri-benzoate
Lenacil
...
3-cyclohexyl-5,
6-trimethyleneuracil
Linuron
...
N-(3,
4-dichlorophenyl)-N-methoxy-N-methyl-urea
Lucel
...
5,6,7,
8-tetrachloroquinexaline
Machete
(Butachlor)
...
[2-chloro-2',
6'-diethyl-N-(Butoxymethyl)-acetanilide
M.C.P.B.
...
4-(4-Chloro-2-methylphenoxy)
butyric acid
Menazon
...
S-(4-,
6-diamino-1, 3, 5-triazin-2-yl methyl)
dimethylphosphorothiolothionate
Metamidophos
...
O-S-dimethylester
amide of thiphosphoric acid
Metam Sodium
...
N-methyldithiocarbamic
Acid
Methomyl
...
S-methyl
N-(methylcarbamoyl oxy) thiocetimidate
Methylmetiram
...
Ammonium
complex with Zn-(N'N-1, 2-propylenebis-(dithiocarbamate) and N',
N'-Poly-1, 2-propylenebis-(Thiocarbamoy l )di-sulph id
Metiram
...
Ammonium
complex with Zn-(N-(N', N-1, 2-Ethylenebis (dithocarbamate) and
Page 35/79
----- PAGE 36 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
N' N' poyl-1, 2-propylene-bi(Thiocarbamoyl)-di-sulphid
Metoxuron
...
N'(3-chloro-4-methoxyphenyl)-N,
N-dimethyl urea
Mevinphos
...
2-methoxy
carbonyl-1-methyl vinyl dimethyl phosphate
MIPCIN
...
2-incprophlphenyl-N-methyl
carbamate
Menap
...
O-Ethyl
S, S-dipropyl phosphor-dithioate
Molinate
...
S-Ethyl-N-hexaphydrop-1,
H-azepinuthiol-carbamate
Monocrotophos
...
3-Hydroxy-N-methyl-crotonamide
dimethyl phosphate
Monolinuron
...
N-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-Methoxy-N-methyl
urea
MSMA
...
Monosodium
methaearsonate
Neled
...
1,
2-dibromo-2, 2-dichloroethyl dimethyl phosphate
Naphythylacetic
acid
...
Naphthylacetic
acid & its derivations
Naburon
...
1-Butyl-3-(3,
4-dichlorophenyl)-l-methyl urea
Nemafos
(Thinonzim)
...
0,
0-diethyl C-2 pyrazinyl phosphorothioate
Page 36/79
----- PAGE 37 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
Neopynamin
...
3,4,5,
6-tetrahydro-phthalimidomethyl chrysauthanate
Nickel Chloride
...
Nickel
Chloride
Nitrofen
...
2,
4-dichlorophenyl 4-nitrophenyl ether
Omethoate
...
dimethyl
8 (N-methyl-carbamoyl-methyl) phosphorothioate
Orthane
...
0,
S-dimethyl N-acetyl phosphoramidothioate
Oxapyrazon
...
5-bromo-1,
6-dihydro-6-oxo-l-phenyl-4-pyridazinyl Oxamic acid compound with
2 dimethyl aminoethanol (1 & 1)
Oxycarboxin
(DCMCD)
...
5,
6-dihydro-2-methyl-1, 4-oxathiin-3-carboxanilide 4, 4-dioxide
Paraquat
...
1,1-dimethyal-4,
4-bipyridylium ion
Pebulate
...
1,
propyl-butyl-ethylthiocarbamate
Phenthoate
...
S-a-ethoxycarbonylbenzyl-O,
O-dimethyl phosphorodithioate
Phorate
...
diethyl
5-( ethylthizomethyl) phosphorothiolithicate
Phosalone
...
5-(6-chloro-2-oxabenzoxazolin-3-yl)-methyl-O,
0, diethylphosphorodithioate
Phosphamidon
Page 37/79
----- PAGE 38 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
...
2-chloro-2-2diethylcarbamoyl-methylvinyl
dimethyl Phosphate
Phosphorus paste
...
Phosphorus
paste
Phosmet (Imidan)
...
0,
0-dimethyl-S-phthallimide-methylphosphorodi-thioate ,
Phosvel
(Leptophos)
...
0-(2,5,
dichlori-4-bromophenyl) 0-methyl phenylthiophosphorate
Phoxim
...
Phenylglyoxylonitrile
Oxime 0-0-diethyl phosphorothioate
Picloram
...
4-amino-3,5,6,
trichloroplcolinic acid
[Pipronil]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 730(E), dated 30-10-1995.]
...
(±)-5-amino-l-(2,
6 dichloro-a, a, a, triful-p-tolyl)-4-(trifluoromethyl sulfinyl
pyraorezole-3-carbonitrile tetrazine
Plictran
...
Tricyclohexyl
tinhydroxide derivatives
Pronamide (Kerb)
...
3,
5-dichloro-N-(1, dimethyl-2 propynyl) benzamide
Propanil
...
3,
4-d ichlorpropionanilide
Propargite (Omite)
...
Prop-2-vnyl-(4-butyl
phenoxyl)-eyclohexyl-sulphite
Propineb
...
Zinc
propylenebdithiocarbamate (pol'ymeric)
[Propoomocarb
Page 38/79
----- PAGE 39 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
Hydrochloride]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 538(E), dated 21-11-1996]
...
Propyl
3-(dimethylamine )-Propylcarbomate hydrochloride
Propoxur
...
0-Isopropoxyphenylmethyl
carbomate
Prvnachlor
...
O-N-butyn-(1)-y;
Chloro-acetanilide
Pyracarbolid
...
2-methyl-5,
6-dihydro-4-H-pyran-3, carboxylicanilide
Pyrazon (PCA)
...
5-a
mino-4-chloro-2-phenyl-3-pyridazone
Quinalphos
...
0,
O-diethyl quinoxalin-2-yl phosphorothioate
Rabicide
...
4,
5, 6, 7,-tetrachlcropthalide
Ro-Neet
...
S-ethyl
N-ethyl-N-cyclothexy-Ithiocarbamate
Runnel
...
0,
O-Dimethyl 0-(2,4,5-trichloropheyl) phosphorothioate
S-421
...
Octachlorodipropyl-ether
Sciex
...
3-(3,
5-dichlorophenyl)-5, 5-dimethyl oxazolidine-dione 2, 4
[Silafluofen]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 730(E), dated 30-10-1995]
...
(4-Ethoxyphenyl)
[3-(4-fluoro-3-phenoxy-phenyl)-propyl] (dimethyl)-silane
Simazine
...
Page 39/79
----- PAGE 40 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
2-Chloro-4,
6-bis (ethylamino) s-triazine
Sindone A
...
1,
1-dimethyl-4, 6-di-isopropylindanyl ethyl ketone
Sindone B
...
1,
1, 4-trimethyl-4, 6-di-isopropyl-5-indanyl ethyl ketone
Sirmate
...
3,4-and
2, 3-Dichlorobenzyl N-methv l carbonate
Swep
...
Methyl
3,4 dichlocarba-nilate
Tar Acide
...
Complex
phenolic compounds or tar oil or creosotes
Tavron G
...
2,
2, 2-trichloroethyl stryrene
[Tebufenozide]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 730(E), dated 30-10-1995]
...
N-tertobutyl-N-(4-ethyl
benzoyl)-3, 5, dimethyl benzohy-dtrazide.]
Tecnazene
...
1,
2, 4, 5-tetrachloro-3-nitrobenzenes
Terbacil
...
3-t-butyl-5
chloro-methyluracil
Tetrachlorvinphos
(Gardona)
...
2-chloro-l-(2,
4, 5-trichlorophenyl) vinyl dimethyl phosphate
Tetram
...
0,
O-diethyl 5-(2-diethylamino) ethyl phosphorothioate hydrogen
oxalate
2,4,5-TB
...
Page 40/79
----- PAGE 41 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
4-(2,
4, 5-trichlorophenoxy) butyric acid
Thiadiazinthion
(Terracur)
...
5-Carboxymathyl-methyl-2
H-i, 3, 5-thiadia-zin 2 thione
Thiophanatc-M
...
1,
2-di-(3-mathoxy-carbonyl-2-thio-ureid) benzene
Tranid
...
exo-3-chloro-endo-6-cyano-2,
norbornan (Ene-l-(methyl carbamoyl) oxime
[Transfluthrin]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 538(E), dated 21-11-1996.]
...
2,3,5,
6-Tetrafluorobenzyl (1R, 3S)-3-(2, 2-dichlorovinyl)-2,
2dimethyl-cyclopropane carboxylate.]
Triallate
...
S-2,
2, 3-Trichloroallyl dis-lopropylthi-carbamate
Tridemorph
...
2,
6-dimethyl-4-tridecyl morholone
[Triflumizole]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 823(E), dated 28-9-1976]
...
(E)-4-Choloro-Trifluoro-N-(1
imidezol-I-yl-2 propoxy ethylidine) 0-toluidine)
Tunic
...
2,
(3, 4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-lm 2, 4-oxadiazo-linine-3,
5,-dione
Udonkor
...
N-(beta-cyanothyl)
monochloroa-cetamide
Vamidothion
...
0,
0-dimethyl-s-(2-I-methyl 18 carbamoylethylthio) ethyl
phosphorothioate
Vegatta
...
Ethylene
Page 41/79
----- PAGE 42 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
thiuram monosulphide
Vornalate
...
S-propyl
NN-diprophyl thiolcarbamate
Zectran
...
4-dimethylamino-3,
5-xylyl-N-methylcarbamate
Basagram
...
3-Isopropyl-l
N-2, 3-benzo-thiadixin-4-(3H)-one 2,2-dioxide
Basalin
...
N-(2-chloresthyl)-N-propyl-trifluoro
2, 6-dinitro-p-tolumidine
Bavistin
...
2-(methoxy-carbamoyl)-benzimi-dazole
Campogram M
...
2,
5-dimethyl-furan 3-carbonic acid anilide and 320 gmsog (zink)
Trifluralin
...
2,
6-dinitro-NN-dipropyl-4-triflouromethvl aniline
Flumeturon
...
N-(3-trifluro-methylphenyl)-N'-N'-dimethvlurea
Metabromuron
...
N-(P-bromophenyl)-N'-methyl-N'-methexyurea
Mancozeb
...
Zinc-Manganese
ethylene-bis-dithiocarbamate
[Methabenzthiazuron]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 201(E), dated 29-3-1978]
...
1,
3-Dimethyl-3 (2, benzothiozolyl) Urea
[Streptomycin
Tetracyclines Terbuteryne]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 576(E), dated 26-8-1993]
...
(2-tert,
butylamino-4-ethylamino-6-methylthio-S-triazine)
Glyphosate
...
Page 42/79
----- PAGE 43 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
(N-(Phosphonomethyl)
glycine) present as isopropylamine salt.]
[Bacillus species]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 574(E), dated 6-10-1979]
...
[Benthiocarb]
[Inserted by G.S.R. 32(E), dated 12-2-1980]
...
5-(4-chlorobenzyl)-N,
N-diethylthiol carbamate
Cypermethrin
...
L-cyano-3-phenoxybenzyl-2,
2-dimethyl-3-(2, 2-dichloro-vinyl) cyclo-propane carboxylate
Decamethrin
...
(S)-L-cyano-m-phenoxybenzyl
(IR, 3R),-3-(2, 2-dobromovinyl) dimethyl cyclopropane carboxylate
Fenvalerate
...
£-cyanom-phenoxybenzyl-$-isopropyl-p-chlorophenzyl
acetate
Permethrin
...
3-phenoxy
benzyl ±-cis, trans-3-(2, 2-dichlorovinyl)-2,
2dimethyl-cyclopropane carboxylate
Tetrachloroisophthalonitrile
...
1,
2, 4-Trichloro-3, 5-dinitrobenzene)
Bromophos
...
O-(4-bromo-2,
5-dichlorophenyl) 00-di-methyl phosphorothioate
Bromophos ethyl
...
O-(4-bromo-2,
5-dichlorophenyl, 00-di-ethyl phosphorothioate
Cartap
...
1,
3-di (carbamoylthio)-2-dimethylaminopropane
Dichlorophen
(Antiphen)
...
5,
5-dichloro 2, 2, dihydroxy diphenyl methane
Dinobuton
...
Isopropyl-2-(1
Page 43/79
----- PAGE 44 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
methyl-n-propyl)-4, 6-dinitrophenyl carbonate
Dithianon
...
2,
3-dicyano-1, 4-dithia-anthraquinone
Ethyl formate
...
Ethyl
formate
Fenfuram
...
2-methyl
furan 3-carboxanilide
Glyphosine
...
N,
N-bis (phosphonomethyl) glycine
Guazatine
...
1,17-diguanidino-9-azahepta
decane
Isofanphos
...
O-ethyl-o-(2-isopropoxy-carbonyl)
phenyl isopropyl phosphoramidothica to
Isoproturon
...
N,
N-dimethyl-N'-4-isopropyl phenyl urea
Magnesium
Phosphide
...
Magnesium
phoshide
Matribuzin
...
4-amino-6-tort,
butyl-3-(methylthio) 1, 2, 4-triazin-5-(4H)-One
Triadimefon
...
1-(4-chlorophenoxy)-3-dimethyl-l-(1-H-1,
2, 4-tridzol-1-yl) 2-butanone
Triforine
...
1,
4-di(2, 2, 2-trichloro-l-formamidoethyl)-piperazine
Vacor
...
N3-pyridyl
methyl-N-p-nitrophenyl urea
Amitraz
Page 44/79
----- PAGE 45 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
...
2-methyl-1,
3-di-(2-4-xyly-limino) 2-azapropane
Bendiocarb
...
2,
2-dimethylbenzo-1, 3-dioxol 4-yl methyl carbamate
Benzoylpropethyl
...
ethyl
N-benzoyl-N-(3, 4-dichlorophenyl) DL alaninate
Cyanazine
...
2-(4-chloro-6-ethylamino-1,
3, 5-triazin-2-ylamino)-2-methyl propionitrile
Etrimfos
...
O-(6-ethoxy-2-ethyl-4-pyrimidinyl)
0, 0-dimethyl phosphorothioate
Glyodin
...
2-heptadecyl-3,
4-dihydro-lH-imidazolyl acetate
Oxadiazon
...
3-(2,
5-dichloro-5-(1-methylethoxy) phenyl)-5-(1,1-demethylethyl)-1, 3,
4-oxadiazol-2 (3H)-one
Oxyfluorfen
...
2-Chloro-1-(3-ethoxy-4-ni
troph i noxyl-4-trifluormethyl) benzene
Propetamphos
...
(E)-0-2,
isopropoxycarbonyl-l-l-methyl vinyl-0-methyl ethyl
phosphoramidothioate
Scilliroside
...
3B,
6B-6-acetyloxy-3-(B-D-glucopyranosylozy) 8,14-dihydroxy
bufa-1-20, 22, trienolide
Thiocyclam
(hydrogenoxalate)
...
N,
N-dimethyl-1, 2, 3-trithian-5-amine hydrogenoxalate
Viclozolin
...
3-(3,
5-dichlorophenyl)-5-ethenyl-5-methyl-2, 4-oxazolidinedione
Page 45/79
----- PAGE 46 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
Benodanil
...
2-Iodo-N-pheny
lbenza mide
Diclofopmethyl
...
2-(4-(2,
4-dichlorophenoxy) phenoxy)-propanole acid
Metalazyl
...
methyl-(2-methoxyacetyl)-N-(2,
6-xylyl)-DL-alaninate
Pendimethalin
...
N-(1-ethyl
propyl)-3, 4-dimethyl 2,6-dinitrobenzeneamin
Fosethyl aluminium
...
Aluminium
tris (ethyl-phosphonate)
Thiabendazole
...
2-(4-Thiazoloyl)-benzimidazole
Butrizol
...
4-n-butyl-4H-1,
24-triazole
TCMTB
...
2-(Thiocynomethyl-thio)
benzothiazole
Bromadiolone
...
3,3,
4-bromoll-hiphenyl-4, Y-3 hydroxy-l-phenyl proply-4 hydroxy-2
H-1-benzopyram-2 one)]
Flucythrinate
...
RS-Cyano-3-phenoxy
benzyl(s)-2-(4-difluomethoxy phenyl)-methylbutyrate
Triazophos
...
O,
O-diethyl 0-1-phenyl-1, 2-4-triazol-3-vlphos-phorothioate
Diflubenzuron
...
1-(4-chlorophenyl)-3-(2),
6-difluorobenzoyal) urea
Bitertanol
...
B-(1,1-biphenyl)-4-yloxy)-L
Page 46/79
----- PAGE 47 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
(1, 1-dimethylethyl)-l H-1, 2, 4-triazole-l-ethmol
Sethooreydion
...
2,1-(ethoxyimine)
butyl-5 (2-ethylthiopropyl)-2-hydroxy-2-cyclohexen-1-one
Brodifacoum
...
3-(3)-(4'bromobiphenyl-4-yl)-1,
2, 3, 4-tetrahydro-1-naphthyl)-4-hyd roxycaumarin
Methoprene
...
Isopropyl
(2E, 4E)-1l-methoxy-3, 7,11-trimethyl-2, 4-dodecadienoate
Isoprothiolane
...
-diesopropyl-1,
3-dithiolan-2-yl idenemalenate
Carbosulfan
...
-2,
3-dihydro-2, 2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl [(dibutylaminethiol methyl
carbamate
Prochloraz
...
-N-propyl-N-[2-[2,
4, 6-trichlorophenoxy] ethy]] imidazole-l-craboxamide
Methacrifos
...
-O-2-methoxycarbonylprop-l-enyl
0, 0-dimethyl-phosphorothioate
Chlortoluron
...
-3-[3-chloro-p-tolyl]-1,1-dimethylurea
Probenazole
...
-3-allyloxy-1,
2,-benzolsothiazol-1, 1-dioxide
([Tau Fiuvalinat]
...
-(RS)-d-cyano-3,
phenoxybenzyl (R)-2-(2-chloro-4-trifluoromethyl-aniline)-3-methyl
butanoate
DEPA
...
-N-diethyl-phenyl
acetamide
Fenpropathrin
...
-d-Cyano-3-phenoxybenzyl-2,
2, 3, 3-tetramethyl-l-cylcopropanecarboxyla to
Phenothrin
Page 47/79
----- PAGE 48 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
...
-3-phenoxybenzy
(IRS)-cis, transchrysanthemate
Kasugamycin
...
[5-amino-2-methyl-6-(2,
3, 4, 5, 6-penthydroxy cyclohexyl) tetrahydropyran-3-yl]
amino-a-iminoacetic acid
Amidine
...
Hydrazone
...
Tetrahydro-5,
5-dimethyl-2 (1H)-pyrimidinone
[3-(4-trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1-[2-[4]-Trifluromethyl) phenyl
ethenyl-1-2-propenylidene] hydrazone
Amilofos
...
S[N-(4-chloro-phenyl-)-N-isopropyl-carbomoyl-methyl)]-O,
0 dimethyl-dithiophosphate A herbal extract containing diallyl
disulphide Allyl propyl disulphide and Allyl isothiocyante,
diallyl disulphide, Allyl propyl disulphide and Allyl
isothiocyante.]
Phenamiphos
(Fenamiphos)
...
ethyl
4-methylthio-m-toly isopropylphosphoramidate
Ametryne
...
N-ethyl-N'-(1-methylethyl)-6-(methylthio)-1,
3, 5-triazine-2, 4-diamine
Prometryne
...
N,
N'-bis (1-methylethyl) 6-(methylthio)-1, 3, 5-triazine-2, 4
diamine
Fluazifop
...
RS:
2-(4-(5-trifluromethyl-2-pyridyloxy) phenoxy) propionic acid
BORIC ACID
...
Ortho
boric acid
BROMOPROPYLATE
...
Isopropyl
4, 4'dibromobenzilate
RESMETHRIN
...
Page 48/79
----- PAGE 49 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
5-benzyl-3-furylmethyl
(IRS, 3RS,1 RS, 3RS)-2-dimethyl-3-(2methylp rop-l-enyl)
cyclopropanecarboxyla to
AZAMETHIPHOS
...
S-6
Chloro-2, 3-dihydro-2, oxo-oxazole (4, 5-b) pyridine-3ylmethyl C,
0-dimethyl ph-phorohioate
METOACHLOR
...
2-Chloro-6'-ethyl-N-(2-methoxyl-l-methylethyl)
acet-o-toluidide
VALIDAMYCINA
...
IL-(1,
3,4/2 6)-2, 3-dihydroxy-6-hydroxymethyl-4-(IS, 4R, 5S, 63)-4, 5,
6-trihydroxy 3-hydroxymethylcyclohex-2-enylamino) cyclohexy
1-BD-glucopyroanoside
HALOXYFOP METHYL
...
Methyl
2-(4) [ (3-chloro-5-(trifluoro-methyl-2-pyridinyl) oxy] phenoxy)
propanoate
PIMARICIN
...
(8E,
14E, 16E, 18E, 20E,)-1S, 3R, 5S, 75,12R, 24R, 25S,
26R-22(3-amino-3-6-d ideoxy-B-D-mannopy ra no-syloxy-1, 3,
26-trihydroxy-12-methyl-10-oxo-6,11, 28-trioxatricyclo (22,
3-1-05.7) octacosa-8,14,16,18, 20-pentaene-25-carboxylic acid
CYHALOTHRIN
...
(RS)1-cyano-3-phenoxybenzyl
(Z)-(1 RS, 2RS)-(2-chloro-3, 3-trifluoropropenyl)-2,
2-dimethyl-cyclopropane-carboxyla to
CHOLECALCIREROL
...
9,
10(seocholesta-5, 7, 10 (10)-trein-3 betaol; activate
7-dehydrocholestrol
TOLCLOFOS, METHYL
...
0-(2,
6-dichloro-4-methyl-phenyl) O, O-dimethylphos-phorothioa to
PIPEROPHOS
...
S-2-methyipiperidinocarbonyl-methyl
0, O-dipropyl-phosphorodithicate
CHLORPYRIPHO5-METHYLO
...
0-dimethyl
Page 49/79
----- PAGE 50 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
0-3,5, 6-Trichloro-2-Pyridylphosphoro-thioate
Blassticidin 'S'
...
1-(4-amino
1,
2-dihydro-2-oxopyrimidin-l-yl)-4-((S)-3-amino-5-(1-methylguanidino)
Valermido)-1, 2, 3, 4-tetradeoxy-Derythro-hex-2-enopyranuronic
acid
Difethialone
...
((Bromo-4'-(biphenyl-l-1')-yl-4)3
tetrahydor-1, 2, 3, 4-naphthyl-1) 3-hydroxy-4, 2H-4
benzothiopyranone-2
Imazalil-MAGNATE
...
Allyl
1-(2, 4-dichlorophenyl)-2-imidazol-1-ylethyl either
Naproanilide
...
2-(2-naphtyloxy)
propinonanilide
Phenothiol
...
S-ethyl
(4-chloro-o-tolyloxy) thicacetate
Terbufos
...
S-((1,1-dimethylethyl)thio)methyl)-O,
o-diethyl phosphorodithicate
...
or
...
S-tert-butyl
thiomethyl-o, o-diethyl Phosphorodithioate
Batocarboxim
...
3-(methyl
thio)-o-((methyl amino) carbonyl) oxime-2 butanone
Imidacloprid
...
1-(6-Chloro-3-pyridinyl)-methyl)-N-nitroimidazolidin-2-ylidenea
mine
[Clodinafop
propargyl]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 181(E) dated 13.3.2001]
...
2-Propynyl(R)-2-(
4-(5-chloro-3-fluroro-2-pyridinyloxy)-phenoxy)propinonate.]
Abamectin
(Vertimate)
...
Page 50/79
----- PAGE 51 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
Mixture
of Avermectins (Abamectin : a mixture containing a minimum of
80%, avermectin B, a(S-o-demethyl avermeetin A, a and a maximum
of 20% avermection B, b (S-o-demethyl-25-de(I-Methyl
propyl)-25-(1-methylethyl) avermection A, a)
Ancymidol
...
x
(-Cyclopropyl-4-methoxy-x-(pyrimidin-S-yl) benzyl alcohol
Bifenox
...
Methyl-5-(2,
4-dichlorophenoxy)-2-nitrobenzoate
Butralin
...
N-Sec-butyl-4-tort-butyl-2,
6-dinitiroaniline
Chlorphonium
chloride
...
Tributyl
(2, 4-dichloro-benzyl) phosphonium
Daminozide
...
N-dimethylaminosuccinamic
acid
Demeton-S. Methyl
...
S-2-ethylthioethyl
0, O-dimethylphosphorothioate (IUPAC)
Dichloroprop
...
(±)-2-(2,
4-dichlorophenoxy) Propionic acid (IUPAC)
Fludiexonil
...
4-(2,
2-difluoro benzo (1, 3) dioxol-4-yl),1H-pyrrole-3-Carbonitrile
HP-ROPE
...
ZZ/EZ-7,
11-Hexadecadien-1-YL Acetate, Z-11-Hexadecenal, Z-9-Hexadecenal
HL-ROPE
...
Z-11-Hexadecemal,
Z-9-Hexadecenal
Z-11-HEXAECENAL
...
Z-11-16AL+Z-11-16AC
Lufenuron
...
Page 51/79
----- PAGE 52 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
(RS)-1-(2,
5-dichloro-4-(1,1, 2,3,3,3, hexefluoropro-poxy)-phenyl)-3-(2,
6-difluorobenzyl)-Urea
Metamitron
...
4-Amino-4-5,
dihydro-3-Methyl-6-phenyl-1, 2,3-triazin-5-one (IUPAC)
Dodemorph
(Meltatox)
...
4-Cyclodedecyl-2,
6-dimethyl-morpholine
Mopiquat chloride
...
1,
1-dimethyl-piperidinium
Naproamide
...
(RS)-N,
N, d;pthyl-2-(A-Naphthyloxy) propionamide
Oxadiargyl
...
5-tert-buty
1-3-(2, 4-dichloro-5-propargyloxyphenyl)-1,3,4 oxadiazol-2
(3H)-One (IUPAC)
Phenmedipham
...
methyl
3-(3-methyl carbaniloyloxy) carbanilate (IUPAC)
Pymetrozine
...
6,
methyl-4-[(pyridin-3-yl methylene)-amino)-4, S-dichloro-N-(l,
I-dimethylpropynyl) benzamide (IUPAC)
PB-ROPEL
...
ZZ/EZ-7,
11-Hexadecadien-1-YL-Acetate
Paclobutrazol
...
(2RS,
3RS)-1-(4-Chlorophenyl-4, 4-dimethyl-2-(1h-1, 2, 4-triazol-l-yl)
pentan-3-ol
Tebuconazole
...
Alfa-tert-buty-alpha-(para-chilorophenathyl)-1
H-1, 2, 4-triazole-1 ethanol]
Triacontanol
...
1-triacontanol
Triourea
Page 52/79
----- PAGE 53 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
(Thiocarbamide)
...
Thiourea
Triflumizole
...
(E)-4-Chloro-a,
a,
a-trifluoro-N[1H-imidazol-l-ly)-2-propoxyethylidene-O-toluidine
Triticonazole
...
(IRS)-(E)-5-[4-chlorophenyl)
methylene]-2, 2-dimethyl-1-(I h-1, 2, 4 triazole-1-yl-methyl)
cyclopentan-lol
Uniconazole
...
(E)-l-(RS)-1-(-4-chlorophenyl)-4,
4-dimethyl 1-2 (1H-1, 2, 4-triazoll-yl) pentl-en-3ol]
Alanycarb
...
Ethyl
(Z)-benzyl, N-methyl (I-methyl thioethyliden-eamno) oxycarbonly)
amino thio-Balaninate
Beta-Cyfluthrin
...
o(-cyano-4
fluoro-3 phenoxy (Mixture of 2 benzyl 3-(2, 2
dicholorovin-enantiomeric pairs)yl) 2, 2,-dimethyl cyclopropane
carboxylate
...
Pair-II(S)-o-(cyano-4
fluoro-3-phenoxy-benzy] (IR)-cis-3-(2, 2-dicholorovinyl)-2,2
dimethylcyclopropane car-boxylate and the corresponding
(R)-(IS)-cis-isomer;
...
pairiv(S)
(IR) trans and (R) (IS) trans isomers in the ratio 1:2
Beta-Cyper-Methrin
...
(s)-o(cyano-3-henoxy
benzyl (IR)-cis-3(2), 2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2 dimethylcyclopropane
carboxylate and (R)-ocyano-3 phenoxy benzyl (IS)-cis-3-(2, 2
dichlorovinyl) 2, 2,-dimethyl cyclopropane with (S)-o-(-cyano-3
phenoxy benzyl (IR)-trans-3-(2,2dichlorovincyl)-2, 2 dimethyl
cyclopropane Carboxylate and (R)-o-(cyano-3 phenoxy benzyl
(IS)-trans-3-(2, 2 dichlorovinyl)-2, 2 dimethyl cyclopropane
carboxylate
Bupirimate
Chlorfenapyr
...
5-Butyl-2-ethylamino-6methylpyrimidin-4-yl-dimethylsulfa
mate
Page 53/79
----- PAGE 54 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
...
4-bromo-2-(4-choloro-phenyl)-l-ethoxy-methyl-5trifluormethyl
pyrrole-3-carbonitrile
Cyhalofop butyl
...
butyl(R)-2-4-(4-cyano-2-fluorophenozy)
phenoxy propionate
Desmedipham
...
Ethyl
3-Phenyl carbamoyl-oxyphenyl carbamate
Epoxiconazole
...
(2-s-3SR)-1-3-(2-chloro-phenyl)-2,
3-epoxy-2(4-fluorphenyl)-proply-1H-1, 2, 4-triazole
Ethofumesate
...
(±)
2-ethoxy-2, 3 dihydro-3, 3-dimethyl benzo luran 5y1 methane
sulfonate
Famoxadone
...
3-anilino-5-methyl-5(4-phenoxyphenyl)-2,
4-oxazolidinedione
Fenazaquin
...
4-tert-butyl
phenethyl quinazolin 4-yl ether
Flurtamone
...
(RS)-5-methyl
amino-2-phenyl-4 (oc, oc, oc-trifluoro-m-toly1) furan 3 2(H) one
Fluthiamide
...
4-fluoro-N-iso
proply-2(5-trifluoro methyl-1, 3, 4, thiadizon-2-yloxy)
acetanilide
Fluthiamide
...
2-Fluoroacetamide
Halosulfuron-Methyl
...
Mehtyl
3-chloro-5-(4, 6,-dimethoxy-pyrimidin-2-ylear-bamoyl
sulfamoyl)-1-methylpyraxole-4-carboxylate
Heptenophos
...
7-Chlorobicyclo
(3, 2, 0) hepta-2, 6,-dien 6-yl dimethy yl phosphate
Hydrogen Cyanamide
...
Page 54/79
----- PAGE 55 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
Carbamic
acide nitrile; cyanamide: cyanoamine
Indoxacarb
...
(s)
70-chloro-3-methoxy carbonyl-(4-trifluoro methoxy
phenyl)cabamoyl-2, 5-dithydroindero (1, 2, e) (1, 3, 4)
oxadiazene-4a(3 4)carboxylic and methylesir
[Fluazolate]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 181(E) dated 13.3.2001]
...
1
methylethyl 5-4 bromo-l-methyl-5(trifluoromethyl) 1 H-pyrazole
3-yl-2-chloro-4-flurobenzoate
Isouron
...
3-(5-tert-butyl
= iso xawle-3-)I, I-dimethyl urea
Karanjin
...
Karanjin
(isolated form Ponquamia glabra)
Methoxyfenazide
...
N'tert-butyl-N-(3,
5-dimethylbenzoyl)-3-methoxy-2-methyl-benzohyd razi de.
Propaquizafop
...
Pyrithiobac-Sodium
2-isopropylident-amino-oxyethyl(R)-2-4-(6
chlorqu-inoxalin-2yloxy) phexoxy propionate.
Pyrithiobac-Sodium
...
Sodium
2-chloro-6-(4, 6-dimethoxy pyrimidin-2-yl thio) benzoate.
Spinosad
...
1.
Spinosyn A
...
2,-(6-deoxy-2,
3, 4 trio-o-methyl-alpha-L-, mannopy ranosyl) oxv (-1-3-(5
dimethyl amino) 6-methyl-2, H-pyram-2y1)-9 ethyl 1-2, 3, 3a, 5a,
5b, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16a, 16b teradecahydro-14-methyl-1
H-as indaceno (3, 2-d)-oxacyclodo decin-7,15-dione.
...
2.
Spinoxyn D
...
2-(6-deoxy-2,
3, 4-trio-o-methyl-alpha-L-mannopy ra-nosyl) (oxy)
Page 55/79
----- PAGE 56 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
13-[(5-dimethylamino)
tetrahydro-6-methyl-2H-pyrin-2y1]-9-ethyl-2, 3, 3a, 5a, 5b, 6, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16a, 16b,-tetradeca-hydro 4,14,
dimethyl-dirnethyl-IH-as-indaceno (3,2-1) oxacyclodedecin-7, 15
dione
Sulfonite
...
Lithium
Perflu-orooctane suflonate
Sulfosulfuron
...
N-(4,
6-dimethoxy 2-pyrimidiryl)-2ethyl sulfonyli-midazol 1, 2, a
pyridine-3-sulfonamide
Triflumuron
...
1-(2-cholorbenzoy)-3-(4-trifluoro-methoxyphenyl
urea).]
[Antagonistic fungi
and Bacteria-
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 224(E), dated 26.3.1999]
...
(a) Bacillus
subtilis
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 224(E), dated 26.3.1999]
...
(b) Gliocladium
Species
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 224(E), dated 26.3.1999]
...
(c) Pseudomonas
Species
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 224(E), dated 26.3.1999]
...
(d) Trichoderma
Species
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 224(E), dated 26.3.1999]
...
Entomogenous
fungi-
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 224(E), dated 26.3.1999]
...
(a) Beauveria
bassiana
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 224(E), dated 26.3.1999]
...
(b) Metarrhizium
anisopliae
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 224(E), dated 26.3.1999]
...
(c) Nomurea rilevi
Page 56/79
----- PAGE 57 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 224(E), dated 26.3.1999]
...
(d) Verticillium
lecanii
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 224(E), dated 26.3.1999]
...
Grannulosis
Viruses (GV)
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 224(E), dated 26.3.1999]
...
Nuclear
Polyhedrosis Viruses (NPV)]
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 224(E), dated 26.3.1999]
...
[Acetamiprid
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
(E)-N1-[(6-chloro-3-pyridyl)
Methyll-N2-cyano-N'-ethylcetamidine
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Acetochlor
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
2-chloro-N-ethoxy-methyl-6-ethyla
ceto-toluidide
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Acibenzolar-s-methyl
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
S-methyl
benzo [1, 2, 3] thiadiazole 7-carbothioate
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Azoxystrobin
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
Methyl
(E)-2-{-2-[6-(2-cyano phenoxy) pyrimidin-4y]-oxy]
phenyl]-3-methoxy acrylate
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Carpropamid
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
2,
2-dichloro-N-[1-(4-Chlorophenyl)1-ethyl-3-methyl
cyclo=propane-carboxamide
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Dithiopyr
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
S,
S'-dimethyl-2-difluoro methyl-4-isobutyl-6-trifluoromethyl
Page 57/79
----- PAGE 58 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
pyridine-3, 5-dicarbothioate
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Emamectin-benzoate
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
4"-epimethylamino-4"
deoxyavermectin B, benzoate (A mixture of min. 90% of
4"-deoxy-aver-mectin B and max. of 10% of
4"epimethylamino-4" deoxy avermectin B16 benzoate
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Epoxyconazole
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
(2RS3SR)-1-[3-(2-chloro-phenyl)-2,
3-epoxy-2-(4-fluorophenyl) =propyll-IH-1, 2, 4-triazole
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Ergostim
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
It
is a mixture of ATCA (N-acetyl-thiazolidin-4-Carboxylic-acid) and
folic acid in the ratio of 50:1
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Imazaquin
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
(Rs)
2-(4-isopropyl-4-methyl-5-oxo-2-imidazolin-2-yl)-3-quinoline=3-carboxylic
acid
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Imiprothrin
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
A
mixture containing 20% 2,
5-dioxo-3-prop-2-ynylimidazolidin-=1-ylmethyl (1R3S)-2,
2-dimethyl-3-(2-methyl prop-l-enyl) cyclopropane carboxylate and
80% of 2, 5-dioxo-3-Prop-2ynyimidazolidin-l-ylmethyl (1 R3S)-2,
2-dimethyl-=3-(2-methyl prop-l-enyl) cyclopropane Carboxylate
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Metazachlor
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
2-chloro-N(pyrazol-1-ylmethyl)acet-2'.
6-xylidide
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Pencycuron
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
1-(4-chlorobenzyl)-1-cyclopentyl-3-phenylurea
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Page 58/79
----- PAGE 59 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
...
H
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Potassium
Phosphonate
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
KO-P-OK
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
O
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Sodium-Aciflourfan
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
Sodium
5-(2-chloro-alpha, alpha,
alpha-trifluoro-p-tolyloxy)-2-nitrobenzoato
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Sulfentrazone
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
2',
4'-dichloro-5'-(4-difluoromethyl-4, 5-dihydro-3-methyl
5-oxo=iH-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl) methanesulfonanlide
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Thiamethoxam
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
3-(2-chloro-thiazol-5-yl
methyl)-5-methyl (1, 3, 5) Oxadiazinan-4-ylidene-N-nitroamine
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Thifluzamide
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
2',
6'-dibromo 2-methyl-4'-triflouro-methoxy-4-triflouro methyl=l,
3-thiazole-5-carboxanilide
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Thiocydylam
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
NN-dimethyl-1,
2, 3-trithian-5-ylamine hydrozen-oxalate
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Tolyfluanid
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
...
N-dichlorofhioromethylthio-N',
N'-dimethyl-N-p-tolylsulfamide]
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 672(E), dated 28.9.1999]
Page 59/79
----- PAGE 60 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
[Extract of
Cymbopogan Species
[Added by Noatification No. G.S.R. 868(E), dated 15.11.2000]
...
Monoterpenes
[Added by Noatification No. G.S.R. 868(E), dated 15.11.2000]
Fenphroximate
[Added by Noatification No. G.S.R. 868(E), dated 15.11.2000]
...
Tert-butyl
(E)-£-(1, 3-dimethyl-5-phenoxy-pyrazol-4-yl
methyleneamino-oxy)-p-toluate
[Added by Noatification No. G.S.R. 868(E), dated 15.11.2000]
Metalaxyl-m
[Added by Noatification No. G.S.R. 868(E), dated 15.11.2000]
...
Methy
N-(Methoxyacethyl)-N-(2, 6-xylyl)-D-alaninate
[Added by Noatification No. G.S.R. 868(E), dated 15.11.2000]
Novaluron
[Added by Noatification No. G.S.R. 868(E), dated 15.11.2000]
...
(±)-1-[3-chloro-4-(1,1,
2-trifluoro-2-trifluoro methoxyethoxy)-phenyl]-3-(2, 6-difluoro
benzoyl) Urea
[Added by Noatification No. G.S.R. 868(E), dated 15.11.2000]
Quizalofop-p-tefuryl
[Added by Noatification No. G.S.R. 868(E), dated 15.11.2000]
...
(±)-tetra
hydrofurfuryl-(R)-2 [4(6-Chloroquinoxalin-2-yloxy)=phenoxy]
propionate
[Added by Noatification No. G.S.R. 868(E), dated 15.11.2000]
S-metolechlor
[Added by Noatification No. G.S.R. 868(E), dated 15.11.2000]
...
(S)
2-chloro-N-(2-ethyl-6-methyl phenyl)-N-(2-methoxy= I methyl
ethyl) acetamide.]
[Added by Noatification No. G.S.R. 868(E), dated 15.11.2000]
[Hirsutella
species.]
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. 69(E), dated 5.2.2001]
...
[imazapic
[Added by Notification No. G.S.R. No. 291(E), dated 19.4.2002]
...
(+)-2-(4-isopropyl-4-methyl-5-oxo-2-imidazoli
n-2-yl )-5-methylnicotinic acid
Dimethanamid
...
Page 60/79
----- PAGE 61 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
(RS)-2-chloro-n-(2,
4-dimethyl-3-thienyl)-n-(2-methyoxy-1-Methylethyl) acetamide
Carfentrazone
ethyl
...
ethyl
(RS)-2-chloro-3-[2-chloro-5-(4-difluoromethyl-4,
5-dihydro-3-methyl-5-oxo-1H-1, 2,
4-triazol-I-yl-4-fluorophenyl]-propionate
Oryzalin
...
3,
5-dinitro-N-', N-'-dipropylsulfanilamide
BAS625H
(Clefoxydim)
...
2-[1-[2-(4-chlorophonexy)
propoxyimino]-butyl 1-3-hydroxy-5-thian-3-ylcyclotex-2-enone
Tepraloxydim
(Aramo)
...
(EZ)-(RS)-2-(1-[(2E)-3-chloroallyloxyimino]-propyll-3-hydroxy-5perhydropyran-4-ylcyclotex-2-en-l-one
Benfuresate
Chlorthal-dimethyl
...
2,
3-dihydro-3, 3-dimethylbenzofuran-5-ylethanensul-fonate
tetrachloro-terapthalic add (other name dimethyl
tetrachloroterephthalate)
Terallethrin
(Knockthrin-M-108)
...
(RS)-3-allyl-2-methyl-4-oxo-cyclopent-2-enyl
2, 2, 3, 3-tetramethyl cyclo-propanecarboxylate
Rimsulfuron
...
1-(4,
6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-yl)-3-(3-ethylsulfonyl-2-Pyridiylsulfonyl)
urea
Uniconazole-P
...
(E)-(S)-1-(4-chlorophenyl)-4,
4-dimethyl-2-(1H-1, 2, 4-triazolylpentl-en-3-ol
Diniconazole
...
(E)-(RS)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4,
4-dimethyl-2-1H-1, 2, 4-triazoll-yl) pent-l-en-3-ol
Dimenthyl
Phthalate
...
1,
Page 61/79
----- PAGE 62 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
2-benzenedicarboxylic acid
Procymidone
...
N-(3,
S-dichlorophenyl)-1, 2-dimethylcycylopropane-J 1,
2-dicarboximate-
Tolclofos-methyl
...
0-2,
6-dichloro-p-tolyl 0, 0-dimethylphosphorothioa to .
Cyclosulfamuron
...
1-[2-(cyclopropyl
carbonyl) phenyl sulfamoyl]-3-(4, 6-1 dimethoxypyrimidin-2-yl)
urea
Imazamox
...
(RS)-2-(4-isopropyl-4-methyl-5-oxo-2-imidazolin-2-yl-5-methoxymethylnicotinic
acid
Metconazole
...
(1
RS, 5RS,1 RS, 5SR)-5-(4-chlorobenzyl)-2, 2-dimethyl-1-(1H-1, 2,
4-triazol-1-ylmethyl) cyclopentanol
Thiazopyr
...
methyl
2-difluoromethyl-S-(4, Sdihidro-1,
3-thiazol-2-yl)-4-isobutyl-6-trifluromethylnicotinate
Sodium-P
Nitrophenolate
-
Forchlorfenuron
Thiacloprid
...
1-(2-chloro-4-pyridyl)-3-phenylurea
Fentrazamide
...
4-(2-chlorophenyl)-N-cyclohexyl-N-ethyl-4,
5-dihydro-5-oxo-lh-tetrazole-1-carboxamide
Hexaflumuron
...
1-[3,
5-dichloro-4-(1,1, 2, 2-tetrafluoroethoxy)
phenyl]-3-(2,6-difluobenzoyl) urea.]]
Fenamidone
Flutriafol
...
(S)-1-anilino-4-methyl-2-methylthio-4-phenylimidazolin-5-one
(RS)-2, 4'-difluoro-alpha-(1H-1, 2, 4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)
benzhydryl alcohol
Page 62/79
----- PAGE 63 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
Bifenazate
...
Isopropyl
3-(4-methoxybiphenyl-3yl) carbazate
Pyriproxyfen
...
4-phenoxyphenyl(RS)-2(2-pyridyloxy)propylether
Iprovalicarb
...
Isopropyl
2-methyl-l-[(1-p-tolylethyl) carbamoyl]-(S)propylcarbamate
Clothianidin
...
(E)-1-(2-chloro-1,
3-thiazol-5-ylmethyl)-3-methyl-2-nitroguanidine
Mesosulfuron-methyl
...
Methyl
2-[3-(4,6-dimethoxy pyrimidin-2-yl) ureido sulfonyl]-4-methane
sulfon-amidomethyl benzoate
Iodosulfuron-methyl-sodium
...
Methyl
4-iodo-2-[3-(4-methoxy-6-methyl-1, 3,5--1
triazin-2-yl)ureidosulfonyl benzoate, sodium salt.
Etridiazole
...
Ethyl
3-trichloromethyl-1, 2, 4-thiadiazol-5-yl-ether
Milbemectin
...
A
mixture of: (10E, 14E, 16E, 22Z)-(lR, 4S, 5'S, 6R, 6'R, 8R, 13R,
20R, 21 R, 24S)-21, 24-dihydroxy-5'6, 11, 13, 22-pentamethy1-3,
7, 19-trioxatetracyclo [15.6.1.14,8O20,24] pentacosa-10, 14, 16,
22-tetraene-6-spiro-2-tetrahydropyran-2-one and (10E, 14E, 16E,
22Z)(1R, 4S, 5'S, 6R, 6'R, 8R, 13R, 20R, 21R, 24S)-6'-ethyl-21,
24-dihydroxy-5' 11, 13, 22-tetramethyl-3, 7, 19-trioxatetracyclo
[15.6.1.14,8.O20,24] pentacosa-10, 14, 16,
22-tetraene-6 spiro-2-tetrahydropyran-2-one in theratio 3 to 7
...
Methyl
N-(2-{[1-(4-chloro-phenyl)-1H-pyrazol-3yl]ox methyl}phenyl)
N-methoxy carbamate
Trifloxysulfuron-sodium
...
N[(4,6-dimethoxy-2-2pyrimidinyl)
cabamoyl]-3-(2, 2, 2-trifluoroethoxy)-pyridin-2-sulfonamice
Sodium salt
Naptalam
...
Page 63/79
----- PAGE 64 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
N-1-naphthylphthidamic
acid
Dimethipin
...
2,3-dihydro-5,6-dimethyl-1-4,dithi-ine-1,1,4-4
tetraoxide
Ethyl butyl acetyl
amino propionate
...
Ethyl
butyl acetyl amino propionate
Phenothrin
[(1R)-trans-isomer] (d-phenothrin)
...
3-phenoxybenzyl
(1RS, 3RS;1RS, 3SR)-2, 2-dimethyl-3-(2-methylprop-1-enyl)
cyclopropane carboxylate
SZ1-121
...
3-(2-chlorophenyl
)-6-(2,6-difluorophenyl)-1,2,4,5-tetrazine
(Flufenzine)
Bronopol
...
2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1,
3-diol
[Pyraflufen-ethyl
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 378(E) dated 24.6.2004]
...
Ethyl-2-chloro-5(4-chloro-5-difluoromethoxy-l-methylpyrazol-3-yl)-4-fluorophenoxy
acetate
Isoxaben
...
N-[3-(1-ethyl-I-methylpropyl)
isoxazol-5-yl]-2, 6 dimethoxybenzanride
Imazosulfuron
...
1-(2-chlorolmidazo
[1,
2-a]pyridin-3-ylsulfonyl)-3(4,6-dimethoxy-pyrinridin-2-yl)Urea
Spiromesifen
...
3-mesityl-2-oxo-l-oxaspiro(4,4)-non-3-en-4-y1-3,
3-dimethyl butanoate
Fenoxanil
...
N-(1-cyano-1,
2-dimethylpropyl)-2-(2,4 dichloro-phenoxy) propion amide
(R,5)-and (RR) and (S,R)-and (S,S)
Bioresmethrin
...
Page 64/79
----- PAGE 65 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
5-benzyl-3-furylmethyl
(+) trans Chrysanthemate
d-Tetramethrin
...
Cyclohex-l-en-1,
2-dicarboxy midomethyl-cis-trans chrysanthemate
d-phenothrin
...
3-phenoxybenzyl-(+)-cis,
trans chysanthemate
Verticillium
chlamydosporium
Acibenzolar-S-methyl
Streptomyces
griseoviridis
Streptomyces
lydicus
Ampelomyces
quisqualis
Candida oleophila
Fusarium oxyspomm
(non pathogenic)
Burkholderia
cepacia
Coniotvrium
minitans
Agrobactarium
radiobacter strain 84
Agrobactarium
tumefaciens
Pythium oligandrum
Erwinia amylovora
(Hairpin Protein)
Phlebia gigantean
Plaecilomyces
lilacinus
Penicillium
islanidicum (for groundnut)
Alcaligenes spp.
Chaetomium
globosum
Aspergillus
niger-strain AN 27
VAM-Vesicular
arbuscular mycorrhizal (fungus)]
[Fenbuconazole
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 198(E) dated 31.3.2005.]
...
4-(4-Chlorophenyl)-2-phenyl-2-(1H-1,
2, 4-triazol-l-ylmethyl) butyronitrile
Ipconazole (Isomer
Page 65/79
----- PAGE 66 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
mixture)
...
-(IRS,
2SR, 5 RS: I RS, 2 5R, 5 5R)-2-(4-Chlorobenzyl)-5-isoproyl-1-(1
H-1, 2, 4-triazol-l-ylmethyl) cyclopentanol
Amicarbazone
...
5-amino-N-tert-butyl-4,
5-dihydro-3-isopropyl-5-oxo-1, 2,44H triazole-l-carboxamide
Clethodim
...
(+)-2-[(E)-I-[(E)-3
chloro allyloxyimino] Propyl]-5-[2-(ethylthio)propyl]-3-hydroxy
cyclohex-2-enone
Hymexazol
...
5-methyl
izoxazol-3-o1
Flucarbazone-Sodium
...
4,
5-dihydro-3-methoxy-4-methyl-5-oxo-N-(2-trifluro methoxy
phenyl-sulfonvl)-1 H-1, 2, 4-triazole-l-carboxamide, sodium salt
Flumioxazin
...
N-(7-fluoro-3,
4-dihydro-3-oxo-4-prop-2-ynyl-2H-1, 4-benzoxazin-6-yl)
cyclohex-l-ene-1, 2 dicarboxamide
Metrofluthrin
...
2,
3, 5, 6 Tetrafluro-4-(methoxy methyl) benzyl (EZ)-(IRS, 3RS, IRS,
3 SR)-2, 2 dimethyl-3-(Prop-1-enyl) cyclopropane carboxylate
Pyridalyl
...
2,
6-dichloro-4 (3, 3-dichloro allyloxy) phenyl 3-[5-trifluoro
methyl]-2-pyridyloxy propyl ether
Metaflumizone
...
(E+Z)-2-[2-(4-cyanophenyl)-1-(3-trifl
uorometh yl phenyl) ethylidene]-N-(4-trifluoromethoxy phenyl)
hydrazine carboxamide
Trifloxystrobin
...
Methyl
(E) methoxyimino-(E)-a-[l-(a, a, a,-trifluoro-m-tolyl) ethyl
ideneamine oxyl-o-tolyl] acetate
Oxymatrine
...
(plant
Page 66/79
----- PAGE 67 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
derived pesticide-sophora flavescens)
Bispyribac-Sodium
...
Sodium
2, 6-bis (4, 6-dimethoxy pyrimidin-2-yloxy) benzoate
Muscalure
...
(Z)-tricos-9-ene
Acifluorfen
...
5-(2-chloro-1-1-1-tri
fluoro-p-tolyloxy)-2-nitrobenzoic acid
Reduced
azadirachtin(s)
...
Active
Ingredient(s) dihydroazadirachtin (Chemical Code 121702), and
tetrahydroazadirachtin.]
Petroleum derived
spray oil
...
Produced
by distillation at >310oC and refinement of crude
mineral oil. It is the combination of largely aliphatic
hydrocarbon both saturated and unsaturated, the content of the
latter being reduced by refinement.]
[Pinoxaden
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 51(E) dated 6.2.2006 (w.e.f. 19.11.1986)]
...
2,
2-dimethyl-propanoid acid 8-(2, 6-diethyl 4-methyl
phenyl)-9-oxo-1, 2,4, 5-tetrahydro-9H-Pyrazolo (1, 2-d] [1, 4, 5]
oxadiazepine-7-yl ester
Dinotefuran
...
(RS)-1-methyl-2-nitro-3-(tetra
hydro-3-furylmethyl) guanidine
Flubendiamide
...
N-(1,1-dimethyl-2
(methyl sulfonyl) ethyl]-3-iodo-N-[4-[1, 2, 2,
2-tetrafluoro-I-trifluoromethyl)ethyl]-0-tolyl] phthalamide
Triptericium of
wilferdii
...
Glycosides
having Triptolide, Tripdiolide and Tripterolide
Hook GTW-Plant
extact
...
Lepimectin (E-237)
Page 67/79
----- PAGE 68 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
...
Mixture
of (10E, 14E, 16E, 22Z)-(IR, 4S, 5'S, 6R, 6'R, 8R, 12R, 13S, 20R,
21 R, 24S),-21, 24-dihydroxy-5', 6', 11, 13,
22-pentamethyl-l2-[(2Z)-2methoxyimino-2 phenylacetoxy]-5', 6',
11, 13, 22-pentamethyl-3, 7,19-trioxatetracylo
[15.6.1.14,8.020,24] pentacosa-10, 14, 16,
22-tetraene-6-spiro-2'-tetrahydro-pyran-2-one (E-241) and (10E,
14E, 16E, 22Z)-(IR, 4S, 5'S, 6R, 6'R, 8R, 12R, 13S, 20R, 21R,
24S),-6'-ethyl-21, 24-dihydroxy-12-[(2Z)-2
methoxyimino-2-phenylacetoxy]-5', 11, 13, 22-tetramethyl-3, 7,
19-trioxatetracyclo(15.6.1.14,8.020,24]
pentacosa-10, 14, 16,
22-tetraene-6-Spiro-2'-tetrahydro-pyran-2-one (E-909) in the
ratio of ?20 to ?80
Ethiprole
...
(±)-5-amino-l-(2,
6-dichloro-alpha, alpha, alpha,
trifluoro-p-tolyl)4-ethyl-sulfinyl pyrazole-3-carbonitrile
Mycothecirem
Verrucaria
...
-
Tetraconazole
...
(RS)-2-(2,
4-dichlorophenyl)-3-(1H, 1, 2-4-triazole-l-yl) propyl 1, 1, 2,
2-tetrafluoroethyl ether
Hydramethylnon
...
5,
5-dimethyl-perhydro
pyrimidin-2-one-4-trifluoromethyl-a-(4-trifluoromethyl styryl)
cinnamyliderehydrazone
Bitterbarkomycin
...
(Plant
extract of Apocynum venetum) la, 2a, diacetoxyl-8A, 15 dissobutyl
acyloxyl-9a-benzyloxy-4A; 6A dihydroxy-A-dihydrolignaloefuran
Benalaxyl-M
...
Methyl-N
(Phenylacetyl)-N-(2, 6-xylyl-D-alaninate
Sulfuryl Fluoride
...
-
Thifensulfuron-methyl
...
3-(4-methoxy-6-methyl-1,
3, 5-triazin-2-yl-carbamoyisuifamoyi)=thiophen-2-carboxylic acid
Page 68/79
----- PAGE 69 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
Nicosulfuron
...
2,
(4, 6,-dimethoxy pyrimidin-2-yl carbarnoy sulfamoyl)-N,
N-dimethyl = nicotinamide-(4, 6,-dimethoxy
pyrimidin-2-yl)-3-{3dimethylcarbamoyl-2-pyridyl=sulfonyl) urea
Rotenone
...
(2R,
6as,12as)-1, 2, 6, 6a, 12, 12a-hexahydro-2-isopropenyl-8, 9
dimethoxychromeno [3, 4-b] furo [2,3-hl chromen-6-one
Diflyufenican
...
2',
4'-difluoro-2-(a, a, a-trifluoro-m-tolyloxy) nicotinanilide
Photorhabdus
luminescences akhurustii Strain K-1
...
Serratia
marcescens GPS 5 (Bacteria)
...
Squamocin
...
Seed
extract of Plant 'Annona squamosa Linn' (Custard apple).]
Flonicamid
...
N-cyanomethyl-4-(trifluoromethyl)
nicotinamide
Fluazifop-p-butyl
...
Butyl(R)-2-(4-[5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridyloxy
phenoxy) propionate
Flazasulfuron
...
1-(4,
6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-y1)-3-(3-trifluoromethyl-2-pyridylsulfonyl)
urea
Cyazofamid
...
4-chloro-2-cyano-N,
N-dimethyl-5-p-olylimidazole sulfonamide
Fluazinam
...
3-chloro-N-(3-chloro-5-trifluoromethyl-2-pyridyl)-?,
?, ?-trifluoro-2, 6-dinitro-p-toluidine
Boscalid
...
2-chloro-N-(4-chloro-biphenyl-2-yl)nicotinamide
1-MCP
...
Page 69/79
----- PAGE 70 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
1-Methylcyclopropene
Propoxycarbazonesodium
...
2-[(4-methyl-5-oxo-3-propoxy-4,
5-dihydro-[1, 2, 4,] tirazole-carbonyl)-sulfamoyl]-benzoicacid
methylester,sodium salt
Isoxaflutole
...
5-cyclopropy
1-4-(methanesuphony 1-4-trifluoro-methylbenzzoyl)isoxazole
Fluopicolide
...
2,
6-dichloro-N-[3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridylmethyl
benzamide
Acloniten
...
2-chloro-6-nitro-3-phenoxyaniline
Azimsulfuron
...
1-(4,6-d
imethoxyprimidin-2-yl)-3-[1-methyl-4-(2-methyl-2H-tetrazole-5-yl)
pyrazol-5-ylsulfonyl] urea
Zoxamide
...
(RS-3,
5-dicloro-N-(3-chloro-1-ethyl-l-methyl-2-oxopropyl)p-toluamide
Tribenuron methyl
...
2-[4-methoxy-6-methyl-1,
3,5-triazil)-2-yl (methyl) carbamoylsulfamoyl]benzoic acid
Thifensulfuron
methyl
...
Methy
1-3-(4-methox y-6-methyl-1, 3,5-triazin-2-ylcarbamoyl sulfamoyl)
thiophene-2-carboxylate
Prothiofos
...
0-2,4-dichloropheny
I-O-ethyl 5-propyl phosphorodithioate
Penoxsulam
...
2-(2,
2-difluoroethoxy)-N-(5, 3-dimethoxy [1,2,4] triazolo
[1,5-c]pyrimidin-2-yl)-6-(trifluoromethyl) benzenesulfonamide
Omethoate
...
O,
O-dimethyl 5-methylcarbamoylamethyl phosphorodithioate
Piriformospora
Page 70/79
----- PAGE 71 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
indica
...
a
plant root colonizing basidiomycete fungus
Mepiquat Penta
borate
...
N,N
dimethylpiperidinium pentaborate
Sulcotrione
...
2-[2-chloro-4-(methylsulfonyl)
benzoyl]-1, 3-cvclohexanedione
Flumorph
...
4-[3-(3,4-dimelthoxyphenyl)-3-(4-fluorophenyl)
acryloyll morpholine 1H-1, 2,4-triazole-l-ethanole
SYP 1620
...
N-methyl
2-[2-((((4-(2,6
dichloro-phenyl)-3-butenylidene2-yl)amino)oxy)methyl)-phenyl]-2-methoxyiminoacetamide
Metominostrobin
...
(E)-2-methoxyimi
no-N-methyl-2-(2-phenoxyphenyl)acetamide
Empenthrin
...
(E)-(RS)-ethynyl-2-methylpent-2-enyl(1R;
3RS; IR, 3SR) 2,
2-dimethyl-3-(2methyl=prop-l-enylcyclopropanecarboxylate)
Pyridaben
...
2-tert-bu
tyl-5-(4-tert-butylbenzylthio)-4-chloropyridazin-3(2H)-one
(Chromafenozide
...
2'-tert-butyl-5'-methyl-2'-(3,5-xyloyl)chroman-6-carbohydrazide
Orthosulfamuron
...
1-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-yl)-3-[2-(dimethylcarba-moyl)phenyl
sulfamoyl] urea
6-Benzylaminopurine
...
N-phyenylmethyl-1
H-purin-6-amine (6-benzylaminopurine)
Hexamethyldisilazane
...
Hexamethyldisilazane,
reaction product with silica (CAS)
Kresoxim-Methyl
Page 71/79
----- PAGE 72 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
...
Methyl(E)-methoxyimino-[2-(O-tolyloxymethyl)
phenvl] acetate
Spirotetramat
...
Carbonic
acid 3-(2,
5-dimethyl-phenyl)-8-methoxy-2-oxo-l-aza-spiro[4.5]dec-3-en-4-yl
ester ethyl ester
Mandipropamid
...
2-(4-chloro-pheny
l)-N-[2-(3-methoxy-4-pro-2-ynyloxy-phenl0-ethyl]2-prop-2-ynyloxy-acetamide
Chlorantraniliprole
...
3-Bromo-N-[4-chloro-2-methyl-6-(methylcarbamoyl)
phenyl]-1-(3-chloropyridin-2-yl)-1 H-pyrazole-5-carboxamide
Prodiamine
...
5-dipropylamino-a,a,a-trifluoro-4,6
dinitro-O-tolduidine; 2,6-dinitro-N1,N1-dipropyl-4
trifluoromethyl-m-Phenylened iamine
Fomesafen
...
5-[2-chloro-4-(trufluoromethyl)
Phenoxy]-N-(methylsu lfonyl)-2-nitrobenzene)
Topramezone
...
3-(4,5-d
ihyd ro-isoxazol-3-yl)-4-methanesu
lfonyl-2-methylphenyl)-(5-hydroxyl-l-methyl-1 H-pyrazol-4-yl)
methanone
Pyribenzoxim
...
Diphenylmethanone
0-[2,6-bis[(4,6-dimethoxy-2-pyrimidinyl)oxy]benzoyl]oxime (CAS)
n-Heneicosane
...
CH3-CH2-CH2-C18H37
Formetanate
hydrochloride
...
3-dimethylaminomethvlene
aminophenyl methylcarbamate hydrochloride]
Fluridone
...
1-methyl-3-phenyl-5-(oc,
oc, oc-trifluorom-tolyl-4-pyridone
Tebuthiuron
...
1-5-tert-butyl-1,
Page 72/79
----- PAGE 73 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
3, 4-thiadiazol-2-yl)-1, 3-dimethylurea
Trinexapac-Ethyl
...
Ethyl
4-cyclopropyl (hydroxyl) methylene-3, 5-dioxocyclohexane
carboxylate
Thidiazuron
...
1-phenyl-3-(1,
2, 3-thiadiazol-5-yl) urea
Isoxathion
...
O,
O-diethyl O-5-phenyl isoxazol-3-yl phosphororhioate
Eucalyptus leaf
extract
...
Containing
1, 8 cineole (eucalyptol)]
Metamifop
...
Propanamide,
(R)-2[-4-[(6-chloro-2-benzoxazolyl) oxyl
phenoxy]-N-(2-flurophenyl)-N-methyl
Fluthianil
...
Z-2-[2-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)
phenylthio]-2-[3-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1,
3-thiazolidin-2-ylidene]acetonitrile
Valiphenal
...
Methyl-3-(4-chlorophenyl)-3
[(N(isopropylcarbonyl)-L-valyl) amino]propanoate
Tolfenpyrad
...
4-chloro-3
ethyl-I-methyl-N[4-(p-tolyloxy)benzyl] pyrazole-5-carboxamide
Fenbutatin Oxide
...
Bis[tris(2-methy-2phenyl
propyl) tin] oxide
Meptyl Dinocap
...
2,4-dinitro-6-(1-methly
heptyl)phenyl chrotonate
Aminopyralid
...
4-Amino-3,
6-dichloropyridine-2-carboxylc acid
Diclosulam
...
Page 73/79
----- PAGE 74 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
N-(2,
6-dichlorophenlyl)-5-ethoxy-7-fluoro-[1,2,4]
triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine-2-sulfonamide.
[Zeta
Cypermethrin
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 111 (E) dated 20.2.2013.]
...
(S)
cyano (3-phenoxyphenyl) methyl 3-(2.2-dichloroethenyl)-2, 2
dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate
Florasulam
...
2',
6'8-trifluoro-5-methoxy [1.2.4] triazolo [1.5-c]
pyrimidine-2-sulfonanilide
Triafamone
...
N-(2-[4,6-dimethoxy-1.3,5-triazin-2-yl)
carbonyl]-6-fluorophenyl]-1,1-difluoro-N-methyl
methanesulfonamide
Difenacoum
...
(RS)-1-methyl-2-nitro-3-(tetrahydro-3-furylmethyl)guanidine
Bacterial Extract
(Physiological Extract of Bacteria and species of Blue Green
Algae) Glutamic Acid Content as 'Marker'
...
Extract
of bacterial species viz. Bacillus subtilis Pseudomonas straita
and Azotohacter crccomum with extract of species of Blue Green
Algae "A. platensis"
Profoxidim
...
(EZ)-2-{1-[(2RS)-2-(4-chlorophenoxy)
propoxyimino butyl)-3-hydroxy-5-(cis-thian-3-yl)
cyclohex-2-en-1-one
Brassinolide
...
(3aS,
5S, 6R, 7aR, 7bS, 9aS, 10R, 12aS, 12
bS)-10-[2S,3R,4R,5S)-3,4-dihydroxy-5,6-dimethyl-2-heptanyl]-5,6-dihydroxy-7a,9a-dimethyl-hexadecahydro-3H-benzo[c
]
indeno [5,4e] oxepin-3-one]
[Imibenconazole]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 799 (E) dated 19.11.2008]
...
[S-(4-chlorobenzyl)-2-(1H-124 triazole-1yl)actamidothiates]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 799 (E) dated 19.11.2008]
[Cyclanilide]
[Inserted by NotificationNo. G.S.R. 799 (E) dated 19.11.2008]
...
Page 74/79
----- PAGE 75 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
[1(2, 4-diclorophenyl)amino(carbonyl)cyclopropane carboxylic acid]
[Inserted by NotificationNo. G.S.R. 799 (E) dated 19.11.2008]
[Flucetosulforon]
[Inserted by NotificationNo. G.S.R. 799 (E) dated 19.11.2008]
...
[(1RS,2RS:1SR,2SR)-1-3[4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin-3-ylcarbarnoyl]sulfarnoyl(2-pyridyl)-2-fluoropropyl methoxyacetate]
[Inserted by NotificationNo. G.S.R. 799 (E) dated 19.11.2008]
[Oxathiapiprolin]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 446 (E) dated 28.6.2013]
...
[1-(4-{4-[(5RS)-5-(2,6 difluorophenyl)-4,5- dihydro- 1,2-oxazol-3-yl]-1,3-thiazol-2-yl}-1-pipridyl)-2-[5-methyl-3-
(trifluoromethyl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl] ethanon]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 446 (E) dated 28.6.2013]
[Tefuryltrione]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 446 (E) dated 28.6.2013]
...
[2-{2-chloro-4-mesyl-3-[(RS)-tetrahydro-2-furylmethoxymethyl] benzoyl} cyclohexane-1,3-dione]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 446 (E) dated 28.6.2013]
[Mesotrione]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 446 (E) dated 28.6.2013]
...
[2-[4-mesyl-2-nitrobenzoyl]-3 hydroxycyclohex-2-enone]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 446 (E) dated 28.6.2013]
[Flumetralin]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 446 (E) dated 28.6.2013]
...
[N-(2-chloro-6-fluorobenzyl)-N-ethyl-a,a,a-trifluoro-2,6-dinitro-p-toluidine]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 446 (E) dated 28.6.2013]
[Fluorochloridone]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 446 (E) dated 28.6.2013]
...
[(3RS, 4RS, 3RS, 4SR) -3- chloro-4-(chloromethyl) - 1- ( ?,?,?-trifluoro-m-tolyl)2-pyrrolidinone]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 446 (E) dated 28.6.2013]
[American Wormseed oil, Chenopodium oil, ECANA And ECANA Mimic]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 446 (E) dated 28.6.2013]
...
[Extract of Chenopodium ambrosioides near ambrosioides and Extract of Chenopodium ambrosioides near
ambrosioides (Mimic).]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 446 (E) dated 28.6.2013]
[Quizalofop-P-ethyl]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 446 (E) dated 28.6.2013]
...
(R) [-2-[4-(6-chloroquinoxalin-2-yloxy) phenoxy] propionic acid.]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 446 (E) dated 28.6.2013]
[Theta-Cypermethrin]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
[1?(S*),3?(+_)-cyano(3-phenoxyphenyl)methyl3-(2,2-dichloroethenyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Pyroxasulfone]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
Page 75/79
----- PAGE 76 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
...
[3-[(5-difiuromcthoxy)-I-methyl-3(trifiuromethyl)pyrazol-4-ylmethylsulfonyl] -4,5-dihydro-5,5-dimethyl-1,2-oxazole]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Pyrifluquinazon]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
[I-acetyl-I-1,2,3,4-tctahydro-3-[(3-pyridylmethyl)amino]-6-[1,2,2,2-tetrafluoro-1-(trLfiuoomethyl)ethyl]quinazolin-2-one]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Prohexadione Calcium Saflufenacil]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
[Calcium3-oxido-5-oxo-4-propionylcyclohex-3-enecarboxylate.(N-[2-chloro-4-fluoro-5-(3-methyl-2,6-dioxo-4-(trifiuoromet
hyl)3,6-dihydro-l(2H)-pyrirnidinyl)benzyl]-N-methylsulfamide)]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Fluxapyroxad]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
[3-9difluoromethyl)-1-methyl-N-(3,4,5-triluorobiphenyl-2-yl)Pyrazole-4-carboxamide]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Etoxazole]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 1.3.2011 (w.e.f. 24.5.2012)]
...
(RS) [-5-tert-butyl-2{2-(2,6-difluorophenyl)-4,5-dihydro-1,3-oxazol-4-ylphentole]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Bistrifluron]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
[1-[2-chloro-3,5-bis(tridluoromethyl)phenyl]-3-(2,6-difluiorobenzoyl)urea]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Flupyradifurone]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
[1-[4-[(6-chloro-3-pyridylmethyl)2,2-difluoroethyl)amino]furan-2(5H)-one.]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Beflubulamid]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
(RS) [-N-benzyl-2-(?,?,?,4-tetrafluoro-m-tolyloxy)butyramide]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Flutolanil]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
[?,?,?,-trifluoro-3-isopropoxy-o-tolunanilide]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Nitenpyram]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
(E) [-N-(6-chloro-3-pyridylmethyl)-N-ethyl-N-methyl-2-nitrovinylidene diamine]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Pyrirtalid]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
Page 76/79
----- PAGE 77 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
...
(RS) [-7-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-ylthio)-3-methyl-2-benzofuran-1(3H)-one.]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Pethoxamid]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
[2-chloro-N-(2-ethoxyethyl)-N(2-methyl-l-phenylprop-l-enyl)acetamide]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Penthiopyrad]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
(RS) [-N-[{(2-1,3-Dimethylbutyl)-3-thienyl}]-1-methyl-3-(trifluoromethyl)]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Aminocyclopyracglore]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
[6-Amino-5-chloro-2-Carboxylic acid, Methyl Ester]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Gamma Cyhalothrin]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
(s) [ ?-cyno-3-phenxybenzyl(Z)-(IR,3R)-3-(2-Choloro-3,3,3-trifuloroprop-l-enyl-=2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Cyflumetofen]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
[2-methoxyethyl (RS)-2-(4 tertbutyly phenyl)-2-Cyano-3-Oxo-3-(?,?,? trifluro-o-tolyl)propionate]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Cyantraniliprole]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
[H-pyrnzole-5-Carboxamid 3-brome-I-(3-Chloro-2 pyridinyl)-n-[4-cyano-2-methyl-6-(methyl amino carbonyl)]
phenyl(9CL)]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Ametoctradin]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
[5-ethyl-6-octyl [1, 2, 4] triazolo [1, 5-a]pyrimidin-7-amine]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Picoxystrobin]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
[Methyl (E) 3-methoxy 2-{2-[6-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridloxymethyl]phenyl} acrylate]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Metralenone]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
...
[3-bromo-2,3,4,6-tetramethoxy-2,6-dimethyl benzophenone]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 380 (E) dated 24.5.2012]
[Ipfencarbazone]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
Page 77/79
----- PAGE 78 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
...
[1-(2,4-Dichorophenyl)-N-(2,4-difluorophenyl)-1,5-dihydro-N-(1-methyethyl)-5-oxo-4H-1,2,4-tiazole-4-carbxoamide]
[Inserted by Notification No. GSR 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
[Fluthiacetmethyl]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
...
[Methyl[2-chloro-4-fluoro-5-(5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-3-oxo-1H,3H[1,3,4]
thiadiazdeolo[3,4-a]pyrifazin-1-ylideneamino]phenythio]acetate]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
[Afidopyropen]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
...
[[(3S,4R,4aR, 6S,6aS,12R, 12aS,12bS)-3-(cyclopropylcarbonyloxy)-1,2,3,4,4a,5,6,6a,12a,12b-decahydro-6,12-
dihydroxy-4,6a,12b-trimethyl-11-oxo-9-(3-pyridyl)-11H,12Hbenzo[f]pyrano[4,3-b] chromen-4-yl]methyl
cyclopropanecarboxylate]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
[Isopyrazam]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
...
[3-(difluoromethyl)-1-methyl-N-[1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-9-(1-methylethyl)-1,4-
methanonaphthalen-5-yl]-1H-pyrazole-4-carboxamide]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
[Sedaxane]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
...
[Mixture of 2 cis-isomers 2' -[(1RS,2RS)-1,1'-bicycloprop-2-yl]-3-
(difluoromethyl)-1-methylpyrazole2'-[(1RS,2SR)-1,1'-bicycloprop-2-l]-3-
(Difluoromethyl)-1-methylpyrazole-4-carboxanilide]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
[Solatenol]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
...
[N-[(1RS,4SR)-9-(Dichloromethylidene)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-1,4-
methanonaphthalen-5-yl]-3-(difluoromethyl)-1-methyl-1H-pyrazole-4- carboxamide]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
[Fosthiazate]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
...
[O-ethyl S-(1-methylpropyl)(2-oxo-3-thiazolidinyl)Phosphonothioate]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
[Halauxifenmethyl]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
...
[2-pyridinecarboxylic acid, 4-amino-3-chloro-2-fluoro-3-methoxyphenyl), methyl ester]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
[Matrine]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
...
[(7aS,13aR,13bR,13cS)-dodecahydro-1H,5H,10-H Dipyrido[2,1-f:3'.2',1'-j][1,6]naphthyridin-10-one]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
[2-phenylphenol]
Page 78/79
----- PAGE 79 -----
The Insecticides Act, 1968
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
...
[Biphenyl-2-ol]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
[Poly-D-glucosamine]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
...
[Poly-(1,4)-2-amino-2-deoxy-B-D-Glucan]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
[Polyoxin (Polyoxin-B, Polyoxin-D,Polyoxin-AL)]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
...
[5-(2-amino-5-O-carbamoyl-2-deoxy-L-xylonamido)-1,(5-dideoxy-1-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-5-hydroxymethyl-2,4-dioxopyrimid
in-1-yl-B-D-allofuranuronic acid)]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
[Polyoxorim]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
...
[5-(2-amino-5-O-carbamoyl-2-deoxy-L-xylonamido)-1-(5-carboxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-2,4-dioxopyrimidin-1-yl)-1,5-dideoxy-
B-D-allofuranuronic acid]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 790 (E) dated 11.11.2014]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 79/79