
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of
Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 2007
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/5352895/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 2007
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 2007
Rule
THE-MUMBAI-PORT-TRUST-TRANSPORT-HANDLING-AND-STORAGE-OF-DANGEROUS-GOODS-REGULATIONS-
2007 of 2007
Published on 1 March 2007
Commenced on 1 March 2007
[This is the version of this document from 1 March 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 2007
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 115(E), dated 1st March, 2007
Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport and Highways
(Department of Shipping)
(Ports Wing)
G.S.R. 115(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 124 of the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963 (38 of 1963), the
Central Government hereby approves the Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods)
Page 1/20
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
Regulations, 2007 made by the Board of Trustees of Mumbai Port Trust, in exercise of the powers conferred on them by
Section 123 of the said Act and which were published in the Gazette of the Government of Maharashtra dated 15th
September, 2005 and 22nd September, 2005 vide No. SECY/G/GM-MS/HF 145 II/6592 which is annexed to this
notification, as "Schedule".
Schedule
Part-I 1.0 Short Title and Commencement.
(1)
These Regulations may be called "The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods)
Regulations, 2007."
(2)
They shall come into force from the date of publications in the Official Gazette.
2.
0.
Application.
- These Regulations are applicable within the Port Limits of Mumbai and all the Docks, Wharves, Quays, Bunders,
jetties, Railways, Buildings and other works constructed or acquired by or vested in the Board of Trustees of the Port of
Bombay and on lands and/or foreshore and in all the Docks under the control and superintendence of the Port of
Mumbai is hereinafter called the Port.
3.0
Nothing contained in these rules shall be deemed to be in derogatory to the provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act,
1958, the Explosives Act, 1884, the Petroleum Act, 1934, the Dock Workers (Safety, Health and Welfare) Act, 1986, the
Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and the Regulations framed thereunder and any guidelines given by the Regulatory
Authorities.
4.0
Definitions.
- 4.1 Boat - Boat means a barge or similar craft used for movement of goods within the Port.
4.2
Chairman - Chairman means the Chairman, of the Board of Trustees and includes any person appointed to act in his
place.
4.3
Competent Authority - Competent Authority for the purpose of these regulations means Deputy Conservator as the
officer duly appointed by the Board of Trustees to administer the provisions of these regulations.
4.4
Dangerous Goods - 'Dangerous Goods' means goods which by virtue of its nature, quantity or mode of handling and
storage of such goods are either singly or collectively liable to endanger the life or the health of the persons within the
Port limits or on a vessel or to cause damage to property within such Port limits and includes such goods contained in a
receptacle, potable tank, freight container or vehicles as defined in the IMDG Code. The term includes an empty
receptacle, portable tank or tank vehicle which has been previously used for carriage of dangerous goods unless such
receptacle has been cleaned and dried or, when the nature of the former contents permits such carriage with safety and
allow the containers to be closed securely.
Dangerous goods include all substances -
(i)
having properties coming within the classes listed in the IMDG code;
(ii)
substances defined as explosive as defined by the Explosives Act, 1884, and/or the Explosive Rules, 1983;
(iii)
any other goods by virtue of its properties the competent authority may specify as dangerous goods;
(iv)
hazardous chemicals listed in Schedule-I of the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989.
4.5
Handling - 'Handling' means the operation of loading and unloading of a vessel, railway wagon or vehicle transfer to,
Page 2/20
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
from or within a storage area and/or within a vessel and transshipment between vessels and any ancillary operations in
the Port Area ad includes stuffing and destuffing of freight container.
4.6
IMDG Code - IMDG Code means the largest edition of International Maritime Dangerous Goods (IMDG) Code adopted
by the Maritime Safety Committee of the International Maritime Organization and amended by the Organization time to
time.
4.7
- 'IMO' means the International Maritime Organization.
4.8
Inspector of Dangerous Goods - Inspector of Dangerous Goods for the purpose of these regulations means a person
appointed by the Competent Authority to ensure compliance with these rules for handling/ storage/ disposal or transport
of the dangerous goods coming to this Port.
4.9
Master - 'Master' in relation to any vessel making use of the Port means any person having for the time being the charge
or control of such vessel except a Pilot, Harbour Master, Assistant harbour Master, Dick Master or berthing Master of the
Port.
4.10
Owner - 'Owner' when used in relation to goods includes any consignor, consignee, shipper or agent for the sake of
custody, loading and unloading of such goods and when used in relation to any vessel making use of the Port includes
any part owner, charterer, consignee or mortgagee in possession thereof.
4.11
Responsible Person - 'Responsible Person' means a person appointed by the 'Owner' and/or 'Master' and empowered to
take all decisions relating to the tasks of transport, handling and storage of dangerous goods, and having the necessary
knowledge and experience for that purpose.
4.12
Transport - 'Transport' means the movement of Dangerous Goods by one or more modes of transport in Port.
4.13
Unstable Substance - 'Unstable substance' means a substance which mat present a hazard under transport or storage
conditions due to spontaneous reaction (e.g. Polymerisation, decomposition, etc.) unless the necessary specific
precautions are taken to prevent such a hazard (e.g. inhibition, dilution, refrigeration or other equally effective
measures).
4.14
Vessel - 'Vessel' means anything made for the conveyance, carriage and/or transportation mainly by water of dangerous
goods in the Port.
4.15
Marine Pollutants - 'marine Pollutants' means substances which, because of their potential to bioaccumulate in seafood
or because of their high toxicity to aquatic life, are subject to the provision of Annex III of MARPOL 73/78 (International
Convention for the prevention of pollution from ship, 1973/1978), as amended.
5.0
Classification of Dangerous Goods.
- For purpose of these regulations dangerous goods are classified into the following classes based of IMDG Code.
Class 1
:
Explosives
Class 2
:
Gases
Class 3
:
Flammable liquids
Class 4.1
Page 3/20
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
:
Flammable solids
Class 4.2
:
Flammable solids or substances liable to spontaneous
combustion
Class 4.3
:
Flammable solids or substances, which in contact with water,
emit flammable gases.
Class 5.1
:
Oxidising Substances
Class 5.2
:
Organic Peroxides
Class 6.1
:
Poisonous (toxic) substances
Class 6.2
:
Infectious substances
Class 7
:
Radioactive substances
Class 8
:
Corrosive substances
Class 9
:
Miscellaneous Dangerous Substances and articles.
5.1
Except for safety explosives, pyrotechnic and fire works, no explosive will be allowed to be handled at Mumbai Port.
While handling such explosives, requirements as specified by the competent authority shall be adhered to.
5.2
Supplementary rules for handling of explosives in the Port of Mumbai are notifies under the Explosives Act, 1884 and/or
the Explosives Rules, 1983.
5.3
Rules for handling of Dangerous goods of Class 2 to Class 9 have been specified in Part IV of these Rules.
5.4
Additional requirements for handling of dangerous goods of Class 2 to Class 9 for the Port of Mumbai are specified in
the Schedule I.
5.5
Evaluation of the hazards of any substances if not notified by the IMDG Code, the shipper/ consignee shall apply to the
Director General of Shipping, Government of India, for the same, under the provision of the Merchant Shipping
(Dangerous Goods) Rules.
Part-II 6.0 Arrival of the vessel.
- The Owner/ Agent of a vessel wishing to discharge and/or load dangerous goods shall submit to the Competent
Authority the following documents at least 48 hours in advance before the vessel's arrival in Port.
6.1
Application form for handling of dangerous goods with the following documents (as described in Schedule II).
Page 4/20
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
6.2
Dangerous Goods list (Import) (3 copies)
6.3
Dangerous Goods list (Export) (3 copies)
6.4
List off transit cargo, if any on-board.
7.0
Deposit.
- In case of direct delivery/ loading cargo or for limited period of storage in Port, the Port Authority may collect a deposit
from Owner/ Agent to cover the estimated cost of handling, storage, escort and disposal of such goods and the penalty
to be imposed, if any. Amount so deposited shall be refunded after the cargo is duly loaded/ discharged or handled as
per instructions in the permit issued under Section 8.0.
8.0
Grant of Permit.
- Competent Authority on receipt of these documents and the deposit if any, shall give instructions to the Owner/ Agent
specifying the mode of discharge, storage, separation, requirements, equipment to be made available and any other
conditions concerning safety of the Port and/or the vessel. In relation to the container cargoes the Competent Authority
shall also designate the areas/ depot where the container shall be stuffed/destuffed.
9.0
Commencement of cargo handling.
- 9.1 The Master shall submit a dangerous goods checklist as prescribed in Schedule III.
9.2
The vessel may commence handling of dangerous goods only after obtaining instructions from the Competent Authority
as specified in 8.0 and after the Inspector of Dangerous Goods has satisfied himself of the correctness of the check list
and any other declaration made by the Owner/ Master.
10.0
Responsibilities of the Master.
- 10.1 A Master of vessel carrying dangerous goods, while lying in the Port Limits shall exhibit where it can best be seen.
(a)
a red flag from sunrise to sunset; and
(b)
a red light from sunset to sunrise.
10.2
He shall, wherever dangerous goods are handled -
- depute a responsible person to personally supervise the operations. Such Officer shall take and/or cause to be taken
all due precautions as are necessary under the IMDG Code and these regulations.
- keep the fire fighting gear in readiness with hoses and branch pipes connected.
- ensure that repairs to any part of the vessel necessitating the use of open flame/ open fire are not carried out.
- bank carefully fires in engine room and extinguish all other fires or non-safety lights.
- maintain efficient and effective communication with the responsible person on the shore.
- provide and use when necessary the equipment specified in the EMS and MFAG Schedule as published by the IMO.
- provide access and facility to the officials of the Port for Inspection of the dangerous goods.
- ensure that no damage/ leaky containers or packages of dangerous goods are landed either in barge or ashore without
the express permission of the Competent Authority of the Port.
- ensure that appropriate personal protective equipment is used by those engaged in handling of these dangerous
goods, and also ensure that the cargo gear and the accessories used are as required for safe handling of such goods.
- ensure that all the dangerous goods are correctly declared as required by the IMDG Code and the Port and are
correctly labeled and marked as per IMDG Code before discharging.
- Dangerous goods shall be stowed safely and appropriately in accordance with the IMDG code or nature of goods.
Incompatible goods shall be segregated from one another.
- ensure that dangerous goods checklist is submitted to the Port officials, before commencement of cargo handling as
Page 5/20
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
specified in 9.1 of this regulation.
- In the event of accidental damage to dangerous goods containment on board, the master shall be responsible for
taking action and prompt measures for avoiding accidents. He shall abide by all the instructions specified by the
competent authority.
11.0
Responsibilities of Owner/ Agent.
- 11.1 Owner/ Agent shall make a true and correct declaration of the dangerous good to be handled in the Port and
those in transit through the Port, whether in containers or other packages.
11.2
Cases/ Receptacles of each class of dangerous goods brought into the Part area shall conform strictly with the
packaging standard stipulated in the IMDG Code. Such case/ receptacles shall remain in a sound condition while
dangerous goods are handled in the Port area.
11.3
If any receptacle/ case of dangerous goods is damaged or starts leaking during handling in the Port, preventive
measures as may be indicated by the Competent Authority shall be followed.
11.4
Repairs to the damaged case/ receptacles of dangerous goods or repacking their contents shall be carried out under the
supervision and guidance of the Competent Authority subject to special restrictions as applicable to individual classes of
dangerous goods.
11.5
No cases/ receptacles of dangerous goods shall be opened anywhere within the Port area except for the purpose of
drawing samples by the Customs in an approved manner and with permission to do so from the Competent Authority.
such permission may be granted subject to such additional restrictions and precautions as may be considered
necessary.
11.6
Tools liable to produce sparks shall not be used to open/ close/ repair cases/ receptacles of dangerous goods or for
practicable to do so, samples shall be drawn by suction method without titling the container.
11.7
Marking, labeling and packing of all the dangerous goods shall be same as prescribed in IMDG Code.
11.8
Handles goods which are in a leaky, damaged or in a deteriorated condition only as per the specified instructions of the
Competent Authority.
11.9
Provide every facility to the Competent Authority or official of the Port to insect handling and stowage of the dangerous
goods.
11.10
Ensure that all the formalities for the clearance of the dangerous goods, especially with the Customs, are completed as
early as possible so that the delivery can be taken immediately after discharge.
11.11
Stuffing and de stuffing of dangerous goods in freight containers shall be undertaken as per recommendations in the
IMDG Code and the inspector of dangerous goods.
11.12
Provide Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) or details of characteristics of the dangerous good, if asked by the
competent authority or port official.
12.0
Obligation to take precautions.
- 12.1 Steamer Agents/Consignors/Consignees of dangerous goods and occupiers of custodians of all premises within
the Port areas shall always observe and/or cause to be observed any safety precautions required by the Competent
Authority and prescribed in these regulations.
12.2
When dangerous goods are handled or stored within the Port area Agents/Owners/Consignors/Consignees fail to take
Page 6/20
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
reasonable precautions to prevent accidents, the Competent Authority may take such action as is reasonable for the
safety of the Port and may recover from such Agents/Owner/Consignors/Consignees such reasonable expenses as may
have been incurred. It may be adjusted against the amount deposited and if the amount so deposited is not adequate,
the Port may recover its expenses by sale of the cargo.
13.0
Determination of Categories of new Substances.
- When Owner/Agent seeks to import cargo which is dangerous but not covered by the IMDG Code sufficient notice shall
be given to the competent authority of such cargo, failing which such cargo may be refused entry. If such cargo is listed
in Schedule 18 the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989, the Owner/ Agent shall seek
specific permission and inform the Pollution Control Board about the safety measures being taken for the reception of
such cargo.
14.0
Responsibility of Barge Owner/Operator.
- 14.1 Barges carrying dangerous goods shall not load different classes of dangerous goods which are incompatible and
shall maintain sufficient segregation between  classes when carrying more than two classes which are compatible. In
every case, the instructions given by the Inspector of Dangerous Goods or the Competent Authority shall be complied
with
14.2
Surface area in holds as well as on deck of barges/lighters carrying dangerous goods should be of non-friction and
non-sparking type.
14.3
Lighting of naked lights or open flames on barges carrying dangerous goods at any place is strictly prohibited.
14.4
A safe distance of 9.0 metres should be maintained between two barges berthed alongside at any designated wharf or
pier.
14.5
As far as practicable, barges will not be Double-Banked while handling
14.6
Overnight stay at any wharf or pier of barges/lighters with dangerous goods shall be with the express permit grated by
Inspector of Dangerous Goods.
14.7
Barges shall be permitted to come alongside by the Shed Superintendent and he shall be given sufficient notice to
receive such barges and plan handling.
Part - III 15.0 General Provisions.
- 15.1 The Competent Authority may refuse dangerous goods intended for storage within or transit through the Port, If
their presence is likely to endanger life or property because of their volume or condition, the condition of their mode of
conveyance, or the conditions that may be prevailing in the Port area.
15.2
If any dangerous substance within the area constitutes and unacceptable hazard, the competent authority may order the
removal of such substances or packages, freight container, portable tank vessel or vehicle containing it to any other
place or to sea as container, portable tank vessel or vehicle containing it to any other place or to sea as considered
necessary.
15.3
An unstable substance will not be accepted unless all conditions necessary to ensure the safe transport and handling
have been met and property certified, by the concerned.
15.4
Only one class of cargo shall be handled at a time.
15.5
The Competent Authority may destroy in a safe manner such dangerous goods, which in his opinion endanger the
safety of Port. Where such Dangerous Goods are so destroyed, the Owners/ Agents of the goods shall not be entitled to
any compensation whatsoever. The Port may remove or destroy any Dangerous Goods which have been handled or
Page 7/20
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
transported contrary to the instructions of the Competent Authority. The expenses incurred for doing so may be
recovered from owner/agent or from the sale of the cargo, if the owner/agent does not meet these expenses.
15.6
The vessel will retain on board all the pollutants and slop caused by the leakages of any dangerous cargoes and take
every precaution as per anti pollution rules of the Port.
15.7
Competent Authority Shall direct the handling of marine pollutants. Every precaution shall be taken to ensure that such
pollutants are not dumped in the Marine Environment or dumped at sea.
16.0
Power to exempt.
- 16.1 The person aggrieved by any order of the Inspector of the Dangerous Goods of the Port or the Competent
Authority may appeal to the Chairman within 15 days of the said order. Such appeal shall be heard and decided by the
Chairman within 30 days thereafter. The decision given by the Chairman shall be final and binding.
16.2
The Chairman on advice of the Competent Authority may in exceptional cases, such as in case of defence cargo relax
all or any of the provisions of the Regulations provided that the agency handling the cargo shall fully comply with safety
measures and undertake full responsibility for such handling activity.
17.0
Penalties.
- 17.1 Any person who commits a breach of any regulations shall be liable to pay a penalty of Rupees Twenty Thousand
and if the breach continues, a further penalty of Rupees Two Thousand per day or part thereof for period during which
the said breach continues to the Mumbai Port Trust. The penalty as aforesaid shall be in addition to any action that may
be taken under the applicable port regulations.
17.2
If the default continues the Competent Authority may, with the concurrence of the Chairman, remove the vessel from the
berth.
Part - IV Regulations for Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods(IMDG Code Class 2 to Class 9)
IMDG Code Class 2
18.0
The Gases are sub-divided in to the following groups.
18.1
Class 2.1 - Flammable gases.
18.2
Class 2.2 - Non-flammable, Non-toxic gases.
18.3
Class 2.3 - Poisonous or Toxic gases.
Precautions and Handling measures for IMDG Code Class 2
19.0
The Owner/Agent shall abide by all the instructions specified by the Competent Authority.
19.1
As far as fabrication fittings, markings, colour code labelling on cylinders manufactured in India are concerned, they shall
conform the requirements of Gas Cylinder Rules, 1981 if the capacity is upto 1000 liters, and of Static Mobile Pressure
Vessels (Unfired) Rules, 1981 if the capacity exceeds 1000 litres. Cylinders imported shall be compliance with the IMDG
Code and marked to indicate that the appropriate authority as accepted by International Maritime Organisation (IMO),
has tested and certified the same.
20.0
The valves of the cylinders/containers carrying gas shall be protected against damage either by being so designed or by
the provisions of a stout metal cap securely attached to the body of the cylinder/container. There shall not be any
physical contact between metal cap and the valve or the valve body.
21.0
Cylinders/Containers of gas shall be marked or labelled legibly as per IMDG Code with the name of the gas. Cases in
Page 8/20
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
which cylinders/containers of gas are packed shall also be marked or labelled likewise.
22.0
Precautions for Handling of Cylinders.
- Cylinders shall be adequately supported during handling.
- Trolleys and cradles of adequate strength shall as for as possible, be used when moving the cylinders.
- Cylinders shall be handled carefully and not be allowed to fall upon one another or otherwise subjected to any undue
shock.
- Sliding, dropping or playing with cylinders is prohibited.
- Liquified petroleum gas cylinders and cylinders liquifiable gases shall always be kept in an upright position and shall be
so placed that they cannot be knocked over.
- Cylinders used in horizontal position shall be adequately secured so that they do roll.
- Open flames, lights, lighting of fires, welding and smoking shall be prohibited in close proximity of any cylinder
containing flammable gases except those only in use for welding, cutting or heating.
23.0
All the gas cylinders/containers shall be stocked on trays while handling. However, if this is not practicable, slings of any
other safe method shall be used as prescribed by the Competent Authority.
24.0
Every care and precaution shall be taken to prevent the contamination of value and fittings of the cylinders/containers by
oily and fatty substances.
25.0
Cylinders/containers containing flammable gases and toxic gases shall be handled separately and kept adequately
separated from each other and from cylinders having other type of gases, at all time.
26.0
Cylinders/Containers of gas shall at all times be protected from sun's rays and other sources of direct heat.
27.0
Cylinders/Containers of gas shall not be overstowed with other cargo.
28.0
These regulations are also applicable in the case of empty cylinders/containers, unless they are affectively made gas
free.
IMDG Code Class 3
29.0
Definition.
- 'Flammable Liquids' are liquids, or mixtures of liquids, or liquids containing solids in solution or suspension, which give
off a flammable vapour at or below 61º C closed-cup test, normally referred to as the "flash point" and are packed in
drums, receptacles and cases. Packaged from of petroleum products shall conform to the requirements laid down in the
petroleum rules, 1976.
29.1
For the purpose of these rules, Flammable Liquids are subdivided into the following groups:
29.1.1
Class 3.1 - Low flashpoint group of liquids having a flash point below 18º C (Oº F) Closed-cup test.
29.1.2
Class 3.2 - Intermediate flashpoint group of liquids having a flashpoint of - 18º C (Oº F) upto, but not including 23º C (73º
F), closed-cup test.
29.1.3
Class 3.3 - High flashpoint group of liquids having a flashpoint of 23º C (73º F) up to and including 61º C (141º
F)closed-cup test.
Precautions and Handling measures for IMDG Code Class 3
30.0
The Owner/Agent shall abide by all the instructions as prescribed by the Competent Authority.
31.0
The Liquids in this class are liable to polymerise and liberate dangerous gases and heat, possibly resulting in rupture of
Page 9/20
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
the receptacle/container. To avoid polymerization, suitable additives or inhibitors if required shall be added or other
measures taken so as to minimize the risk of polymerization. Utmost precautions and care shall be taken while handling
the containers/receptacles holding these liquids. They shall not be dropped, bumped, rolled or otherwise mishandled.
32.0
The vapours from some of the liquids in this type have properties dangerous to human life. Labour handling them shall
be protected against this hazard.
33.0
When these goods are handled, they shall be away from all the direct and indirect sources of ignition. Even in transit,
they shall be kept in cool and well-ventilated place.
34.0
All personnel working in the area or in the vicinity shall be prohibited from bringing matches, lighters or flints and other
material likely to cause ignition or spark or fire hazard.
35.0
Whenever a leaky drum is traced, it shall be Isolated and handled with utmost precaution.
36.0
Barring exigencies, these goods shall only be handled during day light hours.
37.0
Packaging of these goods shall be such as to protect them from external sources of ignition. If this is damaged, it should
be rectified immediately.
38.0
Non-sparking tool and suction methods should be used while drawing samples from these liquids.
39.0
Segregation and separation of these cargoes vis-a-vis other cargoes shall be as prescribed in the IMDG Code.
Handling and Storage of IMDG Code Class 4
40.0
Definition.
- 40.1 Class 4.1 Flammable Solids. - The substances in this class are solids which; under conditions encountered in
transport are readily combustible or may cause or contribute to time through friction, selfreactive substances (solids and
liquids) which are liable to undergo a strongly exothermic reaction, solid desensitized explosives which may explode if
not diluted sufficiently.
40.2
Class 4.2 Substances liable to spontaneous combustion.
The substances in this class are substances (solids and liquids) which are liable to spontaneous heating under normal
conditions encountered in transport, or to hearting up in contact with air, and being then liable to catch fire.
40.3
Class 4.3 Substances, which, in contact with water emit flammable gases.
The substances in this class are substances (solids and liquids) which, by interaction with water, are liable to become
spontaneously flammable or to give off flammable gases in dangerous quantities.
Precantions and Handling measures for IMDG Code Class 4.1
41.0
The Owner/Agent shall strictly abide by the instructions for handling of these goods as given by the Competent
Authority.
42.0
Care shall be taken to ensure that the packages are not damaged during the handling. This cargo should not be
dropped, bumped, rolled or otherwise mishandled.
43.0
Particular care shall be taken that there is no spillage of this cargo during handling. In the event of spillage, it shall be
disposed of in a safe manner as prescribed by the Competent Authority.
44.0
Under no circumstances, any vehicles or machineries or other cargo be allowed to roll over these spillage of flammable
solids.
Page 10/20
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
45.0
It is particularly important to ensure that at every stage during handling/storage or transporting such cargo is handled
away and at safe distance from other cargoes, as may be prescribed by the Competent Authority.
Precautions and Handling measures for IMDG Code Class 4.2
46.0
Regulations from 41.0 to 45.0 are applicable o this class also. In addition, they will be subjected to the following
restrictions.
47.0
If packed in hermetically sealed condition throughout the period, they can be allowed to remain within the Port area.
48.0
Flammable solids or substances liable to spontaneous combustion shall be transit stored in small stacks either inside
the hazardous cargo shed or in any other premises indicated in the instructions covering individual consignments of
such goods. Proper space shall always be left between such small stacks and between the stacks and the walls all
around. Such stacks shall be inspected regularly and periodically by the concerned for signs of overheating. In case any
stack is found to be warmer than normal, such stacks shall be broken up, cooled by aeration and re-stacked in a safe
manner.
Precautions and Handling measures for IMDG Code Class 4.3
49.0
Regulations from 41.0 to 45.0 shall be applicable to this class also. In addition, they shall be subjected to the following
restrictions.
50.0
Flammable solids or substances which in contact with water emit flammable gases shall not be handled whenever it is
raining.
50.1
During all stages of handling and transit storage of such substances, all possible precautions shall be taken to prevent
such substances getting wet or exposed to damp air.
51.0
As some substances are liable o react dangerously even with the damp air, any container holding this cargo which is
damaged or broken shall be handled as directed by the Competent Authority and he may take such action as is
considered necessary for ensuring safety. He may even order the destruction of the container, if he deems it necessary.
IMDG Code class 5
52.0
Definition.
- 52.1 Class 5.1 Oxidising Substances (Agents). - These are substances which, although in themselves not necessarily
combustible, may, generally by yielding oxygen, cause, or contribute to, the combustion of other material.
52.2
Class 5.2 Orgauic Peroxides
Organic substances which contain the bivalent 0.0 structure and may be considered derivatives of hydrogen peroxide,
where one or both the hydrogen atoms have been replaced by organic radicals. Organic peroxides are thermally
unstable substances, which may undergo exothermic self-accelerating decomposition. In addition, they may have one or
more of the following properties.
- be liable to explosive decomposition
- Burn rapidly
- Be sensitive to impact or friction
- react dangerously with other substances
- Cause damage to the cyes.
53.0
The Owner/Agent shall strictly abide by the instructions for handling of these goods as given by the competent Authority.
Precautions and Handling measures for IMDG Code Class 5.1
54.0
All the substances in this class have the property of giving of oxygen when involved in fire and mixture of these
Page 11/20
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
substances are readily ignited with combustible material sometimes even by friction or impact. Therefore, all the Boats,
all the places or the shore or warehouses shall be thoroughly cleaned prior to receipt of this cargo.
55.0
Any damaged or leaky container shall be moved safely and the instructions of the Competent Authority shall be followed
strictly.
56.0
In the event of spillage of this cargo, such spillage should be wept separate and disposed oil as prescribed by the
Competent Authority. Under no condition should this spillage be rolled over by weight of any type.
57.0
These substances should particularly be well separated form acids, since they are liable to give off toxic gases on
contact.
58.0
It is necessary to thoroughly clean the barges and all the areas where this cargo was stored after its delivery or disposal.
59.0
Special restrictions on Ammonium Nitrates - Ammonium Nitrate to be brought to the Port should be certified to be free
from organic impurities, as specified by the IMDG Code. A certificate of purity issued by the Competent Government
Authority in the country of manufacture shall have to be produced before such cargo or vessel is allowed inside the
docks. These rules shall not apply to Ammonium Nitrate of fertilizer grade.
Precautions and Handling measures for IMDG Code Class 5.2
60.0
Receptacles of liquid organic peroxide shall be handled in dead upright position. Even slight tilt may lead to spillage.
This liquid is liable to react violently with the metal of the receptacle or any other substance they contact, which may
lead to violent explosion.
61.0
Other organic peroxides (not in the liquid state) shall be handled with utmost care. Using landing cushions if necessary
thus avoiding frictional contact.
62.0
If any package/receptacles containing peroxides is discovered to be damaged or in a leaky conditions, it shall be
drenched copiously with water and disposed off in a manner as directed by the Competent Authority Re-packing or
repair of the damaged receptacle is not permitted in the Port area.
63.0
While these goods are being handled, the fire hoses should be laid out with the fire crews in readiness throughout.
64.0
Contact of organic peroxide with the eye shall be avoided and when working this type of cargo, necessary protective
equipment is to be provided and used.
65.0
At all times, the cargo should be kept away from spars, flame or any other source of ignition.
66.0
These cargo packages shall be protected from direct sun's rays and stores and handled in well ventilated places.
67.0
Organic peroxides shall be handled separately and isolated from any other cargo.
68.0
This cargo shall only be handled during the daylight hours.
IMDG Code Class 6
69.0
Definition.
- 69.1 Class 6.1 Poisonous (toxic) substances. - "Toxic" has the same meaning as "Poisonous" Theses are substances
liable either to cause death or serious injury or to harm human health if swallowed or inhaled, or by skin contact.
69.2
Class 6.2 Infectious substances
These substances which are known or reasonably expected to contain viable micro-organisms (including bacteria,
Page 12/20
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
viruses, rickettsiae, parasites, fungi) or other agents, which can cause disease in animals or humans.-
70.0
The Owner/Agent shall strictly abide by the instructions for handling of these goods as given by the competent Authority.
Precautions and Handling measures for IMDG Code Class 6.1
71.0
Receptacles of poisonous substances brought in the Port shall remain in a hermetically sealed or effectively dosed
condition so as to prevent escape therefrom of vapours/liquids/dust.
72.0
The receptacles/containers should be inspected prior to receipt of the barge and at all times, they are being handled.
Any leaky or damaged receptacle should be separated immediately and instructions of the Competent. Authority shall be
followed.
73.0
The substance of this class which has a flash point below 61ºC (141º F) is also a flammable liquid by definition.
Therefore, while handling such type of substance, all care shall be exercised as recommended for flammable liquid and
they should' be stored in a cool and well ventilated place.
74.0
All receptacles containing such cargo shall be handled in an upright position to prevent spillage.
75.0
These substances could be poisonous either by skin absorption, ingestion or inhalation. Therefore, labourers or any
person involved in handling these substances shall be protected by appropriate protective equipment as prescribed by
the Competent Authority.
76.0
The receptacles of such substances should be handled well separated from the other cargo.
77.0
If and when these substances are stored in open, they should be properly covered with weighted tarpaulin, inspected
frequently to detect any leakages and the stack should be prominently marked with appropriate IMDG lable, so that the
people working in the vicinity can identify it as poisonous goods. However, these substances with a flash point of less
than 61º C(141º F) shall be stored in a cool and well-ventilated place as any flammable liquid is stored.
78.0
Disposal - In case of damage or spillage during transit or storage, the disposal of its contents and all other goods
contaminated by a spillage shall be determined by the Competent Authority.
78.1
The concurrence or Advice of the Port Health Officer or the Customs Authorities or any statutory Authority shall be
obtained before deciding mode of disposal.
79.0
Action to be taken in the event of any accident involving poisonous substances
In the event of any receptacle/case of any poisonous substance getting accidentally damaged/leaky during handling or
transit storage. The Inspector of Dangerous Goods or Responsible person Shall:
79.1
Notify the Competent Authority immediately.
79.2
Direct the person in the vicinity to move away to a safe area.
79.3
Arrange to send persons who are suspected to have been contaminated with the poison to the Port Trust Hospital after
giving First Aid if practicable. A responsible employee of the concerned section shall accompany these persons to
convey to the Duty Doctor information regarding the name and known properties of the poison involved in the accident.
79.4
Suitable action shall be taken for de-contaminating the area of spillage.
79.5
Goods contaminated by the spilt poison shall be isolated for disposal as stipulated.
80.0
Page 13/20
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
De-Contamination.
- In case of spillage involving poisonous substance of this class, particularly liquid pesticides, decontamination measures
appropriate to the substance concerned shall be carried out under competent supervision.
80.1
No person shall be allowed to enter any hold of a vessel or compartment where there is any reason to suspect leakage
of some substances of this class unless the Master or the responsible officer has taken all the safety measures and
satisfied that it is safe to enter the same.
80.2
Emergency entry into the hold under other circumstances shall be undertaken by the trained staff, wearing
self-contained breathing apparatus and other necessary protective clothing.
Precautions and Handling measures for IMDG Code Class 6.2
81.1
Any Owner/Agent who wishes to handle infections substances shall give the Competent Authority all the relevant
particulars of the goods to be handled well in advance. This should be enough for the Port Authorities to seek the expert
advice and help so that these goods can be handled abiding by all the restrictions as may be determined by such
experts.
81.2
Consigners of infectious substances, being responsible for the packing of these substances, shall ensure that the
packages arrive in port or their destination in sound condition and present no hazard to persons or animals during
conveyance.
81.3
Whenever occasions arises to handle such substances or to pass through this port, the IMDG code guidelines and rules
shall apply.
81.4
It is the responsibility of the consignee/consignor to obtain necessary licence for the import/export of infectious
substances from the competent authority. Upon receipt of known or suspected high-risk infectious substances of human
or animal origin, the consignee/consignor shall immediately acknowledge receipt to the consignor/consignee by most
repid of communication available to him.
IMDG Code Class 7
82.0
Definition.
- Radioactive material means any material containing radionuclides where both the activity concentration and total
activity in the consignment exceeds the values specified in the IMDG Code.
Precautions and Handling measures for IMDG Code Class 7
83.0
Handling of Radioactive substances shall be permitted only against special permits issued by the Directorate of
Radiation. Protection, Bhabha Atomic Reserch Centre (BARC) and general precautions as are indicated by the said
authority.
84.0
They shall submit to the competent Authority copies of the hazardous cargo manifest together with the copies of the
BARC instructions sufficiently in advance to enable the Port to make arrangements to receive this cargo.
85.1
All radioactive materials must be declared as such in all transport and port documents.
85.2
Consignees of radioactive substance received shall depute a technically qualified person to supervise handling of such
consignment. He shall work in collaboration with the Inspector of Dangerous goods during handling and transit-storage.
However, competent person is responsible to see that the recommendations of BARC are carried out.
IMDG Code Class 8
86.0
Definition.
- Corrosive substances means substances which, by chemical action, will cause severe damage when in contact with
Page 14/20
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
living tissues or, in the case of leakage, will materially damage, or even destroy, other goods or the means of transport.
87.0
The Owner/Agent shall strictly abide by the instructions for handling of theses goods as given by the Competent
Authority.
Precautions and Handling measures for IMDG Code Class 8
88.0
This cargo shall be handled well separated from the cargo other class and special care should be taken to insure that
acids and alkalis are well separated.
89.0
The receptacles/carbuoys shall be handled with extreme care and always in an upright position to prevent any damage
or spillage.
90.0
Any damaged receptacles/carbuoys shall be isolated and moved futher under instructions of the Competent Authority
and special precautions shall be taken to avoid direct skin contact.
91.0
The goods in this class with flash point of less than 61ºC shall be flammable goods and as such all the necessary
precautions shall be taken during the handling and storage.
92.0
These goods shall be stored in covered spaces and when this is not possible they shall be stored in the open on a
covered platform, well segregated from other cargoes and well marked.
93.0
Whenever any receptacle/carbuoys handling corrosive substances get damaged, they shall be rendered harmless or
destroyed, they shall be rendered harmless or destroyed as directed by the Competent Authority.
94.0
In the event of an accident.
94.1
All the persons in the vicinity shall be directed to move away to a safe area.
94.2
The affected persons shall be given first first aid and thereafter immediately transferred to a hospital or other place of
treatment.
94.3
Specialised medical aid shall be summoned and
94.4
The Competent Authority shall be notified forthwith.
95.0
The competent Authority shall organise suitable action for de-contaminating the area of spillage as well as all the articles
contaminated by the spilt corrosive.
IMDG Code Class 9
96.0
Definition.
- It includes substances and articles, which, during transport, present a danger not covered by other classes.
Precautions and Handling measures for IMDG Code Class 9
97.0
While giving the clearance for such substances, the Competent Authority shall carefully consider the characteristic
properties and known hazards of such substances and shall stipulate such precautionary measures as may be
necessary for ensuing safety during their handling and storage.
98.0
Repeal and Savings
On commencement of these regulations, the Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods in the Port of
Bombay Regulations, 1994 stands repealed.
Provided that-
Page 15/20
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
(a)
Such repeal shall not affect the previous operation of the said Regulations or orders or practices or anything done or
actions taken thereunder; and
(b)
any proceeding under the said Regulations pending at the commencement of these regulations shall be conducted and
disposed of, as far as may be feasible, in accordance with these regulations.
I
1.
0. The dangerous goods for the purpose of mode of discharge, handling and storage in the port of Mumbai are divided
into following categories according to the level of risk involved and with reference to IMDG Classification, packaging and
stowage.
1.1
Category A
IMDG Code Class
3.1
- All Substances of this class
3.2
- FP below 10º C
4.1
- (Packaging Group I and Stowage Category D)
4.2
- (Packaging Group I, II and Stowage Category D & E)
4.3
- (Packaging Group I and Stowage Category D)
6.1
- (as above and Flash Point below 10º C)
8.0
- (as above and Flash Point below 10º C)
To be discharged in stream for direct delivery at Haji Bunder. However, the Competent Authority may permit
containerized cargo to be discharged/loaded at the open berth in the Docks for direct delivery/loading
1.2
Category B
IMDG Code Class
2.1
- All substances of this class
2.3
- All substances of this class
3.2
- Flash Point between 10º C to 23º C
4.1
- (Packaging Group II and Stowage Category C and E)
4.2
- (Packaging Group I, II and Stowage Category D and E)
4.3
- (Packaging Group II and Stowage Category C and E)
5.1
- (Packaging Group I and Stowage Category D and E)
5.2
- (Packaging Group I and Stowage Category D and E)
6.1
- Flash Point between 10º C to 23º C
Page 16/20
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
7.0
- All Substances of this class
8.0
- Flash Point between 10º C to 23º C
To be discharged in stream for direct delivery at Haji Bunder. Containers carrying cargo in this category may be
permitted to be landed in the docks for direct removal to haji Bunder for storage and delivery.
1.3
Category C
IMDG Code Class
2.2
- All substances of this class
3.3
- (Flash Point between 23º C to 61º C)
4.1
- (Packaging Group III and Stowage Category A and B)
4.2
- (Packaging Group II and III and Stowage Category A, B and C)
4.3
- (Packaging Group III and Stowage Category A, and B)
5.1
- (Packaging Group II and III and Stowage Category A, B and C)
5.2
- (Packaging Group II and Stowage Category A, and C)
6.1
- (Packaging Group I and II and Stowage Category C, D and E)
8.1
- (Packaging Group I and II and Stowage Category C, D and E)
To be permitted to be discharged in the Docks on barges or wharf for directremoval to Haji Bunder for storage and
delivery.
1.4
Category D
IMDG Code Class
6.1
- (Packing Group II and III and Stowage Category A and B)
8.0
- (Packing Group II and III and Stowage Category A and B)
To be permitted to be discharged in the Docks for storage and delivery, subject to such conditions as may be specified
by the Competent Authority for handing and storage.
2.0
Responsibility of the Owner/Agent:
The Owner/Chatterer/Agent or consignees shall make true and correct declaration of the dangerous goods being carried
by the vessels and thereafter obtain prior clearance from the Inspector of Dangerous Goods regarding the mode of
handling of the dangerous goods prior to the vessel's arrival in the Port. Even when the vessel is carrying Category 'C' or
'D' type cargo, where vessels are allowed to come into the docks, prior permission will have to be obtained failing which
the vessel may be refused dock entry.
3.0
Responsibility of Ship's Master:
The Ship Master shall make correct and true declaration of dangerous goods on the ship to the Pilot prior to vessel's
berthing in stream or in docks.
4.0
Responsibility of Barge Owner;
Page 17/20
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
4.1
Barges carrying dangerous goods shall not mix different classes of cargoes, which are incompatible and also will
maintain sufficient segregation between classes when carrying more than two classes, which may be compatible. In
every case, the instruction as given in by the Inspector of Dangerous Goods or the Competent Authority is complied
with.
4.2
Surface area of barges/lighters carrying dangerous goods should be of non-friction and non-sparking type.
4.3
Lighting of naked lights or open flames on barges carrying dangerous goods at Haji Bunder is strictly prohibited.
4.4
A safe distance of 9 meters (30 feet) should be maintained between two barges berthed along side at Haji Bunder.
4.5
Barges will not be Double-Banked at Haji Bunder.
4.6
Overnight stay of barges/lighters at Haji Bunder is prohibited. They can, however come alongside with the prior
permission of Shed Superintendent on duty to enable him to make adequate arrangement in time to receive the barges
and ensure enforcement of prescribed procedure regarding unloading during day light hours.
4.7
The Assistant Commissioner (Port) will be responsible to see that the provisions of 4.4 to 4.6 above are complied with.
5.0
The vessels carrying goods under Category 'A' or any other category of dangerous goods, in container for other ports
are allowed to retain these cargoes on board. Similarly, when the cargo is in packages for other Port in Category A,B,C
and D, these cargoes also may be retained on board. However, in all cases of transit cargoes, the Owner/Agent will
make the true and correct declaration to the Inspector of Dangerous Goods and he shall abide by such precaution as
may be prescribed by the Inspector. The Master of the incoming vessel shall also make a correct and true declaration of
the dangerous cargo in transit to the Pilot.
II
Application Form for Handling of Dangerous Goods
Name and address of the Owner/Agent of the Vessel.
To,
The Inspector of Dangerous Goods,
...........................Port Trust,
...............................
Sir,
Ref:- Name of the Ship and Voyage No..........
Due Date...................
The above vessel is expected to arrive at this Port from ...........................................(Port) on .................. (date).
2. The vessel will be carrying following dangerous goods as shown in attached Dangerous Goods list for discharge at
this port.
3. The vessel also carries the following dangerous goods as transit cargo for the next ports of call as shown in separate
list.
4. We propose to load following dangerous goods as shown in the attached Dangerous Goods as shown in the attached
Dangerous Goods list (Export), on vessel.
5. Please issue necessary instructions for handling and storage of these cargoes.
Thanking you
Yours faithfully,
(Name)
Vessel Agent/Owner
Encl: (1) Dangerous Goods list (Import)
(2)
Dangerous Goods list (Export)
Page 18/20
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
(3)
List of Transit Cargo, if on-board.
III
Ship's Checklist for Dangerous Goods
Ship's Name..........................................
Port..................................................
Berth.................................................
Date..................................................
Instruction of Completion
The safety of operations requires all the questions to be anwered in the affirmative. If an affirmative answer is not
possible, the reason should be given.
Serial No.
Remark
1
2
1
Is the vessel securely moored?
2
Is there an effective duckwatch in attendance on board?
3
Is the ship-shore communication system operation?
4
Are fire hoses and fire fighting equipment ready for
immediate use?
5
Are sea and overboard discharge valves, when not in use,
closed, so that the pollutants are not discharged overboard?
6
Are "No Smoking" signs prominently displayed in
work area and smoking requirements being observed?
7
Are the requirements for the use of galley and other cooking
appliances being observed?
8
Are naked light requirements being observed?
9
Is the personal protective gear available for use by the work
force?
10
Is the work area properly illuminated for the purposes of
carrying on the work?
11
Is the handling equipment properly tested and certified and
suitable for use?
12
Are you ready to implement the FMS plan as prescribed for the
cargo?
13
Do you have the necessary antidotes as prescribed by MFAG
Code?
14
Page 19/20
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Mumbai Port Trust (Transport, Handling and Storage of Dangerous Goods) Regulations, 20...
Are repairs involving hot work in the vicinity of the work
place stopped?
15
Are the containers, packages, carbuoys, bottles or drums or
any other means of packing and, free of damage, free of leakage
and otherwise safe for purpose?
Master
Footnote: No vessels will commence handling of dangerous goods unless the checklist is signed by the master. In
addition, if any of the answers is in the negative permission of the Competent Authority, is required prior to starting
handling of dangerous goods operations.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 20/20