
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Export Goods) Rules, 2007
The Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Export Goods)
Rules, 2007
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/138850150/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Export Goods) Rules, 2007
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Export Goods) Rules, 2007
Rule THE-CUSTOMS-VALUATION-DETERMINATION-OF-VALUE-OF-EXPORT-GOODS-RULES-2007 of 2007
Published on 13 September 2007
Commenced on 13 September 2007
[This is the version of this document from 13 September 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Export Goods) Rules, 2007
Published vide Notification in the Gazette of India, Extra; Part 2, Section 3(i), dated 13.9.2007
1642.
G.S.R. 593(E), dated 13.9.2007. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 156 read with section 14 of the
Customs Act, 1962 (
52 of 1962
) the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title, commencement and application.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Export Goods) Rules, 2007
(1)
These rules may be called the Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Export Goods) Rules, 2007.
(2)
They shall come into force on the 10th day of October, 2007.
(3)
They shall apply to the export goods.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"goods of like kind and quality" means export goods which are identical or similar in physical characteristics, quality and
reputation as the goods being valued, and perform the same functions or are commercially interchangeable with the
goods being valued, produced by the same person or a different person; and
(b)
"transaction value" means the value of export goods within the meaning of sub-section (1) of section 14 of the Customs
Act, 1962 (
52 of 1962
).
(2)
For the purposes of these rules, persons shall be deemed to be "related" only if -
(i)
they are officers or directors of one another's businesses;
(ii)
they are legally recognised partners in business;
(iii)
they are employer and employee;
(iv)
any person directly or indirectly owns, controls or holds five per cent or more of the outstanding voting stock or shares of
both of them;
(v)
one of them directly or indirectly controls the other;
(vi)
both of them are directly or indirectly controlled by a third person;
(vii)
together they directly or indirectly control a third person; or
(viii)
they are members of the same family.
Explanation I.- The term "person" also includes legal persons.
Explanation II.- Persons who are associated in the business of one another in that one is the sole agent or sole
distributor or sole concessionaire, howsoever described, of the other shall be deemed to be related for the purpose of
these rules, if they fall within the criteria of this sub-rule.
3.
Determination of the method of valuation.
(1)
Subject to rule 8, the value of export goods shall be the transaction value.
(2)
The transaction value shall be accepted even where the buyer and seller are related, provided that the relationship has
not influenced the price.
(3)
If the value cannot be determined under the provisions of sub-rule (1) and sub-rule (2), the value shall be determined by
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Export Goods) Rules, 2007
proceeding sequentially through rules 4 to 6.
4.
Determination of export value by comparison.
(1)
The value of the export goods shall be based on the transaction value of goods of like kind and quality exported at or
about the same time to other buyers in the same destination country of importation or in its absence another destination
country of importation adjusted in accordance with the provisions of sub-rule (2).
(2)
In determining the value of export goods under sub-rule (1), the proper officer shall make such adjustments as appear to
him reasonable, taking into consideration the relevant factors, including-
(i)
difference in the dates of exportation,
(ii)
difference in commercial levels and quantity levels,
(iii)
difference in composition, quality and design between the goods to be assessed and the goods with which they are
being compared,
(iv)
difference in domestic freight and insurance charges depending on the place of exportation.
5.
Computed value method.
- If the value cannot be determined under rule 4, it shall be based on a computed value, which shall include the
following:-
(a)
cost of production , manufacture or processing of export goods;
(b)
charges, if any, for the design or brand;
(c)
an amount towards profit.
6.
Residual method.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of rule 3, where the value of the export goods cannot be determined under the provisions of
rules 4 and 5, the value shall be determined using reasonable means consistent with the principles and general
provisions of these rules provided that local market price of the export goods may not be the only basis for determining
the value of export goods.
7.
Declaration by the exporter.
- The exporter shall furnish a declaration relating to the value of export goods in the manner specified in this behalf.
8.
Rejection of declared value.
(1)
When the proper officer has reason to doubt the truth or accuracy of the value declared in relation to any export goods,
he may ask the exporter of such goods to furnish further information including documents or other evidence and if, after
receiving such further information, or in the absence of a response of such exporter, the proper officer still has
reasonable doubt about the truth or accuracy of the value so declared, the transaction value shall be deemed to have
not been determined in accordance with sub-rule (1) of rule 3.
(2)
At the request of an exporter, the proper officer shall intimate the exporter in writing the ground for doubting the truth or
accuracy of the value declared in relation to the export goods by such exporter and provide a reasonable opportunity of
being heard, before taking a final decision under sub-rule (1).
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Export Goods) Rules, 2007
Explanation.- (1) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that-
(i)
This rule by itself does not provide a method for determination of value, it provides a mechanism and procedure for
rejection of declared value in cases where there is reasonable doubt that the declared value does not represent the
transaction value; where the declared value is rejected, the value shall be determined by proceeding sequentially in
accordance with rules 4 to 6.
(ii)
The declared value shall be accepted where the proper officer is satisfied about the truth or accuracy of the declared
value after the said enquiry in consultation with the exporter.
(iii)
The proper officer shall have the powers to raise doubts on the declared value based on certain reasons which may
include.-
(a)
the significant variation in value at which goods of like kind and quality exported at or about the same time in
comparable quantities in a comparable commercial transaction were assessed.
(b)
the significantly higher value compared to the market value of goods of like kind and quality at the time of export.
(c)
the misdeclaration of goods in parameters such as description, quality, quantity, year of manufacture or production.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4