
----- PAGE 1 -----
150th Birth Anniversary of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak
150th Birth Anniversary of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/176448312/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
150th Birth Anniversary of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak
UNION OF INDIA
India
150th Birth Anniversary of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak
Rule 150TH-BIRTH-ANNIVERSARY-OF-LOKMANYA-BAL-GANGADHAR-TILAK of 2007
Published on 4 October 2007
Commenced on 4 October 2007
[This is the version of this document from 4 October 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
150th.
Birth Anniversary of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 661(E), 4th October, 2007
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Economic Affairs)
G.S.R. 661(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of Coinage Act 1906, (3 of 1906), the Central
Government hereby determines the denomination, dimension, design and composition of the following coin; namely :-
1.
(a)
the coin of Five Rupee denomination shall also be coined at the Mint for issue under the authority of the Central
Government in commemoration of "150th Birth Anniversary of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak";
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
150th Birth Anniversary of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak
(b)
the coin of Five Rupees denomination shall conform to the following dimension, and composition, as specified in the
Table below namely :-
Table
Denomination of the coin
Shape and outside diameter
Metal Composition
(1)
(2)
(3)
Five Rupees
Circular 23 millimeters with security edge
Ferritic Stainless Steel Containing -Iron - 83%Chromium -
17%
(c)
the coin of Five Rupees shall also conform to the following design, namely:-
(i)
Obverse
This face of the coin shall bear the Lion Capital of Ashoka Pillar with the legend
lR;eso t;rs
, inscribed below, flanked on the left upper periphery with the word ^^Hkkjr
in Hindi and on the right upper periphery flanked with the word "India" in English. It shall also bear the denominational
value "5" in international numberals below the Lion Capital flanked on the left lower periphery with the word
:i;s** in Hindi on the right lower periphery with the word "Rupees" in English. There shall be 52 beads on the periphery.
(ii)
Reverse
This face of the coin shall bear the portrait of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak flanked on the upper periphery with
^^yksdekU; cky xaxk/kj fryd dh 150oha t;arh**inscribed in Hindi and on the lower periphery "150th Birth Anniversary of
Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak" in English.
(iii)
Security Edge for 5 Rupees
The edge of the coin shall have security edge on periphery. At the center of the edge there shall be shallow groove with
a design inside the two sections separated by blank spaces. This design shall consist of chain of beads in relief and
each bead being followed by one inclined line in relief. There shall be total 30 lines and 30 beads.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2