
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2...
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of
Consultants) Regulations, 2007
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/133920822/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2007
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2007
Rule
THE-PETROLEUM-AND-NATURAL-GAS-REGULATORY-BOARD-APPOINTMENT-OF-CONSULTANTS-REGULATIO
NS-2007 of 2007
Published on 30 November 2007
Commenced on 30 November 2007
[This is the version of this document from 30 November 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2007
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 36(E), 30th November, 2007
Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board
G.S.R. 36(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred clause (c) of sub-section (2) of Section 61 of the Petroleum and
Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006 (Act
19 of 2006
), the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board hereby makes the following regulations, namely :-
Page 1/13
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2...
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These regulations may be called the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants)
Regulations, 2007.
(2)
These regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definition.
(1)
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006;
(b)
"Board", means the Board constituted under, Section 3 (1) of the Act.
(c)
"Chairperson" means the Chairperson of the Board appointed under Section 4 of the Act;
(d)
"Consultant" includes any individual firm, body or association of persons, not in the employment of the Board, who or
which possesses or has access to any specialized knowledge, experience or skill;
(e)
"Individual Consultant", means any individual who possesses or has access to any specialized knowledge, experience
or skill;
(f)
"Institutional Consultant", means any firm, body or, association of persons which, possesses specialized knowledge,
experience or skill;
(g)
"Member", means a Member of the Board appointed under Section 4 of the Act;
(h)
"Secretary", means the Secretary of Board appointed under Section 10 of the Act.
(2)
Words or expressions occurring in these regulations and not defined herein but defined in the Act shall bear the same
meaning as in the Act.
(3)
Unless defined herein or in the Act, the provisions of the General Clauses Act, 1897 as amended from time to time shall
apply to these regulations;
3.
Scope of work.
(1)
Consultants will not be normally appointed for routine day to day work for which staff is available.
(2)
Consultants will be engaged for executing specialized tasks for which skills are either not available within the staff of the
Board or where the nature of jobs is specific and time-bound.
(3)
Detailed terms of reference for engagement drawn up in each case and agreed to between the Consultant and the
Board prior to award of consultancy.
(4)
The terms of reference for engagement will inter alia specify the exact nature of the tasks to be undertaken by the
consultant, the time allowed for completion of each tasks and the specific outputs that are to be provided by the
consultant in relation to each task.
4.
Page 2/13
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2...
Period of engagements.
- Consultants will be engaged for the minimum period required. In no case will the maximum period of engagement
exceed two years.
5.
Selection of Institutional Consultants.
(1)
Broadly, the following procedure would be adopted for the selection of Institutional Consultants :-
(a)
The Board will follow the two stage selection procedure i.e. Expression of Interest (EOI) stage to shortlist the
Consultants followed by issuance of Request for Proposal (RFP) to short-listed Consultants.
(b)
At the beginning of each year, the Board may identify the areas/sectors in which consultancy services would be required
during the year. Then the Board will follow the EOI route to shortlist Consultants in each particular area/sector.
Thereafter, during the course of the year, the consultant on specific issue/subject within a particular area/sector will be
selected by issuing RFP to the short-listed Consultants in that area/sector. The consultant, who has submitted the
lowest financial bid, shall be selected as the L1. In case the concerned Member/Secretary of Board is of the view that
methodology other than this is to be used for selecting a consultant on any issue/subject for specific and valid reasons,
approval of the Board will be required. However, in case of highly technical assignments, the Board may invite a fresh
Expression of Interest for short-listing the Consultants.
(c)
At any given point of time no consultancy firm shall be awarded more than two assignments. In case any particular
consultancy firm is L1 in more than two consultancy assignments in any sector/area, then the decision of the Board shall
be final for awarding any two assignments to that particular firm. No representation or communication shall be
entertained in that respect by the Board from any of the consultancy firm.
(d)
Further, in the exigencies of situation and in order to actually ensure the timely completion of assignments, the Board
may have to award consultancy assignments to the L2 party in case of same party having L1 rating in more than two
assignments. In such cases, the Board may give the option to L2 party to match the offer of L1 in that particular
assignment, failing which the Board may re-tender the assignment.
(e)
The type of contract with the consultant will normally be lump sum contract. In case any other form of contract is
required to be entered into, approval of the Board will be required.
(f)
Selection of Law firms for specific consultancy assignments shall be governed by the procedure for selection of
institutional Consultants.
6.
Consultancy Evaluation Committee (CEC) and Consultancy Monitoring Committee (CMC).
(1)
Consultancy Evaluation Committee (CEC) : For all cases a CEC comprising of at least three persons at appropriate level
including representative of Internal Finance Division, a representative of the user division and that of administration
division, shall be constituted under the concerned Member/Secretary of Board with the approval of the Chairperson in
order to carry out the consultant selection procedure.
(2)
Consultancy Monitoring Committee (CMC) : A CMC shall also be constituted similarly under the Chairpersonship of the
concerned Member/Secretary of Board comprising at least three persons at appropriate level, including representative
from user division, administration division with the member of the CMC from the concerned division being the convener
for monitoring the progress of the assignment once the same has been assigned to a consultant. If considered
appropriate all or any of the members of CEC may be selected as members of CMC. Further, Board may constitute
CMC area-wise/sector-wise if felt appropriate. The CMC shall be responsible to monitor the progress of the assignment,
to oversee that the assignment is carried out as per agreed terms of reference (TOR) and contractual conditions, to
assess the quality of the deliverables, to accept/reject any part of assignment, to suggest the levy of appropriate
Page 3/13
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2...
liquidated damages or penalty to the concerned Member/Secretary of Board if the assignment is not carried out as per
the contract and if the quality of services is found inferior and for any such deficiency related to the completion of the
assignment.
7.
Invitation or Expression of Interest.
(1)
For all consultancy services, an advertisement called "invitation for Expression of Interest" shall be released in at least
one National Newspaper and the website of the Board for preparing a short list of Consultants. Advertisement in
newspapers will be brief and shall give reference to the Board's website. The advertisement shall include, among other
things, the last date of submission of EOI, how to get copy of EOI document, contact information of the Board with name
of contact person etc.
(2)
EOI document may contain the following information :-
(i)
Invitation to EOI : It would include a copy of the advertisement whereby Consultants are invited to submit their EOI.-
(ii)
Brief about objectives and scope of work : This may include brief description about objective of carrying out the
assignment, broad scope of work and expected deliverable of the assignment. This may also include the place of
execution of the assignment.
(iii)
Instructions to the Consultants : It may include instructions regarding nature of job; submission requirement; requirement
of bid processing fees; if any; last date of submission; place of submission; and any related instructions.
(iv)
Pre-qualification Criteria : This may clearly lay down the pre-qualification criteria which shall be applied by the Board for
short-listing the Consultants.
(v)
Formats for submission : This section would specify the format in which the Consultants are expected to submit their
EOI.
The Board would make available the copies of the EOI document to the interested Consultants in hard copies as well as
on its web site.
The above information may generally be part of an EOI document. However, Board may decide to modify the above
information appropriately on a case to case basis as per the requirements.
(3)
Generally, the EOI may be issued once a year at the beginning of the financial year. However, if required, it could also
be issued during the course of the year depending upon the requirements at that point of time.
(4)
Only the institutional Consultants with their registered office in India would be eligible for applying in response to the
EOL. In case international Consultants, who do not have their offices in India, are to be also considered in any particular
case, approval of the Board would be required before issuing the EOI.
8.
Short List or Consultants.
(1)
The Consultants will be evaluated for short listing, inter-alia, based on their past experience of handling similar types of
jobs, strength of their man power and technical and financial strength of the firm as per the following weightages
assigned to each of the criteria in EOI :-
Sr. No.
Criteria*
Weightage
1
Past Experience of The firm
40%
Page 4/13
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2...
?Number of years experience
15%
? Past Experience of studies of similar nature.
40%
? Past experience in carrying out studies in related
sectors.
20%
? Studies carried out in India in the oil & gas
sector.
25%
2
Experience of Key Personnel. (No. and details Of key
personnel be given) Qualifications.
40%
? Qualifications
25%
? Relevant Experience
75%
3.
Financial Strength of the Consultant.
20%
? Turnover figure for Last three Years
40%
? Net Profit Figure for Last three years
40%
? Net profit to turnover ratio
20%
* the cut off levels for these may be specified in the EOI document.
(2)
The short-listing shall be done for all the Consultants who secure the minimum required marks. The minimum qualifying
requirement will be specified in the EOI document.
(3)
Alternatively, the Board will specify in the EOI document minimum qualifying requirement for each of the criteria i.e.
minimum years of experience, minimum number of assignments executed, minimum turnover etc. Under such
circumstances, the Board shall apply pass-fail test and short list all the Consultants who meet the minimum requirement
as specified.
(4)
The Board may shortlist a minimum of 3 and upto 10 Consultants in each particular areal sector. The short list prepared
shall be valid for a period of one year unless extended, by a maximum period of one year, by the Board.
(5)
The Consultants may be asked to make presentation about their credentials covering inter alia the criteria at sub-clause
(1) above before the CEC. If required, the Consultants may also be asked to make presentation before the
Chairperson/Board.
9.
Terms of Reference.
(1)
The general format of Terms of Reference (TOR) will be approved by the Board. Based on this format, TOR for
appointment of Consultants for specific tasks will be prepared by CEC and got approved from the Chairperson.
(2)
The TOR will be prepared to define clearly the (i) purpose/objective of the assignment; (ii) detailed scope of work; (iii)
expected input of key professionals (number of experts, kind of expertise required); (iv) proposed schedule for
Page 5/13
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2...
completing the assignment; (v) reports/deliverables required from the Consultants; (vi) procedure for review of the work
of Consultant after award of contract. TOR shall provide background information including a list of existing relevant
studies and basic data to facilitate the Consultants preparation of their proposals. If transfer of knowledge, training is an
objective, the TOR will detail the number of staff to be trained. TOR shall list the services and surveys necessary to
carry out the assignment and the expected outputs (for example reports, data, surveys etc.) linked to each task in the
TOR.
(3)
After approval of the TOR, the CEC shall be responsible for all aspects and stages of the Consultants selection i.e.
preparation of likely estimated cost for the assignment, issuance of EOI, evaluation of EOI, shortlisting of Consultants,
issuance of RFP, evaluation of financial proposals, negotiations and final selection of the Consultant. Even in case of
selection of Consultant by direct negotiations the CEC shall negotiate with the Consultant on financial aspects. The CEC
will ensure that appropriate publicity is given in each case. The CEC shall take approval of competent authority after
selecting the Consultant based on the lowest bid for a specific job.
(4)
The secretary will ensure that budgetary provision exists for the proposal based on the estimated cost of the proposal.
10.
Request for Proposals.
(1)
Request for Proposals (RFP) shall contain a letter of invitation (LOI) stating the intention of the Board to enter into a
contract for provision of a consultancy service, source of funds, details of plan and date, time and submission of
proposal; Instructions to Consultants (ITC); TOR; list of key positions/professionals required for the assignment;
requirement of qualification and experience of the firm and of the key professional staff; criteria of bid evaluation and
selection procedure; standard formats for financial proposal; proposed form of contract etc.
(2)
Information to Consultants shall contain all necessary information that will help Consultants prepare responsive
proposals by providing information on the evaluation process and by indicating the evaluation criteria and factors and
their respective weights and the minimum pre-qualification score.
11.
Receipt of proposals.
(1)
Enough time shall be allowed for the Consultant to prepare and submit their proposals. While the time allowed shall
depend on the assignment, it will normally not be less than two weeks, during which period firms may seek clarifications
about the information provided in the TOR.
(2)
The Board may decide to extend the deadline for the submission of proposals, as deemed appropriate by it.
(3)
No amendments to the proposal shall be accepted after the deadline. The proposals shall be submitted in sealed cover.
(4)
The Consultants may submit their proposals by electronic means using an electronic signature system or equivalent
once such a system is put in operation in the Board. The Board shall maintain the confidentiality and authenticity of the
proposals submitted. The system shall only allow proposals to be opened with due electronic authorization of the
Consultant.
12.
Evaluation of proposals.
(1)
Proposals will normally be evaluated on the basis of financial bid. Where a different criteria is to be used it would only be
with the approval of the Board and such a criteria would be stated in the RFP.
(2)
Those Consultants who have applied against the RFP shall be informed about the date and time for opening the
financial proposals giving sufficient time for the Consultants to be present at the opening, should they so desire.
(3)
Page 6/13
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2...
The financial proposals of the pre-qualified Consultants will be opened publicity. The proposed prices shall be read
aloud and recorded in a minute of the public opening.
(4)
Arithmetical errors will be corrected. The cost will be converted to a single currency using uniform selling (exchange)
rates.
(5)
The Board may reject all proposals if they are found to be unresponsive or unsuitable either because they represent
major deficiencies in complying with the TOR or they involve costs, which are substantively higher than the original, cost
estimates.
(6)
The proposal with the lowest financial bid will be selected. Where a criteria other than the financial bid has been stated
in the RFP, the evaluation and selection shall be based on that criteria.
13.
Selection by direct negotiation.
(1)
The selection by direct negotiation/nomination shall be used under exceptional circumstance such as (a) for tasks that
represent a natural continuation of previous work carried out by the firm, (b) in case of emergency situation, situation
arising after natural disasters, situations where timely completion of the assignment is of utmost importance, (c)
situations where the execution of assignment may involve use of proprietary techniques or only one Consultant has
requisite expertise. Such selection may normally be restricted to a financial ceiling of Rs. ten lakh.
[14 and 15.
[Omitted by Notification No. F.No. S-Admn/II/XI/2012, dated 10.4.2012 (w.e.f. 30.11.2007).]
***]
14. Selection of individual Consultants.- (1) Individual Consultants will be employed for assignments for which teams of
personnel are not required, no additional outside (home office) professional support is required and where the
experience and qualifications of the individual are the paramount requirement.
(2) Individual Consultants will be selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment. Capability will be judges
on this basis of academic background and relevant experience.
(3) EOI route as stated above in case of institutional Consultants will be followed for drawing-out panels of candidates
for different areas/sectors. The selection could be through the aforesaid CEC mechanism. During the course of the year,
the concerned Member/Secretary may choose an appropriate individual from the panel. If required, EOI could be issued
even during the course of the year.
(4) For legal Consultants also, the EOI route as indicated above shall be followed. Fee shall be governed by the DOPT
guidelines as stated below. For the Standing Counsel the Board shall get the panel of lawyers from the Ministry of Law.
Their payments/fee shall be governed by the rules of Ministry of Law, Government of India.
15. Fee and Other Charges.- (1) A consolidated fee up to a ceiling of Rs. 26,000 (rupees twenty six thousand) per
month (with no DA, HRA, CCA or any other relief) would be payable to an individual Consultant on a whole time basis in
line with the existing guidelines issued by the DOPT. This amount may be revised from time to time in line with
Department of Personnel & Training (DOPT), Government of India guidelines.
(2) In case of any special requirements at fee higher than that prescribed at (1) above, the Consultants could be
appointed with the approval of the Chairperson/Board. Fee for such Consultants shall be decided by the
Chairperson/Board on case to case basis.
(3) The Board will reimburse TA/DA and telephone charges as per normal rules applicable to any serving officer of an
equivalent rank in the Government.
(4) These regulations regarding fees payable will also apply to former and retired Government servants engaged as
Consultants. The shall be paid a consolidated amount of Rs. 20,000/- (Rupees twenty thousand) per month subject to
the condition that the fee plus pension plus dearness pensions should not exceed the last pay drawn plus dearness pay.
This also shall be governed by the guidelines issued by the DOPT from time to time.
14.
[]
[Renumbered '16' by Notification No. F.No. S-Admn/II/XI/2012, dated 10.4.2012 (w.e.f. 30.11.2007).]
Page 7/13
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2...
Proposed form of contract.
(1)
The contract would include accepted TOR methodology, general and specific conditions of contract, etc.
(2)
The general conditions of contract would include all such conditions which are common in nature and not specific to a
proposal. Such conditions may include clauses pertaining to sub contracting, methods of payment, termination and
extension of contracts, arbitration, variation in quantities, indemnity and insurance, force majeure, conflict of interest,
compliance to local laws and taxes and duties etc.
(3)
The proposal specific conditions would include clauses relating to the assignment in hand.
(4)
The general format for the contract, including the general conditions, will be approved by the Board. The specific
conditions related to proposal will be prepared by CEC and got approved from the Chairperson.
15.
[]
[Renumbered '17' by Notification No. F.No. S-Admn/II/XI/2012, dated 10.4.2012 (w.e.f. 30.11.2007).]
Confidentiality.
- Information relating to, evaluation of proposals and recommendations concerning awards shall not be disclosed to the
Consultants who submitted the proposals or to other persons not officially concerned with the process, until the award of
contract is notified.
16.
[]
[Renumbered '18' by Notification No. F.No. S-Admn/II/XI/2012, dated 10.4.2012 (w.e.f. 30.11.2007).]
Conflict of interest.
- Consultants shall not be hired for any assignment that would be in conflict with their prior or current obligations to other
clients or that may place them in a position of not being able to carry out the assignments objectively and impartially.
17.
[ Procedure for selection of individual Consultants.
[Inserted by Notification No. F.No. S-Admn/II/XI/2012, dated 10.4.2012 (w.e.f. 30.11.2007).]
- (1) Engagement. - The Board may engage such number of individual consultants in the fields of finance, economics,
law, engineering, administration, logistics, business or such other disciplines related to the petroleum and natural gas
sector as it may deem fit.
(2)
Functions. - The individual consultants engaged by the Board shall discharge such functions as directed by the
Chairperson in assisting the Board.
(3)
Qualifications, experience and classification. - (a) The individual consultants to be engaged shall be classified on the
basis of their qualifications and experience in the respective class as given in Schedule-I:
Provided that the Board may also engage individual consultants from any other discipline as deemed necessary to
assist the Board in the discharge of its functions under the Act.
(b)
Subject to para (a) and depending upon the qualification, specialization and experience in respective disciplines, the
individual consultants shall be categorized into five levels as given in Schedule II:
Provided that consultants of the category of office support/logistics with more than ten years experience shall all be
treated as of Level III and thus there shall not be Level IV and Level V for them.
(4)
Remuneration payable. - The remuneration to be paid by the Board to different categories of individual consultants shall
be in accordance with Schedule III for professional specialists:
Provided that the Board may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, agree to pay higher remuneration than those given in
Schedule III or agree to pay remuneration on a per-diem basis derived from the levels given in Schedule III for part-time
engagement in specially deserving cases.
Page 8/13
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2...
(5)
Evaluation of performance. - The performance of each individual consultant engaged under these regulations, with
reference to the tasks assigned and output delivered, shall be reviewed periodically, within such time and manner, as
may be specified by the Board.
(6)
Procedure of selection. - (a) The individual consultants shall ordinarily be engaged by the Board on contractual basis for
not less, than three months and not more than three years.
[Provided that the Board in its discretion may extend the period for engagement of an individual consultant beyond three
years.]
(b)
The Board may decide, from time to time, the number of the individual consultants to be engaged
(c)
After the number to be engaged is decided, as mentioned in para (b), the Secretary shall publish the number to be
engaged with details of qualifications, experience needed and the remuneration payable on the official website of the
Board and invite applications for each category and level of individual consultant giving a stipulated last date for the
receipt of the applications for each category and level:
Provided that the Secretary may also invite the applications by suitable public notice for each category and level:
Provided further that -
(i)
the Board may select individual consultants in Level I through campus interview;
(ii)
the Board may give option to the existing individual consultants/assistant consultants already working in the Board
before the notification of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Amendment
Regulations, [2018]
[Substituted '2012' by Notification No. F.No. S-Admn/II/XI/2012, dated 23.3.2018 (w.e.f. 30.11.2007).]
to opt for the remuneration payable and the terms and conditions as per the provisions after the commencement of the
said amendment regulations without going through the selection process prescribed;
(iii)
the individual consultants selected by the Board may re-apply against subsequent positions advertised or notified;
(d)
The Chairperson shall constitute a selection committee for each category of individual consultant. The Board may invite
eminent experts having special knowledge and experience in the relevant field to join the selection committees.
(e)
The Secretary shall scrutinize the applications in accordance with these regulations and prepare lists of eligible
candidates for each category to be called for interview.
(f)
The selection committees mentioned in para (d) shall be convened with the approval of the Chairperson for each
category and the Secretary or any other officer authorised by the Chairperson shall notify the date and the venue of the
interview to the short listed eligible candidates sufficiently in advance.
(g)
The recommendations of each selection committee regarding engagement for each category shall be placed by the
Secretary for Chairpersons perusal and thereafter placed before the Board for a decision.
(h)
On approval of the engagements by the Board as mentioned in para (g); the Secretary or any other officer authorized by
the Chairperson shall inform each candidate in writing by an offer letter of engagement giving not less than fourteen
days time to accept the offer of engagement.
(i)
After receipt of acceptance from the selected candidates as per para (h), the Secretary or any other officer authorised by
the Chairperson shall issue letter of engagement to each candidate giving not less than thirty days time to join:
Provided that the joining time may be extended by the Chairperson on being satisfied that extension is sought on
circumstances beyond the control of the individual candidate.
Page 9/13
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2...
(j)
The Secretary shall inform the number of selected candidates who have joined in the next meeting of the Board and
obtain approval of the [Chairperson]
[Substituted 'Board' by Notification No. F.No. S-Admn/II/XI/2012, dated 23.3.2018 (w.e.f. 30.11.2007).]
to restart the process of selection to fill up the shortfalls, if any, in the total number of individual consultants decided to
be engaged as per para (b).
(7)
Terms and conditions of engagement. - (a) The individual consultant, on having accepted the offer of engagement, shall
enter into a contract, also having the confidentiality clause, with the Secretary, acting on behalf of the Board, detailing
the terms and conditions of engagement before being assigned any work.
(b)
The terms and conditions of engagement may be modified, in a specific case, where the Board deems it necessary.
(c)
Without prejudice and in addition to the legal remedies available to the Board, the breach of agreement executed under
para (a) by or on behalf of any individual consultant shall be considered a sufficient ground for termination of the
engagement made under contract and may further debar such individual consultant from future engagement by the
Board.
(d)
The selected individual consultants shall be on probation for a period of six months. Based on their performance during
the probation period, the appointment of the individual consultant may be confirmed by the Board for the balance period.
(e)
In case the selected individual consultants desire to withdraw from the consultancy services, they may do so by giving
three months notice. However, the Board reserves the right to terminate or curtail the consultancy period without
assigning any reason by giving similar notice of three months.]
18.
[]
[Renumbered '19' by Notification No. F.No. S-Admn/II/XI/2012, dated 10.4.2012 (w.e.f. 30.11.2007).]
Saving of inherent power of the Board.
- Nothing in these provisions shall bar the Board from adopting a procedure which is at variance with any of the
provisions of these Regulations, if the Board, in view of the special circumstances of the matter or class of matters and
for reasons to be recorded in writing, deems it necessary or expedient to depart from the procedure prescribed in the
regulations.
19.
[]
[Renumbered '20' by Notification No. F.No. S-Admn/II/XI/2012, dated 10.4.2012 (w.e.f. 30.11.2007).]
General power to amend.
- The Board may at any time and on such terms as it may think fit amend any provisions of these regulations for the
purpose of meeting the objectives with which these Regulations have been framed.
20.
[]
[Renumbered '21' by Notification No. F.No. S-Admn/II/XI/2012, dated 10.4.2012 (w.e.f. 30.11.2007).]
Power to remove difficulties.
- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to any of the provisions of these regulations the Board may, by general or special
order, do  anything not being inconsistent with the provisions of the Act, which appears to it to be necessary or
expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulties.
[Schedule I]
[Inserted by Notification No. F.No. S-Admn/II/XI/2012, dated 10.4.2012 (w.e.f. 30.11.2007).]
Class of Individual Consultant
Qualifications
Experience
Commercial
Page 10/13
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2...
MBA (Finance), Chartered Accountant, Cost
Accountant or Masters degree in Economics/Commerce/Operations
Research or equivalent from a recognized university or
institution
(a) Experience in
development/ formulation of regulations; or
(b)Computation of
pipeline transportation tariffs, pricing and other concerned
commercial and financial issues related to the oil and gas
sector; or
(c) Detailed analysis
of annual accounts of firms, loan appraisals for large projects
as done by the banks/financial institutions; or
(d)Experience of
appraisal of large projects in the fields of oil and gas
production, processing, transportation, storage, terminal
operation, distribution, marketing, etc.
Desirable:
(i) Previous exposure
to Competition Law
(ii) Membership of Institute of Company
Secretaries
Law
Law Degree from recognized University / Law
School
Experience in
infrastructure sector on:
(a)Drafting/vetting
regulations, statutes and/or legislations; or
(b) dealing with
Courts/Appellate Tribunals matters; or
(c) Settling
disputes/arbitration
Desirable:Previous exposure to Competition Law
Infrastructure
Graduate Degree in Engineering/Masters degree in
Science/Economics/Operations Research or equivalent from a
recognized university or institution.
(a) Experience of
techno-economic project appraisal/evaluation/choice of project
involving large investments in the field of oil and gas
pipelines, storage capacities, marketing infrastructure/city gas
distribution etc.; or
(b)Experience in
development/formulation of regulations or familiarity with latest
technological developments in the oil and gas sector; or
(c) Experience in
setting up of city gas distribution network, its operation and
maintenance; or
(d) Experience in
operation and maintenance of oil and gas pipelines; or
Page 11/13
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2...
(e) Experience in
drafting of technical standards/safety codes pertaining to oil
and gas pipelines and installations.
Desirable:Previous exposure to Competition Law
Distribution
Graduate Degree in Engineering, MBA in
marketing, Masters degree in Science/Economics/Operations
Research or equivalent from a recognized university or
institution.
(a) Experience in
policy formulation in the Government in the marketing and
distribution of petroleum  products/natural gas; or
(b) Experience in
development/formulation of regulations in the oil and gas sector;
or
(c) Familiarity with
latest technological ,developments in the marketing of oil and
gas; or
(d) Experience in
fostering consume (interest in infrastructure.
Desirable:Previous exposure to Competition Law
Office/Logistic Support
Graduate degree from a duly recognized
University in India with consistent excellent academic record
Office Secretary/Personal Staff with experience
in MS Office and other internet applications, preparation of
power point presentations
Any other sector
Graduate degree from a duly recognized
University in India in the relevant field consistent excellent
academic record
(a) having worked at
senior level position in the infrastructure sector ; or
(b) Recognition as an
expert in the relevant sector either through publication of
articles or awards or public acclaim; Or
(c)
Professor/Reader/Lecturer of Business Management of any
recognized University/Professional institute of India or abroad;
or
(d) HR. professionals
with experience in identifying sources for capacity
building/training.
Desirable:Previous exposure to Competition Law
[Schedule II]
[Inserted by Notification No. F.No. S-Admn/II/XI/2012, dated 10.4.2012 (w.e.f. 30.11.2007).]
Category of Individual Consultant
Preferred experience in years
Level I
Upto five years
Level II
Page 12/13
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Appointment of Consultants) Regulations, 2...
More than five to ten years
Level III
More than ten to fifteen years
Level IV
More than fifteen to twenty years
Level V
More than Twenty years
[Schedule III]
[Substituted by Notification No. F.No. S-Admn/II/XI/2012, dated 23.3.2018 (w.e.f. 30.11.2007).]
Level of Individual Consultant
Lump sum monthly remuneration
I
L50,000 with 10 per-cent increase on completion
of each year
II
L75,000 with 10 per-cent increase on completion
of each year,
III
L1,00,000 with 10 per-cent increase on completion
of each year.
IV
L1,10,000 with 10 per-cent increase on completion
of each year.
V
L1,30,000 with 10 per-cent increase on completion
of each year.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 13/13