
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Order, 2007
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Order, 2007
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/110100940/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Order, 2007
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Order, 2007
Rule THE-STEEL-AND-STEEL-PRODUCTS-QUALITY-CONTROL-ORDER-2007 of 2007
Published on 12 November 2007
Commenced on 12 November 2007
[This is the version of this document from 12 November 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Order, 2007
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extra Part 2, Section 3(ii), dated 12.11.2007
1651.
No.S.O. 1908(E), dated November 12,2007. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 14 of the Bureau of Indian
Standards Act, 1986 (63 of 1986), Central Government after consulting the Bureau of Indian Standards hereby makes
are following Order, namely:
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Order may be called the Steel and Steel Products (Quality Control) Order, 2007.
(2)
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Order, 2007
This Order shall come not force after a period of six months from the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires,
(a)
"Act" means the Bureau of Indian Standards Act, 1986 (63 of 1986);
(b)
"Appropriate Authority" means any officer not below the rank of an Under Secretary to the Government of India or an
officer not below the rank of Scientist C (Deputy Director) in the Bureau of Indian Standards or an officer not below the
rank of a General Manager, District Industries Centre of a State Government as may be appointed by the Central
Government by a notification published in the Official Gazette to implement the provisions of this Order;
(c)
"Bureau" means the Bureau of Indian Standards;
(d)
"dealer" in relation to Steel and Steel Products, means a person who, or a firm or a Hindu undivided family which, carries
on, directly or otherwise the business of buying, selling, supplying or distributing any such Structural Steel Sections,
Galvanized steel sheets, High Strength deformed steel bars and wires, Steel wires and strands for stressed concrete,
Electrical steel sheets and strips, Steel plates for pressure vessels, Electrolytic tinplate whether in cash or for deferred
payment or for commission, remuneration or other valuable consideration;
(e)
"manufacturer', in relation to Steel and Steel Products, means a person who or a firm or a Hindu undivided family which
produces, makes, assembles, or manufactures, any such structural steel sections, galvanized steel sheets, high
strength deformed steel bars and heirs and steel wires and strands for pre stressed concrete, electrical steel sheets and
strips, steel plates for pressure vessels, electrolytic tinplate and includes a person who, or a firm or Hindu undivided
family which claims such structural steel sections, phenized steel sheets, high strength deformed steel bars and wires,
steel wires and strands for pre-stressed concrete, electrical steel sheets and strips, steel plates for pressure vessels,
electrolytic tinplate to be produced made, assembled or manufactured by such person or firm or Hindu undivided family,
as the case may be;
(f)
"Schedule" means the Schedule annexed to this Order;
(g)
"Specified Standard" in relation to steel and steel products means the standard is specified in the corresponding entry\in
column (1) of the Schedule.
(h)
"State Government" in relation to a Union territory, means the Administrator thereof;
(i)
"steel and steel products" mean the items specified in column (2) of the Schedule;
(j)
Words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Prohibition regarding manufacture, storage sale and distribution etc.
(1)
No person shall by himself or through any person on his behalf manufacture or store for sale, sell or distribute any steel
and steel products given in the Schedule, which do not conform to the specified standards and do not bear standard
mark of the Bureau of obtaining certification marks licence:
Provided that nothing in this Order shall apply in relation to export of steel and steel products required for export, which
conform to any specification required by the foreign buyer and such specification shall not in any case be less than the
specified standard.
(2)
The sub-standard or defective steel and steel products, which do not conform to the specified standard shall be
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Order, 2007
deformed by the manufacturer by cutting into length less than 1.5 meters and disposed of as scrap within three months.
4.
Obligation for certification.
(1)
All manufacturers of steel and steel product shall make an application to the Bureau for obtaining licence for use of the
standard mark, within forty-five days of the issue of this Order, if not already obtained.
(2)
The grant of licence by the Bureau for use of the standard mark shall be as per the provisions of the Act and rules and
regulations made there under.
(3)
When any person by himself or through any person on his behalf proposes manufacture steel and steel products
specified in column (2) of the Schedule shall commence regular production only after obtaining a valid licence from
Bureau for the use of standard mark.
(4)
Consequent to the expiry of any licence or cancellation thereof by the Bureau for one or more of the steel and steel
products mentioned in column (2) of the Schedule the Bureau shall inform the same to the Appropriate Authority.
5.
Power to call for information, etc.
- The Appropriate Authority may, with view to securing compliance with this Order
(a)
require any person engaged in the manufacturer, storage for sale, sale distribution of any steel and products to give
such information as he deems necessary relating to the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution of any steel
and steel products for the implementation of this Order or require any such person to furnish him samples of any such
steel and steel products.
(b)
inspect or cause to be inspected any books or other documents and other steel and steel products kept by or belonging
to or in the possession or under the control any person engaged in the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution
of any steel and steel products.
6.
Testing of samples.
- Samples of any steel and steel products bearing the standard mark and drawn by the Appropriate Authority, for
ascertaining whether they are of the specified standard, shall be tested in the laboratory approved by the Bureau and in
the manner as may be determined by the Bureau.
7.
Power to issue direction to manufacturer and dealers or sellers.
- The Appropriate Authority may issue such directions to manufacturers and dealers sellers, consistent with the
provisions of the Act or this Order, as may be necessary to carrying out the purposes of this Order.
8.
Compliance of directions.
- Every person engaged in the manufacture, storage sale, sale or distribution of any steel and steel products given in the
Schedule to whom any direction is issued under this Order, shall comply with such direction.
9.
Obligation to furnish information.
- No manufacturer or dealer shall with intent to evade the provisions of this Order, refuse to give any information lawfully
demanded from him under clause 5 or conceal, destroy, mutilate or deface any books or documents or any steel and
steel products, kept by, or in the possession or control of, such person.
Schedule
[See clause 2 (i)]
List of steel products under mandatory BIS certification
1.
For power distribution
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Order, 2007
Indian standard number
Title
1
2
648
Cold rolled Non-oriented electrical steel sheet and strip-Fully processed type.
3024
Grant oriented electrical steel sheets and stripes.
15391
Cold rolled non-oriented electrical steel sheet and strip-Semite processed type.
2.
For health and safety
Indian standardnumber
Title
1
2
22002
Steel plates for pressure vessels for intermediate and high temperature service including boilers.
2041
Steel plates for pressure vessels used at moderate and temperature.
3.For infrastructure (including railways) and constructional steel
Indian standard number
Title
1
2
277
Galvanized steel sheets (plain and corrugated).
1786
Specification for high strength deformed steel bard and wires for concrete reinforcement.
2062
Hot rolled low, medium and high tensile structural steel excluding bars and rods of diameter/ thickness less than 6mm
and structural (angle) below 50 mm x 50
mm x 6 mm.
13620
Specification for fusion bonded epoxy coated reinforcing bars.
1785(Pt.2)
Specification for plain hard-drawn steel wire for pre-stressed concrete, part 2 as drawn wire.
6003
Specification for intended wire for pre-stressed concrete.
6006
Specification for uncoated stress relieved strand for pre-stressed concrete.
14268
Specification for uncoated stress relieved low relaxation seven ply strand for pre-stressed concrete.
2830
Carbon steel cast billet ingots, billets, blooms, blooms and slabs for re-rolling into steel for general structural purposes.
2831
Carbon steel cast billet ingots, billets, blooms, and slabs for re-rolling into low tensile structural steel.
4. For storage/cooking of food products.
Indian standard number
Title
1
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Order, 2007
2
1993
Cold reduced electrolytic tinplate.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5