
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Meetings of the Board) Regulations, 2007
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Meetings of the
Board) Regulations, 2007
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/65150425/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Meetings of the Board) Regulations, 2007
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Meetings of the Board) Regulations, 2007
Rule
THE-PETROLEUM-AND-NATURAL-GAS-REGULATORY-BOARD-MEETINGS-OF-THE-BOARD-REGULATIONS-2007
of 2007
Published on 26 November 2007
Commenced on 26 November 2007
[This is the version of this document from 26 November 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Meetings of the Board) Regulations, 2007
Published vide Notification No. S.O. 731(E), dated 26th November, 2007
Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board
S.O. 731(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of Sub-section of (2) Section 61 of the Petroleum and
Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006 (
19 of 2006
), the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board hereby makes the following regulations, namely :-
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Meetings of the Board) Regulations, 2007
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These regulations may be called The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Meetings of the Board)
Regulations, 2007.
(2)
These regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act", means the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006;
(b)
"Board", means the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board established under Sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the
Act;
(c)
"Chairperson", means the Chairperson of the Board appointed under Section 4 of the Act;
(d)
"Member", means a Member of the Board appointed under Section 4 of the Act.
(2)
All other words and expressions used herein but not defined shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to
them in the Act.
(3)
Unless defined herein or in the Act, the provisions of the General Clauses Act, 1897 as amended from time to time shall
apply to these regulations.
Chapter II
Meeting of the Board
3.
Convening of Board meetings.
(1)
Meetings of the Board shall be convened at least once in each quarter of the year by the Chairperson or in his absence
on account of the post being vacant or as may be directed by him/her, by the senior most Member reckoned from the
date of appointment to the Board :
Provided that in case of common date of appointment of Members, the Member senior in age shall be considered as
senior to the other Members.
(2)
Any two Members may require the Chairperson to convene a meeting of the Board at any time and the Chairperson
shall convene the meeting of the Board accordingly.
4.
Presiding over Board meetings.
- The Chairperson or if he is unable to attend the meeting of the Board, for any reason, the senior most Member present
shall preside over the meeting.
5.
Place and time of Board meetings.
- Meetings of the Board shall be held at such times and places in India as may be specified in the notice convening the
meeting.
6.
Notice for Board meeting.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Meetings of the Board) Regulations, 2007
(1)
Not less than seven days notice shall ordinarily be given for each meeting of the Board by the Secretary (or any other
Officer designated by the Chairperson) and such notice along with agenda papers shall be circulated to every Member,
seven working days in advance:
Provided that if any emergency meeting of the Board is to be convened, seven days notice may not be required.
However, sufficient notice shall be given to the Member to enable him to attend the meeting:
Provided further that a resolution may be passed or a decision may be taken by circulation of an agenda to the
Members.
(2)
No business other than that for which the meeting was convened shall be discussed at a meeting of the Board, except
with the consent of the Chairperson or the Member presiding over the meeting and a majority of the Members present.
7.
Quorum required and voting.
(1)
Three Members of the Board including Chairperson or in his absence the Member presiding over the meeting, shall
constitute the Quorum for transaction of business at a meeting of the Board;
(2)
All questions which come before any meeting of the Board shall be decided by a majority vote of the Members present
and voting and in the event of any equality of votes, the Chairperson, or in his absence, the Member presiding over,
shall have a second or casting vote.
8.
Leave of absence.
- The Board may grant leave of absence to a Member not present in the meeting and such leave of absence shall be
recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
9.
Minutes of the meeting.
(1)
The Board shall cause the minutes of all the meetings to be maintained in the books kept for the purpose, which may be
in the form of binders containing loose leaves, duly numbered.
(2)
A copy of the minutes of each meeting of the Board shall be circulated as soon as possible to the Members. The
minutes shall be signed by the Chairperson or the Member presiding over the succeeding meeting, and taken on record
thereafter.
10.
Custody of the minutes book, common seal etc.
- Secretary of the Board shall keep custody of common seal register of attendance of the meetings, minutes book, and
other documents/records, etc. pertaining to the meetings of the Board.
Chapter III
Obligations of the Members
11.
Member not to participate in meetings in certain cases.
- Every Member, who is directly or indirectly concerned or interested in any matter coming up for consideration at a
meeting of the Board, shall, as soon as possible, after the relevant circumstances have come to his knowledge, disclose
the nature of his interest at such meeting and such disclosure shall be recorded in the proceedings of the Board and the
Member shall not take any part in any deliberation or decision of the Board with respect to that matter.
Explanation. - The expression "directly or indirectly" referred to in this regulation shall include any concern or interest of
a Member either by himself or through his relatives within the meaning of definition of Section 6 of the Companies Act,
1956 (
1 of 1956
) or by reason of being a partner, director of that concern.
12.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Meetings of the Board) Regulations, 2007
Obligation of a Member to give information of disqualification.
(1)
A Member, as soon as may be, inform the Board if he becomes subject to any of the disqualifications specified in
Section 7 of the Act.
(2)
The Board shall inform the Central Government, if it comes to the notice of the Board that any Member has attracted the
disqualifications referred to in (1) above.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4