
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Tyre Corporation Of India Limited (Disinvestment Of Ownership) Act, 2007
The Tyre Corporation Of India Limited (Disinvestment Of Ownership)
Act, 2007
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/161127020/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
Union of India - Act
The Tyre Corporation Of India Limited (Disinvestment Of Ownership) Act, 2007
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Tyre Corporation Of India Limited (Disinvestment Of Ownership) Act, 2007
Act 50 of 2007
Published on 12 December 2007
Commenced on 12 December 2007
[This is the version of this document from 12 December 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Tyre Corporation Of India Limited (Disinvestment Of Ownership) Act, 2007
NO. 50 OF 2007
1122.
[12th December, 2007]
An Act to provide for disinvestment of Government's equity in the Tyre Corporation of India Limited and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.
WHEREAS the Inchek Tyres Limited and the National Rubber Manufacturers Limited, engaged in the manufacture,
production and distribution of articles mentioned in the First Schedule to the Industries (Development and Regulation)
Act, 1951, namely, tyres, tubes and other rubber goods, were nationalised under the Inchek Tyres Limited and National
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Tyre Corporation Of India Limited (Disinvestment Of Ownership) Act, 2007
Rubber Manufacturers Limited (Nationalisation) Act, 1984 and transferred to, and vested in, the Tyre Corporation of
India Limited, Calcutta from the 5th day of March, 1984;
AND WHEREAS for the purpose of securing optimum utilisation of the available facilities for the manufacture, production
and distribution of tyres, tubes and other rubber goods, investment of large amount is necessary;
AND WHEREAS it is expedient to disinvest the Government's equity in the Tyre Corporation of India Limited, Kolkata to
enable the private sector to have investment made to ensure that the interest of general public are served by the
continuance of the manufacture, production and distribution of the aforesaid articles which are essential to the needs of
the economy of the country.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title.
This Act may be called the Tyre Corporation of India Limited (Disinvestment of Ownership) Act, 2007.
2.
Disinvestment in the company.
- Where the Central Government, on the recommendations of the Board for Reconstruction of Public Sector Enterprises,
is of the opinion that disinvestment is to be made in the Tyre Corporation of India Limited (hereinafter referred to as the
company), it may pass an order providing for transfer, exchange or relinquishment of shares in the company to any
person on such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon.
3.
Payment of consideration for disinvestment in the company.
(1)
For the transfer to, and vesting in, any person, the shares of the company, there shall be given to the Central
Government by such person or in case such person is a company, by such company, such consideration, having regard
to the optimum valuation of land, assets and liabilities of the company in accordance with a valuation method as
specified by the Central Government.
(2)
The manner of payment of consideration for transfer of shares of the company to the transferee shall be such as may be
agreed upon between the transferor, the company and the transferee, the person or the company, as the case may be.
4.
Manner of disinvestment.
- The Central Government may, in its order made under section 2, specify that disinvestment of shares shall be effected
by one or more of the following methods as may be specified in such order, namely:-
(a)
by making a public offer or preferential allotment or private placement in accordance with such procedure as applicable
in case of any other Government company;
(b)
by directing the company to make further issue of equity capital to the members of the public or preferential allotment or
private placement, as the case may be, in accordance with such procedure as applicable in case of the Government
company.
5.
Provision in respect of officers and other employees of the company.
(1)
Every officer or other employee of the company, except the Chairman and Directors, serving in its employment
immediately before the disinvestment of the company under this Act, shall continue in office or service after such
disinvestment, on same terms and conditions as would have been admissible to him if there had been no such
disinvestment and shall continue to do so until the expiry of the period of three years from the date of disinvestments.
(2)
Where an officer or other employee of the company opts under sub-section (1) not to be in the employment or service of
the company, such officer or other employee shall be deemed to have resigned.
6.
Act to have overriding effect.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Tyre Corporation Of India Limited (Disinvestment Of Ownership) Act, 2007
- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in the Inchek
Tyres Limited and National Rubber Manufacturers, Limited (Nationalisation) Act, 1984 or any other law for the time
being in force.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3