
----- PAGE 1 -----
The National Disaster Management Authority (Financial Advisor) Recruitment Rules, 2008
The National Disaster Management Authority (Financial Advisor)
Recruitment Rules, 2008
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/196579228/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The National Disaster Management Authority (Financial Advisor) Recruitment Rules, 2008
UNION OF INDIA
India
The National Disaster Management Authority (Financial Advisor) Recruitment Rules, 2008
Rule THE-NATIONAL-DISASTER-MANAGEMENT-AUTHORITY-FINANCIAL-ADVISOR-RECRUITMENT-RULES-2008
of 2008
Published on 11 January 2008
Commenced on 11 January 2008
[This is the version of this document from 11 January 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The National Disaster Management Authority (Financial Advisor) Recruitment Rules, 2008
Published vide G.S.R. 26(E), dated 11.1.2008 and published in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt. II, Section 3(i), Sl. No. 21,
dated 11.1.2008.
7.
/439
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 read with section 75 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 (53 of
2005), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules regulating the method of recruitment to the post of
Financial Advisor in the National Disaster Management Authority, namely:--
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The National Disaster Management Authority (Financial Advisor) Recruitment Rules, 2008
1.
Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called The National Disaster Management Authority (Financial
Advisor) Recruitment Rules, 2008.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
[ Number of post, its classification and level in the pay matrix.
- The number of the said post, its classification and level in the pay matrix attached thereto, shall be as specified in
columns (2) to (4) of the Schedule annexed to these rules.]
3.
[ Method of recruitment, age limit and qualifications, etc.
- The method of recruitment, age limit, qualification and other matters relating to the said post shall be as specified in
columns (5) to (13) of the Schedule aforesaid.]
4.
Disqualification .-No person,--
(a)
who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living; or
(b)
who, having a spouse living, has entered into, or contracted a marriage with any person, shall be eligible for
appointment to the said post:
Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the personal law
applicable to such person and the other party to the marriage and that there are other grounds for so doing, exempt any
person from the operation of this rule.
5.
Power to relax .-Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by
orders, and for reasons to be recorded in writing relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class or
category of persons.
6.
Savings .-Nothing in these rules shall affect reservations, relaxation of age limit and other concessions required to be
provided for the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, Ex-servicemen and other special
categories of persons in accordance with the orders issued by the Central Government from time to time in this regard.
[Schedule
Name of the post
Number of post
Classification
Level in the pay matrix
Whether selection or non-selection post
Age limit for direct recruits
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Financial Advisor
01* (2017) * Subject to variation dependent on
workload.
Group 'A'
Level 14
Not applicable
Not applicable
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The National Disaster Management Authority (Financial Advisor) Recruitment Rules, 2008
Educational and other qualifications required
for direct recruits
Whether age and educational qualifications
prescribed for direct recruits will apply in the case of promotes
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment: whether by direct
recruitment or by promotion or by deputation/ absorption and
percentage of the vacancies to be filled by various methods
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable
Deputation
In case of recruitment by promotion/deputation
or absorption, grades from which promotion/deputation or
absorption to be made
If a Departmental Promotion Committee exists,
what is its composition
Circumstances in which Union Public Service
Commission to be consulted in making recruitment
(11)
(12)
(13)
Officers of the
Central Government:
(a) (i) holding
analogous post on regular basis in the parent cadre or
department; or
(ii) with three
years? regular service in level 13 in the pay matrix or
equivalent in the parent cadre or department; or
(iii) with eight
years? combined service on regular basis in level 12 and
level 13 in the pay matrix or equivalent, wherein at least three
years has been rendered in level 13 in the parent cadre or
department; and
(b) possessing
experience in financial and accounting matters in a Government
department.
Note 1:
Period of deputation including period of deputation in another
ex-cadre post held immediately preceding this appointment in the
same or some other organisation or department of the Central
Government shall ordinarily not exceed three years.
Note 2: The maximum age limit for
appointment by deputation shall be not exceeding 56 years as on
the closing date of the receipt of applications.
Not applicable.
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The National Disaster Management Authority (Financial Advisor) Recruitment Rules, 2008
Note:Recruitment shall be made on the Recommendations of a Selection
Committee Comprising of:
1.Vice Chairperson,
National Disaster Management Authority - Chairman
2. Secretary/
Additional Secretary, National Disaster Management Authority, -
Member
3. Additional Secretary and Financial Advisor,
Ministry of Home Affairs - Member
Consultation with Union Public Service
Commission, not required.]
SCHEDULE
{|
Name of the post
Number of post
Classification
Scale of pay
Whether selection post or non-selection post
Whether benefit of added years of service admissible under rule 30 of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules,1972
Age limit for direct recruits
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
Financial Advisor
01 * (2008) *Subject to variation dependent on workload.
Group-'A'.
Rs. 18400-500-22400
Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable
Educational and other qualifications required for direct recruits
Whether age and educational qualifications prescribed for direct recruits will apply in the case of promotees
Period of probation, if any
(8)
(9)
(10)
Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable
Method of recruitment: whether by  direct recruitment or by promotion or by deputation/absorption and percentage of the
vacancies to be  filled by various methods
In case of recruitment by promotion/deputation or absorption, grades from which promotion/deputation or absorption to
be made
(11)
(12)
Deputation
Officers of the Central Government:
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The National Disaster Management Authority (Financial Advisor) Recruitment Rules, 2008
(a) (i) holding analogous post on regular basis in the parent cadre or department or
(ii) with three years of regular service in the grade rendered after appointment thereto on regular basis in the scale of
pay of Rs. 14300-18300 or equivalent in the parent cadre or department, or
(iii) with eight years of combined service rendered after appointment on regular basis in the scales of pay of Rs.
14300-18300 and Rs. 12000-16500 or equivalent wherein at least three years of regular service have been redered after
appointment in the selection grade in the scale of pay of Rs. 14300-18300 in the parent cadre or department; and
(b) possessing experience in financial and accounting matters in a government department.
Note 1.- Period of deputation including period of deputation in another excadre post held immediately preceding this
appointment in the same or some other organization or Department of the Central Government shall ordinarily not
exceed three years.
Note 2.-The maximum age limit for appointment by deputation shall be not exceeding 56 years as on the dosing date of
the receipt of applications.
If a Departmental Promotion Committee exists, what is its composition
Circumstances in which Union Public Service Commission to be consulted in making recruitment
(13)
(14)
Not applicable. Recruitment will however, be made on the recommendations of a Selection Committee comprising of:
Consultation with Union Public Service Commission not required.
1. Vice Chairperson, National Disaster Management Authority
-Chairman
2. Secretary/ Additional Secretary, National Disaster Management Authority
-Member
3. Additional Secretary and Financial Advisor,
Ministry of Home Affairs
-Member
|}
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5