
----- PAGE 1 -----
Issue Of Foreign Currency Exchange Bonds Scheme, 2008
Issue Of Foreign Currency Exchange Bonds Scheme, 2008
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/65943148/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Issue Of Foreign Currency Exchange Bonds Scheme, 2008
UNION OF INDIA
India
Issue Of Foreign Currency Exchange Bonds Scheme, 2008
Rule ISSUE-OF-FOREIGN-CURRENCY-EXCHANGE-BONDS-SCHEME-2008 of 2008
Published on 15 February 2008
Commenced on 15 February 2008
[This is the version of this document from 15 February 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Issue Of Foreign Currency Exchange Bonds Scheme, 2008
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extra, Part 2, dated 15.2.2008
1617.
G.S.R. 89(E), dated 15.2.2008.- The Central Government hereby notifies the following scheme for facilitating issue of
Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bonds by Indian Companies, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
This scheme may be called the Issue of Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bonds Scheme, 2008.
(2)
It shall come into force on the date of notification in the Official Gazette.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Issue Of Foreign Currency Exchange Bonds Scheme, 2008
2.
Definitions.-
In this scheme, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond" means a bond expressed in foreign currency, the principal and interest in
respect of which is payable in foreign currency, issued by an Issuing Company and subscribed to by a person who is a
resident outside India in foreign currency and exchangeable into equity share of another company, to be called the
Offered Company, in any manner, either wholly, or partly or on the basis of any equity related warrants attached to debt
instruments.
(b)
"Issuing Company" means an Indian company as defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), which is eligible to
issue Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond.
(c)
"Offered Company" means an Indian company as defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) whose equity share/s
shall be offered in exchange of the Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond.
(d)
"Promoter Group" has the same meaning as defined in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Disclosure and
Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000.
3.
Eligibility Conditions and subscription of Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bonds.-
(1)
The Issuing Company shall be part of the promoter group of the Offered Company and shall hold the equity share/s
being offered at the time of issuance of Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond.
(2)
The Offered Company shall be a listed company which is engaged in a sector eligible to receive Foreign Direct
Investment and eligible to issue or avail of Foreign Currency Convertible Bond or External Commercial Borrowings.
(3)
An Indian Company, which is not eligible to raise funds from the Indian securities market, including a company which
has been restrained from accessing the securities market by the Securities and Exchange Board of India shall not be
eligible to issue Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond.
(4)
The subscriber to the Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond shall comply with the Foreign Direct Investment policy and
adhere to the sectoral caps at the time of issuance of Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond. Prior approval of Foreign
Investment Promotion Board, wherever required under the Foreign Direct Investment policy, should be obtained. Entities
prohibited to buy, sell or deal in securities by Securities and Exchange Board of India will not be eligible to subscribe to
Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond.
4.
End-use requirements.-
(1)
The proceeds of Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond may be invested by the issuing company in the promoter group
companies. The promoter group company receiving such investments shall be required to use the proceeds in
accordance with end uses prescribed under the External Commercial Borrowings policy. The promoter group company
receiving such investments will not be permitted to utilize the proceeds for investments in the capital market or in real
estate in India.
(2)
The proceeds of Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond may be invested by the issuing company overseas by way of
direct investment including in Joint Ventures or Wholly Owned Subsidiaries subject to the existing guidelines on Indian
Direct Investment in Joint Ventures or Wholly Owned Subsidiaries abroad.
5.
Operational Procedure.-
(1)
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Issue Of Foreign Currency Exchange Bonds Scheme, 2008
Prior approval of the Reserve Bank of India shall be required for issuance of Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond.
(2)
The Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond may be denominated in any freely convertible foreign currency.
6.
Pricing and Maturity.-
(1)
The rate of interest payable on Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond and the issue expenses incurred in foreign
currency shall be within the all in cost ceiling as specified by Reserve Bank of India under the External Commercial
Borrowings policy.
(2)
At the time of issuance of Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond the exchange price of the offered listed equity shares
shall not be less than the higher of the following two :-
(i)
the average of the weekly high and low of the closing prices of the shares of the offered company quoted on the stock
exchange during the six months preceding the relevant date; and
(ii)
the average of the weekly high and low of the closing prices of the shares of the offered company quoted on a stock
exchange during the two week preceding the relevant date.
Explanation:- For the purpose of this sub-scheme, "relevant date" means, the date on when the Board of the issuing
company passes the resolution authorizing the issue of Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond.
(3)
The minimum maturity of the Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond shall be five years for purposes of redemption. The
exchange option can be exercised at any time before redemption. While exercising the exchange option, the holder of
the Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond shall take delivery of the offered shares. Cash (Net) settlement of Foreign
Currency Exchangeable Bonds shall not be permissible.
7.
Mandatory Requirements.-
(1)
The Issuing Company shall comply with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and obtain necessary
approvals of its Board of Directors and shareholders if applicable. The Offered Company shall also obtain the approval
of its Board of Directors in favour of the Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond proposal of the issuing company.
(2)
The Issuing Company intending to offer shares of the offered company under Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond
shall comply with all the applicable provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, Rules, Regulations or
Guidelines with respect to disclosures of their shareholding in the Offered Company.
(3)
The Issuing Company shall not transfer, mortgage or offer as collateral or trade in the offered shares under Foreign
Currency Exchangeable Bond from the date of issuance of the Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond till the date of
exchange or redemption. Further, the Issuing Company shall keep the offered shares under Foreign Currency
Exchangeable Bond free from all encumbrances from the date of issuance of the Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond
till the date of exchange or redemption.
8.
Retention and deployment of proceeds of Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond.-
The proceeds of the Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond shall be retained and/or deployed overseas in accordance
with the policy for the proceeds of External Commercial Borrowings.
9.
Taxation on Exchangeable Bonds.-
(1)
Interest payments on the bonds, until the exchange option is exercised, shall be subject to deduction of tax at source as
per the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 115 AC of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961).
(2)
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Issue Of Foreign Currency Exchange Bonds Scheme, 2008
Tax on dividend on the exchanged portion of the bond shall be in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of
section 115 AC of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961).
(3)
Exchange of Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bonds into shares shall not give rise to any capital gains liable to
income-tax in India.
(4)
Transfers of Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bonds made outside India by an investor who is a person resident outside
India to another investor who is a person resident outside India shall not give rise to any capital gains liable to tax in
India.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4