
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Merchant Shipping (International Fund For Compensation For Oil Pollution Damage) Rules...
The Merchant Shipping (International Fund For Compensation For Oil
Pollution Damage) Rules, 2008
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/47430419/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Merchant Shipping (International Fund For Compensation For Oil Pollution Damage) Rules, 2008
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Merchant Shipping (International Fund For Compensation For Oil Pollution Damage) Rules, 2008
Rule
THE-MERCHANT-SHIPPING-INTERNATIONAL-FUND-FOR-COMPENSATION-FOR-OIL-POLLUTION-DAMAGE-RUL
ES-2008 of 2008
Published on 27 March 2008
Commenced on 27 March 2008
[This is the version of this document from 27 March 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Merchant Shipping (International Fund For Compensation For Oil Pollution Damage) Rules, 2008
Published vide Notification G.S.R. 220(E), dated 27.3.2008, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2,
Section 3(i), dated 27.3.2008.
16.
/740
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 352-ZA of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (
44 of 1958
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Merchant Shipping (International Fund For Compensation For Oil Pollution Damage) Rules...
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
Came into force on 27.3.2008.
Part I ? Preliminary
1.
Short title, commencement and application
.-(1) These rules may be called The Merchant Shipping (International Fund for Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage)
Rules, 2008.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
(3)
They shall apply to-
(a)
the pollution damage caused by any Indian ship or a foreign ship within the territorial waters of India or any marine areas
adjacent thereto over which India has, or may hereafter have, exclusive jurisdiction in regard to control of marine
pollution under the Territorial Waters, Continental Shelf, Exclusive Economic Zone and other Maritime Zones Act, 1976,
or any other law for the time being in force; and
(b)
the costs of preventive measures taken to prevent or minimize pollution damage.
2.
Definitions
.-(1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (
44 of 1958
);
(b)
"Assembly" means the Assembly of all the Contracting States to the Fund Convention;
(c)
"Director" means the Chief Administrative Officer of the Fund;
(d)
"Section" means section of the Act;
(e)
"Ship's tonnage" means the gross tonnage which is calculated in accordance with the Merchant Shipping (tonnage
measurement of Ships) Rules, 1987;
(f)
"Unit of Account" means the Special Drawing Right as defined by the International Monetary Fund in respect of India
which shall be converted into rupees on the basis of the value in rupees of the Special Drawing Right as determined by
the Reserve Bank of India on the date of decision of the Assembly of the Fund as to the first date of payment of
compensation.
(2)
The words and expressions used in these rules and not defined but defined in Chapter X-B and X-C of the Act shall
have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Administration of Fund
.-(1) Any claims against the Fund shall be settled and distributed in accordance with the decision and approval of the
Assembly.
(2)
The Director, being the Chief Administrative Officer of the Fund, shall collect the contributions made to the Fund and
deal with the settlement of claims in accordance with the internal regulations approved by the Assembly and where any
dispute arises, he shall be the legal representative of Fund.
Part II ? Payment Of Compensation
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Merchant Shipping (International Fund For Compensation For Oil Pollution Damage) Rules...
4.
Liability of the Fund
.-(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-rules (2) and (3) and rule 5, the Fund is liable to pay compensation to a person
suffering pollution damage where-
(a)
the liability of the owner for pollution damage does arises under section 352-I;
(b)
he is unable to obtain full and adequate compensation under section 352-J;
(c)
the person liable is financially incapable of meeting his obligations in full;
(d)
the financial security provided under section 352-N is insufficient to satisfy the claims;
(e)
such pollution damage has resulted from a natural phenomenon of an exceptional, inevitable and irresistible character.
(2)
The Fund shall not be liable to pay any compensation where-
(a)
the Fund proves that the pollution damage has resulted from an act of war, hostilities, civil war or insurrection; or was
caused by discharge or escape of oil from a warship or ship owned and operated by the Government and used, at the
time of the incident, only for the Government non-commercial service;
(b)
the claimant cannot prove that the pollution damage has resulted from an incident involving one or more ships;
(c)
any claim to compensation has been made after six years.
(3)
Where the Fund proves that the pollution damage has resulted wholly or partially from an act or omission done with the
intent to cause damage by the person who suffered the pollution damage or from the negligence of such person, the
Fund may be exonerated wholly or partially from its obligation to pay compensation:
Provided that the Fund shall be exonerated only to the extent the ship owner may be exonerated under section 352-I:
Provided further that the Fund shall not be exonerated in respect of preventive measures taken to prevent or minimize
pollution damage.
5.
Limitation of liability of Fund
.-(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-rules (2) and (3), the aggregate amount of compensation payable by the Fund
under rule 4 shall, in respect of any one incident, be so limited that the total sum of the amount of compensation paid by
the Fund under these rules and the amount of compensation actually paid under section 352-I shall not exceed 135
million units of account:
Provided that in the case of such incident occurring on or after the 1st November, 2003 , the total sum of the amount of
compensation payable shall not exceed 203 millions units of account.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (3), the aggregate amount of compensation payable by the Fund under these rules
for pollution damage resulting from a natural phenomenon of an exceptional, inevitable and irresistible character referred
to in clause (e) of sub-rule (1) of rule 4 shall not exceed 135 million units of accounts:
Provided that in the case of such incident occurring on or after the 1st November, 2003 , the total sum of the amount of
compensation payable shall not exceed 203 millions units of account.
(3)
Where any incident occurring during any period involving three State parties to the Fund Convention in respect of which
the combined relevant quantity of contributing oil received by persons in the territories of such State Parties during the
preceding calendar year either equalled or exceeded 600 million tons, the maximum amount of compensation referred to
in sub-rules (1) and (2) shall be 200 million units of account:
Provided that in the case of such incident occurring on or after the 1st November, 2003 , the total sum of the amount of
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Merchant Shipping (International Fund For Compensation For Oil Pollution Damage) Rules...
compensation payable shall not exceed 300.74 millions units of account.
(4)
The interest, if any, accrued on the Limitation Fund constituted under section 352-K shall not be taken into account for
the purpose of computation of the maximum compensation payable by the Fund under this rule.
6.
Manner of payment of compensation
.-(1) Where the amount of established claims against the Fund exceeds the aggregate amount of compensation payable
under rule 5, the available amount of the Fund shall be distributed in such a manner that the proportion between any
established claim and the amount of compensation actually recovered by the claimant under this rule shall be the same
for all claimants.
(2)
Where the Assembly of the Fund decides that in exceptional cases the compensation in accordance with this rule can
be paid even if the owner of the ship has not constituted a fund under section 352-K, then, in such cases, the units of
account payable as compensation shall be converted into rupees on the basis of the value in rupees of the Special
Drawings Right as determined by the Reserve Bank of India on the date of such decision of the Assembly of the Fund
as to the first date of payment of compensation.
(3)
The Fund may, subject to such conditions as may be specified in its internal regulations, provide credit facilities for
taking preventive measures against pollution damage arising from incident in respect of which it is required to pay
compensation:
Provided that in such cases, the Fund may, on the request of the Contracting State, use its good offices to assist that
State to secure promptly personnel, material and services that may be necessary to prevent or mitigate pollution
damage arising from such incident.
(4)
Where any action for claim against the Fund for compensation for pollution damage brought before the High Court under
sub-section (1) of section 352-X has become enforceable against the Fund by virtue of any judgment passed in such
proceeding, the Fund in such cases shall be distributed in the manner provided in section 352-M.
Part III ? Contribution To The Fund
7.
Contribution to the Fund
.-Annual contribution to the Fund shall be made by a person where-
(a)
such person has received, in a calendar year, contributing oil in total quantities exceeding 1,50,000 tons in the territory
of India in accordance with the provisions of section 352-T.
(b)
the quantity of contributing oil received in the territory of India by such person in a calendar year when aggregated with
the quantity of contributing oil received by any associated person or persons in India in that year exceeds 1,50,000 tons.
Explanation.-For the purposes of this rule, "associated person" shall mean any subsidiary or commonly controlled entity.
Part IV ? Accounts Of The Fund
8.
Accounts of the Fund
.-(1) For the purposes of assessing the amount of annual contributions due, if any, and for maintaining sufficient liquid
funds, the Assembly shall for each calendar year make an estimate in the form of a budget of-
(i)
expenditure such as-
(a)
costs and expenses of the administration of the Fund in the relevant year and any deficit from operations in preceding
years;
(b)
payments to be made by the Fund in the relevant year for the satisfaction of claims against the Fund due under Chapter
II, including repayment on loans previously taken by the Fund for the satisfaction of such claims, to the extent that the
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Merchant Shipping (International Fund For Compensation For Oil Pollution Damage) Rules...
aggregate amount of such claims in respect of any one incident does not exceed four million units of account;
(c)
payments to be made by the Fund in the relevant year for the satisfaction of claims against the Fund due under Chapter
II, including repayments on loans previously taken by the Fund for the satisfaction of such claims, to the extent that the
aggregate amount of such claims in respect of anyone incident is in excess of four million units of account;
(ii)
income such as-
(a)
surplus funds from operations in preceding years, including any interest;
(b)
annual contributions, if required the budget;
(c)
any other income.
(2)
The Assembly shall decide the total amount of contributions to be levied and on the basis of that decision, the Director
shall, in respect of each contracting State calculate for each person referred to in rule 7, the amount of his annual
contribution-
(a)
in so far as the contribution is for the satisfaction of payments under sub-clauses (a) and (b) of clause (i) of sub-rule (1)
on the basis of a fixed sum for each ton of contributing oil received in the relevant State by such persons during the
preceding calendar year; and
(b)
in so far as the contribution is for the satisfaction of payments under sub-clause (c) of clause (i) of sub-rule (1) on the
basis of a fixed sum for each ton of contributing oil received by such person during the calendar year preceding that in
which the incident occurred, provided that India was a party to the Fund Convention on the date of such incident.
(3)
The sums referred to in sub-rule (2) shall be arrived at by dividing the relevant total amount of contributions required by
the total amount of contributing oil received in all Contracting States including India in the relevant year.
(4)
The annual contribution shall be made on such date as may be decided by the Fund as per its internal regulations and
the Assembly may decide on a different date of payment.
Part V ? Obligations To The Fund
9.
Obligation of persons receiving contributing oil
.-Any person who is liable to contribute to Fund under rule 7 shall give a report of such receipts and such other
information as may be required by the Central Government in Form I and a Summary.
10.
Obligation of Central Government to Report to Fund
.-The Central Government shall transmit to the Fund the list of names and addresses of the person receiving oil who is
liable to contribute to the Fund and the quantity of contributing oil received by such person during the preceding
calendar year in Form II.
11.
Penalty
.-Whoever contravenes any of the provisions of these rules shall be punishable with fine in accordance with the
provisions of section 458.
FORM I
(See rule 9)
Declaration By Importer Or Persons Receiving Oil For The Year.............
Sl.
No.
Name of Importer/person including associated person receiving oil
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Merchant Shipping (International Fund For Compensation For Oil Pollution Damage) Rules...
Address of Importer/person including association person receiving oil
Quantity of Contributing oil received in tons
Remarks
C.O.
F.O.
Date................................
....................................................
Signature of the importer/person receiving oil Authorised
Name................................................
FORM II-A
(See rule 9)
Summarised Statement On Contribution Oil Received In India For The Calendar Year .............
Name/Address Fax/Email of O.C.I./R Oil Exporting Countries
(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)
(E)
(F)
Remarks
(in metric Tonnes)
Total received from other countries
Coastal Movement
Grand Total
Remarks :
Note. - O.C.I. Oil Contributing Importers and O.C.R. Oil Contributing Receivers in India.
Seal or stamp of Authority
AuthorisedSignatory of the Port
Date.....................
Name of the Official...............
FORM II-B
Report To The Iopc Funds On Receipts Of Contribution
State in which oil was received
Year in which oil received
Fund to which report is being made, i.e., to the 1992 Fund only, to the Supplementary Fund only or to both Funds.
1992 Fund only
Supp. Fund only
Both Funds
Company Or Entity Receiving Contributing Oil
Please give details exactly as you would like them to appear on invoices
Company or Entity
For the Attention of
Address
Contact person In case of queries
Name
Job title
Telephone No.
Fax No.
E-mail address
Associated Companies or Entities which may alsohave received contributing oil
Receipts Of Contributing Oil
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Merchant Shipping (International Fund For Compensation For Oil Pollution Damage) Rules...
Quantity in metric tonnes, rounded to the nearest tonne
A. Received directly after carriage by sea Imported from other State
After coastal movement within the same State
B. Received by other modes of transport, e.g., by pipeline, after carriage by sea from a non-Member State
State from which received
Mode of Transport
Total quantity of contributing oil received
Signatures
Officer of Company or Entity
Government Official
Signed
Signed
Date
Date
Name
Name
Job title
Job title
Body
Fund Use Only
File
Associated to
92 Fund
SF
Entered
Checked
Fund Use only
CTR
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7