
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Central Excise (Determination of Retail Sale Price of Excisable Goods) Rules, 2008
The Central Excise (Determination of Retail Sale Price of Excisable
Goods) Rules, 2008
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/22310853/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Central Excise (Determination of Retail Sale Price of Excisable Goods) Rules, 2008
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Central Excise (Determination of Retail Sale Price of Excisable Goods) Rules, 2008
Rule THE-CENTRAL-EXCISE-DETERMINATION-OF-RETAIL-SALE-PRICE-OF-EXCISABLE-GOODS-RULES-2008 of
2008
Published on 1 March 2008
Commenced on 1 March 2008
[This is the version of this document from 1 March 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Central Excise (Determination of Retail Sale Price of Excisable Goods) Rules, 2008
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extra, Part 2, Section 3(i), 1.3.2008.
1629.
G.S.R. 146(E), dated 1.3.2008.  - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 read with sub-section (4) of section
4A of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (
1 of 1944
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely :-
1.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Central Excise (Determination of Retail Sale Price of Excisable Goods) Rules, 2008
(1)
These rules may be called the Central Excise (Determination of Retail Sale Price of Excisable Goods) Rules, 2008.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
`Act' means the Central Excise Act, 1944 (
1 of 1944
);
(b)
`retail sale price' means the retail sale price as defined in section 4A of the Act; and
(c)
words and expressions used in these rules and not defined but defined in the Act or any other rules made under the Act
shall have the meaning as assigned therein.
3.
The retail sale price of any excisable goods under sub-section (4) of section 4A of the Act, shall be determined in
accordance with these rules.
4.
Where a manufacturer removes the excisable goods specified under sub-section (1) of section 4A of the Act, -
(a)
without declaring the retail sale price on the packages of such goods; or
(b)
by declaring the retail sale price, which is not the retail sale price as required to be declared under the provisions of the
Standards of Weights and Measures Act, 1976 (
60 of 1976
) or rules made thereunder or any other law for the time being in force; or
(c)
by declaring the retail sale price but obliterates the same after their removal from the place of manufacture.
then, the retail sale price of such goods shall be ascertained in the following manner, namely :-
(i)
if the manufacturer has manufactured and removed identical goods, within a period of one month, before or after
removal of such goods, by declaring the retail sale price, then, the said declared retail sale price shall be taken as the
retail sale price of such goods :
(ii)
if the retail sale price cannot be ascertained in terms of clause (i), the retail sale price of such goods shall be ascertained
by conducting the enquiries in the retail market where such goods have normally been sold at or about the same time of
the removal of such goods from the place of manufacture :
Provided that if more than one retail sale price is ascertained under clause (i) or clause (ii), then, the highest of the retail
sale price, so ascertained, shall be taken as the retail sale price of all such goods.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this rule, when retail sale price is required to be ascertained based on market
inquiries, the said inquiries shall be carried out on sample basis.
5.
Where a manufacturer alters or tampers the retail sale price declared on the package of goods after their removal from
the place of manufacture, resulting into increase in the retail sale price, then such increased retail sale price shall be
taken as the retail sale price of all goods removed during a period of one month before and after the date of removal of
such goods :
Provided that where the manufacturer alters or tampers the declared retail sale price resulting into more than one retail
sale price available on such goods, then, the highest of such retail sale price shall be taken as the retail sale price of all
such goods.
6.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Central Excise (Determination of Retail Sale Price of Excisable Goods) Rules, 2008
If the retail sale price of any excisable goods cannot be ascertained under these rules, the retail sale price shall be
ascertained in accordance with the principles and the provisions of section 4A of the Act and the rules aforesaid.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3