
----- PAGE 1 -----
Service Tax (Publication of Names) Rules, 2008
Service Tax (Publication of Names) Rules, 2008
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/171879545/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Service Tax (Publication of Names) Rules, 2008
UNION OF INDIA
India
Service Tax (Publication of Names) Rules, 2008
Rule SERVICE-TAX-PUBLICATION-OF-NAMES-RULES-2008 of 2008
Published on 1 March 2008
Commenced on 1 March 2008
[This is the version of this document from 1 March 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Service Tax (Publication of Names) Rules, 2008
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extra; Part 2, Section 3(i), dated 1.3.2008
1610.
G.S.R. 159(E), dated 1.3.2008.- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 94 read with
section 73D of the Finance Act 1994, (32 of 1994), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
These rules may be called the Service Tax (Publication of Names) Rules, 2008;
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Service Tax (Publication of Names) Rules, 2008
2.
Definitions.-
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Chapter" means the Chapter V of the Finance Act, 1994 (32 of 1994);
(b)
"section" means a section of the Chapter.
(2)
All other words and expressions used herein shall have the meaning assigned to them under the Chapter or rules made
thereunder and if such words and expressions are not defined in the Chapter but defined in the Central Excise Act, 1944
(1 of 1944) or the rules made thereunder, they shall have the meaning assigned to them in that Act or the rules made
thereunder.
3.
Publication of names and other particulars.-
Subject to the provisions of these rules, the Central Government may cause to be published in the Official Gazette, print
media, electronic media or by any other means, the names and particulars of the following persons, namely:-
(a)
persons, who have been adjudged under the provisions of the Chapter, to have contravened any of the provisions of the
Chapter or the rules made thereunder, with intent to evade payment of service tax;
(b)
persons who have been adjudged to pay but has not paid any amount, payable under the provisions of section 73A of
the Chapter :
Provided that nothing contained in this rule shall apply until the time for presenting an appeal to the Commissioner
(Appeals), under section 85, or the Appellate Tribunal, under section 86, as the case may be, has expired without any
appeal having been presented or the appeal, if presented, has been disposed of.
Explanation.- For removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that in case the person is a firm, company or other association
of persons, the names of the partners of the firm, directors, managing agents, secretaries, treasurers or manager of the
company, or any member of association, as the case may be, may also be published if, in the opinion of the Central
Government, circumstances of the case justify it.
4.
Initiation of action and publication.-
(1)
If the Commissioner of Central Excise, having jurisdiction over such person, is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient
in the public interest to publish the names and any other particulars as he deems fit, he shall after due verification of the
facts, and the circumstances of the case, forward a proposal in the Annexure appended to these rules for such
publication to the jurisdictional Chief Commissioner.
(2)
The jurisdictional Chief Commissioner, on receipt of proposal referred to in sub-rule (1), shall within fifteen days from the
receipt of such proposal, examine it and if he is satisfied that circumstance of the case justify such publication, may
make a recommendation to the Board accordingly.
(3)
On receipt of the recommendation by the Board, or on its own, the Central Government, may cause publication of the
name and other particulars in a manner as specified in rule 3.
ANNEXURE
Proforma For Forwarding The Proposal For Publishing Of Names And Other Details:
1. Name and address of the assessee/person:
2. STC No./Registration No.(if any):
3. Constitution of assessee:
(Proprietorship/partnership/Private Ltd /Public Ltd/Registered Trust/ Society/Other (specify))
4. Commissionerate:
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Service Tax (Publication of Names) Rules, 2008
5.
Division:
6.
Details of offence committed:
7.
Amount involved (service tax/interest/penalty/ amount u/s 73A are to be shown separately):
8.
Adjudication details:
9.
Whether appeal period has expired with any appeal having been filed/ appeal filed has been disposed of: (in case of the
latter, particulars of the order-in-appeal)
10.
Reasons for proposing publication of name and other particulars.
11.
Name, address and other details proposed for publication;
12.
Involvement of person/assessee whose name and other details are to be published:
13.
Details of previous offences, if any:
14.
Comments, if any:
Date:
Signatures of Commissioner of Central Excise/Service Tax (With name and official seal)
Comments and Recommendations by the Chief Commissioner
Date:
Signatures of Chief Commissioner of Central Excise/Service Tax (With name and official seal)
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3