
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Tamarind (with seed) Grading and Marking Rules, 2008
The Tamarind (with seed) Grading and Marking Rules, 2008
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/146709666/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Tamarind (with seed) Grading and Marking Rules, 2008
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Tamarind (with seed) Grading and Marking Rules, 2008
Rule THE-TAMARIND-WITH-SEED-GRADING-AND-MARKING-RULES-2008 of 2008
Published on 28 August 2008
Commenced on 28 August 2008
[This is the version of this document from 28 August 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Tamarind (with seed) Grading and Marking Rules, 2008
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 628(E), dated 28th August, 2008
Ministry of Agriculture
(Department of Agriculture and Co-operation)
G.S.R. 628(E). - Whereas the draft of Tamarind (with seed) Grading and Marking Rules, 2007, in exercise of the powers
conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937) was published vide
notification vide G.S.R. 268 dated 8th December, 2007. In the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, sub-section (i) Inviting
objections and suggestions from all persons likely to be affected thereby within forty five days from the date on which
copies of the said notification published in the Gazette of India were made available to the public.
And whereas copies of the said notification were made available to the public on 8th January, 2008. And whereas the
objections and suggestions received from the public in respect of the said draft rules have been duly considered.
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Tamarind (with seed) Grading and Marking Rules, 2008
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act,
1937, the Central Government hereby makes following rules, namely :-
Rules
1.
Short title, application and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Tamarind (with seed) Grading and Marking Rules, 2008.
(2)
They shall apply to Tamarind (with seed) obtained from Tamarindus indica L. of family Leguminosae.
(3)
They shall come into force on the date of their final publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules unless the context otherwise requires -
(a)
"Agricultural marketing adviser" means the agricultural marketing adviser to the Government of India;
(b)
"authorised packer" means a person or body of persons who has been granted the certificate of authorization to grade
and mark Tamarind (with seed) in accordance with the grade standards and procedure prescribed under these rules;
(c)
"Certificate of authorization" means a certificate issued under the provisions of General Grading and Marking Rules,
1988 authorising a person or a body of persons to grade and mark Tamarind (with seed) with the grade designation
mark;
(d)
"General Grading and Marking Rules" means the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1988 made under section 3 of
the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1931 (1 of 1937);
(e)
"Schedule" means a Schedule appended to these rules.
3.
Grade designation mark.
- The grade designation mark shall consist of "Agmark Insignia" consisting of a design incorporating the certificate of
authorization number, the word "Agmark", name of commodity and grade designation resembling the one as set out in
Schedule I.
4.
Grade designation.
- The grade designation to indicate the quality of Tamarind (with seed) shall be as set out in column I of Schedule II.
5.
Quality.
- The quality of Tamarind (with seed) shall be as set out in against each grade designation in columns 2 to 8 of Schedule
II.
6.
Method of packing.
- (i) Tamarind (with seed) shall be packed only in sound, clean and dry containers made of jute or cloth with suitable
inner lining of food grade material, laminated polyethylene or poly propylene or high density polyethylene bags, pouches
or any other packaging material duly approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser or any officer authorized by him in
this behalf.
(ii)
the container shall be free from any insect infestation or fungal contamination and also free from any undesirable or
obnoxious smell.
(iii)
Tamarind (with seed) shall be packed in such a way as to protect the produce properly. The container shall be securely
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Tamarind (with seed) Grading and Marking Rules, 2008
closed and sealed in a manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser or an officer authorized by him in this
behalf.
(iv)
the materials used inside the package must be clean and of such a quality as to avoid causing any external or internal
damage to the produce.
(v)
the use of materials particularly of paper or stamps bearing trade specifications is permitted provided the printing or
labeling has been done with non toxic ink or glue.
(vi)
each package shall contain Tamarind (with seed) of one grade designation only. Suitable number or small packets of
Tamarind (with seed) containing graded material of the same lot or batch and grade designation may be packed in a
master container such as jute bags, wooden cases, cardboard cartons etc., with details on master containers;
(vii)
the Tamarind (with seed) shall be packed in the pack sizes as per instructions of Agricultural Marketing Adviser issued
from time to time.
7.
Method of Marking and Labeling.
(1)
The grade designation mark shall be securely affixed to or clearly and indelibly printed on each container.
(2)
In addition to the grade designation mark, the following particulars shall be clearly and indelibly marked on each
package, namely:-
(a)
Name of the commodity;
(b)
grade designation;
(c)
name and address of the packer;
(d)
net Weight;
(e)
storage condition, if any;
(f)
country of origin;
(g)
date of packing;*
(h)
best before date;
(i)
lot or Batch number;
(j)
maximum retail price (inclusive of all taxes);
(k)
any other particulars as may be specified by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser.
* The date of packing shall be the date of completion of the analysis of the sample.
(3)
The ink used for marking on packages shall be of such quality which may not contaminate the product;
(4)
The authorized packer may after obtaining prior approval of the Agricultural Marketing Adviser or an officer authorised
by him in this behalf, use his private mark or trade brand on the graded packages provided that the same do not indicate
quality other than indicated by the grade designation mark affixed on the container in accordance with these Rules.
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Tamarind (with seed) Grading and Marking Rules, 2008
8.
Tamarind (with seed) may be graded and marked as per buyer's requirements for export provided minimum
requirements and quality specified in the relevant Schedule are met under non-specified grade.
9.
Special conditions for grant of certificate of authorization.
(1)
In addition to the conditions specified in sub-rule (8) of rule 3 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1988, every
authorized packer shall follow all instructions prescribed by Agricultural Marketing Adviser from time to time.
(2)
The authorized packer shall either set up his own laboratory manned by a qualified chemist approved by the Agricultural
Marketing Adviser or an officer authorized by him in this behalf in accordance with rule 9 of the General Grading and
Marking Rules, 1988 for testing the quality of Tamarind (with seed) or has access to the State Grading laboratory or
Private Commercial Laboratory approved for the purpose.
(3)
The premises for processing, grading and packing shall be maintained in perfect hygienic and sanitary conditions. The
personnel engaged in these operations shall be in sound health and free from any infectious, contagious or
communicable diseases.
(4)
The premises shall have adequate storage facilities with pucca floor, good ventilation for light and air and free from
rodent and insect infestation.
Schedule 1
(see rule-3)
Design of the Agmark Insignia
Name of the Commodity............
Grade...........................................
II
(See rules 4 and 5)
Grade designation and quality of Tamarind (with seed)
1. Tamarind (with seed) shall be obtained from Tamarindus indica L. after removal of outer covering from the mature
and ripe fruits.
2. Minimum Requirements: - (i) Tamarind (with seed) shall have the colour and characteristics of the commodity.
(ii)
Tamarind (with seed) shall be,-
(a)
matured and ripe;
(b)
clean;
(c)
free from deleterious substances;
(d)
free from obnoxious odour;
(e)
free from any external moisture;
(f)
free from any inorganic extraneous matters.
(iii)
Tamarind (with seed) shall not give rancid taste and musty odour.
(iv)
Tamarind (with seed) shall be free from insect infestation, live or dead insects, mould growth rodent hair and excreta,
added colouring matter, dirt or any other impurities of animal origin.
(v)
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Tamarind (with seed) Grading and Marking Rules, 2008
Tamarind (with seed) shall comply with residual levels of heavy metals, pesticides and other food safety parameters laid
down by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for exports.
(vi)
Tamarind (with seed) shall comply with residual levels of heavy metals, insecticides and pesticides, crop contaminants,
naturally occurring toxic substances and other food safety parameters as prescribed under the Prevention of Food
Adulteration Rules, 1955.
3. Criteria for grade designation :
Moisture content per cent by mass
Total ash per cent by mass on dry basis
Acid insoluble ash per cent by mass on dry basis
Crude fibre per cent by mass on dry basis
Damaged Pods, per cent age by mass on dry basis
Seed content, per cent age by mass on dry basis
Organic extraneous matter per cent by mass on dry basis
Maximum
Maximum
Maximum
Maximum
Maximum
Maximum
Maximum
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Special
18.0
4.0
0.5
7.0
1.0
30
1.0
Standard
20.0
5.0
0.75
8.0
2.0
35
3.0
General
22.0
6.0
1.0
9.0
3.0
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Tamarind (with seed) Grading and Marking Rules, 2008
40
5.0
4. Other Requirements: - The condition of the Tamarind (with seed) shall be such as to enable them:
(i)
to withstand transport and handling and
(ii)
to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
(iii)
Tartaric Acid contents shall be mentioned on the packages.
Explanations:- (i) Organic extraneous matter consists of vegetable matters of the plants other than the Tamarind pods
and its seeds.
(ii)
Inorganic extraneous matter consists of sand, stones, pebbles, lumps of earth, clay, mud, etc.
(iii)
Damaged pods means insect damaged pods and those which are devoid of pulp.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6