
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary
movement) Rules, 2008*
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/32834600/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Rule THE-HAZARDOUS-WASTES-MANAGEMENT-HANDLING-AND-TRANSBOUNDARY-MOVEMENT-RULES-2008
of 2008
Published on 24 September 2008
Commenced on 24 September 2008
[This is the version of this document from 24 September 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Vide S.O. 2265(E), dated 24.9.2008, published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extra, Point 2, Section 3(ii), dated
24.9.2008.
10.
/530
Whereas the draft rules, namely, the Hazardous Material (Management, Handling and Transboundary Movement)
Rules, 2007 was published by the Government of India in the Ministry of Environment and Forest vide Number S.O.
1676(E), dated 28th September, 2007 in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary of the same date inviting objection and
Page 1/59
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
suggestions from all persons likely to be affected thereby before the expiry of the period of sixty days from the date on
which copies of the Gazette containing the said notification were made available to the public;
And whereas copies of the said Gazette were made available to the public on the 28th day of September, 2007;
And whereas the objections and suggestions received within the said period from the public in respect of the said draft
rules have been duly considered by the Central Government;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 6, 8 and 25 of the
Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (
29 of 1986
), and in supersession of the
Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 1989, except in respect of, things done or omitted to be done
before such supersession, the Central Government, hereby makes the following rules, namely:
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
These rules may be called The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary Movement) Rules,
2008.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the
Official Gazette.
2.
Application.-
These rules shall apply to the handling of hazardous wastes as specified in Schedules and shall not apply to
(a)
waste-water and exhaust gases as covered under the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act,
1974 (
6 of 1974
) and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 (
14 of 1981
) and the rules made thereunder;
(b)
wastes arising out of the operation from ships beyond five kilometres of the relevant baseline as covered under the
provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (
44 of 1958
) and the rules made thereunder;
(c)
radioactive wastes as covered under the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act, 1962 (33 of 1962) and the rules made
thereunder;
(d)
bio-medical wastes covered under the Bio-Medical Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 1998 made under the
Act; and
(e)
wastes covered under the Municipal Solid Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 2000 made under the Act.
3.
Definitions.-
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,
(a)
"Act" means the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (
29 of 1986
Page 2/59
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
);
(b)
"authorisation" means permission for generation, handling, collection, reception, treatment, transport, storage, recycling,
reprocessing, recovery, reuse and disposal of hazardous wastes granted under sub-rule (4) of rule 5;
(c)
"Basel Convention" is the United Nations Environment Programme Convention on the Control of Transboundary
Movement of Hazardous Wastes and their disposal;
(d)
"Central Pollution Control Board" means the Central Pollution Control Board constituted under sub-section (1) of section
3 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (
6 of 1974
);
(e)
"disposal" means any operation which does not lead to recycling, recovery or reuse and includes physico-chemical,
biological treatment, incineration and disposal in secured landfill;
(f)
"export" with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means taking out of India to a place outside India;
(g)
"exporter" means any person under the jurisdiction of the exporting country who exports hazardous waste including the
country, which exports hazardous waste;
(h)
"environmentally sound management of hazardous wastes" means taking all steps required to ensure that the
hazardous wastes are managed in a manner which shall protect health and the environment against the adverse effects
which may result from such waste;
(i)
"environmentally sound technologies" means any technology approved by the Central Government from time to time;
(j)
"facility" means any establishment wherein the processes incidental to the handling, collection, reception, treatment,
storage, recycling, recovery, reuse and disposal of hazardous wastes are carried out;
(k)
"Form" means a form appended to these rules;
(L)
"hazardous waste" means any waste which by reason of any of its physical, chemical, reactive, toxic, flammable,
explosive or corrosive characteristics causes danger or is likely to cause danger to health or environment, whether alone
or when in contact with other wastes or substances, and shall include
(i)
waste specified under column (3) of Schedule I,
(ii)
wastes having constituents specified in Schedule II if their concentration is equal to or more than the limit indicated in
the said Schedule, and
(iii)
wastes specified in Part A or Part B of the Schedule III in respectof import or export of such wastes in accordance with
rules 12, 13 and 14 or the wastes other than those specified in Part A or Part B if they possess any of the hazardous
characteristics specified in Part C of that Schedule;
(m)
"hazardous waste site" means a place of collection, reception, treatment, storage of hazardous wastes and its disposal
to the environment which is approved by the competent authority;
(n)
"import" with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means bringing into India from a place outside India;
(o)
"importer" means an occupier or any person who imports hazardous waste;
Page 3/59
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
(p)
"manifest" means transporting document prepared and signed by the occupier or his representative authorised in
accordance with the provisions of these rules;
(q)
"occupier" in relation to any factory or premises, means a person who has, control over the affairs of the factory or the
premises and includes in relation to any hazardous waste the person in possession of the hazardous waste;
(r)
"operator of disposal facility" means a person who owns or operates a facility for collection, reception, treatment, storage
or disposal of hazardous wastes;
(s)
"recycler or reprocessor or actual user" means an occupier who procures and processes hazardous waste for recycling
or recovery or re-use;
(t)
"recycling" means reclamation and reprocessing of hazardous waste in an environmentally sound manner for the original
purpose or for other purposes;
(u)
"reuse" means use of hazardous waste for the purpose of its original use or other use;
(v)
"recovery" means any operation in the recycling activity wherein specific materials are recovered;
(w)
"Schedule" means a Schedule appended to these rules;_
(x)
"State Government" in relation to a Union territory means, the Administrator thereof appointed under article 239 of the
Constitution;
(y)
"State Pollution Control Board" means the State Pollution Control Board or the Pollution Control Committee constituted
under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (
6 of 1974
);
(z)
"storage" means storing any hazardous waste for a temporary period, at the end of which such waste is processed or
disposed of;
(za)
"transboundary movement" means any movement of hazardous wastes from an area under the jurisdiction of one
country to or through an area under the jurisdiction of another country or to or through an area not under the jurisdiction
of any country, provided at least two countries are involved in the movement;
(zb)
"transport" means off-site movement of hazardous wastes by air, rail, road or water;
(zc)
"transporter" means a person engaged in the off-site transportation of hazardous waste by air, rail, road or water;
(zd)
"treatment" means a method, technique or process, designed to modify the physical, chemical or biological
characteristics or composition of any hazardous waste so as to reduce its potential to cause harm;
(ze)
"used oil" means any oil
(a)
derived from crude oil or mixtures containing synthetic oil including used engine oil, gear oil, hydraulic oil, turbine oil,
compressor oil, industrial gear oil, heat transfer oil, transformer oil, spent oil and their tank bottom sludges; and
(b)
suitable for reprocessing, if it meets the specification laid down in Part A of Schedule V but does not include waste oil;
(zf)
Page 4/59
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
"waste oil" means any oil which includes spills of crude oil, emulsions, tank bottom sludge and slop oil generated from
petroleum refineries, installations or ships and can be used as fuel in furnaces for energy recovery, if it meets the
specifications laid down in Part B of Schedule V either as such or after reprocessing.
(2)
Words and expressions used in these rules and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
.CHAPTER II Procedure For Handling Hazardous Wastes
4.
Responsibilities of the occupier for handling of hazardous wastes.-
(1)
The occupier shall be responsible for safe and environmentally sound handling of hazardous wastes generated in his
establishment.
(2)
The hazardous wastes generated in the establishment of an occupier shall be sent or sold to a recycler or reprocessor
or reuser registered or authorised under these rules or shall be disposed of in an authorised disposal facility.
(3)
The hazardous wastes transported from an occupier's establishment to a recycler for recycling or reuse or reprocessing
or to an authorised facility for disposal shall be transported in accordance with the provisions of these rules.
(4)
The occupier or any other person acting on his behalf who intends to get his hazardous wastes treated and disposed of
by the operator of a treatment, storage and disposal facility shall give to the operator of a facility, such information as
may be determined by the State Pollution Control Board.
(5)
The occupier shall take all adequate steps while handling hazardous wastes to:
(i)
contain contaminants and prevent accidents and limit their consequences on human beings and the environment; and
(ii)
provide persons working on the site with the training, equipment and the information necessary to ensure their safety.
5.
Grant of authorisation for handling hazardous wastes.-
(1)
Every person who is engaged in generation, processing, treatment, package, storage, transportation, use, collection,
destruction, conversion, offering for sale, transfer or the like of the hazardous waste shall require to obtain an
authorisation from the State Pollution Control Board.
(2)
The hazardous waste shall be collected, treated, re-cycled, re-processed, stored or disposed of only in such facilities as
may be authorised by the State Pollution Control Board for the purpose.
(3)
Every person engaged in generation, processing, treatment, package, storage, transportation, use, collection,
destruction, conversion, offering for sale, transfer or the like of the hazardous waste or occupier of the facility shall make
an application in Form 1 to the State Pollution Control Board for authorisation within a period of sixty days from the date
of commencement of these rules:
Provided that any person authorised under the provisions of the Hazardous Waste (Management and Handling) Rules,
1989, prior to the date of cominginto force of these rules, shall not require to make an application for authorisation till the
period of expiry of such authorisation.
(4)
On receipt of the application complete in all respects for the authorisation, the State Pollution Control Board may, after
such inquiry as it considers necessary and on being satisfied that the applicant possesses appropriate facilities,
technical capabilities and equipment to handle hazardous waste safely, grant within a period of one hundred and twenty
days an authorisation in Form 2 to the applicant which shall be valid for a period of five years and shall be subject to
such conditions as may be laid down therein.
Page 5/59
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
(5)
The State Pollution Control Board may after giving reasonable opportunity of being heard to the applicant refuse to grant
any authorisation.
(6)
Every person authorised under these rules shall maintain the record ofhazardous wastes handled by him in Form 3 and
prepare and submit to the State Pollution Control Board, an annual return containing the details specified in Form 4 on
or before the 30th day of June following to the financial year to which that return relates.
(7)
An application for the renewal of an authorisation shall be made in Form 1, before its expiry and the State Pollution
Control Board may renew the authorisation after examining each case on merit subject to the condition that there has
been no report of violation of the provisions of the Act or the rules made thereunder or conditions specified in the
authorisation.
(8)
The occupier or operator of the facility shall take all the steps, wherever required, for reduction and prevention of the
waste generated or for recycling or reuse and comply the conditions specified in the authorisation.
(9)
The State Pollution Control Board shall maintain a register containing particulars of the conditions imposed under these
rules for management of hazardous waste, and it shall be open for inspection during office hours to any person
interested or affected or a person authorised by him on his behalf.
6.
Power to suspend or cancel an authorisation.-
(1)
The State Pollution Control Board, may, if in its opinion the holder of the authorisation has failed to comply with any of
the conditions of the authorisation or with any provisions of the Act or these rules and after giving him a reasonable
opportunity of being heard and after recording reasons thereof in writing cancel or suspend the authorisation issued
under rule 4 for such period as it considers necessary in the public interest.
(2)
Upon suspension or cancellation of the authorisation the State Pollution Control Board may give directions to the person
whose authorisation has been suspended or cancelled for the safe storage of the hazardous, wastes and such person
shall comply with such directions.
7.
Storage of hazardous waste.-
The occupiers, recyclers, re-processors, re-users, and operators of facilities may store the hazardous wastes for a
period not exceeding ninety days and shall maintain a record of sale, transfer, storage, recycling and reprocessing of
such wastes and make these records available for inspection:
Provided that the State Pollution Control Board may extend the said period in following cases, namely:
(i)
small generators up to ten tones per annum;
(ii)
recyclers, re-processors and facility operators up to six months of their annual capacity;
(iii)
generators who do not have access to any treatment, storage, disposal facility in the concerned State; or
(iv)
the waste which needs to be specifically stored for development of a process for its recycling, reuse.
Chapter III
Procedure For Recycling, Reprocessing Or Reuse Of Hazardous Wastes
8.
Procedure for grant of registration.-
(1)
Every person desirous of recycling or reprocessing the hazardous waste specified in Schedule IV may make an
application in Form 5 accompanied with a copy each of the following documents for the grant or renewal of the
Page 6/59
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
registration:
(a)
consent to establish granted by the State Pollution Control Board under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution)
Act, 1974 (
6 of 1974
) and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 (21 of 1981);
(b)
certificate of registration issued by the District Industries Centre or any other government agency authorised in this
regard;
(c)
proof of installed capacity of plant and machinery issued by the District Industries Centre or any other government
agency authorised in this behalf; and
(d)
in case of renewal, certificate of compliance of effluent, emission standards and treatment and disposal of hazardous
wastes, as applicable, from the State Pollution Control Board or the Concerned Zonal Office of Central Pollution Control
Board.
(2)
The Central Pollution Control Board, on being satisfied that the applicant is utilizing environmentally sound technologies
and possesses adequate technical capabilities, requisite facilities, and equipment to recycle, reprocess or reuse
hazardous wastes, may grant registration to such applicants stipulating therein necessary conditions for carrying out
safe operations in the authorised place only.
(3)
The Central Pollution Control Board shall dispose of the application for registration within a period of one hundred twenty
days from the date of the receipt of such application complete in all respects.
(4)
The registration, issued under sub-rule (2) shall be valid for a period of five years from the date of its issue, unless the
operation is discontinued by the unit or the registration is suspended or cancelled by the Central Pollution Control Board.
(5)
The Central Pollution Control Board may cancel or suspend the registration granted under these rules, if it has reasons
to believe that the recycler or re-processor has failed to comply with any of the conditions of the registration, or with any
provision of the Act or rules made thereunder.
(6)
The Central Pollution Control Board may after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the applicant, by order,
refuse to grant or renew the registration.
(7)
The recycler or re-processor shall maintain records of hazardous wastes purchased and processed and shall file an
annual return of its aetivi.tiesof previous year in Form 6 to the State Pollution Control Board, on or before the 30th day of
June of every year.
9.
Conditions for sale or transfer of hazardous wastes for recycling.-
The occupier generating the hazardous wastes specified in Schedule IV may sell it only to the recycler having a valid
registration from the Central Pollution Control Board for recycling or recovery.
10. Standards for recycling.-
The Central Government and Central Pollution Control Board may issue the guidelines for standards of performance for
recycling processes from time to time.
11.
Utilisation of hazardous wastes.-
The utilisation of hazardous wastes as a supplementary resource or for energy recovery, or after processing shall, be
carried out by the units only after obtaining approval from the Central Pollution Control Board.
Chapter IV
Import And Export Of Hazardous Wastes
Page 7/59
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
12.
Import and export (transboundary movement) of hazardous wastes.-
The Ministry of Environment and Forests shall be the nodal Ministry to deal with the transboundary movement of the
hazardous wastes and to grant permission for transit of the hazardous wastes through any part of India.
13.
Import and export of hazardous wastes.-
(1)
No import of the hazardous wastes from any country to India for disposal shall be permitted.
(2)
The import of hazardous waste from any country shall be permitted only for the recycling or recovery or reuse.
(3)
The export of hazardous wastes from India may be allowed to an actual user of the wastes or operator of a disposal
facility with the Prior Informed Consent of the importing country to ensure environmentally sound management of the
hazardous waste in question.
(4)
No import or export of the hazardous wastes specified in Schedule VI shall be permitted.
14.
Import or export of hazardous waste for recycling, recovery and reuses.-
(1)
The import and export of the hazardous wastes specified in Schedule III, shall be regulated in accordance with the
conditions laid down in the said Schedule.
(2)
Subject to the provisions contained in sub-rule (1),
(i)
the import or export of the hazardous wastes specified in Part A of Schedule III shall require Prior Informed Consent of
the country from where it is imported or exported to, and shall require the license from the Directorate General of
Foreign Trade and the prior written permission of the Central Government;
(ii)
the import of the hazardous wastes specified in Part B of Schedule III shall not require Prior Informed Consent of the
country from where it is imported;
(iii)
the import and export of the hazardous wastes not specified in Part A and Part B of Schedule III but having the
hazardous characteristics outlined in Part C of the said Schedule shall require the prior written permission of the Central
Government, before it is imported into or exported from India, as the case may be.
15.
Procedure for export of hazardous wastes from India.-
(1)
Any person intending to export hazardous wastes specified in Schedule III shall apply in Form 7 and Form 8 along with
full cover insurance policy for consignment to the Central Government for the proposed transboundary movement of the
hazardous wastes together with the Prior Informed Consent in writing from the importing country.
(2)
On receipt of such application, the Central Government may give a "No Objection Certificate" for the proposed export
within a period of sixty days from the date of submission of the application and may impose conditions as it may
consider necessary.
(3)
The Central Government, shall forward a copy of the "No Objection Certificate" granted under sub-rule (2), to the Central
Pollution Control Board, the concerned State Pollution Control Board and the concerned Port and Customs authorities
for ensuring compliance of the conditions, if any, of the export and to take appropriate steps for the safe handling of the
waste shipment.
(4)
The exporter shall ensure that no consignment is shipped before the "No Objection Certificate" is received from the
Page 8/59
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
importing country.
(5)
The exporter shall also ensure that the shipment is accompanied with the movement document in Form 9.
(6)
The exporter shall inform the Ministry of Environment and Forest upon completion of the transboundary movement.
(7)
The exporter of the hazardous wastes shall maintain the records of the hazardous wastes exported by him in Form 10
and the record so maintained shall be available for inspection.
16.
Procedure for import of hazardous waste.-
(1)
A person intending to import or transit for transboundary movement of hazardous wastes specified in Schedule III shall
apply in Form 7 and Form 8 to the Central Government of the proposed import wherever applicable, together with the
Prior Informed Consent, whichever applicable and shall send a copy of the application, simultaneously, to the concerned
State Pollution Control Board to enable them to send their comments and observations, if any, to the Ministry of
Environment and Forests within a period of thirty days.
(2)
On receipt of the application in complete, the Ministry of Environment and Forests shall examine the application
considering the comments and observations, if any, received from the State Pollution Control Boards, and may grant the
permission for import within a period of sixty days subject to the condition that the importer has
(i)
the environmentally sound recycling, recovery or reuse facilities;
(ii)
adequate facilities and arrangement for treatment and disposal of wastes generated; and
(iii)
a valid registration from the Central Pollution Control Board and a proof of being an actual user, if required under these
rules.
(3)
The Ministry of Environment and Forests shall forward a copy of the permission granted under sub-rule (2) to the Central
Pollution Control Board, the concerned State Pollution Control Board and the concerned Port and Customs authorities
for ensuring compliance of the conditions of imports and safe handling of the hazardous waste.
(4)
The Ministry of Environment and Forests shall communicate the permission to the importer.
(5)
The Port and Customs authorities shall ensure that shipment is accompanied by the movement document in Form 9 and
the test report of analysis of the hazardous waste consignment in question, from a laboratory accredited by the exporting
country:
[Provided that the Port or Customs authorities shall, in case of import of hazardous wastes covered under Basel
numbers B1010, B1040, B1050, B1100, B1230 and B3020 as specified in Part B of the Schedule III, ensure that
shipment is accompanied by the Movement Document in Form 9 and preshipment inspection certificate issued by the
inspection agency certified by the exporting country.]
[ Inserted by S.O. 1799(E), dated 21.7.2009 (w.e.f. 21.7.2009).]
(6)
The Customs authority shall collect three randomly drawn samples of the consignment (prior to clearing the
consignment as per the provisions laid down under the Customs Act, 1962) for analysis and retain the report for a period
of two years, in order to ensure that in the event of any dispute, as to whether the consignment conforms or not to the
declaration made in the application and movement document.
[(6-A) Nothing contained in sub-rule (6) shall apply to the hazardous wastes covered under the Basel Numbers B1010,
B1040, B1050, B1100, B1230 and B3020 as specified in Part B of the Schedule III:
Provided that the Customs authority may, at any time if it considers necessary, make random inspection of the
consignment prior to clearing the consignment.]
Page 9/59
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
[Inserted by S.O. 1799(E), dated 21.7.2009 (w.e.f. 21.7.2009). ]
(7)
The importer of the hazardous waste shall maintain records of the hazardous waste imported by him in Form 10 and the
record so maintained shall be available for inspection.
(8)
The importer shall also inform the concerned State Pollution Control Board and the Central Pollution Control Board, the
date and time of the arrival of the consignment of the hazardous waste ten days in advance.
17.
Illegal traffic.-
(1)
The export and import of hazardous wastes from and into India shall be deemed illegal if
(i)
it is without permission of the Central Government in accordance with these rules, or
(ii)
the permission has been obtained through falsification, misrepresentation or fraud; or
(iii)
it does not conform to the shipping details provided in the movement documents; or
(iv)
it results in deliberate disposal (i.e., dumping) of hazardous wastes in contravention of the Basel Convention and of
general principles of International or National Law.
(2)
In case of illegal import of the hazardous wastes, the importer shall re-export the waste in question at his cost within a
period of ninety days from the date of its arrival into India and its implementation will be ensured by the -Concerned
State Pollution Control Board.
Chapter V
Treatment, Storage And Disposal Facility For Hazardous Wastes
18.
Treatment, storage and disposal facility for hazardous wastes
.-(1) The State Government, occupier, operator of a facility or any association of occupiers shall individually or jointly or
severally be responsible for, and identify sites for establishing the facility for treatment, storage and disposal of the
hazardous wastes in the State.
(2)
The operator of common facility or occupier of a captive facility, shall design and set up the treatment, storage and
disposal facility as per technical guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board in this regard from time to time
and shall obtain approval from the State Pollution Control Board for design and layout in this regard from time to time.
(3)
The State Pollution Control Board shall monitor. the setting up and operation of the treatment, storage and disposal
facilities regularly.
(4)
The operator of the treatment, storage and disposal facility shall be responsible for safe and environmentally sound
operation of the treatment, the storage and disposal facility and its closure and post closure phase, as per guidelines
issued by. the Central Pollution Control Board from time to time.
(5)
The operator of the treatment, storage and disposal facility shall maintain records of hazardous wastes handled by him
in' [Form 3]
[ Substituted by S.O. 1799(E), dated 21.7.2009 (w.e.f. 21.7.2009).]
.
Chapter VI
Packaging, Labelling, And Transport Of Hazardous Waste
19.
Packaging and labelling.-
Page 10/59
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
(1)
The occupier or operator of the treatment, storage and disposal facility or recycler shall ensure that the hazardous waste
are packaged and labelled, based on the composition in a manner suitable for safe handling, storage and transport as
per the guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board from time to time.
(2)
The labelling and packaging shall be easily visible and be able to withstand physical conditions and climatic factors.
20.
Transportation of hazardous waste.-
(1)
The transport of the hazardous wastes shall be in accordance with the provisions of these rules and the rules made by
the Central Government under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and other guidelines issued from time to time in this regard.
(2)
The occupier shall provide the transporter with the relevant information in Form 11, regarding the hazardous nature of
the wastes and measures to be taken in case of an emergency and shall mark the hazardous wastes containers as per
Form 12.
(3)
In case of transport of hazardous wastes for final disposal to a facility for treatment, storage and disposal existing in a
State other than the State where the hazardous waste is generated, the occupier shall obtain "No Objection Certificate"
from the State Pollution Control Board of both the States.
(4)
In case of transportation of hazardous wastes through a State other than the State of origin or destination, the occupier
shall intimate the concerned State Pollution Control Boards before he hands over the hazardous wastes to the
transporter.
21.
Manifest system (movement document to be used within the country only).-
(1)
The occupier shall prepare six copies of the manifest in Form 13 comprising of colour code indicated below and all six
copies shall be signed by the transporter:
Copy number with colour code
Purpose
(1)
(2)
Copy 1 (white)
To be forwarded by the occupier to the State Pollution Control Board or Committee.
Copy 2 (yellow)
To be carried by the occupier after taking signature on it form (sic from) the transporter and the rest of the four copies to
he carried by the transporter.
Copy 3 (pink)
To be retained by the operator of the facility after signature.
Copy 4 (orange)
Tobe returned to the transporter by the operator of facility/ recycler after accepting waste.
Copy 5 (green)
To be returned by the operator of the facility to State Pollution Control Board/Committee after treatment and disposal of
wastes.
Copy 6 (blue)
To be returned by the operator of the facility to the occupier after treatment and disposal of hazardous materials/wastes.
(2)
The occupier shall forward copy 1 (white) to the State Pollution Control Board, and in case the hazardous wastes is
likely to be transported through any transit State, the occupier shall prepare an additional copy each for intimation to
such State and forward the same to the concerned State Pollution Control Board before he hands over the hazardous
wastes to the transporter.
Page 11/59
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
(3)
No transporter shall accept hazardous wastes from an occupier for transport unless it is accompanied by copies 3 to 6 of
the manifest.
(4)
The transporter shall submit copies 3 to 6 of the manifest duly signed with date to the operator of the facility along with
the waste consignment.
(5)
Operator of the facility upon completion of treatment and disposal operations of the hazardous wastes shall forward
copy 5 (green) to the State Pollution Control Board and copy 6 (blue) to the occupier and the copy 3 (pink) shall be
retained by the operator of the facility.
Chapter VII
Miscellanious
22.
Records and returns.-
(1)
The occupier generating hazardous wastesand operator of the facility for disposal of hazardous waste shall maintain
records of such operations in Form 3.
(2)
The occupier and operator of a facility shall send annual returns to the State Pollution Control Board in Form 4.
(3)
The State Pollution Control Board shall prepare an inventory of the hazardous wastes within its jurisdiction and compile
other related information like recycling of the hazardous wastes and treatment and disposal of the hazardous wastes
based on the returns filed by respective occupier and operator of the facility.
23.
Responsibility of authorities.-
The Authority specified in col~_m n 2 of the Schedule VII shall perform the duties as specified in column 3 of the
Schedule subject to the provisions of these rules.
24.
Accident reporting and follow-up.-
Where an accident occurs at the facility or on a hazardous waste site or during transportation of the hazardous waste,
the occupier or operator of the facility or the transporter, as the case may be, shall report immediately to the State
Pollution Control Board about the accident in Form 14.
25.
Liability of occupier, transporter, operator of a facility and importer.-
(1)
The occupier, importer, transporter and operator of the facility shall be liable for all damages caused to the environment
or third party due to improper handling of the hazardous wastes or disposal of the hazardous wastes.
(2)
The occupier and the operator of the facility shall be liable to pay financial penalties as levied for any violation of the
provisions under these rules by the State Pollution Control Board with the prior approval of the Central Pollution Control
Board.
26.
Appeal.-
(1)
Any person aggrieved by an order of suspension or cancellation or refusal of authorisation or its renewal passed by the
State Pollution Control Board, may, within a period of thirty days from the date on which the order is communicated to
him, prefer an appeal in Form 15 to the Appellate Authority comprising of the Environment Secretary of the State.
(2)
Any person aggrieved by an order of suspension or cancellation or refusal of registration or its renewal passed by the
Central Pollution Control Board, may, within a period of thirty days from the date on which the order is communicated to
him, prefer an appeal in Form 15 to the Appellate Authority comprising of the Secretary, to the Government of India in
Page 12/59
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
the Ministry of Environment and Forests.
(3)
The Appellate Authority may entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it is satisfied that the
appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.
(4)
Every appeal' filed under this rule shall be disposed of within a period of sixty days from the date of its filing.
I
[See rule 3(1)]
LIST OF PROCESSE GENERATING HAZAEDOUS WASTES
.No.
Processes
Hazardous Waste *
1.
Petrochemical processes and pyrolytic operations
1.1 Furnace/reactor residue and debris
1.2 Tarry residues
1.3 Oily sludge emulsion
1.4 Organic residues
1.5 Residues from alkali wash of fuels
1.6 Still bottoms from distillation process
1.7 Spent catalyst and molecular sieves
1.8 Slop oil from wastewater
2.
Drilling operation for oil and gas production
2.1 Drill cuttings containing oil
2.2 Sludge containing oil
2.3 Drilling mud and other drilling wastes
3.
Cleaning, emptying and maintenance of petroleum oil storage tanks including ships
3.1 Oil-containing cargo residue, washing water and sludge
3.2 Chemical-containing cargo residue and sludge
3.3 Sludge and filters contaminated with oil
3.4 Ballast water containing oil from ships.
4.
Petroleum refining/re-processing of used oil/recycling of waste oil
4.1 Oily sludge/emulsion
4.2 Spent catalyst.
4.3 Slop oil
4.4 Organic residues from process
4.5 Spent clay containing oil
5.
Industrial operations using mineral/synthetic oil as lubricant in hydraulic systems or other applications
5.1 Used/spent oil
5.2 Wastes/residues containing oil
6.
Secondary production and/or industrial use of zinc
6.1 Sludge and filter press cake arising out of production of Zinc Sulphate and other Zinc Compounds.
6.2 Zinc fines/dust/ash/skimmings (dispersible form)
6.3 Other residues from processing of zinc ash/skimmings
6.4 Flue gas dust and other particulates
7.
Page 13/59
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Primary production of zinc/lead/copper and other non-ferrous metals except aluminium
7.1 Flue gas dust from roasting
7.2 Process residues
7.3 Arsenic-bearing sludge
7.4 Nonferrous metal bearing sludge and residue.
7.5 Sludge from scrubbers
8.
Secondary production of copper
8.1 Spent electrolytic solutions
8.2 Sludges and filter cakes
8.3 Flue gas dust and other particulates
9.
Secondary production of lead
9.1 Lead bearing residues
9.2 Lead ash/particulate from flue gas
10.
Production and/or industrial use of cadmium and arsenic and their compounds
10.1 Residues containing cadmium and arsenic
11.
Production of primary and secondary aluminium
11.1. Sludges from off-gas treatment
11.2. Cathode residues including pot lining wastes
11.3. Tar containing wastes
11.4. Flue gas dust and other particulates
11.5. Wastes from treatment of salt slags and black drosses
12.
Metal surface treatment, such as etching, staining, polishing, galvanising, cleaning, degreasing, plating, etc.
12.1 Acid residues
12.2 Alkali residues
12.3 Spent bath/sludge containing sulphide, cyanide and toxic metals
12.4 Sludge from bath containing organic solvents
12.5 Phosphate sludge
12.6 Sludge From staining bath
12.7 Copper etching residues
12.8 Plating metal sludge
13.
Production of iron and steel including other ferrous alloys (electric furnaces; steel rolling and finishing mills; Coke oven
and by product plant)
13.1 Sludge from acid recovery unit
13.2 Benzol acid sludge
13.3 Decanter tank tar sludge
13.4 Tar storage tank residue
14.
Hardening of steel
14.1 Cyanide-, nitrate-, or nitrite-containing sludge
14.2 Spent hardening salt
15.
Production of asbestos or
asbestos-containing materials
15.1 Asbestos-containing residues
15.2 Discarded asbestos
Page 14/59
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
15.3 Dust/particulates from exhaust gas treatment
16.
Production of caustic soda and chlorine
16.1 Mercury bearing sludge.
16.2 Residue/sludges and filter cakes
16.3 Brine sludge containing mercury
17.
Production of mineral acids
17.1 Residues, dusts or filter cakes
17.2 Spent catalyst
18.
Production of nitrogenous and complex fertilizers
18.1 Spent catalyst
18.2 Spent carbon
18.3 Sludge/residue containing arsenic
18.4 Chromium sludge from water cooling tower
19.
Production of phenol
19.1 Residue/sludge containing phenol
20.
Production and/or industrial use of solvents
20.1 Contaminated aromatic, aliphatic or napthenic solvents may or may not be fit for reuse.
20.2 Spent solvents
20.3 Distillation residues
21.
Production and/or industrial use of paints, pigments, lacquers, varnishes, plastics and inks
21.1 Process wastes, residues & sludges
21.2 Fillers residues
22.
Production of plastic raw materials
22.1 Residues of additives used in plasticsmanufacture like dyestuffs, stabilizers, flame retardants, etc.
22.2 Residues and waste of platicisers
22.3 Residues from vinylchloride monomer production
22.4 Residues from acrylonitrile production
22.5 Non-polymerised residues
23.
Production and/or industrial use of glues, cements, adhesive and resins
23.1 Wastes/residues (not made with vegetable or animal materials)
24.
Production of canvas and textiles
24.1 Chemical residues
25.
Industrial production and formulation of wood preservatives
25.1 Chemical residues
25.2 Residues from wood alkali bath
26.
Production or industrial use of synthetic dyes, dye-intermediates and pigments
26.1 Process waste sludge/residues containing acid or other toxic metals or organic complexes
26.2 Dust from air filtration system
27.
Production of organo-silicone compounds
Page 15/59
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
27.1 process residues
28.
Production/formulation of drugs/ pharmaceuticals & health care product
28.1. Process Residues and wastes
28.2 Spent catalyst / spent carbon
28.3 Off specification products
28.4 Date-expired, discarded and off-specification drugs/
medicines
28.5. Spent organic solvents
29.
Production, and formulation of pesticides including stock-piles
29.1 Process wastes/residues
29.2 Chemical sludge containing residue pesticides
29.3 Date-expired and off-specification pesticides
30.
Leather tanneries
30.1 Chromium bearing residues and sludges
31
Electronic Industry
31.1 Process residues and wastes
31.2 Spent etching chemicals and solvents
32.
Pulp & Paper Industry
32.1 Spent chemicals
32.2 Corrosive wastes arising from use of strong acid and bases
32.3 Process sludge containing adsorbable organic halides [AOx]
33.
Disposal of barrels / containers used for handling of hazardous wastes / chemicals
33.1 Chemical-containing residue arising from decontamination.
33.2 Sludge from treatment of waste water arising out of cleaning / disposal of barrels / containers
33.3Discarded containers / barrels / liners contaminated with hazardous wastes/chemicals
34.
Purification and treatment of exhaust air, water & waste water from the processes in this schedule and common
industrial effluent treatment plants (CETP's)
34.1 Flue gas cleaning residue
34.2 Spent ion exchange resin containing toxic metals
34.3 Chemical sludge from waste water treatment
34.4 Oil and grease skimming residues
34.5 Chromium sludge from cooling water
35.
Purification process for organic compounds/solvents
35.1 Filters and filter material which have organic liquids in them, e.g. mineral oil, synthetic oil and organic chlorine
compounds
35.2 Spent catalyst
35.3 Spent carbon
36.
Hazardous waste treatment processes, e.g. incineration, distillation, separation and concentration techniques
36.1 Sludge from wet scrubbers
36.2 Ash from incineration of hazardous waste, flue gas cleaning residues
36.3 Spent acid from batteries
36.4 Distillation residues from contaminated organic solv
Page 16/59
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
* The inclusion of wastes contained in this Schedule does not preclude the use of Schedule 2 to demonstrate that the
waste is not hazardous. In case of dispute, the matter would be referred to the Technical Review Committee constituted
by MoEF.
Note: The high volume low effect wastes such as fly ash, phosphogypsum, red mud, slags from pyrometallurgical
operations, mine tailings and ore beneficiation rejects are excluded from the category of hazardous wastes. Separate
guidelines on the management of these wastes shall be issued by CPCB.
II
[See rule 3(l)]
List of Waste Constituents with Concentration Limits*
Class A
Concentration limit:  50 mg/kg
A1    Antimony and antimony compounds
A2    Arsenic and arsenic compounds
A3    Beryllium and beryllium compounds
A4    Cadmium and cadmium compounds
A5    Chromium (VI) compounds
A6    Mercury and mercury compounds
A7    Selenium and selenium compounds
A8    Tellurium and tellurium compounds
A9    Thallium and thallium compounds
A10    Inorganic cyanide compounds
A11    Metal carbonyls
A12    Napthalene
A13    Anthracene
A14    Phenanthrene
A15    Chrysene, benzo (a) anthracene, fluoranthene, benzo     (a) pyrene, benzo (K) fluoranthene, indeno (1, 2, 3-cd)
pyrene and benzo     (ghi) perylene
A16    halogenated compounds of aromatic rings, e.g. polychlorinated biphenyls, polychloroterphenyls and their
derivatives
A17    Halogenated aromatic compounds
A18    Benzene
A19    Organo-chlorine pesticides
A20    Organo-tin Compounds
CLASS B
Concentration limit:  5000 mg/kg
B1     Chromium (III) compounds
B2     Cobalt compounds
B3     Copper compounds
B4     Lead and lead compounds
B5     Molybdenum compounds
B6     Nickel compounds
B7     Inorganic Tin compounds
B8     Vanadium compounds
B9     Tungsten compounds
B10     Silver compounds
B11     Halogenated aliphatic compounds
B12     Organo phosphorus compounds
B13     Organic peroxides
B14     Organic nitro-and nitroso-compounds
B15     Organic azo-and azooxy compounds
B16     Nitriles
Page 17/59
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
B17     Amines
B18     (Iso-and thio-) cyanates
B19     Phenol and phenolic compounds
B20     Mercaptans
B21     Asbestos
B22     Halogen-silanes
B23     Hydrazine (s)
B24     Flourine
B25     Chlorine
B26     Bromine
B27     White and red phosphorus
B28     Ferro-silicate and alloys
B29     Manganese-silicate
B30     Halogen-containing compounds which produce acidic vapours on contact with
humid air or water, e.g. silicon tetrachloride, aluminium chloride, titanium
tetrachloride
Class C
Concentration limit;  20, 000 mg/kg
C1     Ammonia and ammonium compounds
C2     Inorganic peroxides
C3     Barium compounds except barium sulphate
C4     Fluorine compounds
C5     Phosphate compounds except phosphates of aluminium, calcium and iron
C6     Bromates, (hypo-bromites)
C7     Chlorates, (hypo-chlorites)
C8     Aromatic compounds other than those listed under A12 to A18
C9     Organic silicone compounds
C10     Organic sulphur compounds
C11     Iodates
C12     Nitrates, nitrites
C13     Sulphides
C14     Zinc compounds
C15     Salts of per-acids
C16     Acid amides
C17     Acid anhydrides
Class D
Concentration limit:  50, 000 mg/kg
D1     Total Sulphur
D2     Inorganic acids
D3     Metal hydrogen sulphates
D4     Oxides and hydroxides except those of hydrogen, carbon, silicon, iron,
aluminum, titanium, manganese, magnesium, calcium
D5     Total hydrocarbons other than those listed under A12 to A18
D6     Organic oxygen compounds
D7     Organic nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen
D8     Nitrides
D9     Hydrides
Class E
Regardless of concentration limit, Classified as hazardous wastes if the waste exhibits any of the following
Characteristics.
E1
Page 18/59
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Flammable
Flammable wastes with flash point 65.60C of below.
E2
Explosive
Wastes which may explode under the effect of flame, heat or photochemical conditions. Any other waste of explosive
materials included in the Indian Explosive Act.
E3
Corrosive
Wastes which may be corrosive, by chemical action, will cause severe damage when in contact with living tissue.
E4
Toxic
Wastes containing or contaminated with established toxic and or ecotoxic constituents.
E5
Carcinogenicity, Mutagenecity and Endocrine disruptivity Wastes contaminated or containing established carcinogens,
mutagens and endocrine disruptors.
*Waste constituents and their concentration limits given in this list are based on erstwhile BAGA (the Netherlands
Environment Protection Agency) List of Hazardous Substances. In order to decide whether specific wastes listed above
is hazardous or not, following points be taken into consideration:
(i)
.If a component of the waste appears in one of the five risk classes listed above (A,B,C,D or E) and the concentration of
the component is equal to or more than the limit for the relevant risks class, the material is then classified as hazardous
waste.
(ii)
.If a chemical compound containing a hazardous constituent is present in the waste, the concentration limit does not
apply to the compound, but only to the hazardous constituent itself.
(iii)
.If multiple hazardous constituents from the same class are present in the waste, the concentrations are added together.
(iv)
.If multiple hazardous constituents from different classes are present in the waste, the lowest concentration limit
corresponding to the constituent(s) applies.
(v)
For determining the concentration of the hazardous constituents in the waste "Toxicity Characteristics Leaching
Procedure (TCLP) as per ASTM-D5233-92 should be adopted.
III
[See rules 3(1), 14(1), 14(2)(i), (iii) and 15(1)]
Part A ? LIST OF HAZARDOUS WASTES APPLICABLE FOR IMPROT WITH PRIOR INFORMED CONSENT
[Annexure VIII of the Basel Convention*]
Basel No.
Description of Hazardous Wastes
AI
Metal and Metal bearing wastes
A1010
Metal wastes and waste consisting of alloys of any of the following
- Antimony
- Cadmium
- Tellurium
- Lead
A1020
Waste having as constituents or contaminants, excluding metal wastes in massive form as listed in B1020, any of the
following:
- Cadmium, cadmium compounds.
Page 19/59
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
- Antimony, antimony compounds.
- Tellurium, tellurium compounds.
- Lead, lead compounds.
A1040
Wastes having metal carbonyls as constituents
A1050
Galvanic sludges
A1060
Wastes Liquors from the pickling of metals.
A1070
Leaching residues from zinc processing, dusts and sludges such as jarosite, hematite etc.,
A1080
Waste Zinc residues not included on list B containing lead and cadmium in concentrations sufficient to exhibit hazard
characteristics indicated in Part C of Schedule - 3
A1090
Ashes from the incineration of insulated copper wire
A1100
Dusts and residues from gas cleaning systems of copper smelters
A1110
Spent electrolytic solutions from copper electrorefining and electrowinning operations
A1120
Waste sludges, excluding anode slimes, from electrolytic purification systems in copper electrorefining and
electrowinning operations.
A1130
Spent etching solutions containing dissolved copper.
A1150
Precious metal ash from incineration of printed circuit boards not included in list' B'
A1160
Waste Lead acid batteries whole or crushed.
A1170
Unsorted waste batteries excluding mixtures of List B batteries.
A1180
Waste Electrical and electronic assembles or scrap containing, components such
A2
Wastes containing principally inorganic constituents, which may contain metals and organic materials
A2010
Activated Glass cullets from cathode ray tubes and other activated glasses
A2030
Waste catalysts but excluding such wastes specified on List B of Schedule 3
A3
Wastes containing principally organic constituents which may contain metals and inorganic materials
A3010
Waste from the production or processing of petroleum coke and bitumen
A3020
Waste mineral oils unfit for their originally intended use
A3050
Wastes from production, formulation and use of resins, latex, plasticisers, glues/adhesives excluding such wastes
specified in List B (B4020)
A3070
Waste phenol, phenol compounds including chlorophenol in the form of liquids or sludges
A3080
Page 20/59
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Waste ethers not including those specified in List B
A3120
Fluff: light fraction from shredding
A3130
Waste organic phosphorus compounds
A3140
Waste non-halogenated organic solvents but excluding such wastes specified on List B
A3160
Waste halogenated or unhalogenated non-aqueous distillation residues arising from organic solvent recovery operations
A3170
Waste arising from the production of aliphatic halogenated hydrocarbons (such as chloromethanes, dichloroethane,
vinylchloride, vinylidene chloride, allyl chloride and epichlorhydrin)
A4
Wastes which may contain either inorganic or organic constituents
A4010
Wastes from the production and preparation and use of pharmaceutical products but excluding such wastes specified on
List B
A4040
Wastes from the manufacture formulation and use of wood preserving chemicals
A4070
Waste from the production, formulation and use of inks, dyes, pigments, paints, lacquers, varnish excluding those
specified in List B (B4010)
A4080
Wastes of an explosive nature excluding such wastes specified on List B
A4090
Waste acidic or basic solutions excluding those specified in List B (B2120)
A4100
Wastes from industrial pollution control devices for cleaning of industrial off-gases excluding such wastes specified on
List B
A4120
Wastes that contain, consist of or are contaminated with peroxides.
A4130
Waste packages and containers containing any of the constituents mentioned in Schedule 2 to the extent of
concentration limits specified therein.
A4140
Waste consisting of or containing off specification or out-dated chemicals containing any of the constituents mentioned
in Schedule 2 to the extent of concentration limits specified therein.
A4150
Waste chemical substances arising from research and development or teaching activities which are not identified and/or
are new and whose effects on human health and/or the environment are not known
A4160
Spent activated carbon not included on List B (B2060)
*This List is based on Annex.VIII of the Basel Convention on Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Wastes and
comprises of wastes characterized as hazardous under Article 1, paragraph 1(a) of the Convention. Inclusion of wastes
on this list does not preclude the use of hazard characteristics given in Annex.VIII of the Basel Convention (Part C of this
Schedule) to demonstrate that the wastes are not hazardous. Certain waste categories listed in the Schedule - 3
(Part-A) have been prohibited for import. Hazardous wastes in the Schedule - 3 (Part -A) are restricted and cannot be
allowed to be imported without permission from Ministry of Environment  Forests and DGFT license.
Part B
List Of Hazardous Wastes Applicable For Import And Export Not Requiring Prior Informed Consent
[Annexure IX of the Basel Convention*]
Page 21/59
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Basel No.
Description of Wastes
B1
Metal and metal-bearing wastes
B1010
Metal and metal-alloy wastes in metallic, non-dispersible form:
- Precious metals (gold, silver, platinum)**
- Iron and steel scrap**
- Nickel scrap**
- Aluminum scrap**
- Zinc scrap**
- Tin scrap**
- Tungsten scrap**
- Molybdenum scrap**
- Tantalum scrap**
- Cobalt scrap**
- Bismuth scrap**
- Titanium scrap**
- Zirconium scrap**
- Manganese scrap **
- Germanium scrap**
- Vanadium scrap **
- Hafnium scrap**
- Indium scrap**
- Niobium scrap**
- Rhenium scrap**
- Gallium scrap**
- Magnesium scrap**
- Copper scrap**
- Thorium scrap
- Rare earths scrap
- Chromium scrap**
B1020
Clean, uncontaminated metal scrap, including alloys, in bulk finished form (sheet, plates, beams, rods, etc.) , of:
- Antimony scrap****
- Cadmium scrap
- Lead scrap (excluding lead acid batteries)
- Tellurium scrap****
B1030
Refractory metals containing residues****
B1031
Molybdenum, tungsten, titanium, tantalum, niobium and rhenium metal and metal alloy wastes in metallic dispersible
form
(metal powder), excluding such wastes as specified in list A under entry A1050, Galvanic sludges****
B1040
Scrap assemblies from electrical power generation not contaminated with lubricating oil, PCB or PCT to an extent to
render them hazardous**
B1050
Mixed non-ferrous metal, heavy fraction scrap, not containing any of the constituents mentioned in Schedule 2 to the
extent of concentration limits specified therein**
B1060
Page 22/59
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Waste selenium and tellurium in metallic elemental form including powder****
B1070
Waste of copper and copper alloys in dispersible form, unless they contain any of the constituents mentioned in
Schedule 2 to the extent of concentration limits specified therein***
B1080
Zinc ash and residues including zinc alloys residues in dispersible form unless they contain any of the constituents
mentioned in Schedule 2 to the extent of concentration limits specified therein***
B1090
Waste batteries conforming to a standard battery specification, excluding those made with lead, cadmium or
mercury.****
B1100
Metal bearing wastes arising from melting, smelting and refining of metals:
- Hard Zinc Spelter**
- Zinc-containing drosses: **
~ Galvanizing slab zinc top dross (90% Zn)
~ Galvanizing slab zinc bottom dross (92% Zn)
~ Zinc die casting dross
(85% Zn)
~ Hot dip galvanizers slab zinc dross (batch) (92% Zn )
~ Zinc skimmings (90%Zn)
Slags from copper processing for further processing or refining containing arsenic, lead or cadmium***
- Slags from precious metals processing for further refining**
- Wastes of refractory linings, including crucibles, originating from copper smelting
- Aluminum skimmings (or skims) excluding salt slag**
Tantalum-bearing tin slags with less than 0.5% tin****
B1110
Electrical and electronic assemblies
- Electronic assemblies consisting only of metals or alloys****
- Waste electrical and electronic assemblies scrap (including printed circuit boards) not containing components such as
accumulators and other batteries included on list A, mercury-switches, glass from cathode-ray tubes and other activated
glass and PCB-capacitors, or not contaminated with constituents such as cadmium, mercury, lead, polychlorinated
biphenyl) or from which these have been removed, to an extent that they do not possess any of the constituents
mentioned in Schedule 2 to the extent of concentration limits specified therein ****
- Electrical and electronic assemblies
(including printed circuit boards, electronic components and wires) destined for direct reuse and not for recycling or final
disposal.
B1120
Spent catalysts excluding liquids used as catalysts, containing any of:
Transition metals, excluding waste catalysts (spent catalysts, liquid used catalysts or other catalysts) on list A:
Scandium
Vanadium
Manganese
Cobalt
Copper
Yttrium
Niobium
Hafnium
Tungsten
Titanium
Chromium
Iron
Page 23/59
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Nickel
Zinc
Zirconium
Molybdenum
Tantalum
Rhenium
Lanthanaides (rare earth metals):
Lanthanum
Praseodymium
Samarium
Gadolinium
Dysprosium
Erbium
Ytterbium
Cerium
Neody
Europium
Terbium
Holmium
Thulium
Lutetium
B1130
Cleaned spent precious metal bearing catalysts
B1140
Precious metal bearing residues in solid form which contain traces of inorganic cyanides
B1150
Precious metals and alloy wastes (gold , silver, the platinum group) in a dispersible form
B1160
Precious-metal ash from the incineration of printed circuit boards (note the related entry on list A A1150)
B1170
Precious metal ash from the incineration of photographic film
B1180
Waste photographic film containing silver halides and metallic silver
B1190
Waste photographic paper containing silver halides and metallic silver
B1200
Granulated slag arising from the manufacture of iron and steel
B1210
Slag arising from the manufacture of iron and steel including slag as a source of Titanium dioxide and Vanadium
B1220
Slag from zinc production, chemically stabilized, having a high iron content (above 20%) and processed according to
industrial specifications mainly for construction
B1230
Mill scaling arising from manufacture of iron and steel**
B1240
Copper Oxide mill-scale***
B2
Wastes containing principally inorganic constituents, which may contain metals and organic materials
B2010
Wastes from mining operations in non-dispersible form:
- Natural graphite waste
Page 24/59
----- PAGE 25 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
- Slate wastes
- Mica wastes
- Leucite, nepheline and nepheline syenite waste
- Feldspar waste
- Fluorspar waste
- Silica wastes in solid from excluding those used in foundry operations
B2020
Glass wastes in non-dispersible from:
Glass Cullets and other wastes and scrap of glass except activated glass cullets from cathode ray tubes and other
activated glasses
B2030
Ceramic wastes in non-dispersible form:
Cermet wastes and scrap (metal ceramic composites)
- Ceramic based fibres
B2040
Other wastes containing principally inorganic constituents:
- Partially refined calcium sulphate produced from flue gas desulphurisation (FGD)
- Waste gypsum wallboard or plasterboard arising from the demolition of buildings
- Sulphur in solid form
- Limestone from production of calcium cyanamide (pH9)
- Sodium, potassium, calcium chlorides
- Carborundum (silicon carbide)
- Broken concrete
- Lithium tantalum  Lillium-niobium containing glass scraps
B2060
Spent activated carbon resulting from the treatment of potable water and processes of the food industry and vitamin
production (note the related entry on list A A4160)
B2070
Calcium fluoride sludge
B2080
Waste gypsum arising from chemical industry processes unless it contains any of the constituents mentioned in
Schedule 2 to the extent of concentration limits specified therein
B2090
Waste anode butts from steel or aluminium production made of petroleum coke or bitumen and cleaned to normal
industry specifications (excluding anode butts from chlor alkali electrolyses and from other metallurgical industry)
B2100
Waste hydrates of aluminum and waste alumina and residues from alumina production, arising from gas cleaning,
flocculation or filtration process
B2110
Bauxite residue ("red mud") (pH moderated to less than 11.5)
B2120
Waste acidic or basic solutions with a pH greater than 2 and less than 11.5, which are not corrosive or otherwise
hazardous (note the related entry on list A A4090)
B3
Wastes containing principally organic constituents, which may contain metals and inorganic materials
B3010
Solid plastic waste
The following plastic or mixed plastic waste, provided they are not mixed with other wastes and are prepared to a
specification:
- Scrap plastic of non-halogenated polymers and copolymers, including but not limited to the following:
Ethylene
Page 25/59
----- PAGE 26 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Styrene
Polypropylene
polyethylene terephthalate
Acrylonitrile
Butadiene
Polyacetals
Polyamides
polybutylene tere-phthalate
Polycarbonates
Polyethers
polyphenylene sulphides
acrylic polymers
alkanes C10-C13
(plasticiser)
polyurethane (not containing CFC's)
Polysiloxanes
polymethyl methacrylate
polyvinyl alcohol
polyvinyl butyral
Polyvinyl acetate
Cured waste resins or condensation products including the following:
urea formaldehyde resins
phenol formaldehyde resins
melamine formaldehyde resins
epoxy resins
alkyd resins
Polyamides
- The following fluorinated polymer wastes
(excluding post-consumer wastes):
Perfluoroethylene/
propylene
Perfluoroalkoxy alkane
Metafluoroalkoxy alkane
polyvinylfluoride
polyvinylidenefluoride
B3020
[Paper, paperboard and paper product wastes**** ]
[ Substituted by S.O. 1799(E), dated 21.7.2009 (w.e.f. 21.7.2009).]
The following materials, provided they are not mixed with hazardous wastes:
Waste and scrap of paper or paperboard of:
unbleached paper or paperboard or of corrugated paper or paperboard
other paper or paperboard, made mainly of bleached chemical pulp, not coloured in the     mass
paper or paperboard made mainly of mechanical pulp (for example, newspapers, journals and similar printed matter)
other, including but no t limited to 1) laminated paperboard 2) unsorted scrap.
B3130
Waste polymer ethers and waste non-hazardous monomer ethers incapable of forming peroxides
B3140
Waste pneumatic tyres, excluding those which do not lead to resource recovery, recycling, reclamation or direct reuse
B4
Wastes which may contain either inorganic or organic constituents
B4010
Page 26/59
----- PAGE 27 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Wastes consisting mainly of water-based/latex paints, inks and hardened
* This List is based on Annex. IX of the Basel Convention on Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Wastes and
comprises of wastes not characterized as hazardous under Article - I of the Basel Convention.
[** Import permitted in the country without any license or restriction.]
[ Substituted by S.O. 1799(E), dated 21.7.2009 (w.e.f. 21.7.2009).]
*** Import permitted in the country for recycling/reprocessing by units registered with MoEF/CPCB and having DGFT
license .
**** Import permitted in the country by the actual users with MoEF permission and DGFT license.
All other wastes listed in this Schedule -3 (Par - B) having no ` Star/s'(*...) can only be imported in to the country with the
permission of MoEF.
Note:
(1)
Copper dross containing copper greater than 65% and lead and cadmium equal to or less than 1.25% and 0.1%
respectively; spent cleaned metal catalyst containing copper; and Copper reverts, cake and residues containing lead
and cadmium equal to or less than 1.25% and 0.1% respectively are allowed for import without DGFT licence to units
(actual users) registered with MoEF upto an annual quantity limit indicated in the Registration letter. Copper reverts,
cake and residues containing lead and cadmium greater than 1.25% and 0.1% respectively are under restricted
category for which import is permitted only against DGFT licence for the purpose of processing or reuse by units
registered with MoEF (actual users).
(2)
Zinc ash/skimmings in dispersible form containing zinc more than 65% and lead and cadmium equal to or less than
1.25% and 0.1% respectively and spent cleaned metal catalyst containing zinc are allowed for import without DGFT
licence to units registered with MoEF (actual users) upto an annual quantity limit indicated in Registration Letter. Zinc
ash and skimmings containing less than 65% zinc and lead and cadmium equal to or more than 1.25% and 0.1%
respectively and hard zinc spelter and brass dross containing lead greater than 1.25% are under restricted category for
which import is permitted against DGFT licence and only for purpose of processing or reuse by units registered with
MoEF (actual users).
Part C
List Of Hazardous Characteristic
Code
Characteristic
H 1
Explosive
An explosive substance or waste is a solid or liquid substance or waste (or mixture of substances or wastes) which is in
itself capable by chemical reaction of producing gas at such a temperature and pressure and at such speed as to cause
damage to the surroundings (UN Class 1; HI)
H 3
Flammable Liquids
The word "flammable" has the same meaning as "inflammable". Flammable liquids are liquids, or mixtures of liquids, or
liquids containing solids in solution or suspension
(for example, paints, varnishes, lacquers, etc. but not including substances or wastes otherwise classified on account of
their dangerous characteristics) which give off a flammable vapour at temperatures of not more than 60.5ºC, closed-cup
test, or not more than 65.5ºC, open-cup test. (Since the results of open-cup tests and of closed-cup tests are not strictly
comparable and even individual results by the same test are often variable, regulations varying from the above figures to
make allowance for such differences would be within the spirit of this definition).
H 4.1
Flammable Solids
Solids, or waste solids, other than those classed as explosives, which under conditions encountered in transport are
readily combustible, or may cause or contribute to fire through friction.
H 4.2.
Substances or wastes liable to spontaneous combustion
Page 27/59
----- PAGE 28 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Substances or wastes which are liable to spontaneous heating under normal conditions encountered in transport, or to
heating up on contact with air, and being then liable to catch fire.
H 4.3
Substances or wastes which in contact with water emit flammable gases
Substances or wastes which, by interaction with water, are liable to become spontaneously flammable or to give off
flammable gases in dangerous quantities.
H 5.1
Oxidizing
Substances or wastes which, while in themselves not necessarily combustible, may, generally by yielding oxygen cause,
or contribute to, the combustion of other materials.
H 5.2
Organic Peroxides
Organic substances or wastes which contain the bivalent-O-O- structure are thermally unstable substances which may
undergo exothermic self-accelerating decomposition.
H 6.1
Poisons (Acute)
Substances or wastes liable either to cause death or serious injury or to harm health if swallowed or inhaled or by skin
contact.
H 6.2
Infectious substances
Substances or wastes containing viable micro organisms or their toxins which are known or suspected to cause disease
in animals or humans.
H 8
Corrosives
Substances or wastes which, by chemical action, will cause severe damage when in contact with living tissue, or, in the
case of leakage, will materially damage, or even destroy, other goods or the means of transport; they may also cause
other hazards.
H 10
Liberation of toxic gases in contact with air or water
Substances or wastes which, by interaction with air or water, are liable to give off toxic gases in dangerous quantities.
H 11
Toxic (Delayed or chronic)
Substances or wastes which, if they are inhaled or ingested or if they penetrate the skin, may involve delayed or chronic
effects, including carcinogenicity).
H 12
Ecotoxic
Substances or wastes which if released present or may present immediate or delayed adverse impacts to the
environment by means of bioaccumulation and/or toxic effects upon biotic systems.
H 13
Capable by any means, after disposal, of yielding another material, e.g., Leachate, which possesses any of the
characteristics listed above.
IV
[See rules 8(1) and 9]
LIST OF HAZARDOUS WASTES REQUIRING REGISTRATION FOR RECYCLING/REPROCESSING
Sl.No
Wastes
1
Brass Dross
2
Copper Dross
3
Page 28/59
----- PAGE 29 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Copper Oxide mill scale
4
Copper reverts, cake and residue
5
Waste Copper and copper alloys in dispersible form.
6
Slags from copper processing for further processing or refining
7
Insulated Copper Wire Scrap/copper with PVC sheathing including ISRI-code material namely
"Druid"
8
Jelly filled copper cables
9
Spent cleared metal catalyst containing copper
10
Spent catalyst containing nickel, cadmium, zinc, copper, arsenic, vanadium
11
Zinc Dross-Hot dip Galvanizers SLAB
12
Zinc Dross-Bottom Dross
13
Zinc ash/skimmings arising from galvanizing and die casting operations
14
Zinc ash/skimming/other zinc bearing wastes arising from smelting and refining
15
Zinc ash and residues including zinc alloy residues in dispersible form
16
Spent cleared metal catalyst containing zinc
17
Lead acid battery plates and other lead scrap/ashes/residues not covered under Batteries (Management and
Handling)Rules, 2001.
[*Battery scrap, namely:  Lead battery plates covered by ISRI, Code word "Rails" Battery lugs covered by ISRI, Code
word "Rakes". Scrap drained/dry while intact, lead batteries covered by ISRI, Code word "Rains".
18
Components of waste electrical and electronic assembles comprising accumulators and other batteries included on list
A, mercury-switches, activated glass cullets from cathode-ray tubes and other activated glass and PCB-capacitors, or
any other component contaminated with Schedule 2 constituents (e.g. cadmium, mercury, lead, polychlorinated
biphenyl) to an extent that they exhibit hazard characteristics indicated in part C of this Schedule.
19
Paint and ink Sludge/residues
20
Used Oil and Waste Oil -
As per specifications prescribed from time to time .
V
[See rule 3(ze) and (zf)]
Part A ? SPECIFICTIONS OF USED OIL SUITABLE FOR REPROCESSING/RECYCLING
Sl.No
Parameter
Maximum permissible Limits
(1)
(2)
Page 29/59
----- PAGE 30 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
(3)
1.
Polychlorinated biphenyls is (PCBs)
2 ppm*
2.
Lead
100ppm
3.
Arsenic
5ppm
4.
Cadmium + Chromium
+Nickel
500 ppm
5.
Polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAH)
6%
PARTB
SPECIFICATIONS OF FUEL DERIVED FROM WASTE OIL
Sl.No.
Parmeter
Maximum permissible Limits
(1)
(2)
(3)
1.
Sediment
0.25%
2.
Lead
100ppm
3.
Arsenic
5ppm
4.
Cadmium+Chromium+Nickel
500ppm
5.
Polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAH)
6%
6.
Total halogens
4000 ppm
7.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)
2 ppm*
8.
Sulphur
4.5%
9.
Water content
Page 30/59
----- PAGE 31 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
1%
VI
[ See rule 13(4)]
Hazardous Wastes Prohibited for Import and Export
S.No.
Basel No
Description of Hazardous Wastes
1.
A1010
Mercury bearing wastes
2.
A1030
Waste having Mercury: Mercury Compounds as constituents or contaminants
3.
A1010
Beryllium bearing wastes
4.
A1020
Waste having Beryllium:  Beryllium Compounds as constituents or contaminants
5.
A1010
Arsenic bearing wastes
6.
A1030
Waste having Arsenic: Arsenic compounds as constituents or contaminants
7.
A1010
Selenium bearing wastes
8.
A1020
Waste having Selenium; Selenium Compounds as constituents or contaminants
9.
A1010
Thallium bearing wastes
10.
A1030
Waste having Thallium; Thallium Compounds as constituents or contaminants
11.
A1040
Hexavalent Chromium Compounds bearing wastes
12.
A1140
Wastes Cupric Chloride and Copper Cyanide Catalysts bearing wastes
13
A1190
Waste metal cables coated or insulated with plastics containing or contaminated with coal tar, PCB", lead, cadmium,
other organohalogen compounds or other constituents as mentioned in schedule 2 to the extent of concentration limits
specified therein.
14.
A2020
Waste inorganic fluorine compounds in the form of liquids or sludge but excluding calcium fluoride sludge
Page 31/59
----- PAGE 32 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
15.
A2040
Waste gypsum arising from chemical industry processes if it contains any of the constituents mentioned in Schedule 2 to
the extent of concentration limits specified therein
16.
A2050
Waste Asbestos (Dust and Fibres)
17.
A3030
Wastes that consist of or are contaminated with leaded anti-knock compound sludge or leaded petrol
(gasoline) sludges.
18.
A3040
Waste Thermal (heat transfer) fluids
19.
A3060
Waste Nitrocellulose
20.
A3090
Waste Leather dust, ash, sludges or flours when containing hexavalent chromium compounds or biocides
21.
A3100
Waste paring and other wastes of leather or of composition leather not suitable for the manufacture of leather articles,
containing hexavalent chromium compounds and biocides
22.
A3110
Fellmongery wastes containing hexavalent chromium compounds or biocides or infectious substances
23.
A3150
Halogenated organic solvents
24.
A3180
Waste, Substances and articles containing, consisting of or contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyles (PCB) and/or
polychlorinated terphenyls, (PCT) and/or polychlorinated naphthalenes (PCN) and/or polybrominated biphyenyles (PBB)
or any other polybrominated analogues of these compounds
25.
A3190
Waste tarry residues (excluding asphalt cements) arising from refining, distillation and pyrolitic treatment of organic
materials)
26.
A4020
Clinical and related wastes; that is wastes arising from medical, nursing, dental, veterinary, or similar practices and
wastes generated in hospital or other facilities during the investigation or treatment of patients, or research projects.
27.
A4030
Waste from the production, formulation and use of biocides and phyto-pharmaceuticals, including waste pesticides and
hebicides which are off-specification, out-dated, and/or unfit for their originally intended use.
28.
A4050
Waste that contain, consist of, or are contaminated with any of the following; Inorganic cyanides, excepting precious
metal bearing residues in solid form containing traces of inorganic cyanides. Organic cyanides
Page 32/59
----- PAGE 33 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
29.
A4060
Waste oil/water, hydrocarbons/water mixtures, emulsions
30.
A4110
Wastes that contain, consist of or are contaminated with any of the following :
·Any congenor of polychlorinated dibenzofuran.
·Any congenor of polychlorinated dibenzo-dioxin.
VII
(See rule 23)
LIST OF AUTHORITIES AND CORRESPONDING DUTIES
Sl.No.
Authority
Corresponding Duties
1.
Ministry of Environment and Fores under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986
(i)Identification of hazardous wastes
(ii)Permission to exporters of hazardous wasted
(iii)Permission to importers of hazardous wastes
(iv)Permission for transit of hazardous wastes
(v)Sponsoring of Training and Awareness programme on Hazardous Waste Management related activities.
2.
Central Pollution Control Board constituted under the Water
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974
(i)Co-ordination of activities of State Pollution Control Boards/Committees.
(ii)Conduct training courses for authorities dealing with management of hazardous wastes.
(iii)Recommend standards and specifications for treatment and disposal of wastes and leachates. Recommend
procedures for characterization of hazardous wastes.
(iv)Sector specific documentation to identify waste for inclusion in Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling and
Tansboundary Movement) Rules, 2008
(v)Prepare guidelines to prevent/reduce/minimize the generation and handling of hazardous wastes
(vi)Registration and renewal of registration of Recyclers/Re-processors
(vii)Any other function under rules delegated by the Ministry of Environment and Forests.
3.
State Government/Union Territory Government/Administration
(i)Identification of site(S) for common Hazardous Waste Treatment Storage and Disposal Facility (TSDF)
(ii)Assess EIA reports and convey the decision of approval of site or otherwise.
(iii)Acquire the site or inform operator of facility or occupier or association of occupiers to acquire the site.
(iv)Notification of sites
(v)Publish periodically an inventory of all disposal sites in the State/Union Territory
4.
State Pollution Control Boards or Pollution Control Committees constituted under the Water (Prevention and Control of
Pollution) fAct, 1974
(i)Inventorisation of hazardous wastes
(ii)Grant and renewal of authorization.
(iii)Monitoring of compliance of various provisions and conditions of authorization including conditions of permission for
issued by MoEF exports and imports.
(iv)Examining the applications for imports submitted by the importers and forwarding the same to Ministry of
Environment and Forests.
(v)Implementation of programmes to prevent/reduce/minimize the generation of hazardous wastes
(vi)Action against violations of Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2008.
Page 33/59
----- PAGE 34 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
(vii)Any other function under these rules assigned by MoEF from time to time
5.
Directorate General of Foreign Trade constituted under the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992
(i)Grant of licence for import of hazardous wastes.
(ii)Refusal of licence for hazardous wastes prohibited for imports and export.
6.
Port Authority under Indian Ports Act, 1908 (
15 of 1908
) and Customs Authority under the Customs Act, 1962 (
52 of 1962
)
(i)Verify the document
(ii)Inform the Ministry of Environment and Forests of any illegal traffic.
(iii)Analyse wastes permitted for imports and exports.
(iv)Train officials on the provisions of the Hazardous Wastes
(Management), Handling and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2008 and in the analysis of hazardous wastes.
(v)Take action against exporter/importer for violations under the Indian Ports Act, 1908/Customs Act, 1962
FORM 1
[See Rules 5(3) and (7)]
Application for Obtaining Authorisation for Collector/Reception/Treatment/Transport/Storage/Disposal of Hazardous
Waste*
To :
The Member Secretary
Pollution Control Board/.............................Pollution Control Committee,
...................................................................................................
Sir,
I/We hereby apply for authorization / renewal of authorization under sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of the Hazardous Waste
(Management, Handling and Transboundary Movement)Rules, 2008 for collection/ reception/ treatment/ transport/
storage/ disposal of hazardouswastes.
For Office Use Only
1.
Code no.
2.
Whether the unit is situated in a critically polluted area as identified by Ministry of Environment and Forests:
TO BE FILLED IN BY APPLICANT
Part A ? GENERAL {|
|-
| 3.
| (a) Name and address of the unit/ Location of activity:
|
|-
| (b)
| Authorization required for (Please tick mark appropriate activity/ activities)
|
|-
| (i)
| Collection
|
|-
| (ii)
| Reception
Page 34/59
----- PAGE 35 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
|
|-
| (iii)
| Treatment
|
|-
| (iv)
| Transport
|
|-
| (v)
| Storagae
|
|-
| (vi)
| Disposal
|
|-
| (c)
| In case of renewal of authorization,previous authorization number and date
|
|-
| 4(a)
| Whether the unit is generating Hazardous waste as defined in these Rules
|
|-
| (b)
| If so, the type and quantity of wastes ( in Tonnes / KL)
|
|-
| 5 (a)
| Total capital investment of the project (in Rupees)
|
|-
| (b)
| Year of commencement of production
|
|-
| (c)
| Whether the industry works general / 2 shifts/ round the clock
|
|-
| 6 (a)
| List and quantum of products and byproducts (in Tonnes /KL)
|
|-
| (b)
| List and quantum of raw materials used (in Tonnes / KL)
|
|-
| 7.
Page 35/59
----- PAGE 36 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
| Furnish a flow diagram of manufacturing Process showing input and output in terms of Products, waste generated
including for captive power generation and demineralised water
|
|}
Part B ? HAZARDOUS WASTE {|
|-
| 8
(a)
| Type of Hazardous wastes generated as defined under these Rules
|
|-
| (b)
| Quantum of hazardous waste generated
|
|-
| (c)
| Sources and waste characteristics (Also indicate wastes amenable to recycling, reprocessing and reuse)
|
|-
| (d)
| Mode of storage within the plant,method of disposal and capacity (provide details)
|
|-
| 9
| Hazardous wastes generated as per these Rules from storage of hazardous chemicals as defined under the
Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989
|
|}
Part C ? TREATMENT, STORAGE AND DISPOSAL FACILITY {|
|-
| 10
| Detailed proposal of the facility (to be attached) to include
|
|-
| (i)
| Location of site (provide map)
|
|-
| (ii)
| Name of waste processing technology
|
|-
| (iii)
| Details of processing technology
|
|-
| (iv)
| Type and Quantity of waste processed per day
|
|-
| (v)
Page 36/59
----- PAGE 37 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
| Site clearance (from local authority, if any)
|
|-
| (vi)
| Utilization programme for waste processed (Product Utilization)
|
|-
| (vii)
| Method of disposal (details in brief be given)
|
|-
| (viii)
| Quantity of waste to be disposed per day
|
|-
| (ix)
| Nature and composition of waste
|
|-
| (x)
| Methodology and operational details of land filling / incineration
|
|-
| (xi)
| Measures to be taken for prevention and control of environmental pollution including treatment of leachates
|
|-
| (xii)
| Investment on Project and expected returns
|
|-
| (xiii)
| Measures to be taken for safety to workers working in the plant
|
|}
Place.............................
Date..............................
Signature...................................
Designation.................................
FORM 2
[See rule 5(4)]
Form For Grant/renewal Of Authorisation By Spcb/pcc For Occupiers, Reprocessors, Reusers And Operators Of
Facilities For Collection, Reception, Treatment, Storage, Transport, And Disposal Of Hazardous Waste
1. Number of authorisation and date of issue :
2. .....................of................................. is hereby granted an authorisation to operate a facility for collection, reception,
treatment, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous waste on the premises situated at
..................................................
3. The authorisation granted to operate a facility for generation, collection, reception, treatment, storage,transport and
disposal of hazardous wastes.
4. The authorisation shall be in force for a period of.............................................
5. The authorisation is subject to the conditions stated below and the such conditions as may be specified in the rules for
Page 37/59
----- PAGE 38 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
the time being in force under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.
Date ...................................
Authority
..............................
.........................
Signature of Issuing
Designation and Seal
Terms and conditions of authorisation
1. The authorisation shall comply with the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, and the rules made
there under.
2. The authorisation or its renewal shall be produced for inspection at the request of an officer authorisedby the
SPCB/PCC.
3. The person authorised shall not lent, lend, sell, transfer or otherwise transport the hazardous wasteswithout obtaining
prior permission of the SPCB/PCC.
4. Any unauthorized change in personnel, equipment as working conditions as mentioned in the application by the
person authorised shall constitute a breach of his authorisation.
5. It is the duty of the authorised person to take prior permission of the SPCB/PCC to close down the facility.
6. An application for the renewal of an authorisation shall be made as laid down under these Rules.
7. Any other conditions for compliance as per the Guidelines issued by the MoEF or CPCB.
FORM 3
[See rule 5 (6), and 22 (1)]
[ Substituted by S.O. 1799(E), dated 21.7.2009 (w.e.f. 21.7.2009).]
FORMAT FOR MAINTAINING RECORDS OF HAZARDOUS WASTES BY THE OCCUPIER OR OPERATOR OF A
FACILITY
1. Name and address of the occupier or operator of a facility       :
2. Date of issuance of authorisation and its reference number       :
3. Description of hazardous waste       :
Physical form with description
Chemical form
Total volume (m3) and weight (in kg.)
4. Description of storage and treatment of hazardous waste      :
Date
Method of storage of hazardous wastes
Date
Method of treatment of hazardous wastes
5. Details of transportation of hazardous waste      :
Name and address of the consignee of package
Mode of packing of the waste for transportation
Mode of transportation to site of disposal
Date of transportation
6. Details of disposal of hazardous waste      :
Date of disposal
Concentration of hazardous constituents in the final waste form
Site of disposal
(identify the location on the relevant layout drawing for reference)
Method of disposal
Persons involved in disposal
7. Data on environmental surveillance:
Date of measurement
Analysis of ground water
Analysis of soil samples
Page 38/59
----- PAGE 39 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Analysis of air samples
Analysis of any other samples (Give details)
Location of sampling
Depth of sampling
Data
Location of sampling
Depth of sampling
Data
Location of sampling
Data
8. Details of hazardous waste sold/auctioned to the recyclers or reprocessors or re-users:
9. Details of hazardous waste reused or recycled:
Date
Total Quantity of Hazardous Wastes generated
Details of hazardous waste minimization activity
Materials received
Final Quantity of waste generated
Net reduction in waste generation quantity and percentage
Date................................
Place...............................
........................................
Name and signature of the Head of facility
FORM 4
[See rules 5(6) and 22(2)]
FORM FOR FILING ANNUAL RETURNS BY THE OCCUPIER OR OPERATOR OF FACILTIY
(To be submitted by occupier/operator of disposal facility to State Pollution Control Board/Pollution Control Committee
by 30th June of every year for the preceding period April to March),
1
.
Name and address of the generator/operator of facility
:
2.
Name of the authorised person and full address with telephone and fax number
:
3.
Description of hazardous waste
:
Physical Form with description
Chemical form
4.
Quantity of hazardous wastesQuantity
(in Tonnes/KL(in MTA)
:
Type of hazardous waste
Quantity
(in Tonnes/KL
(a)
(b)
(c)
.....................
.......................
Page 39/59
----- PAGE 40 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
5.
Description of storage
6.
Description of treatment
7.
Details of transportation
:
Name and address of consignee
Mode of packing
Mode of transportation
Date of transportation
8.
Details of disposal of hazardous waste
:
Name and address of consignee
Mode of packing
Mode of transportation
Date of transportation
9.
Quantity of useful materials sent back to the manufacturers* and others#
:
Name and type of material sent back to
Quantity in Tonnes/KL
Manufacturers*
Others#
*Delete whichever is not applicable
#Enclose list of other agencies
Date.....................................
Palce....................................
Signature..................
Designation................
FORM 5
[See rule 8(1)]
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR GRANT/RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION OF INDUSTRIAL UNITS POSSESSING
ENVIRONMENTALLY SOUND MANAGEMENT FACILITIES FOR REPROCESSING/RECYCLING
(To be submitted to the Central Pollution Control Board in triplicated by the Reprocessor/Recycle)
1.
Name and Address of the unit :
2.
Name of the occupier or owner of the unit with designation, Tel/Fax
3.
Date of commissioning of the unit
4.
No.
of workers (including contract labourers)
5.
Consent validity
(a)Water
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 valid up to ...................
(b)Air
(Prevention and Control of Pollution Act, 1981 valid upto....................................
Page 40/59
----- PAGE 41 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
6.
Product manufactured during the last three years (Tonnes/year)
Year
Name of Product
Quantity in Metric Tonnes or KL.
(a)
(b)
(c)
7.
Raw material consumption during lass three years  (Tonnes/year)
Year
Name of the Raw Material consumed
Quantity in Metric Tonnes or KL
(a)
(b)
(c)
8.
Manufacturing process
Please attach manufacturing process flow diagram for each product(s)
9.
Water consumption
Industrial...................................................m3/day
Domestic....................................................m3/day
10.
Water cess paid up to (date)
.................................................................
11.
Waste water generation as per consent.........m3/day Industrial /Domestic
Actual..............m3/day
(avg. of last 3 months)
12.
Waste water treatment (provide flow diagram of the treatment scheme)
Industrial
Domestic
13.
Waste water discharge
Quantity...................................................m3/day
Location.................................................................
Analysis of treated waste water for parameters such as pH, BOD, COD, SS, OG and any other as stipulated by the
SPCB/PCC (Attach details)
14.
Air Pollution Control
(a)Flow diagram for emission control system (s) installed for each process unit, utilities, etc.
(b)Details of facilities provided control of fugitive emission due to material handling, process, utilities, etc.
(c)Fuel consumption
Name of fuel
Quantity per Day/Month:
(a)
(b)
(d)Stack emission monitoring results
Stack attached to:
Page 41/59
----- PAGE 42 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Emission
(for SPM, SO2, NOx and Metals (like Pb, etc.) in particulates in mg/Nm3
(e)Ambient air quality
Ambient air quality location:
Parameters
(SPM), SO2, NOx, Pb, any other) in ug/m3
15.
Hazardous waste management
(a)Waste generation
Sl.No
Name
Category
Quantity
(last 3 years)
(b)Details on collection, treatment and transport
:
(c)Disposal
:
(i)Please attach details of the disposal facilities
(ii)Please attach analysis report of characterization of hazardous waste generated
(including leachate test is applicable)
16.
Details of hazardous wastes proposed to be acquired through sale/negotiation/contract or import as the case may be for
use as raw materials
1.Name
2.Quantity required per year
3.Waste listing and No. in Annexure VIII (List A)/Annexure IX (List B) of Basel Convention (BC)
4.Hazard Characteristic as per Annexure III of BC
17.
Occupation safety and health aspects
Please provide details of facilities provided
18.
Remarks
(i)Whether industry has provided adequate pollution control system/equipment to meet the standards of
emission/effluent
Yes/No
(ii)Whether HW collection and Treatment, Storage and Disposal Facility (TSDF) are operating satisfactorily
Yes/No
(iii)Whether conditions exists or likely to exists of the hazardous waste being handled/processed of posting immediate or
delayed  adverse impacts on the Environment
Yes/No
(iv)Whether conditions exists or is likely to exists of the wastes being handled/processed by any means capable of
yielding another material, e.g. leachate which may possess eco-toxicity
Yes/No
19.
Any other information
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
20.
List of enclosures as per rule
Page 42/59
----- PAGE 43 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
| | | | | | |
Date...............................
Place..............................
Signature.................................
Designation...............................
FORM 6
[See rules 8(7)]
FORM FOR FILING ANNUAL RETURNS AND RECORDS ON RECYCLABLE
HAZARDOUS WASTES BY THE RECYCLERS
(To be submitted by recyclers to State Pollution Control Board/Pollution Control Committee by 30 june of every year for
the preceding period April to March)
1.
Name and address of the recycler:
2.
Name of the authorized person and full address with telephone and fax number:
3.
Installed annual capacity to recycle or dispose the hazardous waste
(in MTA):
4.
Quantity hazardous waste (in MTA) purchased/sold
Type of wastes
Sources of purchase/sold
Quantity (in MTA)
5.
Quantity of hazardous wates processed:
Type of wastes processed
Quantity (in MTA)
6.
Quantity and type of material recoverd (in MTA)
Type of material recovered
Quantity (in MTA)
7.
Quantity of useful materials sent back to the generators/manufacturers* and others#
Name and type of
Quantity in
material sent back to Tonnes/KL
Manufacturers*
Others#
8.
Quantity of hazardous waste generated (in MTA) and its disposal methods
Type of wastes
Quantity (in MTA)
Method of Dispoal
| | | | | | | |
* delete whichever is not applicable
# enclose list of other agencies
Place.........
Date..........
Signature:
Designation
FORM 7
Page 43/59
----- PAGE 44 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
[See rule 15 (1) and 16 (1)]
APPLICATION FOR IMPORT OR EXPORT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE FOR REPROCESSING/RECYCLING/REUSE
From
.........................................
.........................................
TO BE MAILED BY IMPORTER
To
The Member Secretary,
................State Pollution Control Board/......................Pollution Control Committee
Sir,
I/We apply for permission for import of recyclable hazardous wastes.
FOR OFFICE USE ONLY
1.
Code No.
:
2.
Whether the unit is situated in a critically polluted area as identified by the Ministry of Environment and Forests
:
If yes provide details
TO BE FILLED IN BY APPLICANT
1. Name and Address of the Exporter with telephone number      :
2. Details of hazardous waste to be exported/imported for recycling/reprocessing/reuse      :
Sl. No.
Particulars of hazardous wasted
Six digit Code No.*
Constituent (s) expected
Quantity MT/KL
Any special handling requirement?
3. The hazardous waste permitted shall be fully insured for transit as well as for any accidental occurrence and its
cleanup operation.
4. The exported wastes shall be taken back, if it creates a genuine environmental hazard or shall take all such measures
to treat and dispose in an environmentally benign manner upto the satisfaction of concerned SPCB/PCC. All such costs
involved in such operation shall be borne by Exporter and/or Importer
5. Name and Address of the importer with telephone number
6. Whether authorization obtained :      (Enclose the copy).
7. Whether you have received such imported hazardous waste in the past and if yes give details.
Sl.No.
Description of hazardous wastes
Country of Export
Year
Quantity in tonnes
8. Whether the importer has :
5. (a) Adequate facility to handle imported hazardous waste : (If yes furnish details).
(b)
Adequate facility to handle the hazardous wastes generated by the use of such imported hazardous wastes : (Provide
details)
9. Break-up of the imported wastes :
a. The total quantity applied for : ............... Tonnes
b. Out of (a) above, how much quantity after initial in-situ purification, will be available as raw material : ....... Tonnes
c. Out of (b) above, how much quantity will be converted into the useful product or co-product : ....... Tonnes
10. Means of Transport (Road, Rail, inland waterway, sea, air) including country of export, transit and import,also point
Page 44/59
----- PAGE 45 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
of entry and exit where these have been designated.
11. Information on special handling requirements including emergency provision in case of accident: (Attach details)
12. Undertaking
I hereby solemnly undertake that
(i)
The full consignment shall be cleared in one lot by arranging authorized transporter under mysupervision with due prior
intimation to the SPCB/PCC. District Collector and Police Station and the imported waste shall he admitted in an
enclosure especially provided in the premises.
(ii)
The waste permitted shall be fully insured for transit as well as for any accidental occurrence and itsclean-up operation.
(iii)
The record of consumption and fate of the imported waste shall be monitored and report sent to the SPCB/PCC every
fortnight.
(iv)
At every step of consumption of 25, 50, 75 and 100% of the imported waste, the situation in the storeshall he shown to
the SPCB/PCC at our cost.
(v)
The hazardous waste which gets generated in our premises by the use of imported hazardous wastesin the form of raw
material shall be treated and disposed of and only as per conditions ofauthorisation.
(vi)
I agree to bear the cost of export and mitigation of damages if any.
(vii)
I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting a false certificate/undertaking/disobedience of the rules and
lawful orders including the possibility of fine and imprisonment.
Date..........................
Place................................................................
Signature of the Applicant
Designation
FORM 8
[See rules 15(1) and 16(1)]
APPLICATION FOR TRANSBOUNDARY MOVEMENT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
Sl.No.
Description
Details to be furnished by the Exporter/Importer
1.
Exporter
(Name  Address)
Contact person :
:
Tel/fax
:
:
Reason for export
:
2.
Importer/Recycler
(Name  Address):
Contact person :
:
Tel/fax
:
Page 45/59
----- PAGE 46 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
:
3.
Application concerning (1)
Applicants reference number
A.
Single/Multiple movement :
:
B.
Recovery/Reprocessing Operation :
:
C.
Pre-authorized recovery/reprocessing facility(1)
:
4.
Total intended number of shipments
:
5.
Estimated quantity(3) in Kg/Liters
:
6.
Intended date(s) or period of time for shipment(s)
:
7.
Intended carrier(s) (name, address)(2)
:
Contact person: Tel/fax.
:
8.
Waste generator (s) (Name, address)(2)
:
Contact Person Tel/fax
:
Site of generation  Process
:
9.
Method(s) of recycling(4)
:
R Code
:
Technology employed
:
10.
Means of transport(4)
:
11.
Packaging types(s) (4)
:
12.
(i) Designation and complete chemical composition of waste
(attach details)
:
Page 46/59
----- PAGE 47 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
(ii) Special handling requirements
:
13.
Physical characteristics(4)
:
14.
Waste identification code
:
Basel No
:
OECD No.
:
UN No.
:
ITC
(HS)
:
Customs Code (H.S.)
:
15.
OECD classification(1) (attach details)
(a) amber/red/other
:
(b) Number
:
16.
Y-Number(4)
:
17.
H-Number(4):
:
18.
(a) UN identification Number
:
(b) UN shipping name
:
(c) UN class (4)
:
(d) Other
:
19.
Concerned states, code number of competent authorities, and specific points of entry and exit
:
State of export
:
States of transit
:
State of import
:
20.
Customs offices of entry and/or departure
Page 47/59
----- PAGE 48 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Entry:
Departure
:
21.
Exporter's/Generator's declaration:
I certify that the information is complete and correct to my best knowledge. I also certify that Legally-enforceable written
contractual obligations have been entered into and that any applicable insurance or other financial guarantees are or
shall be in force covering the transboundary movement.
Name:
Signature:
Date:
22.
Number of annexes attached
FOR USE BY COMPETENT AUTHORITIES
23.
To be completed by competent authority of Import
:
Notification Received on
:
Transit
( Basel)
:
(a) Acknowledgement sent on
:
(b) Name of Competent authority, Stamp and/or signature
:
24.
Consent to the movement provided by the competent authority of  Country
(a) Consent given on
:
(b) Consent expires on
:
(c) Specific condition
:
(Yes/No)
( Please attach)
(d) Name of Competent authority, Stamp and/or signature
:
FOR USE BY CUSTOMS OFFICES
25.
COUNTRY OF EXPORT/DISPATCH OR CUSTOMS OFFICE OF EIXIT
:
The waste described overleaf has left the country on
:
Stamp
:
Signature
:
26.
COUNTRY OF IMPORT/DESTINATION
The waste described overleaf has entered the country on
Page 48/59
----- PAGE 49 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
:
Stamp
:
Signature
:
27.
STAMPS OF CUSTOMS OFFICES OF TRANSIT COUNTRIES
Name of Country
Entry
Department
Notes: (1) Enter X in appropriate box; (2) Attach list if more than one; (3) Attach detailed list of multiple shipment; (4)
See following codes
List of abbreviations used in the Movement Document
RECOVERY OPERATIONS (S.No.9)
R1
Use as a fuel (other than in direct incineration) or other means to generate energy
R2
Solvent reclamation/regeneration
R3
Recycling/reclamation of organic substances which are not used as solvents
R4
Recycling/reclamation of metals and metal compounds
R5
Recycling/reclamation of other inorganic materials
R6
Regeneration of acids or bases
R7
Recovery of components used for pollution abatement
R8
Recovery of components from catalyst
R9
Used oil re-refining or other reuses of previously used oil
R10
Land treatment resulting in benefit to agriculture or ecological improvement
R11
Uses of residual materials obtained from any of the operations numbered R 1 to 10
R12
Exchange of wastes for submission to any of the operations numbered R 1 to R 11
R13
Accumulation of material intended for any operation numbered R 1 to R 12
Means of Transport (Sl.No.10)
Packaging Types
H Number (Sl. No. 17) and UN Class
(Sl.No.18)
R=Road
1.Drum
UN Class
H Number
Designation
T=Train/Rail
2.Wooden barrel
Page 49/59
----- PAGE 50 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
1
H1
Explosive
S=Sea
3.Jerrican
3
H3
Inflammable liquids
A=Air
4.Box
4.1
H4.1
Inflammable solids
W=Inland Waterways
5.Bag
4.2
H4.2
Constituents or wasted liable to spontaneous combustion
6.Composite packaging
4.3
H4.3
Constituents or wastes which, in contact with water emit inflammable gases
7.Pressure receptable
8.Bulk
9.Other
(specify)
5.1
H5.1
Oxidizing
5.2
H5.2
Organic peroxides
6.1
H6.1
Poisonous(acute)
6.2
H6.2
Infectious wastes
8
H8
Corrosives
H 10
Liberation of toxic gases in contact with air or water
9
H11
Toxic
(delayed or chronic)
H12
Ecotoxic
H13
Capable, by any means, after disposal of yielding another material, e.g., leachate, which possesses any of the
Page 50/59
----- PAGE 51 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
characteristics listed above
Physical Characteristics (Sl.No. 13)
1.Powdery/powder
2.Solid
3.Viscous/paste
4.Sludge
5.Liquid
6.Gaseous
7.Other
(specify)
[FORM 9
[Substituted by S.O. 1799(E), dated 21.7.2009 (w.e.f. 21.7.2009). ]
[See rules 15(5), 16(5) and 16(6)]
TRANSBOUNDARY MOVEMENT-MOVEMENT DOCUMENT
Sl.
No.
Description
Details to be furnished by the Exporter/Importer
1.
(i) Exporter (Name  Address) :
:
Contact person :
:
Tel./Fax
:
:
(ii) Waste Generator (name and address)(1):
:
Contact person with Tel./Fax:
:
(iii) Site of generation (excluded for **category)
:
2.
Importer/Recycler
(name and address)
:
Contact person with Tel./Fax
:
Movement subject to single/multiple
:
3.
Corresponding to applicant Ref. No., if any
:
4.
Bill of lading (attach copy)
:
5.
Designation and chemical composition of the waste
:
6.
Physical characteristics(3)
Page 51/59
----- PAGE 52 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
:
7.
Actual quantity kg/litre
:
8.
Waste identification code
:
Basel No
:
OECD No.
UN No.
:
ITC
(HS)
:
Customs Code (H.S.)
Other
(specify)
:
9.
OECD classification(2)
(a)Amber/red/other
[attach details]
:
(b)number
:
10.
Packaging Type(3)
Number
11.
UN classification
:
UN shipping name
:
UN identification No.
:
UN Class(3)
:
H Number(3)
:
Y Number
:
12.
Special handling requirements
:
13.
Exporter's declaration for hazardous waste:
I certify that the information in Sl.No. 1 of 12 above is complete and correct to my best knowledge. I also certify that
legally-enforceable written contractual obligations have been entered into and are in force covering the transboundary
movement regulation/rules.
:
Page 52/59
----- PAGE 53 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Date:
Name:
Signature:
Exporter's declaration for waste paper:
I certify that the information in Sl.No. 1 of 12 above is correct to the best of my knowledge. I also certify that
legally-enforceable written contractual obligations have been entered into. I also certify that the consignment does not
have any hazardous waste, municipal waste or biomedical waste.
Date:
Name:
Signature:
14.
Shipment received by Importer/Recycler
Quantity received................kg/litres
Date:
Name:
Signature:
15.
Method of Recovery
:
R.
Code if applicable
:
Technology employed (Attached details if necessary)
:
16.
I cerify that nothing other than declared goods covered as per HW (M,H and TM) Rules is intended to be imported in the
above referred consignment and will be recycled.
Date:
Signature:
17.
Specific conditions on consenting to the movement, if applicable
:
(Attach details)
Notes:- (1) Attach list, if more than one; (2) Enter X in appropriate box; (3) See codes on the reverse (x) Immediately
contact Competent Authority; (4) if more than three carriers, attach information as required in Sl.No.5.
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THE MOVEMENT DOCUMENT
RECOVERY OPERATIONS (S.No.9)
R1
Use as a fuel (other than in direct incineration) or other means to generate energy
R2
Solvent reclamation/regeneration
R3
Recycling/reclamation of organic substances which are not used as solvents
R4
Recycling/reclamation of metals and metal compounds
R5
Recycling/reclamation of other inorganic materials
R6
Regeneration of acids or bases
R7
Recovery of components used for pollution abatement
Page 53/59
----- PAGE 54 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
R8
Recovery of components from catalyst
R9
Used oil re-refining or other reuses of previously used oil
R10
Land treatment resulting in benefit to agriculture or ecological improvement
R11
Uses of residual materials obtained from any of the operations numbered R 1 to 10
R12
Exchange of wastes for submission to any of the operations numbered R 1 to R 11
R13
Accumulation of material intended for any operation numbered R 1 to R 12
Means of Transport (Sl.No.10)
Packaging Types
H Number (Sl. No. 17) and UN Class
(Sl.No.18)
R=Road
1.Drum
UN Class
H Number
Designation
T=Train/Rail
2.Wooden barrel
1
H1
Explosive
S=Sea
3.Jerrican
3
H3
Inflammable liquids
A=Air
4.Box
4.1
H4.1
Inflammable solids
W=Inland Waterways
5.Bag
4.2
H4.2
Constituents or wasted liable to spontaneous combustion
6.Composite packaging
4.3
H4.3
Constituents or wastes which, in contact with water emit inflammable gases
7.Pressure receptable
8.Bulk
9.Other
(specify)
5.1
H5.1
Page 54/59
----- PAGE 55 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Oxidizing
5.2
H5.2
Organic peroxides
6.1
H6.1
Poisonous(acute)
6.2
H6.2
Infectious wastes
8
H8
Corrosives
H 10
Liberation of toxic gases in contact with air or water
9
H11
Toxic
(delayed or chronic)
H12
Ecotoxic
H13
Capable, by any means, after disposal of yielding another material, e.g., leachate, which possesses any of the
characteristics listed above
Physical Characteristics (Sl.No. 13)
1.Powdery/powder
2.Solid
3.Viscous/paste
4.Sludge
5.Liquid
6.Gaseous
7.Other
(specify)
Y Number (S.No.13) refer to categories of' waste listed in Annexure I and II of the Basel Convention as well as more
detailed information can be found in an instruction manual available from the Secretariat of the Basel Convention]
FORM 10
[See rule 15(5)]
[ Substituted by S.O. 1799(E), dated 21.7.2009 (w.e.f. 21.7.2009).]
FORMAT FOR MAINTAINING RECORDS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE IMPORTED AND EXPORTED
1. Name and address of the importer/exporter:
2. Date and reference number of issuance of permission to import/export hazardous wasted:
3. Description of hazard waste:
Sl.No.
Dates of import/export and relevand consignment numbers
Origin/destination of waste
Total volume and weight (in kilograms)
Physical Form
Chemical form
Test report
4. Description of storage, treatment and reuse of hazards waste :
Sl.No.
Page 55/59
----- PAGE 56 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Dates of import/export and relevant consignment numbers
Total volume and weight (in kilograms)
Test report
Method of storage
Method of the treatment and reuse (Give details)
FROM 11
[See rule 20(2)]
TRANSPORT EMERGENCY (TREM)CARD
(To be carried by the transporter during transportation of hazardous wastes, provided by the Occupier or Operator of a
Facility)
1. Characteristics of hazardous wastes:
Sl.No
Type of Waste
Physical Properties
Chemical Constituents
Exposure Hazards
First Aid Requirements
2. Procedure to be followed in case of fir:
3. Procedure to be followd in case of spillage/accident/explosive:
4. For expert services, please contact:
(i)
Name and Address:
(ii)
Telephone No.:
...............................................................
(Name and Signature of Occupier/authorised representative)
FORM 12
[See rule 20(2)]
MARKING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE CONTAINER
Hazardous Waste*
Handle with Care
Waste Category No.........................................
Compatible Group...................................
Total Quantity.................................................
Date of Storage........................................
Contents and State of the Waste                      :
Sender's Name and Address
Receiver's Name  Address.......................
Phone.....................................................................
Phone.............................................................
E-mail.....................................................................
E-mail......................................................
Tel. and Fax No....................................................
Tel. and Fax No..........................................
Contact person....................................................
Contact person..........................................
In case of emergency please contact......................................................
Notes: 1. Background colour of lab I fluorescent yellow.
2. The words `HAZARDOUS WASTES'  `HANDLE WITH CARE' to be prominent and written in red in Hindi, English and
in Vernacular Language
3. Label should be of non-washable material.
Page 56/59
----- PAGE 57 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
* Delete which ever is not applicable.
FORM 13
[See rule 21(1)]
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANIFEST
1.
Occupier's Name  Mailing Address
(including Phone No.)
:
2.
Occupier's Registration No.
:
3.
Manifest Document No.
:
4.
Transporter's Name  Address (including Phone No.)
:
5.
Type of Vehicle
:
(Truck/Tanker/Special Vehicle)
6.
Transporter's Registration No.
:
7.
Vehicle Registration No.
:
8.
Designated Facility Name  Site Address
:
9.
Facility's Registration No.
:
10.
Facility's Phone
:
11.
Waste Description
:
12.
Total Quantity
:
..................................m3 or MT
13.
Consistency
:
(Solid/Semi-Solid/Sludge/Oily/Tarry/Slurry)
14.
Transport Description of Wastes
:
15.
Page 57/59
----- PAGE 58 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
Containers
:
Number
Type
16.
Total Quantity
:
..................................m3 or MT
17.
Unit Wt/Vol
:
.......................................m3 or MT
18.
Waste Category Number
:
19.
Special Handling Instructions  Additional
Information
:
20.
Occupier's Certificate
:
I hereby declare that the contents of the consignment are fully and accurately described above by proper shipping name
and are categorised, packed, marked, and labeled, and are in all respects in proper condition for transport by road
according to applicable national government regulations.
Typed Name and Stamp:
Signature
:
Month
Day
Year
21.
Transporter Acknowledgement of receipt of Wastes
Typed Name and Stamp:
Signature:
:
Month
Day
Year
22.
Discrepancy Note space
23.
Facility Owner or Operator's Certification of Receipt of Hazardous Waste
Typed Name and Stamp:
Signature:
Month
Day
Year
| | | | | | |
FORM 14
(See rule 24)
Page 58/59
----- PAGE 59 -----
The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling And Transboundary movement) Rules, 2008*
FORMAT OF ACCIDENT REPOR
[To be submitted by the occupier or operator of a facility and the transporter to the SPCB/PCC]
1.
The date and time of the accident
:
2.
Sequence of events leading to accident
:
3.
The hazardous waste involvement in accident
:
4.
The date for assessing the effects of the accident on health or the environment
:
5.
The emergency measures taken
:
6.
The steps taken to alleviate the effects of accidents
:
7.
The steps taken to prevent the recurrence of such an accident
:
Place....................................
Date.....................................
Signature............................
Designation..........................
FORM 15
[See rule 26(1) and (2)]
APPLICATION FOR FILING APPEAL AGAINST THE ORDER PASseD BY CPCB/PCC OF THE UNION TERRITORY
1.
Name and address of the person making the appeal
:
2.
Number, date or order and address of the authority to which passed the order, against which appeal is being made
:
3.
Ground on which the appeal is being made
:
4.
Relief sought for
:
5.
List of enclosures other than the order referred in Para 2 against which the appeal is being filed
:
Signature...............................
Name and address........................
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 59/59