
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Second Order, 2008
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Second Order, 2008
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/74482639/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Second Order, 2008
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Second Order, 2008
Rule THE-STEEL-AND-STEEL-PRODUCTS-QUALITY-CONTROL-SECOND-ORDER-2008 of 2008
Published on 9 September 2008
Commenced on 9 September 2008
[This is the version of this document from 9 September 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Second Order, 2008
Published by Vide S.O. 2173(E), dated 9-9-2008, published in the Gazette of India, Ext., Pt.II, Section 3(ii), dated
9-9-2008
335.
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the Bureau of Indian Standards Act, 1986 (
63 of 1986
), the Central Government after consulting the Bureau of Indian Standards hereby makes the following Order, namely: -
1.
Short title and commencement .-(1) This Order may be called the Steel and Steel Products (Quality Control) Second
Order, 2008.
(2)
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Second Order, 2008
This Order shall come into force with effect from the 12th February, 2009.
2.
Definitions
.-In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act "means the Bureau of Indian Standards Act, 1986 (
63 of 1986
);
(b)
"appropriate authority "means, -
(i)
an officer not below the rank of an Under Secretary in the Ministry of Steel;
(ii)
all General Managers, District Industries Centres of the State Governments; and
(iii)
Directors or Commissioners of Industries of the State Governments or Union territories;
(c)
"Bureau "means the Bureau of Indian Standards;
(d)
"dealer ", in relation to steel and steel products, means a person who, or a firm or a Hindu undivided family or a
company or a co-operative society, which carries on, directly or otherwise, the business of buying, selling, supplying or
distributing steel and steel products whether in cash or for deferred payment or for commission, remuneration or other
valuable consideration;
(e)
"manufacturer ", in relation to steel and steel products, means a person who or a firm or a Hindu undivided family or a
company or a co-operative society, which produces, makes, assembles or manufactures steel and steel products and
includes a person who, or a firm or Hindu undivided family or a company or a co-operative society which claims such
steel and steel products to be produced, made, assembled or manufactured by such person or firm or Hindu undivided
family or a company or a co-operative society, as the case may be;
(f)
"Schedule "means the Schedule annexed to this Order;
(g)
"specified standard "in relation to steel and steel products means the standard as specified in the corresponding entry in
column (1) of the Schedule;
(h)
"State Government "in relation to a Union territory means the Administrator thereof;
(i)
"steel and steel products "mean the items specified in column (2) of the Schedule; and
(j)
the words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Prohibition regarding manufacture, storage, sale and distribution, etc .-(1) No person shall by himself or through any
person on his behalf manufacture or store for sale, sell or distribute any steel and steel products given in the Schedule,
which do not conform to the specified standards and do not bear standard mark of the Bureau on obtaining certification
marks license:
Provided that nothing in this Order shall apply in relation to export of steel and steel products required for export, which
conform to any specification required by the foreign buyer and such specification shall not in any case be less than the
specified standard.
(2)
The sub-standard or defective steel and steel products, which do not conform to the specified standard, shall be
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Second Order, 2008
disposed off as scrap.
4.
Obligation for certification
.-(1) All manufacturers of steel and steel products shall make an application to the Bureau for obtaining license for use of
the standard mark, within forty-five days of the issue of this Order, if not already obtained.
(2)
The grant of license by the Bureau, for use of the standard mark shall be as per the provisions of the Act and rules and
regulations made thereunder.
(3)
When any person by himself or through any person on his behalf proposes to manufacture steel and steel products he
shall commence regular production only after obtaining a valid license from the Bureau for the use of standard mark.
(4)
Consequent to the expiry of any license or cancellation thereof by the Bureau for one or more of the steel and steel
products, the Bureau shall inform the same to the Appropriate Authority .
5.
Power to call for information, etc .-The Appropriate Authority may, with a view to securing compliance with this Order, -
(a)
require any person engaged in the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution of any steel and steel products to
give such information as he deems necessary relating to the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution of any
steel and steel products for the implementation of this Order or require any such person to furnish to him samples of any
such steel and steel products; and
(b)
inspect or cause to be inspected any books or other documents and other steel and steel products kept by or belonging
to or in the possession or under the control of any person engaged in the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or
distribution of any steel and steel products.
6.
Testing of samples
.-Samples of any steel and steel products bearing the standard mark and drawn by the Appropriate Authority, for
ascertaining whether they are of the specified standard, shall be tested in the laboratory approved by the Bureau and in
the manner as may be specified by the Bureau.
7.
Power to issue direction to manufacturers and dealers .-The Appropriate Authority may issue such directions to the
manufacturers and dealers, consistent with the provisions of the Act or this Order, as may be necessary for carrying out
the purposes of this Order.
8.
Compliance of directions
.-Every person engaged in the manufacture, storage for sale, sale or distribution of any steel and steel products given in
the Schedule to whom any direction is issued under this Order, shall comply with such direction.
9.
Obligation to furnish information
.-No manufacturer or dealer shall with intent to evade the provisions of this Order, refuse to give any information lawfully
demanded from him under clause (5) or conceal, destroy, mutilate or deface any books or documents or any steel and
steel products kept by, or in the possession or control of, such person.
Schedule
[See clause 2(f)]
LIST OF STEEL PRODUCTS UNDER MANDATORY BUREAU OF INDIAN STANDARDS CERTIFICATION
Indian standard number
Title
(1)
(2)
277
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Steel And Steel Products (Quality Control) Second Order, 2008
Galvanized steel sheets
(plain and corrugated)
648
Cold rolled non-oriented electrical steel sheet and strip-Fully processed type
1786
High strength deformed steel bars and wires for concrete reinforcement
1993
Cold reduced electrolytic tinplate
2002
Steel plates for pressure vessels for intermediate and high temperature service including boilers
2041
Steel plates for pressure vessels used at moderate and low temperature
2062
Hot rolled low, medium and high tensile structural steel (excluding bars and rods of diameter or thickness less than 6mm
and structural (angle) below 50 mm x 50 mm x 6 mm,)
2830
Carbon steel cast billet ingots, billets, blooms and slabs for re-rolling into steel for general structural purposes
2831
Carbon steel cast billet ingots, billets, blooms and slabs for re-rolling into low tensile structural steel
3024
Grain oriented electrical steel sheet and strip
15391.
Cold rolled non-oriented electrical steel sheet and strip-semi-processed type
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4