
----- PAGE 1 -----
Reverse Mortgage Scheme, 2008
Reverse Mortgage Scheme, 2008
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/106182065/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Reverse Mortgage Scheme, 2008
UNION OF INDIA
India
Reverse Mortgage Scheme, 2008
Rule REVERSE-MORTGAGE-SCHEME-2008 of 2008
Published on 30 September 2008
Commenced on 30 September 2008
[This is the version of this document from 30 September 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Reverse Mortgage Scheme, 2008
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extra; Part 2, Section 3(ii), dated 30.9.2008
1611.
S.O. 2310, (E), dated 30.9.2008.- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (xvi) of section 47 of the Income-tax
Act, 1961 (
43 of 1961
), the Central Government hereby makes the following scheme, namely: -
1.
Short title, commencement aud application.-
(1)
This scheme may be called the Reverse Mortgage Scheme, 2008.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Reverse Mortgage Scheme, 2008
(2)
It shall be deemed to have come into force from the 1" day of April, 2008.
(3)
Save as otherwise provide in the Scheme, it shall be applicable to all eligible persons.
2.
Definitions.-
In this Scheme, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Act" means the Income-tax Act, 1961 (
43 of 1961
);
(b)
"approved lending institution" means-
(i)
National Housing Bank established under section 3 of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 (53 of 1987);
(ii)
a scheduled bank included in the second schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934; or
(iii)
a housing finance company registered with the National Housing Bank:
(c)
"Board" means the Central Board of Direct Taxes constituted under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (
54 of 1963
V
(d)
"Capital asset" means a residential house property which is located in India;
(e)
"eligible person" means
(i)
any person, being an bidigiupi, who is of, a above, the age or sixty years; or
(ii)
any married couple, if either of the husband or wife is of, or above, the age of sixty years;
(f)
"Reverse Mortgage" means mortgage of a capital asset by an eligible pcrscn against a loan obtained by him fiom an
approved lending institution;
(g)
"reverse mortgagor" means the eligible person who has mortgaged the capital asset for the purpose of obtaining loan;
(h)
"reverse mortgage transaction" means a transaction in which the loan may be disbursed to the reverse mortgagor but
does not include transaction of sale, or disposal, of the property for settlement of the loan;
(i)
All other words and expressions used herein, but not defined and defined in the Act, shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Application and processing for reverse mortgage transaction.-
(1)
Any eligible person may enter into a reverse mortgage transaction by applying in writing to the approved lending
institution, if the capital asset, being mortgaged, is
(i)
owned by him; and
(ii)
free from any encumbrances.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Reverse Mortgage Scheme, 2008
(2)
The application under sub-rule (1) shall be processed by the approved lending institution and for this purpose the
institution may charge nominal amount as processing fees.
4.
Sanction  of reverse mortage loan.-
(1)
The approved lending institution, before taking mortgage of capital asset and before disbursing any loan under reverse
mortgage, shall-
(a)
enter into a loan agreement in writing with the reverse mortgagor; and
(b)
obtain and maintain  the following particulars from the reverse mortgagor, namely:-
(i)
Name and address of the owner of the capital asset;
(ii)
Permanent account Number of the owner of the capital asset;
(iii)
Total area, including built up or covered area, of the capital asset;
(iv)
Cost of acquisition and the year of improvement of the capital asset;
(v)
Cost of improvement and the year of improvement of the capital asset;
(vi)
Name, address and Permanent Account Number of all the legal heirs and estate of the owner of the capital asset;
(vii)
A copy of the registered will of the will of the owner of the capital  asset including any changes made therein during the
currency of the term of the loan.
5.
Disbursement of loan.-
(1)
The approved lending institution may disburse the loan to the reverse mortgagor by anyone or more of the following
modes, namely:-
(i)
periodic payments to be decided mutually between the approved lending institution and the reverse mortgagor;
(ii)
lump sum payment in one or more trenches, to the extent that the aggregate of the amount disbursed as lump sum
payments does not exceed fifty per cent of the total loan amount sanctioned.
6.
Period of reverse mortgage loan.-
The loan under reverse mortgage shall not be granted for a period exceeding twenty years from the date of signing the
agreement by the reverse mortgagor and approved lending institution.
Repayment of loan.-
The reverse mortgagor, or his legal heirs or estate, shall be liable for repayment of the principal amount of loan along
with the interest to the approved lending institution at the time of forceclosure of the loan agreement.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3