
----- PAGE 1 -----
The National Housing Bank (Tax Saving) Term Deposit Scheme, 2008
The National Housing Bank (Tax Saving) Term Deposit Scheme, 2008
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/72050657/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The National Housing Bank (Tax Saving) Term Deposit Scheme, 2008
UNION OF INDIA
India
The National Housing Bank (Tax Saving) Term Deposit Scheme, 2008
Rule THE-NATIONAL-HOUSING-BANK-TAX-SAVING-TERM-DEPOSIT-SCHEME-2008 of 2008
Published on 24 October 2008
Commenced on 24 October 2008
[This is the version of this document from 24 October 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The National Housing Bank (Tax Saving) Term Deposit Scheme, 2008
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extra, Part 3, Section 4, dated 24th October, 2008.
1839.
Noti. No. NHB/RMMD/324, dated 26th September, 2008. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (h) of Section
14 of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 (53 of 1987), the National Housing Bank hereby frames the following
scheme, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This scheme may be called the National Housing Bank (Tax Saving) Term Deposit Scheme, 2008.
(2)
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The National Housing Bank (Tax Saving) Term Deposit Scheme, 2008
It shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In this scheme, unless the context otherwise requires,
(a)
"Act" means the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 (53 of 1987);
(b)
"depositor" means-
(i)
An individual; or
(ii)
A Hindu Undivided Family by whom money is deposited in the term deposit in accordance with this scheme;
(c)
"Form" means a form as specified by the National Housing Bank;
(d)
"Term deposit" means a deposit with the National Housing Bank for a fixed period of five years;
(e)
"Year" means a year commencing on the Ist day of April;
(f)
"all other words and expressions used in the scheme, but not defined and defined in the Act, shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Amount of term deposit.
(1)
A depositor can deposit in the term deposit any amount not exceeding one lakh rupees in a financial year.
(2)
The amount to be deposited in the term deposit shall be minimum of ten thousand rupees or multiples thereof.
4.
Types of term deposit.
(1)
Term deposit shall be of the following types, namely :-
(a)
Single holder type deposits;
(b)
joint holder type deposits.
(2)
(a)
The single holder type deposit receipt shall be issued to an individual for himself or in the capacity of the Karta of the
Hindu Undivided Family;
(b)
The joint holder type deposit receipt shall be issued jointly to two adults or jointly to an adult and a minor, and payable to
either of the holders or to the survivor :
Provided that in the case of joint holder type deposit, the deduction from income under Section 80-C of the Income Tax
Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) shall be available only to the first holder of the deposit.
5.
Period of deposit.
- The period of deposit shall be not less than five years.
6.
Nomination.
(1)
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The National Housing Bank (Tax Saving) Term Deposit Scheme, 2008
Subject to the provisions of Paragraph 4, the single holder or the joint-holders of a term deposit may, by filling in
necessary particulars in the prescribed form at the time of making the term deposit, nominate any person who, in the
event of death of the time of making the term deposit, nominate any person who, in the event of death of the single
holder or both the joint holders, as the case may be, shall become entitled to the deposit and to the payment due
thereon. If such nomination is not made at the time of making the term deposit, it may be made by the single holder, the
joint holders or the surviving joint holder, as the case may be, at any time after the term deposit receipt is issued, but
before its maturity, by means of an application in the prescribed form.
(2)
No nomination shall be made in respect of a term deposit applied for and held by or on behalf of a minor.
7.
Procedure for deposit in term deposit.
- A depositor desiring to deposit in term deposit, shall present and application in the prescribed form at any of the offices
of the National Housing Bank or at the designated branches of scheduled banks authorized by the National Housing
Bank to receive deposit under this Scheme.
8.
Issue of term deposit receipt.
(1)
The National Housing Bank shall issue a term deposit receipt to the depositor on receipt of payment.
(2)
The term deposit receipt shall bear the name, address, Permanent Account Number (PAN), signature of the depositor
along with the other usual particulars like date, period. Amount, rate of interest, maturity date, maturity value in case of
Cumulative deposit receipt or periodicity of payment of interest in case of Fixed deposit receipt etc.
9.
Pledging of teen deposit.
- The term deposit shall not be pledged to secure loan or as security to any other asset. No Lien/No Loan shall be
affixed on the face of the Term Deposit Receipt itself.
10.
Replacement of lost or destroyed term deposit receipts.
(1)
If a term deposit receipt is lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated or defaced, the person entitled thereto may apply for the
issue of a duplicate receipt.
(2)
Every such application shall be accompanied by a statement showing particulars, such as number, amount and date of
the receipt, and the circumstance attending such loss, theft, destruction, mutilation or defacement.
(3)
If the National Housing Bank is satisfied of the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation or defacement of the certificate, it shall
issue a duplicate receipt on the applicant furnishing an indemnity bond in the prescribed form with one or more approved
sureties or with a bank guarantee. The fact "duplicate receipt issued in lieu of lost receipt No...... will be mentioned on
the face of such receipt:
Provided that where the face value or the aggregate face value of the certificate or certificates lost, stolen, destroyed,
mutilated or defaced is five hundred rupees or less, a duplicate receipt or receipts maybe issued on the applicant
furnishing an indemnity bond without any such surety or guarantee:
Provided further that where such application is made with respect to a receipt mutilated or defaced, or whatever face
value, a duplicate receipt maybe issued without any such indemnity bond, surety or guarantee, if the receipt mutilated or
defaced is surrendered and the receipt is capable of being identified as the one originally issued.
(4)
A duplicate receipt issued under sub-paragraph (3) shall be treated as equivalent to the original receipt for all the
purposes of this scheme.
11.
Encashment on maturity.
(1)
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The National Housing Bank (Tax Saving) Term Deposit Scheme, 2008
The maturity period of a term deposit receipt of any denomination shall be five years commencing from the date of the
receipt.
(2)
No term deposit shall be encashed before the expiry of five years from the date of its receipt. Provided however that in
the event of the death of the first holder of the deposit in case of a joint-holder type deposit, the other holder of the
deposit shall be entitled to encash the term deposit before its maturity by making an application to the National Housing
Bank supported by proof of the death of the first holder of the deposit.
12.
Rate of interest.
(1)
The rate of interest on the term deposit shall be in accordance with the rate fixed by the National housing Bank from
time to time.
(2)
The interest will he paid either in lump sum at the time of maturity or it may be paid yearly/half yearly depending upon
the option exercised by the depositor.
(a)
Fixed Deposit. - The fixed deposit can be issued with half yearly/yearly interest payment option with interest
compounded quarterly.
(b)
Cumulative Deposit. - Interest is compounded at quarterly rests and payable with principal on maturity.
13.
Right of nominees.
(1)
In the event of the death of the holder of a term deposit in respect of which a nomination is in force, the nominee or
nominees shall be entitled at any time before or after the maturity of the term deposit to encash the term deposit.
(2)
For the purpose of sub-paragraph (1), the surviving nominee or nominees shall make an application supported by proof
of death of the holder and of deceased nominee or nominees, if any.
(3)
If there are more nominees than one, all the nominees shall give a joint discharge of the receipt at the time of receiving
the payment.
14.
Payment to legal heirs.
- If a holder of a term deposit dies and there is no nomination in force at the time of his death, the sum due to the
deceased, shall be paid to his legal heirs.
15.
Income tax.
(1)
Interest on these term deposits shall be liable to tax under the Income Tax Act, 1961, on the basis of annual accrual on
receipt, depending upon the method of accounting followed by the depositor.
(2)
The tax on such interest shall be deducted in accordance with the applicable provisions under the Income Tax Act,
1961.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4