
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Competition Commission Of India (Return On Measures For The Promotion Of Competition A...
The Competition Commission Of India (Return On Measures For The
Promotion Of Competition Advocacy, Awareness And Training On
Competition Issues) Rules, 2008
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/43719042/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Competition Commission Of India (Return On Measures For The Promotion Of Competition Advocacy, Awareness
And Training On Competition Issues) Rules, 2008
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Competition Commission Of India (Return On Measures For The Promotion Of Competition Advocacy, Awareness
And Training On Competition Issues) Rules, 2008
Rule
THE-COMPETITION-COMMISSION-OF-INDIA-RETURN-ON-MEASURES-FOR-THE-PROMOTION-OF-COMPETITIO
N-ADVOCACY-AWARENESS-AND-TRAINING-ON-COMPETITION-ISSUES-RULES-2008 of 2008
Published on 10 October 2008
Commenced on 10 October 2008
[This is the version of this document from 10 October 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Competition Commission Of India (Return On Measures For The Promotion Of Competition Advocacy, Awareness
And Training On Competition Issues) Rules, 2008
Published vide Notification G.S.R. 727(E), dated 10.10.2008, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part 2,
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Competition Commission Of India (Return On Measures For The Promotion Of Competition A...
Section 3(i), Sl. No. 549, dated 10.10.2008.
395.
G.S.R. 727 (dated), 10th October, 2008- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (l) of sub-section (2) of the
section 63 read with sub-section (1) of section 53 of the Competition Act, 2002 (
12 of 2003
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:--
1.
Short title and commencement
.-(1) These rules may be called the Competition Commission of India (Return on Measures for the Promotion of
Competition Advocacy, Awareness and Training on Competition Issues) Rules, 2008.
(2)
These rules shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions
.-(1) In these rules, unless context otherwise requires,--
(a)
"Act" means the Competition Act, 2002 (
12 of 2003
);
(b)
"Appellate Tribunal" means the Appellate Tribunal established under sub-section (1) of section 53-A of the Act;
(c)
"Commission" means the Competition Commission of India established under section 7 of the Act;
(d)
"Year" means the financial year beginning on 1st April and ending on 31st March of the year immediately following.
(2)
Words and expression used and defined in the Competition Act, 2002 but not defined in these rules, shall have the
same meanings assigned to them in that Act.
3.
Preparation and furnishing of the return on measures
.-(1) The Commission shall furnish on the completion of every year return and statements in the form as laid down in the
Schedule annexed to these rules in regard to any proposed or existing measures for the promotion of competition
advocacy, creating awareness and imparting training about competition issues to the Central Government, for the
activities undertaken, giving a true and full account of its activities, performed during the previous year.
(2)
The Central Government may seek from the Commission such other information with regards to any proposed or
existing measures for the promotion of competition advocacy, creating awareness and imparting training about
competition issues as it may decide from time to time.
(3)
The Commission may also include in the return any other item, not included in the Schedule, with the prior permission of
the Central Government.
(4)
The Commission, shall forward the return to the Central Government within a period of thirty days immediately following
the completion of year for which it has been prepared.
(5)
The matters relating to form and time of preparation of return, with respect to which no express provision has been
made in these rules, shall be referred in each case to the Central Government for its decision and the decision of the
Central Government thereon shall be binding on the Commission.
Schedule
FORM OF THE RETURN ON MEASURES ON COMPETITION ADVOCACY AND ANNEXURES
(See sub-rule (1) of rule 3)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Competition Commission Of India (Return On Measures For The Promotion Of Competition A...
The return and statements shall be submitted in the following format :
I. Competition Advocacy
(i)
Workshops, seminars and other interactions with public/experts/policy makers/regulatory bodies on Competition
Advocacy and for creating awareness of competition  issues.
Subject matter of the workshop/seminar
Number of participants
Dates during which held
Beneficiaries, i.e., Government officials, industry, academician, professionals and others to be specified
Method of funding
(ii)
Papers and studies published for competition advocacy and for creating awareness of competition issues.
Title of the publication
Brief purpose/target group
Month of publication
Whether original or reprint
II. Capacity building of stakeholders to participate in competition regulatory process.
Subject matter of the training programme
Number of participants
Dates during which held
Brief intent and the purpose
Method of funding
Remarks, if any
III. Competition related Sectoral/Regulatory impact assessment; Market studies and research projects carried out by the
Commission.
Title of the market study/research project
Purpose
Date of initiation
Date of completion
Remarks, if any
IV. Consultation papers published/placed on website of the Commission.
V. Any other effort made for competition advocacy, creating awareness and capacity building in competition matters.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3