
----- PAGE 1 -----
The National Waterway (Talcher-Dhamra Stretch Of Rivers, Geonkhali-Charbatia Stretch Of Ea...
The National Waterway (Talcher-Dhamra Stretch Of Rivers,
Geonkhali-Charbatia Stretch Of East Coast Canal, Charbatia-Dhamra
Stretch Of Matai River And Mahanadi Delta Rivers) Act, 2008
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/67895581/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The National Waterway (Talcher-Dhamra Stretch Of Rivers, Geonkhali-Charbatia Stretch Of East Coast Canal,
Charbatia-Dhamra Stretch Of Matai River And Mahanadi Delta Rivers) Act, 2008
UNION OF INDIA
India
The National Waterway (Talcher-Dhamra Stretch Of Rivers, Geonkhali-Charbatia Stretch Of East Coast Canal,
Charbatia-Dhamra Stretch Of Matai River And Mahanadi Delta Rivers) Act, 2008
Act 23 of 2008
Published on 17 November 2008
Commenced on 17 November 2008
[This is the version of this document from 17 November 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The National Waterway (Talcher-Dhamra Stretch Of Rivers, Geonkhali-Charbatia Stretch Of East Coast Canal,
Charbatia-Dhamra Stretch Of Matai River And Mahanadi Delta Rivers) Act, 2008
NO. 23 OF 2008
1115.
[17th November, 2008]
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The National Waterway (Talcher-Dhamra Stretch Of Rivers, Geonkhali-Charbatia Stretch Of Ea...
An Act to provide for the declaration of the Talcher-Dhamra stretch of Brahmani-Kharsua-Dhamra rivers,
Geonkhali-Charbatia stretch of East Coast Canal, Charbatia-Dhamra stretch of Matai river and Mahanadi delta rivers
between Mangalgadi and Paradip in the States of West Bengal and Orissa to be a national waterway and also to provide
for the regulation and development of the said stretch of the rivers and the canals for the purposes of shipping and
navigation on the said waterway and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the National Waterway (Talcher-Dhamra Stretch of Rivers, Geonkhali-Charbatia Stretch of East
Coast Canal, Charbatia-Dhamra Stretch of Matai River and Mahanadi Delta Rivers) Act, 2008.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
2.
Declaration of certain stretches of rivers and canals as National Waterway.
- The Talcher-Dhamra stretch of Brahmani-Kharsua-Dhamra rivers, Geonkhali-Charbatia stretch of East Coast Canal,
Charbatia-Dhamra stretch of Matai river and Mahanadi delta rivers between Mangalgadi and Paradip, the limits of which
are specified in the Schedule, is hereby declared to be a
3.
Declaration as to expediency of control by the Union of certain stretches of rivers and canals for certain purposes.
-It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the Union should take under its control the regulation
and development of Talcher-Dhamra stretch of Brahmani-Kharsua-Dhamra rivers, Geonkhali-Charbatia stretch of East
Coast Canal, Charbatia-Dhamra stretch of Matai river and Mahanadi delta rivers between Mangalgadi and Paradip for
the purposes of shipping and navigation on the national waterway to the extent provided in the Inland Waterways
Authority of India Act, 1985.
THE SCHEDULE
(See section 2)
Limits Of The National Waterway (Talcher-Dhamra Stretch Of Brahmani-Kharsua-Dhamra Rivers, Geonkhali-Charbatia
Stretch Of East Coast Canal, Charbatia Dhamra Stretch Of Matai River And Mahanadi Delta Rivers)
East Coast Canal and Matai river
(Consisting of old Hijli tidal canal, Orissa coast canal and
Matai river)
Northern limit
Confluence point of Hooghly river and Hijli tidal canal at
Geonkhali at Lat 22012' 20" N, Lon 88003' 07" E.
Southern limit
Confluence of Matai river and Dhamra river near Dhamra Fishing
harbour at Lat 20047' 42" N, Lon 86053' 03" E.
Brahmani-Kharsua-Dhamra river system
(Consisting of Brahmani-Kharsua-Dhamra rivers)
North-Western limit
Samal barrage across river Brahmani, Talcher at Lat 21004' 26" N, Lon 85008' 05" E.
South-Eastern limit
An imaginary line drawn across Dhamra river at East Point of
Kalibhanj Dian Reserved Forest near Chandnipal at Lat 20046' 26" N, Lon 86057' 15" E.
Mahanadi delta rivers
(Consisting of Hansua river, Nuna nala, Gobri nala, Kharnasi
river and Mahanadi river) (Alternate route-Hansua river enters
into Bay of Bengal through northern point of False point bay,
then enters river Kharnasi at southern end of False point bay,
river Atharabanko, a northernly distributory of river Mahanadi)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The National Waterway (Talcher-Dhamra Stretch Of Rivers, Geonkhali-Charbatia Stretch Of Ea...
Northern limit
Confluence of Kharsua river with Brahmani river at
Ramchandrapur at Lat 20036' 55" N, Lon 86045' 05" E.
Southern limit
An imaginary line in continuation to the Northern break water
structure across the entrance channel at Paradip Port at Lat 20015' 38" N, Lon 86040' 55" E.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3