
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Collection of Statistics Act, 2009
The Collection of Statistics Act, 2009
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1842422/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
Union of India - Act
The Collection of Statistics Act, 2009
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Collection of Statistics Act, 2009
Act 7 of 2009
Published on 7 January 2009
Commenced on 7 January 2009
[This is the version of this document from 4 August 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
[Amended by THE COLLECTION OF STATISTICS (AMENDMENT)ACT, 2017 (Act 21 of 2017) on
4 August 2017
]
The Collection of Statistics Act, 2009
(7 OF 2009)
383.
Statement of Objects and Reasons.-The Collection of Statistics Act, 1953 (the Statistics Act) was enacted to facilitate
the collection of statistics of certain kinds relating to industries, trade and commerce. Its provisions have been used in
conducting the Annual Survey of Industries. The State Governments have also used the said Act to collect data in areas
not covered by the Central Government. Briefly, the above said Act has so far been used for the purpose of collecting
information from a limited segment of the industrial sector.
Page 1/10
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Collection of Statistics Act, 2009
2. During the years, it is felt that the provisions of the Statistics Act are not adequate to meet the new challenges arising
out of liberalisation and globalisation regime manifested by the WTO Agreement. The need for statistical information for
planning and policy formulation has been expanded over the years due to market driven economy in various sectors
necessitating a re-look at the Statistics Act.
3. All those issues were studied by the National Statistical Commission appointed by the Central Government. The
Commission recommended that the Statistics Act needs to be amended as it covers only a part of the whole industrial
sector, leaving out many survey programmes in the Government set-up wherein information is being collected presently
on purely voluntary basis from households, enterprises, companies, public and private institutions, etc. It recommended
that necessary legal provisions should be made either by expanding the scope of the Statistics Act or by passing a new
Act.
4. In view of above, it is proposed to introduce the Collection of Statistics Bill, 2007 which is basically intended to
enhance the scope of collection of statistics and to repeal the Collection of Statistics Act, 1953.
5. Some of the salient features of the Bill are as follows:-
(i) the scope has been enhanced to collect all kinds of statistics not only from industrial/ commercial concerns but also
from individuals and households; and the local governments such as Panchayats and Municipalities are also
empowered to collect statistics under the Bill;
(ii) under this Bill, any Government Department/Organisation, either in the States or at the Centre or in the local
government, may appoint a statistics officer for each subject of data collection and, or for each geographical unit;
(iii) necessary provisions have also been made in the Bill for ensuring support to any statistics officer appointed by the
appropriate Government, in terms of providing necessary inputs, manpower, etc.;
(iv) the Central Government is empowered to make rules for avoiding duplication and for maintaining technical
standards in data collection in respect of "core statistics", which are important for the country for the purpose of ensuring
methodological standards, timeliness, credibility and completeness;
(v) all methods of data collection including oral interviews and filing of returns in electronic form have also been covered;
(vi) elaborate provisions have been made to ensure that the information collected under the Bill, shall not be used for
any purpose other than for statistical purposes; and
(vii) the penalties for offences, such as refusal to furnish information, have been rationalised and the offences have been
proposed to be tried in a summary way to avoid prolonged litigation.
6. The Bill seeks to achieve the aforesaid objectives.
[Dated 7th January, 2009]
An Act to facilitate the collection of statistics on economic, demographic, social, scientific and environmental aspects,
and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title, extent and commencement .-
(1)
This Act may be called the Collection of Statistics Act, 2009.
(2)
[ It extends to the whole of India:
Provided that it shall apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir in so far as it relates ro statistics pertaining to matters
falling under any of the entries specified in List I (Union List) or List III (Concurrent List) in the Seventh Schedule to the
Constitution as applicable to that State].
(3)
It shall come into force on such [date]
[11th June, 2010, vide notification No. S.O. 1416(E), dated 9th June, 2010.]
as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
2.
Definitions .-
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
Page 2/10
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Collection of Statistics Act, 2009
(a)
"agency" includes a person or persons engaged by the appropriate Government, directly or by outsourcing, for collection
of statistics;
(b)
"appropriate Government" means-
(i)
any Ministry or Department in the Central Government; or
(ii)
any Ministry or Department in a State Government or Union territory Administration; or
(iii)
any local Government that is to say, Panchayats or Municipalities, as the case may be, in relation to the collection of
statistics under a direction issued by it under section 3;
(c)
"informant" means any person, who supplies or is required to supply statistical information and includes a owner or
occupier or person in-charge or his authorised representative in respect of persons or a firm registered under the Indian
Partnership Act, 1932 (
9 of 1932
) or a co-operative society registered under any Co-operative Societies Act or a company registered under the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of 1860) or any
association recognised or registered under any law for the time being in force;
(d)
"information schedule" means any book, document, form, card, tape, disc or any storage media on which information
required is entered or recorded or is required to be entered or recorded for statistical purposes under this Act;
(da)
[ "nodal official" means the officer designated as a nodal officer under sub-section (1) of section 3A];
(e)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(f)
"sampling" means a statistical procedure by which information relating to a particular field of inquiry is derived by
applying statistical techniques to information obtained in respect of a proportion of the total number of persons or units
concerned relevant to the field of inquiry;
(g)
"statistical survey" means a census or a survey, whereby information is collected from all the informants in the field of
inquiry or from a sample thereof, by an appropriate Government under this Act or any other relevant Act, wholly or
primarily for the purposes of processing and summarising by appropriate statistical procedures;
(h)
"statistics" means statistics derived by collecting, classifying and using statistics, specially in or for large quantities or
numbers by appropriate Government from statistical surveys, administrative and registration records, and other forms
and papers, the statistical analysis of which are, whether in a published or unpublished form;
(i)
"statistics officer" means any officer appointed under section 4 for the purposes of any direction issued under section 3
of this Act.
Chapter II
Collection Of Statistics
3.
Collection of statistics .-
The appropriate Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that the statistics on economic,
demographic, social, scientific and environmental aspects shall be collected through a statistical survey or otherwise,
and thereupon the provisions of this Act shall apply in relation to those statistics:
Provided that-
(a)
Page 3/10
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Collection of Statistics Act, 2009
nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to authorise a State Government or Union territory Administration or
any local Government to issue any direction with respect to the collection of statistics relating to any matter falling under
any of the entries specified in List I (Union List) in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution; or
(b)
where the Central Government has issued any direction under this section for the collection of statistics relating to any
matter, no State Government or Union territory Administration or any local Government shall, except with the previous
approval of the Central Government, issue any similar direction for so long as the collection of such statistics by the
Central Government remain to be completed; or
(c)
where a State Government or Union territory Administration or any local Government has issued a direction under this
section for the collection of statistics relating to any matter, the Central Government shall not issue any similar direction
for so long as the collection of such statistics by the State Government remain to be completed, except in cases where
such statistics have to be collected with reference to two or more States or Union territories.
3A.
[
[Inserted by Act No. 21 of 2017, dated 5.8.2017]
(1)
The Central Government or a State Government or Union territory Administration Shall designate one of its officers as a
nodal officer for the purposes of statistics under this Act.
(2)
The nodal officer shall coordinate and supervise such statistical activities in the Central Government or the State
Government or Union territory Administration, as the case may be, in which he is designated, an shall exercise such
other powers and perform such other duties, as may be prescribed].
4.
Powers of appropriate Government to appoint statistics officer, etc .-
(1)
The appropriate Government may appoint or cause to appoint an officer to be the statistics officer for any geographical
unit for the purpose of collecting any statistics directed by it.
(2)
The appropriate Government may appoint any agency or persons working in such agencies to take, or aid in, or
supervise the collection of the statistics within any specified geographical unit and such agencies or persons, when so
appointed, shall be bound to serve accordingly.
(3)
The appropriate Government may employ on contract basis any agency or company or organisation or association or
person, on such terms and conditions and on such safeguards as may be prescribed, for the purpose of collecting the
statistics directed by it.
(4)
The appropriate Government may delegate to any statistics officer, as it thinks fit, the power of appointing agencies or
persons working in such agencies or employing on contract basis any agency or company or organisation or association
of persons, conferred on it by sub-sections (2) and (3) within the geographical unit for which such statistics officer is
appointed.
(5)
The appropriate Government may, by order specify the form, the particulars required or the interval within which, and the
statistics officer to whom, the statistical information by the informants shall be furnished.
(6)
The appropriate Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, delegate to any statistics officer, as it
thinks fit, any power conferred under sub-section (5) for the purpose of the collection of statistics under a direction
issued by it under section 3.
5.
Power of statistics officer to call for information .-
The statistics officer may, for the purpose of collection of statistics on any specified subject in any geographical unit for
Page 4/10
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Collection of Statistics Act, 2009
which the said officer was appointed-
(a)
serve or cause to be served on any informant a notice in writing asking him to furnish the information specified under
sub-section (5) of section 4 or cause a information schedule to be given to any informant for the purpose of its being
filled up; or
(b)
cause all questions relating to the subject to be asked from any informant; or
(c)
seek information through tele fax or telephone or e-mail or in any other electronic mode or in a combination of different
modes for different sets of information so specified.
6.
Duty of informants .-
The informants who are asked to furnish any information under the provisions of this Act shall be bound to furnish the
information so asked in the prescribed manner to the best of knowledge or belief; and in cases where only a portion of a
particular class or group of persons or units is asked to furnish information because of any sampling procedure, it shall
not be a defence in failure on the part of any informant to furnish that information, if so asked.
7.
All agencies to assist .-
Every agency shall render such help and assistance and furnish such information to the statistics officer or a person or
an agency authorised by him in writing, as he may require for the discharge of his functions, and shall make available for
inspection and examination of such records, plans and other documents, as may be necessary.
8.
Right of access to records or documents .-
The statistics officer or any person authorised by him in writing in this behalf shall, for the purposes of collection of any
statistics under this Act, have access to any relevant record or document in the possession of any informant required to
furnish any information under this Act, and may enter at any reasonable time any premises where he believes such
record or document is kept and may inspect or take copies of relevant records or documents or ask any question
necessary for obtaining any information required to be furnished under this Act.
Chapter III
Disclosure Of Information In Certain Cases And Restrictions Of Their Use
9.
Security of information. -
[(1) The Statistics officer or any person or agencies authorised under this Act shall, for statistical purpose, use any
information furnished under section 6 in such manner as may be prescribed.].
(2)
No person other than a person engaged in the work of collection of statistics under this Act or preparation of statistics
resultant to such collection shall be permitted to see any information schedule or any answer to a question asked,
except for the purposes of a prosecution under this Act.
(3)
No information contained in any information schedule and no answer to any question asked shall, except for the
purposes of a prosecution under this Act, be separately published, or disclosed without suppressing the identification of
informants to any agency.
(4)
All statistical information published by any agency shall be arranged in such a manner so as to prevent any particulars
becoming identifiable by any person (other than the informant by whom those particulars were supplied) as the
particulars relating to the informant who supplied it, even through the process of elimination, unless-
(a)
that informant has consented to their publication in that manner; or
(b)
their publication in that manner could not reasonably have been foreseen by the concerned agency or any employee
thereof.
Page 5/10
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Collection of Statistics Act, 2009
(5)
For the purposes of sub-section (4), the Central Government may make such rules or make such arrangement, as it
may consider necessary.
10.
Appropriate Government authorised to disclose certain information .-
Notwithstanding the provisions contained in section 9 of this Act, the appropriate Government may disclose the following
information, namely:-
(a)
information supplied by informant in respect of which disclosure is consented to in writing by the informant or by any
person authorised by the said informant;
(b)
information otherwise available to the public under any Act or as a public document;
(c)
information in the form of an index or list of the names and addresses of informants together with the classification, if
any, allotted to them and the number of persons engaged.
11.
Disclosure of information schedules for  bona fide research or statistical purposes .-
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions contained in section 9 of this Act, the appropriate Government may disclose individual
returns or formats or information schedules to other agency or person or institutions or universities solely for  bona fide
research or statistical purposes pursuant to their functions and duties.
(2)
No individual return or information schedule shall be disclosed pursuant to this section unless -
(a)
the name and address of the informant by whom the schedule or related information was supplied is deleted;
(b)
every agency or person or institutions or universities involved in the research or statistical project makes a declaration to
use the schedules disclosed to them only for  bona fide research or statistical purposes; and
(c)
the appropriate Government, making such disclosure is satisfied that the security of the schedules and any information
contained therein shall not be impaired.
(3)
The published results of any research or statistical project shall not divulge any more information than what the agency
authorised for collection of statistics could publish under this Act.
(4)
Every agency or person or institutions or universities to whom any individual return or information schedule is disclosed
under this section shall comply with directions given by the agency authorised for collection of statistics making the
disclosure relating to the schedules and any information contained therein.
12.
Disclosure of historical documents .-
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 9 of this Act, the appropriate Government may release such documents
relating to information schedules, which in its opinion have attained historical importance.
13.
Security of recorded information .-
The statistics officer or any person or agency authorised for collection of statistics shall, while copying or recording any
statistical information collected pursuant to this Act from individual returns, information schedules, worksheets or any
other confidential source by means of cards, tapes, discs, film or any other method, whether using encoded or plain
language symbols for processing, storage or reproduction of particulars, take and cause to take such steps as are
necessary to ensure that the security provisions of this Act are complied with.
14.
Restrictions on use of information .-
Page 6/10
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Collection of Statistics Act, 2009
Save as otherwise provided under this Act,-
(a)
no information obtained pursuant to this Act and no copy of the information in the possession of any informant shall be
disclosed or used as evidence in any proceedings whatsoever; and
(b)
no person who has access to any information because of his official position in the collection of any statistics shall be
compelled in any proceedings whatsoever to give oral testimony regarding the information or to produce any schedule,
document, or record with respect to any information obtained in the course of administering this Act, except in the
manner provided under this Act.
Chapter IV
Offences And Penalties
15.
Penalty for neglect or refusal to supply particulars .-
(1)
Whoever, fails to produce any books of accounts, vouchers, documents or other business records or whoever neglects
or refuses to fill in and supply the particulars required in any information schedule or return given or sent to him or
whoever neglects or refuses to answer any question or inquiry addressed to him as may be required under or for the
purposes of any provision of this Act and the rules made thereunder, shall be punishable with a fine which may extend
to one thousand rupees or, in the case of a company, with a fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.
(2)
The conviction of a person or company for an offence shall not relieve him or it of the obligations under sub-section (1)
and if after the expiry of fourteen days from the date of conviction, he or it still fails to give the required particulars or
continues to neglect or refuses to fill in and supply the particulars or to answer the question or inquiry, then he or it shall
be punishable with a further fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or, in the case of a company, with a fine
which may extend to five thousand rupees, for each day after the first during which the failure continues.
16.
Penalty for making false statement .-
Whoever, wilfully makes any false or misleading statement or material omission in any information schedule or return
filled in or supplied, or in answer to any question asked to him under this Act or the rules made thereunder, shall be
punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with a fine which may extend to one
thousand rupees or, in the case of a company, with a fine which may extend to five thousand rupees or with both.
17.
Penalty for mutilation or defacement of information schedule .-
Whoever, destroys, defaces, removes, or mutilates any information schedule, form, or other document containing
particulars collected under this Act or requesting any such particulars, shall be punishable with simple imprisonment for
a term which may extend to six months or with a fine which may extend to two thousand rupees or, in the case of a
company with a fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees or with both.
18.
Penalty for obstruction of employees .-
Whoever, interferes with, hinders, or obstructs any employee in the exercise of any power or duty conferred by this Act,
shall be punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with a fine which may
extend to two thousand rupees or, in the case of a company with a fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees or
with both.
19.
Penalty for other offences .-Whoever-
(a)
acts in contravention of or fails to comply with any provision of this Act or any requirement imposed under this Act; or
(b)
wilfully deceives or attempts to deceive any statistics officer or any agency or any employee thereof, shall be punishable
with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with a fine which may extend to two thousand
rupees or, in the case of a company, with a fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees or with both.
Page 7/10
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Collection of Statistics Act, 2009
20.
Penalty for failure to carry out duties and functions by employees .-
If any person employed in the execution of any duty or functions under this Act,-
(a)
omits without lawful excuse to carry out his duty, or knowingly makes any false declaration, statement or return; or
(b)
pretends performance of his duties or obtains or seeks to obtain information which he is not authorised to obtain; or
(c)
fails to keep inviolate the secrecy of the information gathered or entered in the information schedules collected pursuant
to this Act and, except as permitted under this Act, divulges the contents of any schedule filled in or any information
furnished by any informant under this Act, shall be punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to
six months or with a fine which may extend to two thousand rupees or, in the case of a company, with a fine which may
extend to ten thousand rupees or with both.
21.
Penalty for impersonation of employee .-
Whoever, not being authorised to collect statistics under the provisions of this Act, by words, conduct or demeanour
pretends that he is authorised to do so, shall be punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months or with a fine which may extend to two thousand rupees or, in the case of a company, with a fine which may
extend to ten thousand rupees or with both.
22.
General penalty .-
Whoever, commits an offence under this Act for which no penalty is prescribed elsewhere than in this section, shall be
punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with a fine which may extend to two
thousand rupees or, in the case of a company, with a fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees or with both.
23.
Offences by companies .-
(1)
Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every person who at the time the offence was
committed was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment provided in
this Act, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to,
any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.
Explanation .-For the purpose of this section-
(a)
"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals; and
(b)
"Director", in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.
24.
Cognizance of offences .-
No Court shall take cognizance of any offence under this Act except on a complaint made by the appropriate
Government or an officer authorised in this behalf by such appropriate Government or, as the case may be, the statistics
officer, and no Court inferior to that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the first class shall try any
offence punishable under this Act.
Page 8/10
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Collection of Statistics Act, 2009
25.
Sanction for prosecution for offence .-
No prosecution for an offence committed by any informant shall be instituted except by or with the sanction of the
statistics officer, and no prosecution for an offence committed by persons other than informants shall be instituted
except by or with the consent of the appropriate Government.
26.
Power of Court to try cases summarily .-
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), all offences under this Act
shall be tried in a summary way by a Judicial Magistrate of the first class or by a Metropolitan Magistrate and the
provisions of sections 262 to 265 (both inclusive) of the said Code shall, as far as may be, apply to such trial:
Provided that when in the course of, a summary trial under this section it appears to the Magistrate that the nature of the
case is such that it is, for any reason, undesirable to try the case summarily, the Magistrate shall after hearing the
parties, record an order to that effect and thereafter recall any witness who may have been examined and proceed to
hear or rehear the case in the manner provided by the said Code.
Chapter V
Power In Respect Of Core Statistics
27.
Power in respect of core statistics .-
Without prejudice to the provisions contained in this Act, the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, declare from time to time any subject for the collection of statistics of national importance as "core statistics"
and make such arrangement, as it may consider necessary, for regulating the collection and dissemination of statistics
on the subject so declared.
Chapter VI
Miscellaneous
28.
Power to give directions .-
The Central Government may give directions to any State Government or Union territory Administration or to any local
Government that is to say Panchayats or Municipalities, as to the carrying into execution of this Act in the State or Union
territory or Panchayats or Municipalities, as the case may be.
29.
Public servants .-
Any statistics officer and any person authorised for the collection of statistics or preparation of official statistics under the
provisions of this Act shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code
(45 of 1860).
30.
Bar of jurisdiction .-
No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in respect of any matter which the appropriate
Government or the statistics officer or the agency is empowered by or under this Act to determine, and no injunction
shall be granted by any Court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power
conferred by or under this Act.
31.
Protection of action taken in good faith .-
No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against the appropriate Government or agency or any statistics officer or
other officers or employees in respect of anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this
Act or the rules or directions issued thereunder.
32.
Overriding effect .-
The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for
the time being in force except in relation to the conduct of human population census as per the directions, if any, issued
under the Census Act, 1948 (
37 of 1948
Page 9/10
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Collection of Statistics Act, 2009
).
33.
Power to make rules .-
(1)
The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act
[subject to the condition of previous publication].
(2)
In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, the Central Government may make rules
under this section for all or any of the following matters, namely:-
(a)
principles for co-ordinating as effectively as possible to achieve the objectives of section 3 including nomination and
registration of statistics officers by the Central Government and also to avoid unnecessary duplication in the collection of
statistics;
(aa)
[ the coordination and supervision of statistical activities by the nodal officer and the powers and duties of the nodal
officer under sub-section (2) of section 3A;]
[Inserted by Act No. 21 of 2017, dated 5.8.2017]
;
(b)
the terms, conditions and safeguards under which any person or agency or company or organisation or association may
be engaged by the appropriate Government for the purpose of collection of statistics under sub-section (3) of section 4;
(c)
principles for prescribing the form and manner in which the information may be required to be furnished;
(d)
principles for prescribing the manner in which the right of access to documents and the right of entry conferred by
section 8 may be exercised; and
(da)
[ the manner of use of information under sub-section (1) of section 9;]
[Inserted by Act No. 21 of 2017, dated 5.8.2017]
;
(e)
any other matter which is to be or may be prescribed under this Act.
(3)
Every rule made by the Central Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each
House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in
two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case
may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything
previously done under that rule.
34.
Repeal and savings .-
(1)
The Collection of Statistics Act, 1953 (32 of 1953) is hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the said Act shall be deemed to have been done
or taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act.
(3)
All rules made under the said Act shall continue to be in force and operate till new rules are made under this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 10/10