
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Salaries, Allowances and Conditions of Service of Financia...
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Salaries, Allowances and
Conditions of Service of Financial Advisor) Rules 2009
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/87225270/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Salaries, Allowances and Conditions of Service of Financial Advisor) Rules 2009
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Salaries, Allowances and Conditions of Service of Financial Advisor) Rules 2009
Rule
THE-DAMODAR-VALLEY-CORPORATION-SALARIES-ALLOWANCES-AND-CONDITIONS-OF-SERVICE-OF-FINANC
IAL-ADVISOR-RULES-2009 of 2009
Published on 24 February 2009
Commenced on 24 February 2009
[This is the version of this document from 24 February 2009.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Salaries, Allowances and Conditions of Service of Financial Advisor) Rules 2009
Published vide Notification New Delhi, the 24th February, 2009
Ministry of Power
G.S.R. 247(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 59 read with clause (a) of section 7, of the Damodar
Valley Corporation Act 1948, 14 of 1948 the Central Government hereby supersede the Damodar Valley Corporation
(Appointment of Financial Advisor) Rules 2005 notified vide Notification No. G.S.R. 518(E) dated 3rd August, 2005
(F.No. 15/3/2001-DVC) and makes the following rules, namely :-
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Salaries, Allowances and Conditions of Service of Financia...
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Damodar Valley Corporation (Salaries, allowances and conditions of service of Financial
Advisor) Rules 2009.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Number of posts, classification and scale of pay.
- The number of post, its classification and the scale of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in columns 2 to 4 of
the Schedule annexed to these rules.
3.
Method of recruitment, age, qualification etc.
- The method of recruitment to the said post, age limit, qualification and other matters relating thereto shall be as
specified in columns 5 to 14 of the said Schedule aforesaid.
4.
Disqualification.
- No person shall be eligible tor appointment to the said post:
(a)
who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living; or
(b)
who, having a spouse living, has entered into or contracted a marriage with any person,
Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the personal law
applicable to such person and the other party to the and that there are other grounds for so doing, exempt any person
from the operation of this rule.
5.
- The conditions of service for which the provisions have not been made in these rules, including entitlement of leave
salary, leave travel concession, travelling allowances, medical facilities, shall be such as are admissible to a Group 'A'
officer of the corresponding status in the Central Government.
6.
Power to relax.
- Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by order, for reasons
to be recorded in writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class of category or persons.
7.
Savings.
- Nothing in these rules shall affect reservations, relaxation of age limit and other concessions required to be provided
for the Schedule Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of persons in accordance with the orders
issued by the Central Government from time to time in this regard.
Schedule
Name of the Post
Number of the Post
Classification
Scale of pay
Whether Selection or Non-selection Post
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
Financial Advisor
1 (one)
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Salaries, Allowances and Conditions of Service of Financia...
Group A
Rs. 18,400-500-22,400 (Pre-revised scale - with
Central Dearness Allowance existing as on 31.12.2005)
Selection
Whether benefit of added years of service
admissible Under Rule 30 of the Central Civil Service (Pension)
Age limit for direct recruits
Educational and  other qualification required
for direct recruit
Whether age and educational qualification
prescribed for direct recruits will apply in the case of promotee
Period of probation, if any
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable
Method of recruitment whether by direct
recruitment or by promotion or by deputation or transfer and
percentage of the vacancies to be filled by various methods
In case of recruitment by promotion or
deputation or transfer, grades from which promotion or deputation
or transfer to be made and duration
If Departmental Promotion Committee exists,
what is composition
Circumstances in which Union Public Service
Commission is to be consulted in making recruitment.
(11)
(12)
(13)
(14)
Deputation/Contract
Qualified Chartered Accountants/Cost
Accountants/MBA with specilisation in finance with post
qualification experience of at least 20 years in handling
corporate accounting and corporate finance matters in Central or State level Public Sector
Undertakings or Autonomous Organisations under Central or State
Governments, with two years' experience in the following scale of
pay or equivalent:(i) Rs. 19,500-4% -25,600 (with Industrial
dearness allowances)(ii) Rs. 14,300 - 18,300 (pre-revised
scale with Central dearness allowances existing as on
31.12.2005.)ORGroup "A" officers from any of
the Accounts Services of Central Government or State Governments
working in the pay scale of Rs. 14,300-18,300 (pre-revised) scale
existing as on 31.12.2005) or equivalent and the applicants
should have ten years' experience in handling corporate in
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Damodar Valley Corporation (Salaries, Allowances and Conditions of Service of Financia...
handling corporate accounting and Term of office of the post of FA,
DVC: The term of office of Financial Advisor, Damodar Valley
Corporation shall be five years from the date on which he or she
joins the post or till he or she attains the age of
superannuation in his or her parent cadre or till further orders
are issued by the Central Government, whichever is earlier.
Search-cum-Selection Committee shall be
constituted as per the instructions issued by the Central
Government from time to time
Consultation with Union Public Service
Commission not required.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4