
----- PAGE 1 -----
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2009
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules,
2009
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/118851520/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2009
UNION OF INDIA
India
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2009
Rule THE-UNIVERSITY-GRANTS-COMMISSION-INSPECTION-OF-UNIVERSITIES-RULES-2009 of 2009
Published on 6 April 2009
Commenced on 6 April 2009
[This is the version of this document from 6 April 2009.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2009
Published vide Notification New Delhi, the 6th April, 2009
Ministry of Human Resource Development
(Department of Higher Education)
G.S.R 240(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (g) of sub-section (2) of Section 25 of the University
Grants Commission Act, 1956 (
3 of 1956
) and in supersession of the University Grant Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2004, except in respect  of
things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules,
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2009
namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules  may be called the University Grants Commission (inspection of Universities) Rules, 2009.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules unless the context otherwise requires,
(a)
"Act" means the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (
3 of 1956
);
(b)
"Central University" means a University established by or under an Act of Parliament;
(c)
"Committee" means the Inspection Committee constituted under rule 3;
(d)
"Council" means a regulatory body established by or under an Act of Parliament for maintenance of standards in a
particular filed of education and includes,
(i)
All India Council for Technical Education;
(ii)
University Grants Commission;
(iii)
Medical Council of India;
(iv)
Indian Council for Agricultural Research;
(v)
National Council for Teacher Education;
(vi)
Dental Council of India;
(vii)
Pharmacy Council of India;
(ix)
Bar Council of India;
(x)
Central Council of Homeopathy;
(xi)
Central Council for Indian Medicine;
(xii)
Council of Architecture;
(xiii)
Distance Education Council;
(e)
"Financial Year" means the year commencing on the 1st day of April and ending on the 31st day of March of the
following calendar year;
(f)
"NAAC" means the National Academic and Accreditation Council;
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2009
(g)
"section" means section of the Act;
(h)
"State University" means a university established by or under an Act of a State Legislature but does not include a Private
University established under a State legislation;
(i)
"University" means an academic institution defined under clause (1) of Section 2 of the University Grants Commission
Act, 1956.
(2)
Words and expressions used and not defined herein but defined in the Act, shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Inspection Committee.
(1)
The Commission shall appoint an Inspection Committee, as provided under Section 13 of the Act, for the purpose of
ascertaining the financial needs of a University or its standards of teaching, examination and research, or for both.
(2)
The Committee shall consist of the following members, namely :-
(i)
two Vice-Chancellors, either serving or retired, from any Central or State University.
(ii)
not less than three and not more than five members, out of which one member shall be a woman, from amongst
professors in any University, having special knowledge of the courses being conducted in the University to be inspected
:
Provided that none of the members of the Committee under clauses (i) and (ii) shall be employee, whether past or
present, of the University to be inspected.
(iii)
one member from each of the Councils exercising jurisdiction over the courses being conducted in the University to be
inspected.
(iv)
one member from National Academic and Accreditation Council or an equivalent authorised accreditation agency.
(3)
The Commission shall nominate one of the members appointed under clause (i) of sub-rule (2) to act as the Chairman of
the Committee.
(4)
The Commission shall nominate one of the members appointed under clause (ii) of sub-rule (2) to act as the
Member-Secretary of the Committee.
4.
Periodicity of Inspections.
- The periodicity of inspections of a University shall be as under:
(1)
A University which has been accredited by National Academic and Accreditation Council or an equivalent authorised
accreditation agency and which has been rated as Class "B" or above or its equivalent, need not be inspected by the
Commission till the date of validity of such accreditation.
(2)
A University which has been in existence for a period not exceeding five years and not covered under sub-rule (1) shall
be inspected annually.
(3)
A University which has been in existence for a period exceeding five years and not covered under sub-rule (1) shall be
inspected once in every two years:
Provided that a University may be inspected before the expiry of the period specified in this rule on account of any
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2009
exigency, to be, specifically recorded by the Commission, which, in the opinion of the Commission, warrants such
inspection.
5.
Scheme of Inspection of University.
(1)
The Commission shall notify a scheme for inspection of all the Universities in the month of January every year.
(2)
The scheme of inspection prepared under sub-rule (1) shall also be made available on the website of the Commission
for general information.
(3)
The Commission shall communicate to the University in the Form annexed to these rules, the period during which the
inspection shall be carried out by the Committee.
6.
Consultations with the University.
(1)
The Committee shall hold consultations with the University to be inspected so as to facilitate the University to provide its
views on the subject-matter of such inspection.
(2)
For the purpose of such consultations, the University shall nominate not more than three representatives who may
include the Vice-Chancellor or the Registrar or such other officers or teachers as may be nominated by the
Vice-Chancellor of the University, and who shall represent the views of the University, and their names shall be
communicated to the Commission.
(3)
If the Committee proposes to physically inspect any faculty or department or any part or parts of the University, the
nominees of the University shall be associated in such inspection but the nominees of the University shall not be
considered as members of the Committee.
(4)
Nothing in this rule shall preclude the Committee from having discussions with such other employee(s) or visiting faculty
of the University as may be considered necessary by the Committee for arriving at the facts.
Explanation: For the purpose of this rule, the words "consultations" or "association" shall mean the holding of
discussions or seeking information or obtaining clarifications to queries that may arise during the course of the
inspection process but shall not provide a right to the nominees of the University to be part of the internal deliberations
of the Committee for the purpose of arriving at any conclusion or providing any recommendation to the Commission.
7.
Time frame for the Inspection Process.
(1)
The Committee shall submit its detailed report along with recommendations within one month from the date the
Commission has fixed for inspection under sub-rule (3) of rule 5 and in case any grave financial irregularity is noticed
during the inspection process, the Committee shall specifically draw attention to such irregularity in its report.
(2)
The report of the Committee shall include the observations or comments or clarifications, if any, provided by the
nominees of the University associated with the inspection under rule 6.
(3)
The Commission shall forthwith, but not later than fifteen days from the date of receipt of the report of the Committee,
communicate the report along with the recommendations to the University concerned for submitting a plan of action for
acting upon the recommendations or such other comments or opinions as the University may like to provide.
(4)
The University shall submit its plan of action or such other comments or opinions within a period of one month from the
date of receipt of communication from the Commission under sub-rule (3), failing which the Commission shall proceed
further on the assumption that the University has no comment or opinion to offer on the report and its recommendations.
(5)
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2009
The Commission shall consider the response, if any, received from the University and recommend to the University, the
action to be taken as a result of such inspection process, within one month from the date of receipt of response.
(6)
The time provided to the University for acting upon the recommendations should not exceed six months from the date of
decision of the commission.
Provided that in case the Commission decides to provide a time period exceeding six months for acting upon any
recommendation or set of recommendations, it shall specifically record the time period so provided and the reasons
thereof.
8.
Failure to comply with directions.
- The failure on the part of the University to implement the recommendations of the Commission or to rectify the
shortcomings pointed out by the Commission under sub-rule (5) of rule 7 within the time period specified under sub-rule
(6) of rule 7, or regarding any financial irregularities committed by the University and reported by the Committee under
sub-rule (1) of rule 7, shall render the University liable for action under Section 14 of the Act besides the action under
Section 12B of the Act.
9.
Power of the Central Government to issue directions.
- Notwithstanding anythings contained in these rules, the Central Government may direct the University Grants
Commission to conduct the inspection of a University as and when deemed necessary to safeguard the standard of
teaching examination and research or to inquire into cases of financial irregularity brought to the notice of the Central
Government.
Annexure
Form
(See Rule 5)
Name/ particulars of the University proposed to be
inspected
Date of proposed Inspection
Records/papers required for inspection
Name (s) of Members of the Committee conducting
the inspection
Name and particulars of the authorities of the
University who may be associated in the inspection
Any other additional informations which may be
required
Remarks
From
To
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Form
(See Rule 5)
Sl.No
Name and particulars of University proposed to
be inspected
Period of proposed Inspection
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The University Grants Commission (Inspection of Universities) Rules, 2009
Details of record/papers required for Inspection
Name of the Members of the Inspection Committee
constituted under Rule 3
Names and particulars of the authorities,
officers, teachers of the University to be consulted/associated
under Rule 6
Any other additional information that may be
required
Remarks
From
To
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6