
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Of India (Salaries, Allowances And Other Condit...
The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Of India (Salaries,
Allowances And Other Conditions Of Service Of The Chairperson And
Members) Rules, 2009
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/196933356/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Of India (Salaries, Allowances And Other Conditions Of Service Of The
Chairperson And Members) Rules, 2009
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Of India (Salaries, Allowances And Other Conditions Of Service Of The
Chairperson And Members) Rules, 2009
Rule
THE-AIRPORTS-ECONOMIC-REGULATORY-AUTHORITY-OF-INDIA-SALARIES-ALLOWANCES-AND-OTHER-CON
DITIONS-OF-SERVICE-OF-THE-CHAIRPERSON-AND-MEMBERS-RULES-2009 of 2009
Published on 13 May 2009
Commenced on 13 May 2009
[This is the version of this document from 13 May 2009.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Of India (Salaries, Allowances And Other Conditions Of Service Of The
Chairperson And Members) Rules, 2009
Published vide G.S.R. 321(E), dated 13.5.2009, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(i),
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Of India (Salaries, Allowances And Other Condit...
dated 13.5.2009.
255.
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 51 of the Airports Economic Regulatory
Authority of India Act, 2008 (
27 of 2008
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:--
1.
Short title and commencement .-(1) These rules may be called The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India
(Salaries, Allowances and Other Conditions of Service of the Chairperson and Members) Rules, 2009.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions .-In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,- -
(a)
"Act", means the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India Act, 2008;
(b)
All other words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act, shall have the same meanings
respectively as assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Salaries and allowances .-(1) The Chairperson shall be entitled to a monthly salary of Rs. 80,000 (fixed).
(2)
[ The Member shall be entitled to a monthly salary in the Pay Band 'HAG' in the scale of Rs. 67,000 (annual increment
@ 3%) - 79,000.]
(3)
The Chairperson and a Member shall be entitled to draw dearness allowance and city compensatory allowance at the
rates applicable to a Group `A' officer of the Central Government drawing an equivalent pay:
Provided that in case of appointment of a person as the Chairperson or a Member who has retired from the service
under Central Government or State Government and who is in receipt of, or has received or has become entitled to
receive any retirement benefits by way of pension, gratuity, employers contribution to the Contributory Provident Fund or
other forms of retirement benefits, the pay of such Chairperson or Member, shall be reduced by the gross amount of
pension or retirement benefits, if any, except pension equivalent of gratuity, drawn or to be drawn by him:
Provided further that if a person who has retired from any service including service under Central Government or State
Government, Public Sector Undertaking or Autonomous Body is appointed as the Chairperson or a Member, he shall be
entitled to receive dearness allowance at the same rate as applicable to a Group `A' officer of the Central Government
drawing an equivalent pay, but he shall not be entitled to receive dearness relief on pension during the period he holds
office as such Chairperson or a Member.
4.
Leave .-(1) The Chairperson and a Member shall be entitled to thirty days of earned leave for every year of service.
(2)
The payment of leave salary during leave shall be governed by rule 40 of the Central Civil Service (Leave) Rules, 1972.
(3)
The Chairperson and a Member shall be entitled to encashment of fifty percent of earned leave to his credit at any time.
5.
General Provident Fund or Contributory Provident Fund, Pension and Gratuity .-(1) The Chairperson and Member shall
be governed by Contributory Provident Fund Rules and no option to subscribe under General Provident Fund (GPF)
Rules will be available.
(2)
No additional Pension and Gratuity shall be admissible for service rendered in the Regulatory Authority.
6.
Leave travel concession, travelling allowance and daily allowance .--The Chairperson and a Member shall be entitled to
travelling allowance and daily allowance on tour as applicable to Government Servants drawing equivalent Grade pay
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Of India (Salaries, Allowances And Other Condit...
and they shall also be entitled to facility of temporary Government accommodation in Guest Houses or Inspection
Bungalows under the control of the Central Government, on payment of normal rent at out-stations, of the class to which
Government servants of equivalent pay are eligible.
7.
Medical treatment .-The Chairperson and a Member shall be entitled to Medical treatment and Hospital facilities as
provided in the Central Government Health Scheme for retired Government servants and at places where the such
Scheme is not in operation, the Chairperson and Members who are not Government servants shall be entitled to the
facilities as provided in the Central Service (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1944.
8.
Official visits abroad .-(1) The Chairperson and a Member shall be entitled to undertake official visits abroad with the
prior approval of the Minister-in-charge of the Ministry of Civil Aviation and after political clearance from the Ministry of
External Affairs.
(2)
The daily allowance and the provision for hotel accommodation during the period of tour abroad shall be regulated in
accordance with the Government instructions as applicable from time to time to officers of equivalent pay in the
Government of India and Indian Missions abroad shall take care of arrangements and extend facilities as applicable to
Group "A" officers of the Central Government drawing an equivalent pay.
9.
Transport allowance .-The Chairperson and a Member shall be entitled to fixed reimbursement of transport allowance
between Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 5,000 per month as laid down by the Department of Personnel and Training from time to
time for the use and maintenance of his personal car for transportation between residence and office and it shall include
the salary of a driver who shall not be a Government servant.
10.
Accommodation .-The Chairperson and a Member shall be given the option of claiming House Rent Allowance at the
rate of thirty percent of the basic pay drawn if they stay at Delhi but no house shall be hired by the Authority or allotted
by the Government and in case of a satellite town surrounding the National Capital Territory of Delhi, the Chairperson
and a Member shall be entitled to rented unfurnished accommodation with built-up area measuring around three
hundred and fifty square meters for Chairperson and three hundred square meters for a Member with suitable open land
area.
11.
Oath of office and secrecy .-The Chairperson and a Member shall, before entering upon the office, make and subscribe
before the Minister an oath of office and secrecy, set out in Forms I and II annexed to these rules.
12.
Telephone facility, official meetings and entertainment expense .-The Chairperson and a Member shall be entitled to
telephone facilities, official meetings and entertainment expenses as admissible to a Group "A" officer of the Central
Government drawing an equivalent pay.
13.
Residuary matters .-Matters relating to the terms and conditions of service of the Chairperson or a Member with respect
to which no express provision has been made in these rules, shall be such as are admissible to a Group "A" officer of
the Central Government drawing an equivalent pay.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3