
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Pneumatic Tyres And Tubes For Automotive Vehicles (Quality Control) Order, 2009
The Pneumatic Tyres And Tubes For Automotive Vehicles (Quality
Control) Order, 2009
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/196450226/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Pneumatic Tyres And Tubes For Automotive Vehicles (Quality Control) Order, 2009
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Pneumatic Tyres And Tubes For Automotive Vehicles (Quality Control) Order, 2009
Rule THE-PNEUMATIC-TYRES-AND-TUBES-FOR-AUTOMOTIVE-VEHICLES-QUALITY-CONTROL-ORDER-2009 of
2009
Published on 19 November 2009
Commenced on 19 November 2009
[This is the version of this document from 19 November 2009.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Pneumatic Tyres And Tubes For Automotive Vehicles (Quality Control) Order, 2009
Published vide Notification No. S.O. 2953 (E), dated 19.11.2009.
1628.
S.O. 2953 (E), dated 19.11.2009. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the Bureau of Indian Standards
Act, 1986 (63 of 1986), the Central Government after consulting the Bureau of Indian Standards, hereby makes the
following Order, namely:-
1.
Short Title and commencement.
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Pneumatic Tyres And Tubes For Automotive Vehicles (Quality Control) Order, 2009
(1)
This Order may be called the Pneumatic Tyres and Tubes for Automotive Vehicles (Quality Control) Order, 2009.
(2)
It shall come into force immediately on completion of 180 days of its publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a)
"Act" means the Bureau of Indian Standards Act, 1986 (63 of 19-86);
(b)
"Appropriate Authority" means an officer not below the rank of an Under Secretary in the Department of Industrial Policy
and Promotion (DIPP) or an Under Secretary in the Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport and Highways, Government of
India or an officer not below the rank of a General Manager, District Industries Centre of a State or Union Territory
Government;
(c)
"Bureau" means the Bureau of Indian Standards;
(d)
"Pneumatic Tyres and Tubes for Automotive Vehicles" specified in column (2) of the Schedule;
(e)
"Pneumatic Tyres" includes "Pneumatic Tubes" also;
(f)
"Schedule" means the Schedule annexed to this Order;
(g)
"dealer" in relation to Pneumatic Tyres means a person who, or a firm or any other legal entity which carries on, direct or
otherwise, the business of buying, selling, supplying or distributing Pneumatic Tyres whether in cash or for deferred
payment or for commission, remuneration or other valuable consideration;
(h)
"manufacturer" in relation to Pneumatic Tyres for Automotive Vehicles, means a person who, or a firm or any other legal
entity which, produces, makes or manufactures Pneumatic Tyres for Automotive Vehicles and includes a person who, or
a firm or any other legal entity which claims such Pneumatic Tyres for Automotive Vehicles to be produced, made or
manufactured by any such person or firm or any other legal entity as the case may be;
(i)
"Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM)" in relation to Automotive Vehicles, means a person who, or a firm or any
other legal entity which, produces makes or manufactures Automotive Vehicles and includes a person who, or a firm or
any ether legal entity which claims such Automotive Vehicles to be produced, made or manufactured by any such
person or firm or any other legal entity as the case may be;
(j)
"Specified Standard" means the Indian Standards as specified in the corresponding entry in column(3) of the Schedule;
(k)
"State Government, includes a Union Territory Administration also;
(l)
"Standard Mark" means the Bureau of Indian Standards Certification Mark specified by the Bureau to represent a
particular Indian Standard;
(m)
"Importer" means a person, a firm or any other legal entity that imports pneumatic tyres or causes its imports from a
foreign country into customs territory of India;
(n)
"Exporter" means a person, a firm or any other legal entity that experts pneumatic tyre from India to another country;
(o)
All other words and expressions, used but no, defined in this Order shall have the meanings respectively assigned to
them in the Act.
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Pneumatic Tyres And Tubes For Automotive Vehicles (Quality Control) Order, 2009
3.
Prohibition regarding manufacture, sale, distribution etc.
(1)
No person shall by himself or through any person on his behalf, manufacture, import, store for sale, sell distribute
Pneumatic Tyres which do not conform to the Specified Standard and which do not bear the Standard Mark of the
Bureau on obtaining Certification marks licence;
Provided that nothing in this Order shall apply in relation to Pneumatic Tyres for the following:
(a)
Pneumatic tyres manufactured in India for exports;
(b)
Pneumatic tyres imported by Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) and/or their authorized companies for fitment on
vehicles or after sales, meant for exports;
Note:- (1) In both cases, exports may be either directly as individual components or as part of a vehicle completely built
or in drive away chassis form or in Completely Knocked Down (CKD) or Semi-Knocked Down (SKD) condition.
(2)
Provided that nothing in this Order shall apply in relation to export of pneumatic tyres required for export, which
conforms to any specification required by the foreign buyer.
(c)
Pneumatic tyres imported as part of Completely Built Unit (CBU), irrespective of the value of the CBU, so long as such
pneumatic tyres meet the requirements of specified standard. In such cases self-declaration by CBU manufacturers in
the vehicle manual to the effect that the tyres fitted in the vehicles meet the requirements of the BIS and they comply
with the requirements under the Central Motor Vehicles Rules (CMVR), 1989, would suffice. If vehicles are already
exempted by Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) notifications for homologation in India, self-declaration will not
be required;
(d)
Pneumatic Tyres imported or manufactured for research and development purposes;
(e)
Pneumatic tyres imported by Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) for fitment on vehicles manufactured in India for
domestic market (completely built or drive away chassis form). In such cases, self-declaration by the OEM in the vehicle
manual to the effect that tyres fitted in the vehicles meet the requirements of BIS and that they comply with the
requirements under the Central Motor Vehicles Rules (CMVR), 1989, would suffice;
(f)
Pneumatic tyres not manufactured domestically and imported by Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) or
manufacturers for selling in replacement market through their authorized dealers. The list of pneumatic tyres not
manufactured domestically and imparted would be reviewed every three months by a Committee chaired by an officer of
the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion and having members from Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport and
Highways, Central Institute of Road Transport (CIRT), Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI), Automotive
Tyre Manufacturers Association (ATMA), Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) and Bureau of Indian
Standards (BIS). The Committee will consider the issues/problems faced by the stakeholders, finalize the list of
pneumatic tyres to be exempted and make suitable recommendations.
4.
Obligation for Certification.
(1)
All manufacturers of Pneumatic Tyres and Tubes shall make an application to the Bureau for obtaining licence within 45
days of the issue of this Order, for use of the standard Mark if not already obtained.
(2)
The grant of licence by the Bureau for use of the Standard Mark shall be as per provisions of the Act and the rules and
regulations made there under.
(3)
When any person by himself or through any other person on his behalf propose, to manufacture Pneumatic Tyres, he
shall commence production only after obtaining a valid licence from the Bureau for the use of Standard Mark
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Pneumatic Tyres And Tubes For Automotive Vehicles (Quality Control) Order, 2009
(4)
Information relating to expiry or cancellation of any licence by the Bureau for Pneumatic Tyre, shall be intimated to the
appropriate authority and displayed on BIS website.
5.
Power to call for information etc.
- The Appropriate Authority may, with a view to secure compliance with this Order:
(1)
require any person engaged in the manufacture, import, storage for sale, sell or distribution of Pneumatic Tyres to give
such information as it deems necessary relating to the manufacture, Import, storage for sale, sell or distribution of
Pneumatic Tyres or require any such person to furnish to if samples of such Pneumatic Tyres;
(2)
inspect or cause to be inspected arty book or other document or Pneumatic Tyres for Automotive Vehicles kept by or
belonging to or in possession or under the control of any person engaged in the manufacture, import, storage for sale,
sell or distribution of such Pneumatic Tyres.
6.
Testing of samples.
- Samples of Pneumatic Tyres bearing the Standard Mark or without standard mark imported by the OEM and with self
declared conformation and drawn by the Appropriate Authority for ascertaining whether they are of the Specified
Standard, shall be tested in the laboratory approved by the Bureau or Appropriate Authority.
7.
Power to issue directions to manufacturers and dealers.
- The Appropriate Authority may issue such directions to manufacturers and dealers consistent with the provisions of the
Act or this order, as may be necessary for carrying out the purpose of this order.
8.
Compliance of directions.
- Every person engaged in the manufacture, import, storage for sale, sell or distribution of any Pneumatic Tyres to whom
 any direction is issued under this order, shall comply with such direction.
9.
Obligation to funish information.
- No manufacturer dealer or importer shall, with intent to evade the provisions of this order, refuse to give any
information  lawfully demanded from him under clause 5 or conceal, destroy, mutilate or deface any book or document
or any Pneumatic Tyres kept by, or in the possession or control of such person.
Schedule
[See Clause 2(f)]
Sl. No.
Item
Indian Standard
(1)
(2)
(3)
1.
Automotive vehicles-Pneumatic tyres for two and three-wheeled motor vehicles-Specification
IS 15627
2.
Automotive vehicles-Pneumatic tyres for passenger car vehicles-Diagonal and radial ply-Specification
IS 15633
3.
Automotive vehicles-Pneumatic tyres for commercial vehicles-Diagonal and radial ply-Specification
IS 15636
4.
Automotive vehicles-Tubes for Pneumatic Tyres-Specification
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Pneumatic Tyres And Tubes For Automotive Vehicles (Quality Control) Order, 2009
IS 13098
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5