
----- PAGE 1 -----
Payment of Wages (Nomination) Rules, 2009
Payment of Wages (Nomination) Rules, 2009
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/92727095/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Payment of Wages (Nomination) Rules, 2009
UNION OF INDIA
India
Payment of Wages (Nomination) Rules, 2009
Rule PAYMENT-OF-WAGES-NOMINATION-RULES-2009 of 2009
Published on 13 November 2009
Commenced on 13 November 2009
[This is the version of this document from 13 November 2009.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Payment of Wages (Nomination) Rules, 2009
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extra; Part 2, Section 3(i), dated 13th November, 2009.
1841.
G.S.R. 822 (E), dated 13th November, 2009. - Whereas certain draft rules namely the payment of Wages (Nomination)
Rules, 2009 were published as required by sub-section (5) of Section 26 of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (4 of
1936), vide notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment number G.S.R. 450(E),
dated the 29th June, 2009, inviting objections and suggestions from all person likely to be affected thereby, within a
period of three months from the date on which copies of Gazette containing the said notification were made available to
the public;
And whereas, the copies of the said Gazette were made available to the public on 29th June, 2009;
And whereas, suggestions received in respect of the proposed draft rules have been considered by the Central
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Payment of Wages (Nomination) Rules, 2009
Government.
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) read with clause (la) of sub-section (3) of Section
26 of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (4 of 1936), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Payment of Wages (Nomination) Rules, 2009.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,
(a)
"Act" means the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (4 of 1936);
(b)
"family" means all or any of the following relatives of an employed person, namely :-
(i)
a spouse;
(ii)
a minor child dependant upon the employed person;
(iii)
a child who is wholly dependant on the earnings of the employed person and who is receiving education, till he or she
attains the age of twenty-one years;
(iv)
an unmarried daughter;
(v)
a son or daughter who is inform by reason of any physical or mental abnormality or injury and is wholly dependant on
the earnings of the employed person, so long as the infirmity continues;
(c)
"minor" means a person who has not completed the age of eighteen years.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, "child" means and includes an adopted child, and any reference to "son" or
"daughter" shall be construed accordingly.
3.
Procedure for nomination.
(1)
Every employed person shall make a declaration in Form-I, nominating a person conferring the right to receive the
amount that may stand in his credit at the event of his death before that amount standing to his credit has become
payable or where the amount has become payable, before payment has been made.
(2)
If an employed person has a family at the time of making nomination, the nomination shall be in favour of the spouse or
the spouse in preference followed by one more members of his family :
Provided that nominated made by an employed person having a family in favour of a person other then member of his
family shall be invalid :
Provided further that a fresh nomination towards his/her spouse shall be made by the employed person on his marriage
and any nomination made before such marriage shall be deemed to be invalid.
(3)
Where the nomination is wholly or partly in favour of a minor, the employed person may appointed a major of his family,
to be the guardian of the minor nominee or were there is no major person in the family, he may, at his discretion, appoint
any other person to be a guardian of the minor nominee.
(4)
If the employed person nominates more than one member, he shall specify in the nomination, the amount or share
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Payment of Wages (Nomination) Rules, 2009
payable to each of his nominees at his own discretion so as to cover the whole of the amount that may stand to his
credit.
FORM-1
Nominated and Declaration Form
(See Rule 3)
1. Name of person making nomination
(In block letters)
2. Father's/Husband's Name
3. Date of Birth
4.
Sex
5.
Marital Status
6.
Address
Permanent;
Temporary
I hereby nominated the person(s)/cancel the nomination made by me previously and nominate the person(s) mentioned
below to receive any amount due to me from the employer in the event to my death.
Name
of nominee/nominees
Address
Nominee's
relationship with the member
Date
of Birth
Total
amount of share of accumulations in credit to be paid to each
nominee
If
the nominee is minor, name relationship and guardian who may
receive the amount during the minority of nominee
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
1. Certified that I have no family and should I acquire a family hereafter, the above nomination shall be deemed as
cancelled.
2. Certified that my father/mother is/are dependent upon me.
3. Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Signature or the thumb impression of the employed person.
CERTIFICATE BY EMPLOYER
Certified that the above declaration and nomination has been signed/thumb inpressed before me by Shri/Smt/Ku
..............employed in my establishment after he/she has read the entry/entries have been read over to him/her by me
and got confirmed by him/her.
Signature of the employer or other authorised officer of the establishment and Designation
Place:
Date:
Name and Address of the Factory/Establishment and rubber stamp thereof
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Payment of Wages (Nomination) Rules, 2009
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4