
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Science and Engineering Research Board Rules, 2010
The Science and Engineering Research Board Rules, 2010
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/20465974/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Science and Engineering Research Board Rules, 2010
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Science and Engineering Research Board Rules, 2010
Rule THE-SCIENCE-AND-ENGINEERING-RESEARCH-BOARD-RULES-2010 of 2010
Published on 29 March 2010
Commenced on 29 March 2010
[This is the version of this document from 29 March 2010.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Science and Engineering Research Board Rules, 2010
Published vide Notification in the Gazette of India, Extra; Part 2, Section 3(i), dated 29th March, 2010.
1602.
G.S.R. 213(E), dated 29th March, 2010. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 20 of the Science and
Engineering Research Board Act, 2008 (
9 of 2009
), The Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement. - (1) These rules may be called the Science and Engineering Research Board Rules,
2010.
(2)
Page 1/11
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Science and Engineering Research Board Rules, 2010
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions. - In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Science and Engineering Research Board Act, 2008 (
9 of 2009
);
(b)
"form" means the forms annexed to these rules;
(c)
"section" means the section of the Act;
(d)
all other words and expressions used in these rules and not defined, but defined in the Act, shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Qualifications and experience of the members of the Board. - (1) The members to be appointed under clause (h) of
sub-section (3) of Section 3 shall possess a doctorate degree in science or engineering and shall have minimum ten
years of experience in basic or applied research after doctorate degree and shall not be at a level lower than that of a
Professor.
(2)
The members to be appointed under clause (i) of sub-section (3) of Section 3 shall be holding the post of Directors of
the National Laboratories or Research Institutions or senior scientists in such institutions and shall be holding a position
not lower than that of a Professor in a front-ranking national institution of higher learning and should possess a doctorate
degree in science and engineering having at least ten years of experience in scientific research and development after
the doctorate degree.
(3)
The members to be appointed under clause (f) of sub-section (3) of Section 3 shall possess professional degree in any
branch of science or technology or management having minimum of ten years of professional experience in areas
relating to industrial research and development or five years of experience in managing international projects or
science-based socio-economic programmes from either public, private or non-governmental sector.
4.
Term of office of the members. - The members of the Board shall hold office for a period of three years from the date of
their appointment and shall be eligible for re-appointment.
5.
Travelling and Daily Allowances of the members. - (1) A member of the Board, other than a Government servant, shall
be entitled to draw travelling allowances and daily allowances at the highest rates as admissible to the officials of the
Central Government for the time being in force, in respect of any journey performed by him for the purpose of attending
a meeting of the Board or for the purpose of discharging any duty assigned to him by the Board.
(2)
In case of any journey performed by an official of the Central or the State Government to attend any business of the
Board, the travelling and daily allowances admissible to him under the relevant rules of the Government under which
such official is employed shall be payable by the Board.
(3)
No travelling allowance or daily allowance shall be allowed to a member of the Board unless he certifies that he has not
drawn any travelling or daily allowance from any other source in respect of the journey and halt for which the claim is
made.
(4)
The travelling allowance shall be payable from the usual place of residence of member of the Board or an official of the
Central or the State Government to the place of the meeting where such member or official has gone to attend any
business of the Board and back to his/her place of residence :
Provided that when the journey commences from or the return journey terminates at any other place, the travelling
Page 2/11
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Science and Engineering Research Board Rules, 2010
allowances shall be restricted to the amount that would have been payable had the journey commenced from or
terminated at the usual place of residence, or to the amount payable in respect of the actual journey undertaken,
whichever is less :
Provided further that in special circumstances, the Chairperson or the Secretary may grant travelling allowance from
place other than the usual place of residence of a member.
(5)
A member of the Board or the Committee who is a resident at a place where the meeting of the Board is held or where
any other business of the Board is transacted, may be paid the actual expenditure incurred on conveyance by him in
addition to the daily allowance, as admissible above.
6.
Meeting of the Board. - The Board shall meet at least four times in a year, at such times as may be appointed by the
Chairperson, for the transaction of business.
7.
Disclosure of interest by the members. - If any member of the Board or any of his family member has any interest in a
proposal submitted for consideration of the Board, the member shall disclose to the Chairperson the extent of his
interest in the proposal.
8.
Decisions by the Board. - All matters brought before any meeting of the Board shall be decided by consensus and in the
event of lack of consensus on any matter, the decision of the Chairperson shall prevail and such decision shall be
deemed to be the consensus decision.
9.
Record of business. - (1) The record of business transacted at every meeting of the Board shall be prepared by the
Secretary of the Board, for approval by the Chairperson or the member presiding at such meeting.
(2)
When any business is transacted by circulation of papers, the Secretary shall prepare record of the business so
transacted for approval by Chairperson of the Board directing the circulation.
(3)
The record of business transacted at every meeting of the Board shall be approved and signed by the Chairperson or
the member presiding at such meeting, and the approved record of business shall be submitted to the Board at its next
meeting.
(4)
A record shall be maintained by the Secretary of items of business transacted by the Board or the Committees thereof.
(5)
A record of actions taken on the suggestions, recommendations and advice of the Oversight Committee shall be
maintained by the Secretary and shall be communicated to the Government in every quarter of the year on the advice of
the Chairperson of the Oversight Committee.
10.
Powers and duties of the Chairperson. - (1) The Chairperson shall,-
(a)
be responsible for the proper functioning of the Board and the Committees appointed by the Board;
(b)
be responsible for implementation of the decisions of the Board;
(c)
exercise such supervisory and administrative control over all officers and staff of the Board, as may be necessary, for
efficient discharge of functions of the Board;
(d)
take decision on urgent matters that cannot wait till disposal by the Board and such decisions shall be placed before the
Board for its approval at its next meeting.
(2)
The Chairperson of the Board may at any time call a meeting of the Board on a requisition for the purpose presented to
him with the signatures of all least four members of the Board.
Page 3/11
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Science and Engineering Research Board Rules, 2010
(3)
The Chairperson of the Board may invite any expert in the relevant field to attend any meeting of the Board.
11.
Constitution of the Oversight Committee and terms of officer of its members. - (1) With the prior approval of the Central
Government, the Board shall constitute the Oversight Committee in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2) of
Section 5.
(2)
The members of the Oversight Committee shall hold office for a period of three years and shall be eligible for
re-appointment.
12.
Meetings of the Oversight Committee. - The Oversight Committee shall meet at least twice in a year at such time as may
be appointed by the chairperson of the Oversight Committee, for the transaction of business.
13.
Allowances to members of the Oversight Committee. - The travelling allowance, daily allowance and conveyance
allowance of the members of the Oversight Committee shall be the same as applicable to the members under Rule 5.
14.
Constitution of Committees. - (1) The Board may appoint such committee or committees as it deems necessary for
discharge of its duties and, performance of its function under the Act.
(2)
The Chairperson may, on the recommendation of the Board, co-opt members to any Committee or Committees set up
under sub-rule (1).
(3)
The Board shall determine the terms of reference, tenure, membership and other related aspects of a Committee or the
Committees up under sub-rule (1).
(4)
A Committee appointed by the Board shall submit its report, findings, or recommendations to the Chairperson of the
Board within the period stipulated or such extended period as specified by the Board.
15.
Form of application. - An applicant who is desirous to seek financial assistance from the Fund of the Board, shall apply
to the Board in Form A appended to these rules.
16.
Form for preparation of budget, annual report. - The Board shall prepare its budget for the next financial year in Form B,
and its annual report in Form C, appended to these rules and shall submit the same to the Central Government by 31st
October of every year.
17.
Interpretation of rules. - Where any doubt arises as to the interpretation of these rules, the matter shall be referred to the
Central Government for its decision and the decision of the Central Government in the matter shall be final.
FORM A
Form of Application (Project Format)
(See Rule 15)
1. Project Title
2. Board Subject :
Atmospheric
Science Chemical Sciences
Earth
Sciences
Engineering
Sciences
Life
Sciences
Mathematical
Page 4/11
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Science and Engineering Research Board Rules, 2010
Sciences
Physical
Sciences
Other Interdisciplinary.
3. Duration in months
4. Total cost
5. FE Component
6. Principal Inv.
7. Designation
8. Department
9. Institute Name
10. Address
11. Date of Birth: Sex (M/F)
12. Telephone Fax Gram e-mail
13. Co-Investigator
14. Designation
15. Department
16. Institute Name.
17. Address
18.
Date of Birth: Sex (M/F)
19.
Telephone Fax Gram e-mail
(Repeat 13 to 19 for additional Co-Investigators, if any, as 13.1-19.1, 13.2-19.2......)
20.
Project summary (maximum 150 words)
21.
Key words (maximum 6)
22.
Technical details
22.1
Introduction (under the following heads)
22.1.1
Origin of the proposal
22.1.2
. Definition of the problem
22.1.3
. Objective
22.2
Review of status of Research and Development in the subject
22.2.1
. International status
22.2.2
National status
22.2.3
. Novelty and importance of the proposed project in the context of current status
22.2.4
. If the project is location specific, basis for selection of location.
23.
Target beneficiaries of the proposed work
24.
Page 5/11
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Science and Engineering Research Board Rules, 2010
Review of expertise available with the P1, the investigating group and institution in the subject of the project
25.
Patent details (domestic and international), if applicable
26.
Environmental impact assessment and risk analysis
27.
Proposed impact assessment
28.
Sustainability: Issues relating to sustainability, including stakeholder commitment, operation and maintenance of assets
after project completion, and other related issues-
29.
Work plan
29.1
Methodology
29.2
Organization of work elements
29.3
Time schedule of activities giving milestones (also append to bar diagram and mark it as Section 410)
29.4
Do the physical and financial targets (given in Section 300-351) match with each other
29.5
Suggested plan of action for utilization of research outcome expected from the project
30.
The development "Outcomes" and "Outputs" of the project
31.
Economic implications of the proposed work, if any.
32.
Budget Estimates: Summary
Item
Budget
(In
Rupees)
1stYear
2ndYear
3rdYear
Total
A.
Recurring
1. Salaries/wages
2. Consumable
3. Travel
4. Other costs
B.
Equipment
Grand
total (A+B)
Total FEC*
*FEC-Foreign Exchange Component
Foreign Exchange component (in US $) equivalent of rupee amount at the prevailing rates may be furnished.
N.B.- Entries here should match with those given in Sections, 310 to 350; justification for each item is to be given in
section following it that is Sections 311, 321, 331, 341 and 351.
Page 6/11
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Science and Engineering Research Board Rules, 2010
33.
Budget for Salaries/Wages
Budget
(In
Rupees)
1stYear
(m.M.*)
2ndYear
(m.m.)
3rdYear
(m.m.)
Total
(m.m)
Designation & number of persons
Monthly Emoluments
Total
*m.m.: man months to a given within brackets before the budget amount
34.
Justification for the manpower requirement.
35.
Budget for Consumable Materials
Budget
(In
Rupees)
Item
Q*
1stYear
2ndYear
3rdYear
Total
B**
F***
Total
B
F
*Q: Quantity or number,
Budget,
*F: Foreign Exchange Components in US $
36.
Justification for costly consumable (if not provided for in Section 231 i.e. Methodology)
37.
Budget for Travel
Budget
(in
Rupees)
1st Year
2nd Year
3rd Year
Total
Travel (Only inland travel)
38.
Page 7/11
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Science and Engineering Research Board Rules, 2010
Justification for intensive travel, if any,
39.
Budget for other costs/contingencies
Budget
(in
Rupees)
1st Year
2nd Year
3rd Year
Total
| Other costs/Contingency costs
40.
Justification for specific costs under other costs, if any,
41.
Budget for Equipment
Sl.
No.
Generic
name of the Equipment along with make and model
Imported/Indigenous
Estimated
Costs (in Foreign Currency also)
*Spare
time for other users (in %)
* includes transport, insurance and installation charges.
42.
Justification for the proposed equipment
43.
Reliability of Cost Estimates
44.
Time Schedule of Activities through BAR Diagram
45.
Last of facilities being extended by parent institution(s) for the projection implementation
(A)
Infrastructural Facilities :
Sl.
No.
Infrastructural
Facility
Yes/No/Not
required Full or sharing basis
1
Workshop Facility
2
Water and Electricity
3
Laboratory Space/Furniture
4
Power Generator
5
AC Room or AC
Page 8/11
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Science and Engineering Research Board Rules, 2010
6
Telecommunication including e-mail and fax
7
Transportation
8
Administrative/Secretarial support
9
Information facilities like Interment/Library
10
Computational facilities
11
Animal/Glass House
12
Any other special facility being provided
B. Equipment available with the Institute/Group/Department/Other Institutes for the project;
Equipment
available with
Generic
Name of Equipment
Model,
Make and year of purchase
Remarks
including accessories available and current usage of equipment
PI and his group
PI's Department
Other Inst in the region
46.
Detailed bio-data of the Investigator(s)/Co-Investigator(s) including Name, Address, Date of Birth, Institution's Address
etc.
Academic Qualifications (University/Collage from where attained, year of passing, class, Thesis title etc.)
Publications list (Title of paper, authors, journal details, pages, year etc.) patent list, if any
List of Projects implemented
47.
Details of Research Projects being implemented/completed/submitted by the Investigator(s)/Co-Investigators including
Investigator(s) Name and Institute
Project Title
Project Status:
Completed-duration, period (from........... to .............), funding agency and total cost
On-going-duration, date of start, funding agency and total cost proposed-duration, funding agency where submitted and
total cost
Summary of the project
Major Results/Highlights of the project including achievement (publication, patents etc.), for completed projects
Up-to date Technical progress report for on-going projects
48.
Any other relevant matter
FORM B
(See Rule 16)
(Part I) Science And Engineering Research Board Statement Of Dudged Estimates Plan Budged (All Figures In Rs.
Lakh) Re For The Year: (Current Year) And Be For The Year : (Next Year)
Item/Head
Actual
Page 9/11
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Science and Engineering Research Board Rules, 2010
Expenditure (last financial year)
B.E.
(Current financial year)
Proposed
R.E. (current financial Year)
Proposed
B.E. (Next financial year)
1. Salary
1.1 Pay and Allowances
1.2 Contribution to NPS
1.3 Contribution of CPF
1.4 LTC
1.5 Medical Claim
1.6 Gratuity
1.7 ...............
2. Office Expenses
2.1 Stationery
2.2 Telephone
2.3 Electricity
2.4 Water
2.5 Procurement of furniture
2.6 Vehicles
2.7 Maintenance
2.8 Internet, e-services
2.9 ............................
3. Minor Works
4. Major Works
5. Domestic Travel
6. Foreign Travel
7. Rent, Rates and Taxes
8. Long Term Advances
9. Other Administrative Expenses
10. Advertisement and Publicity
11. Publications
12 .................
13 .................
Total
Part II ? Science And Engineering Research Board Receipts And Expenditure (All Figures In Rs. Lakh) Re For The Year
: (Current Year) Receipts
1. Opening balance
2. Grants/Receipts from DST
3. Grants/Receipts from other sources
4. Interest from bank
5. Miscellaneous Receipts
5.1. Guest House
5.2. License fees
5.3. Patents and loyalties
5.4 . ...............
Total
Expenditure
1. Capital Expenditure
Page 10/11
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Science and Engineering Research Board Rules, 2010
2. Revenue Expenditure
Total
FORM C
(See Rule 16)
Format For Annual Report
The Organization
Composition of the Board
Organizational Chart and composition of and various Committees
Meetings of Board and other Committees held
Reports on activities of various Committees
The Programmes
Major Programmes supported
Major Schemes and Initiatives
Extramural Research Projects/Programmes funded
Important Research Highlights
Fellowships/Scholarships supported
International Programmes
The Output
Number of papers/publications/reports emanating out of projects
Technologies/products emanating out of projects
The Budget and Finance
Audited Financial Statements
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 11/11