
----- PAGE 1 -----
The AICTE (Information And Conduct Of Inspection Of Technical Institutions, Departments Of...
The AICTE (Information And Conduct Of Inspection Of Technical
Institutions, Departments Of The Universities And Institutions
Declared As Deemed To Be University And Universities And
Institutions Declared As Deemed To Be University) Regulations, 2010
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/139287250/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The AICTE (Information And Conduct Of Inspection Of Technical Institutions, Departments Of The Universities And
Institutions Declared As Deemed To Be University And Universities And Institutions Declared As Deemed To Be
University) Regulations, 2010
UNION OF INDIA
India
The AICTE (Information And Conduct Of Inspection Of Technical Institutions, Departments Of The Universities And
Institutions Declared As Deemed To Be University And Universities And Institutions Declared As Deemed To Be
University) Regulations, 2010
Rule
THE-AICTE-INFORMATION-AND-CONDUCT-OF-INSPECTION-OF-TECHNICAL-INSTITUTIONS-DEPARTMENTS-OF
-THE-UNIVERSITIES-AND-INSTITUTIONS-DECLARED-AS-DEEMED-TO-BE-UNIVERSITY-AND-UNIVERSITIES-AND
-INSTITUTIONS-DECLARED-AS-DEEMED-TO-BE-UNIVERSITY-REGULATIONS-2010 of 2010
Published on 7 April 2010
Commenced on 7 April 2010
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The AICTE (Information And Conduct Of Inspection Of Technical Institutions, Departments Of...
[This is the version of this document from 7 April 2010.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The AICTE (Information And Conduct Of Inspection Of Technical Institutions, Departments Of The Universities And
Institutions Declared As Deemed To Be University And Universities And Institutions Declared As Deemed To Be
University) Regulations, 2010
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, Extra; Part 3, Section 4, dated 7.4.2010
1649.
S.O. 37-3/Legal/2010, dated 16th March, 2010.- In exercise of its powers conferred under sub-section (1) of Section 23
read with Section 10 and Section 11 of the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) Act, 1987 (
52 of 1987
) and Rules for Inspection of Technical Institutions and Universities notified by the Government of India vide Notification
dated 10th August, 1992, the AICTE makes the following regulations, namely
1.
Short title, application and commencement.-
1.1
These regulations maybe called AICTE (Information and conduct of Inspection of Technical Institutions, Departments of
the Universities and Institutions declared as Deemed to be University and Universities and Institutions declared as
deemed to be University) Regulations, 2010.
1.2
They shall apply to the technical institutions as defined under Section 2(h) of the AICTE Act, 1987, Universities as
defined under Section 2(i) of the All India Council for Technical Education Act, 1987 and Institutions declared as
Deemed to be University under Section 3 of the U.G.C. Act, 1956.
1.3
They shall come into force with effect from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.-
(i)
"Prescribed" means prescribed by the Council in any of its regulation /notification issued under the provisions of the
AICTE Act, 1987;
(ii)
"Commission" means the University Grants Commission established under Section 4 of the University Grants
Commission Act, 1956;
(iii)
"Council" means All India Council for Technical Education established under Section 3 of the All India Council for
Technical Education Act, 1987;
(iv)
"Technical Department" means the teaching and research department of the institution/university engaged in teaching
and/or research in engineering technology, architecture, town planning, management, pharmacy and applied arts and
crafts and such other programme or area as the Central Government may, in consultation with the Council, by
notification in the Official Gazette;
(v)
"Technical Institution" means an institution, not being a University which offers courses or programmes of technical
education, and shall include such other institutions as the Central Government may, in consultation with the Council, by
notification in the Official Gazette, declare as technical institutions;
(vi)
"University" means a University defined under sub-section (i) of Section 2 of the AICTE Act, 1987.
3.
3.1
The technical institutions and the technical departments of the Universities and institutions declared as Deemed to be
University shall upload such information, as desired by the Council, in the format prescribed on the web portal of the
Council at URL: www.aicte-india.org. at such an intervals as specified by the Council.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The AICTE (Information And Conduct Of Inspection Of Technical Institutions, Departments Of...
3.2
The information referred to in Regulation 3.1 above may also be submitted to the Council in the prescribed format.
3.3
The technical institutions, universities and institutions declared as Deemed to be University, who shall not submit the
information to the Council by the date prescribed by the Council, shall not be entitled for any financial or any other kind
of assistance from the Council. Council may take any such action against defaulting technical institutions, universities
and institutions Deemed to be University, as it may deem fit and proper.
3.4
The Council may cause an inspection of the technical institutions and technical departments of the universities and
institutions declared as Deemed to be University, to verify the information furnished by the technical institution and/or
technical departments of the universities and institutions declared as Deemed to be University concerned and to
ascertain the standards of technical education.
3.5
The Council shall publish the name of such technical institutions and/or universities and/or institutions declared as
Deemed to be University on its official website, who in its opinion are not maintaining the standards of technical
education as prescribed by the Council and/or not following the norms/standards/policies laid down by the Council from
time to time for maintaining the standards of the technical education:
Provided that their names shall be published after giving the due opportunity to the concerned institution/university
institution declared as Deemed to be University, to explain its position.
3.6
The Council shall also report, its finding along with its recommendations in respect of the technical institutions and
universities and institutions declared as Deemed to be University to the Central and/or State Government concerned,
the University Grants Commission and the relevant accreditation bodies/agencies in India for necessary action at their
end.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3