
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Petroleum and Natural Gas Register) Regula...
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Petroleum and
Natural Gas Register) Regulations, 2010
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/28860803/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Petroleum and Natural Gas Register) Regulations, 2010
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Petroleum and Natural Gas Register) Regulations, 2010
Rule
THE-PETROLEUM-AND-NATURAL-GAS-REGULATORY-BOARD-PETROLEUM-AND-NATURAL-GAS-REGISTER-RE
GULATIONS-2010 of 2010
Published on 7 June 2010
Commenced on 7 June 2010
[This is the version of this document from 7 June 2010.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Petroleum and Natural Gas Register) Regulations, 2010
Published vide Notification New Delhi, the 7th June, 2010
G.S.R. 481(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 61 of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board
Act, 2006 (
19 of 2006
), the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board hereby makes the following regulations, namely :-
1.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Petroleum and Natural Gas Register) Regula...
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These regulations may be called the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Petroleum and Natural Gas
Register) Regulations, 2010.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Act" means the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006;
(b)
"Board" means the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board established under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the
Act;
(c)
"Register" means the Petroleum and Natural Gas Register maintained by the Board whether in print or electronic form;
(2)
All other words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act shall have the
meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Contents of the Register.
(1)
Register shall be divided into following five parts namely :-
(a)
Part I containing a list of all entities who have been registered for marketing notified petroleum, petroleum products and
natural gas;
(b)
Part II containing a list of all entities who have been registered for establishing and operating LNG terminals or
proposing to establish and operate LNG terminals;
(c)
Part III containing a list of all entities who have been registered for establishing storage facility for petroleum, petroleum
products or natural gas exceeding such capacity as may be specified by regulations;
(d)
Part IV containing a list of all entities who have been authorized for laying, building, operating or expanding a common
carrier or contract carrier pipeline; and
(e)
Part V containing a list of all entities who have been authorized for laying, building, operating or expanding a city or local
natural gas distribution network.
(2)
The entries in the Register shall be made as per format in Annexure-I.
4.
Access to the Register.
(1)
Register shall be open for inspection to any member of the public on payment of fee prescribed under sub-regulation (1)
of regulation 5 and by submitting an application as per format at Annexure-II.
(2)
Any person seeking inspection of the Register shall make an application for the purpose to the officer designated for the
purpose by the Board detailing in the application, the information sought.
(3)
The officer designated under sub-regulation (2) shall allow inspection of the Register and also make available extracts of
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Petroleum and Natural Gas Register) Regula...
the relevant portions of the Register on payment of such fee as prescribed under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5.
5.
Levy of fees and other charges.
- Fee for inspection of the Register and for copies of extracts from the Register shall be as specified in the Petroleum
and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Levy of Fee and Other Charges) Regulations, 2007.
6.
General.
- If any dispute arises with regard to the interpretation of any of the provisions of these regulations, the decision of the
Board shall be final and binding.
Annexure I
1
Details of the Entity
A
Name of the Entity:
B
Type of Finn - Public limited company/Private limited
company/Partnership firm/Proprietorship firm/Others (please
specifY):
C
Date of incorporation and date of certificate of commencement
of business:
D
Address of registered office:
E
Contact details - Name, Designation, Office addresses,
Telephone numbers (with SID code), E-mail address:
2
Business details
A
Details of activity for which the entity is
registered/authorized:
B
Geographical area covered/situated -
Town/District/State/Country:
C
Authorised capacity (wherever applicable)
D
Registration reference document number and date:
E
Authorization reference document number and date:
Annexure - II
Details of the individual/company intending to
inspect/obtain certified copy of Register
1
Name of the entity/person
2
Complete address
3
E-mail ID, telephone, fax
4
Identification proof and residence proof (in case
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Petroleum and Natural Gas Register) Regula...
of an individual person)
5
Name of entity relating to which inspection or
certified copy of Regulation is required
a)
Purpose of seeking the information
b)
Details of fee deposited by Demand Draft
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4