
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Other Beneficiaries and Members of their Families Medical Facilities Scheme, 2010
The Other Beneficiaries and Members of their Families Medical
Facilities Scheme, 2010
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/88970524/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Other Beneficiaries and Members of their Families Medical Facilities Scheme, 2010
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Other Beneficiaries and Members of their Families Medical Facilities Scheme, 2010
Rule THE-OTHER-BENEFICIARIES-AND-MEMBERS-OF-THEIR-FAMILIES-MEDICAL-FACILITIES-SCHEME-2010 of
2010
Published on 4 August 2010
Commenced on 4 August 2010
[This is the version of this document from 4 August 2010.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Other Beneficiaries and Members of their Families Medical Facilities Scheme, 2010
Published vide Notification New Delhi, the 4th August, 2010
Ministry of Labour and Employment
G.S.R 654(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 73B read with Section 73D of the Employees' State
Insurance Act, 1948 (
34 of 1948
), and in supersession of the Other Beneficiaries and Members of their Families Medical Facilities Scheme, 2008, except
as respects things done or omitted to be done before such, supersession, the Central Government hereby makes the
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Other Beneficiaries and Members of their Families Medical Facilities Scheme, 2010
following Scheme, namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Scheme may be called The Other Beneficiaries and Members of their Families Medical Facilities Scheme, 2010.
(2)
It shall come into force from the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Application.
- This Scheme shall apply to other beneficiaries and members of their families registered under any scheme, other than
the Employees State Insurance Scheme framed by the Central Government.
3.
Definitions.
- In this scheme, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948 (
34 of 1948
);
(b)
"Corporation" means the Employees' State Insurance Corporation;
(c)
"Person" means a person, including members of their families, registered under any scheme, other than the Employees'
State Insurance Scheme framed by the Central Government.
(d)
All other words and expressions used and not deemed in this scheme shall have the meaning respectively assigned to
them in the Act.
4.
Registration.
- A person desirous of availing medical treatment and attendance under the Scheme shall be required to -
(a)
fill a registration form containing such particulars in respect of himself and members of his family as may be specified by
the Corporation;
(b)
produce the Identity Card issued to him by the Corporation or issued under any other scheme framed by the Central
Government.
5.
Benefits.
- Persons registered under this Scheme shall be provided medical treatment and attendance from the underutilized
Employees' State Insurance Hospitals.
6.
User Charges.
(1)
Persons availing medical treatment and attendance under this Scheme shall be required to pay under charges at such
rates as may be notified by the Corporation in consultation with the Central Government.
(2)
The user charges collected under sub-paragraph (1) shall be deemed to be contribution and shall form part of the
Employees' State Insurance Fund.
7.
Time and Manner of the Medical Facility.
- The time and manner in which the medical facilities may be availed by other beneficiaries shall be such as may be,
specified by the Corporation from time to time.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Other Beneficiaries and Members of their Families Medical Facilities Scheme, 2010
8.
Maintenance of Register and Records.
- The concerned hospitals shall maintain separate register and record of the persons availing medical treatment and
attendance under this Scheme and user charges collected from them in such form and manner as may be specified by
the Corporation.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3