
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010
The Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/106740276/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010
Rule THE-WETLANDS-CONSERVATION-AND-MANAGEMENT-RULES-2010 of 2010
Published on 4 December 2010
Commenced on 4 December 2010
[This is the version of this document from 4 December 2010.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 951(E), dated 4th December, 2010
Ministry of Environment And Forests
G.S.R. 951(E). - Whereas the wetlands, vital parts of the hydrological cycle, are highly productive, support exceptionally
large biological diversity and provide a wide range of ecosystem services, such as waste assimilation, water purification,
flood mitigation, erosion control, ground water recharge, microclimate regulation, aesthetic enhancement of the
landscape while simultaneously supporting many significant recreational, social and cultural activities, besides being a
part of the cultural heritage;
And Whereas many wetlands are seriously threatened by reclamation through drainage and landfill, pollution (discharge
of domestic and industrial effluents, disposal of solid wastes), hydrological alterations (water withdrawal and inflow
changes) and over-exploitation of their natural resources resulting in loss of biodiversity and disruption in goods and
Page 1/9
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010
services provided by wetlands;
And Whereas India is a signatory to the Ramsar Convention for the conservation and wise use of wetlands, which
includes in its ambit a wide variety of habitats, such as rivers and lakes, coastal lagoons, mangroves, peatlands, coral
reefs, and numerous man-made wetlands, such as ponds, farm ponds, irrigated agricultural lands, sacred groves, salt
pans, reservoirs, gravel pits, sewage farms, and canals;
And Whereas the Central Government has identified certain wetlands for conservation and management under its
conservation programme and provides financial and technical assistance to the State Governments and Union territory
Administrations for various conservation activities through approval of the Management Action Plans;
And Whereas the National Environment Policy, 2006 recognizes the ecological services provided by wetlands and
emphasizes the need to set up a regulatory mechanism consistent with the Ramsar Convention to maintain the
ecological character of the identified wetlands and develop a national inventory of such wetlands;
Now, Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 25, read with sub-section (1) and clause (v) of
sub-section (2) and sub section (3) of section 3 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (
29 of 1986
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules for conservation and management of wetlands, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
"Act" means the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (
29 of 1986
);
(b)
[ "Authority" means the Central Wetlands Regulatory Authority as notified under sub-section (3) of Section 3 of the
Environment (Protection) Act, 1986;]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1140 (E), dated 14.12.2016 (w.e.f. 4.12.2010).]
(c)
"dredging" means an excavation activity or operation usually carried out at least partly underwater, in shallow sea or
fresh water areas with the purpose of gathering up bottom sediments and disposing them off at a different location;
(d)
"National Park" means an area declared, as National Park under section 35 or section 38, or deemed to be declared as
a National Park under sub-section (3) of section 66, of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (35 of 1972);
(e)
"Ramsar Convention" means the Convention on Wetlands signed at Ramsar, Iran in 1971;
(f)
"UNESCO" means the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization;
(g)
"wetland" means an area or of marsh, fen, peatland or water; natural or artificial, permanent or temporary, with water
that is static or flowing, fresh, brackish of salt, including areas of marine water, the depth of which at low tide does not
exceed six meters and includes all inland waters such as lakes, reservoir, tanks, backwaters, lagoon, creeks, estuaries
and manmade wetland and the zone of direct influence on wetlands that is to say the drainage area or catchment region
of the wetlands as determined by the authority but does not include main river channels, paddy fields and the coastal
wetland covered under the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Environment and Forest, S.O,
number 114 (E) dated the 19th February, 1991 published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3,
Page 2/9
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010
Sub-section (ii) of dated the 20th February , 1991;
(h)
"wildlife sanctuary" means an area declared as a wildlife sanctuary under the provisions of Chapter IV of the Wildlife
(Protection) Act, 1972 (35 of 1972) and shall include an area deemed to be sanctuary under sub-section (4) of section
66, of the said Act.
(2)
The word and expressions used in these rules and not defined but defined in the Act, shall have the meaning
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Protected wetlands.
- Based on the significance of the functions performed by the wetlands for over all well being of the people and for
determining the extent and level of regulation, the following wetlands shall be regulated under these rules, namely:-
(i)
wetlands categorized as Ramsar Wetlands of International Importance under the Ramsar Convention as specified in the
Schedule.
(ii)
wetlands in areas that are ecologically sensitive and important, such as, national parks, marine parks, sanctuaries,
reserved forests, wildlife habitats, mangroves, corals, coral reefs, areas of outstanding natural beauty or historical or
heritage areas and the areas rich in genetic diversity;
(iii)
wetlands recognized as or lying within a UNESCO World Heritage Site;
(iv)
high altitude wetlands or high altitude wetlands complexes at or above an elevation of two thousand five hundred meters
with an area equal to or greater than five hectares;
(v)
wetlands or wetland complexes below an elevation of two thousand five hundred meters with an area equal to or greater
than five hundred hectares.
(vi)
any other wetland as so identified by the Authority and thereafter notified by the Central Government under the
provisions of the Act for the purposes of these rules.
4.
Restrictions on activities within wetlands.
(1)
The following activities within the wetlands shall be prohibited, namely:-
(i)
reclamation of wetlands;
(ii)
setting up of new industries and expansion of existing industries;
(iii)
manufacture or handling or storage or disposal of hazardous substances covered under the Manufacture, Storage and
Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989 notified vide S.O. number 966 (E) dated the 27th November, 1989 or the
Rules for Manufacture, Use, Import, Export and Storage of Hazardous Micro-organisms/Genetically engineered
organisms or cells notified vide GSR number 1037 (E) dated the 5th December, 1989 or the Hazardous Wastes
(Management, Handling and Transboundry Movement) Rules, 2008 notified vide S.O. number 2265 (E), dated the 24th
September, 2008;
(iv)
solid waste dumping provided that the existing practices, if any, existed before the commencement of these rules shall
be phased out within a period not exceeding six months from the date of commencement of these rules;
(v)
discharge of untreated wastes and effluents from industries, cities or towns and other human settlements: provided that
the practices, if any, existed before the commencement of these rules shall be phased out within a period not exceeding
Page 3/9
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010
one year from the date of commencement of these rules;
(vi)
any construction of a permanent nature except for boat jetties within fifty metres from the mean high flood level observed
in the past ten years calculated from the date of commencement of these rules.
(vii)
any other activity likely to have an adverse impact on the ecosystem of the wetland to be specified in writing by the
Authority constituted in accordance with these rules.
(2)
The following activities shall not be undertaken without the prior approval of the State Government within the wetlands,
namely :-
(i)
withdrawal of water or the impoundment, diversion or interruption of water sources within the local catchment area of the
wetland ecosystem;
(ii)
harvesting of living and non-living resources;
(iii)
grazing to the level that the basic nature and character of the biotic community is not adversely affected;
(iv)
treated effluent discharges from industries, cities or towns, human settlements and agricultural fields falling within the
limits laid down by the Central Pollution Control Board or the State Pollution Control Committee, as the case may be;
(v)
plying of motorized boat, if it is not detrimental to the nature and character of the  biotic community;
(vi)
dredging, only if the wetland is impacted by siltation;
(vii)
construction of boat jetties;
(viii)
activities within the zone of influence, as per the definition of wetlands, that may directly affect the ecological character
of the wetland;
(ix)
facilities required for temporary use, such as pontoon bridges, that do not affect the ecological character of the wetland;
(x)
aquaculture, agriculture and horticulture activities within the wetland;
(xi)
repair of existing buildings or infrastructure including reconstruction activities.
(xii)
any other activity to be identified by the Authority.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything in sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2), the Central Government may permit any of the prohibited
activities or non-wetland use in the protected wetland on the recommendation of the Authority.
(4)
The State Government shall ensure that a detailed Environment Impact Assessment is carried out in accordance with
the procedures specified in the notification of the Government of India in the Minister of Environment and Forests S.O.
number 1533 (E) dated the September 14th, 2006 as amended from time to time.
(5)
No wetland shall be converted to non-wetland use unless the Central Government is satisfied on the recommendation of
the Authority that it is expedient in the public interest and reasons justifying the decision are recorded.
5.
Constitution of Central Wetlands Regulatory Authority.
- [* * *] [[Omitted sub-rule (1) & (2) '(1) The Central Government, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3)
of section 3 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (
Page 4/9
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010
29 of 1986
), hereby constitutes Central Wetlands Regulatory Authority consisting of the following Chairpersons and members for
the purpose of these rules, namely:-
(a)
Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India - Chairperson;
(b)
a representative (not below the rank of Joint Secretary) from Ministry of Tourism, Government of India - Member
ex-officio;
(c)
a representative (not below the rank of Joint Secretary) from Ministry of Water Resources, (Government of India -
Member ex-officio;
(d)
a representative (not below the rank of Joint Secretary) from Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India - Member
ex-officio;
(e)
a representative (not below the rank of Joint Secretary) from Ministry of Social Justice, Government of India - Member
ex-officio;
(f)
Chairman or his nominee, the Central Pollution Control Board - Member ex-officio;
(g)
Joint Secretary or Adviser, dealing with the wetland in the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India, -
member ex-officio;
(h)
Dr. Asad R. Rahmani, Director, Bombay Natural History Society, Hornbill house, Dr. Salim Ali Chowk, Shaheed Bhagat
Singh Road, Mumbai - 400023; Expert Ornithology - member
(i)
Dr. M.R.D. Kunadangar, Darul Aloom Qasmia Lane, Botshah Mohalla, Lal Bazar, Srinagar, Kashmir; Expert Limnology -
member
(j)
Dr. C.K. Varshney, 88 Vaishali, Pitampura, New Delhi-110034; Expert Ecology - member
(k)
Dr. E.J. James, Director, Water Institute, Karunya University, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu; Expert Hydrology - member;
(l)
Director or Additional Director or Joint Director dealing with the Wetland in the Ministry of Environment and
Forests-Member Secretary.
(2)
The term of the Authority shall be up to the 16th September, 2016.' by Notification No. G.S.R. 1140 (E), dated
14.12.2016 (w.e.f. 4.12.2010).]]
(3)
The Authority shall exercise the following powers and perform the following functions, namely:-
(i)
appraise proposals for identification of new wetlands, projects or activities in consultations with the concerned local
authorities;
(ii)
identify and interface with the concerned local authorities to enforce the provisions contained under these rules and
other laws for the time being in force;
(iii)
grant clearances or identify in consultation with the local state government, the areas for the grant of clearance for
regulated activities in the wetlands within their respective jurisdictions;
(iv)
determine, in consultation with concerned local authority, the zone of direct influence of the wetlands;
Page 5/9
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010
(v)
issue whatever directions, necessary for the conservation, presentation and wise use of wetlands to the State
Governments.
(4)
The Authority shall periodically review the list of wetlands and the details of prohibited and regulated activities under the
rules.
(5)
The Authority shall specify the threshold levels for activities to be regulated and the mode and methodology for
undertaking activities in wetland.
6.
Process for identification of wetlands under different categories.
(1)
Wetlands covered under item (i) of rule 3 specified under Schedule shall be the wetland to be regulated under these
rules.
(2)
The States Government shall prepare, within a period of one year from the commencement of these rules, 'Brief
Document' identifying and classifying the wetlands within their respective territories in accordance with the criteria
specified under Rule 3 and submit the same to Authority.
(3)
The 'Brief Document' of each wetland for identification shall comprise of following information, namely:-
i) broad geographic delineation of the wetland;
ii) its zone of influence along with a map (accurate and to scale);
iii) the size of the wetland;
iv) account of pre-existing rights and privileges, consistent or not consistent with the ecological health of the wetland.
(4)
The Authority, shall on receipt of the 'Brief document' under sub-rule (2), if consider it necessary refer in consultation
with the State Government to a research institute or university having relevant multi-disciplinary expertise related to
wetlands, to conduct a comprehensive survey of the wetland within a period of thirty days: provided that the institute or
university to which the matter has been referred under sub-rule (4) shall submit a report within next ninety days from the
date of such reference to Authority, which shall contain information with respect to the criteria specified under rule 3.
(5)
The Authority shall, thereafter, arrive at a decision in consultation with the State Government, on the proposal, within a
period of ninety days from the date of receipt of the report under sub-rule (4).
(6)
The Central Government shall on the receipt of the recommendation of the Authority notify the area of wetlands as
recommended by the Authority for public information inviting objections and suggestions from the general public likely to
be affected to make representation to the Central Government within a period of sixty days;
(7)
The Authority shall consider all the representations which the Central Government may receive under sub-rule (6) and
submit its recommendation on the such representations to Central Government within a period of sixty days for final
notification;
(8)
The Central Government shall on receipt of the recommendations of the Authority under sub-rule (7) issue a final
notification notifying therein the area of the wetland its category or classification to be regulated under these rules and
display the said notification in public places in English and vernacular languages.
(9)
The Authority may, suo moto or on application made to it, review any decision under these rules or issue direction for
inclusion of wetland under these rule.
7.
Overlapping provisions.
(1)
Page 6/9
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010
The wetlands within the protected areas of the National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries shall be regulated by the
provisions of Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (35 of 1972).
(2)
The wetlands within the protected or notified forest areas shall be regulated by the provisions of the Indian Forest Act,
1927 (16 of 1972); the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 (
69 of 1980
); and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (
29 of 1986
).
(3)
The gaps in the regulation of wetlands within the protected and notified forest areas, if any, under the provisions of the
Indian Forest Act, 1927; Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972; and Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980; shall be plugged by
invoking provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.
(4)
The wetlands situated outside the protected or notified forest areas referred to in sub rule (2) shall be regulated by the
relevant provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (
29 of 1986
)
8.
Enforcement of regulated activities.
(1)
The identified activities for management and wise use of wetlands situated within the protected or notified forest areas
referred to in sub rule (2) of rule 7 shall be regulated by the Forest Department of the State concerned.
(2)
The identified activities for management and wise use of wetlands situated outside the protected or notified forest areas
shall be regulated by the nodal Department or the relevant local state agencies to be designated by the State
Government within a period of six months from the date of commencement of these rules.
9.
Appeals against the decisions of Authority.
- Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Authority may prefer an appeal to the National Green Tribunal constituted
under the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 (
19 of 2010
) with in a period of sixty days from the date of such decision: Provided the National Green Tribunal may entertain any
appeal after the expiry of the said period of sixty days if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient
cause from filing the appeal in time.
The Schedule
[see-rule 3(i)]
List of wetlands in India identified as Ramsar sites under Ramsar Convention on Wetland
Serial Number
Name of Wetland
State
(1)
(2)
(3)
1
Ashtamudi Wetland
Kerala
2
Bhitarkanika Mangroves
Orissa
3
Page 7/9
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010
Bhoj Wetland
Madhya Pradesh
4
Chilika Lake
Orissa
5
Deepor Beel
Assam
6
East Calcutta Wetlands
West Bengal
7
Harike Lake
Punjab
8
Kanjli
Punjab
9
Keoladeo National Park
Rajasthan
10
Kolleru Lake
Andhra Pradesh
11
Loktak Lake
Manipur
12
Point Calimere Wildlife and Bird Sanctuary
Tamil Nadu
13
Pong Dam Lake
Himachal Pradesh
14
Ropar
Punjab
15
Sambhar Lake
Rajasthan
16
Sasthamkotta Lake
Kerala
17
Tsomoriri
Jammu and Kashmir
18
Vembanad -Kol Wetland
Kerala
19
Wular Lake
Jammu and Kashmir
20
Page 8/9
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010
Chandratal
Himachal Pradesh
21
Renuka
Himachal Pradesh
22
Rudrasagar
Tripura
23
Uppar Ganga
Uttar Pradesh
24
Hokarsar (Hokera)
Jammu and Kashmir
25
Surinsar and Mansar (Complex)
Jammu and Kashmir
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 9/9