
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/115117978/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
Rule THE-BOILER-OPERATION-ENGINEERS-RULES-2011 of 2011
Published on 15 March 2011
Commenced on 15 March 2011
[This is the version of this document from 15 March 2011.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
Published vide Notification New Delhi, the 15th March, 2011
Ministry of Commerce And Industry
(Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion)
G.S.R. 212(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (f) of sub-section (1A) of section 28A of the Boilers Act,
1923 (5 of 1923), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely :-
Chapter-I Preliminary
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These Rules may be called the Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011.
Page 1/13
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the content otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Boilers Act, 1923, (5 of 1923);
(b)
"Board" means the Board of Examiners constituted under these rules;
(c)
"Boiler Operation Engineer" means a person granted with a certificate of proficiency as a boiler operation engineer under
these rules;
(d)
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Board;
(e)
"Chief Inspector" shall have the meaning assigned to it under clause (c) of section 2 of Boilers Act, 1923 (5 of 1923);
(f)
"Form" means a form appended to these rules;
(g)
"Government" means the State Government or Administration of Union Territory;
(h)
"Secretary" means the Secretary to the Board;
(i)
"Section" means a section of the Act;
(j)
any reference in these rules to a boiler or boilers shall be deemed to include also a reference to an economizer or
economizers;
Chapter-II General
3.
Supervision of operation of Boilers.
- The owner of a single boiler or two or more boilers connected in a battery or of many separate individual boilers
situated within a radius of 50 meters having a total heating surface exceeding one thousand square meters in any of the
cases shall not use the same or permit the same to be used unless the boiler or boilers are placed in direct charge of a
competent person specified in rule 4 in addition to such number of boiler attendants as specified in these rules:
Provided that the Chief Inspector may permit any Boiler Attendant to remain in-charge of a Boiler for a maximum period
of three months not withstanding any thing contrary contained in these rules:
Provided further that nothing in these rules shall debar a person holding a First Class Certificate of Competency granted
under the Boiler Attendants Rules, 2011 from remaining in attendance and in charge of a boiler or boilers of any size
and any such certificate shall for the purpose of these rules be deemed to have been granted under these rules.
4.
Competent person shall possess certificate and extent of qualification.
- No person who does not possess a Certificate of Proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer under these rules shall be
deemed a fit and proper person to hold charge of a boiler or boilers exceeding the limits laid down in rule 3.
5.
Production of Certificate.
- Boiler Operation Engineer holding a Certificate of Proficiency under these rules shall, at all reasonable times during the
period any boiler is in his charge or attendance, be bound to produce such certificate when called upon to do so by any
of the persons empowered under section 15 to call for the production of a certificate or provisional order granted under
the Act.
6.
Owner to furnish Chief Inspector or Director of Boilers with particulars of Certificates.
Page 2/13
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
(1)
The owner of a boiler who engages any person to be in-charge thereof shall within seven days of such engagement
furnish to the Chief Inspector or Director of Boilers with full particulars of such person including the serial number, date
and place of issue of his certificate to hold as such.
(2)
The owner of a boiler who engages any person to hold charge of such boiler in place of a person who is in-charge under
sub-rule (1), in the event of such person leaving his employment or in the event of the death of such person, report that
fact within seven days to the Chief Inspector or Director of Boilers.
7.
Limits of daily period of attendance, reliefs, and sphere of action.
(1)
A person in-charge of a boiler shall be deemed to be in direct and immediate charge of the same when he is within 100
meters of such boiler.
(2)
A person in-charge of a boiler for which a Certificate of Proficiency is required under these rules may be relieved of
charge in anyone day for not more than two periods, which when combined do not exceed two hours in duration by a
person holding a first class certificate of competency as a Boiler attendant.
(3)
The holder of a first class Certificate of Competency as a Boiler attendant may also with the consent in writing of the
Chief Inspector or Director of Boilers, relieve a person holding a Certificate of Proficiency as Boiler Operation Engineer
for a period which may extend to ten consecutive days which, in special circumstances, the Chief Inspector or Director
of Boilers may extend to any length of time not exceeding thirty days at a time.
8.
When Boiler shall be deemed to be in use.
(1)
Boiler shall be deemed to be in use for the purpose of these rules when there is fire in the furnace fire box or fire place
for the purpose of heating the water in the boiler or under banked fire condition. A boiler shall be deemed to be not in
use only when the fire is removed and all steam and water connections are closed.
(2)
An economizer or waste heat boiler shall be deemed to be in use for the purpose of these rules when there is a flow of
flue gases or other heating media past the economizer or waste heat boiler and an appreciable heat transfer takes place
between the water and the heating gases or media.
Chapter III
Board of Examiners
9.
Constitution of the Board of Examiners.
(1)
A Board of Examiners shall be constituted for the State or Union Territory consisting of the Chief Inspector or Director of
Boilers, a Deputy Chief Inspector or Inspector or equivalent as nominated by the Chief Inspector or Director of Boilers,
and not less than three other members having academic and practical knowledge of prime movers and modem boiler
practices to be appointed by the Government from time to time.
(2)
The Chief Inspector or Director of Boilers shall be the ex-officio Chairman and Deputy Chief Inspector or Inspector or
equivalent nominated by the Chief Inspector or Director of Boilers shall be the ex-officio Secretary to the Board.
10.
Term of Office of the Members.
- The term of office of each of the members other than the ex-officio members of the Board shall be three years. If a
member leaves the State or Union Territory permanently or absents himself from three consecutive meetings without the
permission of the Board, he shall be deemed to have vacated his seat on the Board and another person may be
appointed in his place for the unexpired portion of his term.
11.
Page 3/13
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
Functions of the Board.
- The Board of Examiners shall -
(i)
conduct examinations and practical tests of candidates for the grant of certificates of proficiency as a Boiler Operation
Engineer;
(ii)
have power to appoint any person as a paper setter or examiner at any examination;
(iii)
grant Certificate of Proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer; and
(iv)
consider the reports of inquiries into allegations of drunkenness, negligence of duty, misconduct on the part of Boiler
Operation Engineers.
12.
Meeting of the Board.
- The Board shall meet as often as may be in the opinion of the Chairman be necessary for transacting its business and
at such place and time as may be appointed by the Chairman.
13.
Notice of meeting and list of business.
(1)
Notice of not less than fifteen days from the date of posting shall be given of the time and place fixed for each meeting of
the Board to every member of the Board and with such notice shall be attached the list of business to be disclosed at the
meeting:
Provided that if the Chairman calls any meeting for considering any matter which in his opinion is urgent, a notice giving
such reasonable time as he may consider necessary, shall be deemed sufficient;
(2)
Any business which is not on the list shall not be considered at the meeting except with the permission of the Chairman.
14.
Quorum.
- The Chairman or the Secretary and two members of the Board of Examiners shall form a quorum.
15.
Chairman to preside at meetings of the Board.
- The Chairman shall preside over all meetings of the Board and in his absence a member chosen by the members
present at the meeting shall preside over the meeting.
16.
Secretary of the Board.
- The Secretary shall maintain a register of Boiler Operation Engineers holding Certificate of Proficiency and shall
perform such other functions as are specified in these rules or as the Chairman may direct from time to time.
17.
Board's endorsement on application.
- The Board shall endorse on the printed application form of each candidate the result of his examination for a certificate
of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer. The endorsed application shall be returned to the Secretary.
18.
Board's Power to refuse issue of Certificate.
- The Board may direct any candidate, who in the opinion of the majority of the members appears too old or physically
unfit through deformity, constitutional weakness, defective eyesight, deafness or loss of a limb to perform efficiently the
duties of a Boiler Operation Engineer, to produce a certificate of fitness from a Registered Medical Practitioner. The
however, the candidate fails to produce a certificate of physical fitness, the Board shall have power to refuse the issue of
a certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer.
19.
Examiner's Fees.
- Each member of the Board of Examiners and any other examiner appointed under rule 9 except Chairman and
Page 4/13
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
Secretary shall be entitled to receive fees for examining candidates under these rules and the rate of fees shall be as
follows :-
(a) sitting fee for non official Board Members for Board
Meeting
Rs. 500/-
(b) for setting question paper
Rs. 300/-
(c) for valuation of answer paper
Rs. 15/-
(d) for examining each candidate
Rs. 100/-
(e) invigilation Fee
(i) Rs. 300/- per invigilator, if the examination exceeds 3
hrs.
ii) Rs. 150/- per invigilator, if the examination does not
exceeds 3 hrs.
20.
Actions of the Board.
- No action of the Board shall be deemed to be invalid by reasons of any defect in the constitution of the Board or by
reason of such action having been done during the period of any vacancy in the Board.
Chapter IV
Examination
21.
Examination.
- Examination for the grant of Certificate of Proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer shall be held by the Board at such
place and on such dates as may he notified by the Secretary from time to time in the State or Union Territory.
22.
Postponement of examination.
- When a date fixed for the examination is declared as a gazetted holiday or when for any unforeseen reason the
examination cannot be held on the date fixed, the Chairman may fix some other date for holding the examination and
the same shall be duly notified to the candidates and the members of the Board of Examiners.
Chapter V
Certificate
23.
Capabilities of holders of Certificate.
(1)
The Certificate of Proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer shall qualify the holder thereof to be in-charge of a boiler or
boilers of any type and size provided that the boilers are so situated that none of them is at a distance of more than fifty
meters radius from any one of them.
(2)
The holder of a Certificate of Proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer shall for all intents and purposes be deemed to
have fulfilled the requirements of the Boilers Attendants' Rules, 2011:
Provided that a Boiler Operation Engineer holding Certificate of Proficiency prior to the publication of this notification in
the official Gazette as a Boiler Operation Engineer issued by a Government prior to the date of this Notification shall be
eligible to be in-charge of boilers(s) as mentioned in the Certificate of Proficiency.
24.
Endorsement on a Certificate.
- A person holding a Certificate of Proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer granted by a Board of any other State or
Union Territory shall on application have the certificate endorsed for validity in the State or Union Territory in which he
applies for services. Such endorsement shall be made by the Chairman of the Board.
25.
Page 5/13
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
Fee.
- A Fee of Rs. 200/- (Rupees Two hundred only) shall be paid for endorsement on the certificate which shall not be
refundable. Fee shall be paid by Treasury Challan or such other mode as the Government may notify in this behalf.
Chapter VI
Application For Examination
26.
[ Form of application.
[Substituted by Notification No. 529 (E), dated 17.5.2016 (w.e.f. 15.3.2011).]
(1)
Every application for examination shall be in Form 'A'.
(2)
The applicant shall fill in such part of the Form as are to be filled in by a candidate and shall sign on it.
(3)
The filled in application shall be forwarded to the Secretary and shall be accompanied by -
(a)
one self attested copy of each of the testimonials in respect of academic qualifications, practical experience of the
candidate (all original testimonials shall be produced at the time of interview);
(b)
testimonials of good character from his employer with a certificate of age;
(c)
a treasury challan or such other mode as the Government may specify in this behalf in support of payment of the fee
specified in these rules for the examination at which the applicant prefers to appear; and
(d)
two copies of recent passport size photographs (size 50mm x 65mm), one of which shall bear the signature of the
applicant on the back.]
26. Form of application.- Every application for examination shall be in Form 'A'. The applicant shall fill in such part of the
Form as are to be filled in by a candidate and shall sign the form in the presence of a Gazetted Officer or any Magistrate
or his employer who shall attest his signature. The application so filled in shall be forwarded to the Secretary
accompanied by -
(a) one attested copy of each of the testimonials in respect of academic qualifications, and originals alongwith their
copies for practical experience of the candidate. All originals in respect of academic qualifications shall be produced at
the time of interview;
(b) testimonials of good character from his employer with a certificate of age;
(c) a Treasury Challan or such other mode as the Government may specify in this behalf in support of payment of the
fee specified in these rules for the examination at which the applicant prefers to appear; and
(d) two copies of recent passport size photographs (size 50mm x 65mm) one of which shall bear the signature of the
applicant on the back, duly attested by a Gazetted Officer or candidate's employer.
27.
Candidate to produce satisfactory testimonials.
(1)
No candidate shall be admitted to an examination who cannot produce satisfactory testimonials certifying his
experience, ability, and good conduct for the whole period of his qualifying service or any unaccounted break in the
period of qualifying service. Such testimonials shall clearly state the capacity in which candidate was employed, whether
as an Apprentice Engineer, Supervisor, Assistant Engineer etc. and the periods of such employment stating the dates
between which candidate was so employed.
(2)
A testimonial shall be signed by a person under whom the candidate was employed and be countersigned by the owner
or agent of the mill factory or workshop or by such other persons as the Government may notify in this behalf.
(3)
Candidates who have undergone a course of training at a recognized Engineering College or Technical Institution must
produce either the degree or diploma of the course or a certificate from the Principal or Superintendent of the Institution
Page 6/13
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
giving the period devoted in completing the course.
(4)
A testimonial in respect of service in a steamship may be signed by the Chief Engineer and counter signed by the
master of the vessel or may be in the form of a seaman's discharge certificate issued by a Shipping Master.
(5)
A testimonial of service rendered on railway boilers or boilers belonging to a Government Department or local bodies,
shall be signed by a responsible officer under whom the candidate has directly served and countersigned by the head of
the Department concerned.
28.
Doubtful testimonials.
- If the Secretary has reason to doubt the truth of any statement made in any application or testimonials, he may make
such inquiries as he thinks fit to verify the same.
29.
False testimonials.
(1)
If on inquiry the Secretary is satisfied that any testimonial submitted by a candidate is false in any material particulars,
he shall submit his findings to the Chairman who may by a written order debar such candidate from being admitted to
any examination held under these rules. If, on the strength of any such testimonials, a candidate has already been
admitted to an examination, he shall be deemed to have failed in such examination and any certificate granted to him as
a result of his having been declared to have passed such examination, shall be forthwith recalled and be canceled by a
notification published in the Official Gazette:
Provided that no action shall be taken under this rule without giving the applicant an opportunity of being heard in the
matter.
(2)
Anybody aggrieved by the decision of the Chairman may, within thirty days of the date of the receipt of the order, appeal
to the Government whose decision thereon shall be final.
30.
Keeping of applications and copies of testimonials.
- Applications and copies of testimonials submitted by candidates shall be kept as records in the office of the Chairman.
The Original testimonials shall be returned to the candidate as soon as possible.
Chapter VII
Eligibility Criteria
31.
Age, qualifications and experience.
- A candidate for a certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer shall not be less than twenty three years of
age and shall not be admitted to the examination unless he:-
(a)
possesses a degree or diploma in Mechanical or Electrical or Chemical or Power Plant or Production or Instrumentation
Engineering from a recognized Institution;
(b)
has served for not less than two years in case of Degree holders and for five years in case of Diploma holders in the
operation and / or maintenance of a Boiler of not less than one thousand square meters heating surface or a Battery of
Boilers of not less than one thousand square meters heating surface in aggregate out of which at least one Boiler of not
less than five hundred square meters heating surface. However, for degree holders or post graduate diploma holders
from a National Power Training Institute requirement of minimum working experience shall be one year.
Chapter VIII
Syllabus For Examination
32.
Syllabus for examination.
- A candidate in order to be qualified for a certificate of proficiency under these rules, shall inter alia, satisfy the examiner
that he -
Page 7/13
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
(a)
[ possesses a degree or diploma in Mechanical or Electrical or Electrical and Electronics or Chemical or Power Plant or
Production or Instrumentation or Instrumentation and Control Engineering from a recognized Institution;]
[Substituted 'can calculate loads, areas, volumes, quantities and weights;' by Notification No. 529 (E), dated 17.5.2016
(w.e.f. 15.3.2011).]
(b)
can give description of the principal types of steam boilers used on land and to state the purposes and reasons for which
different types of boilers are employed; and from the data and formula supplied, calculate the safe working pressure for
any part of a boiler in accordance with the Indian Boiler Regulations;
(c)
can calculate the direct stress, the torsional stress and the bending stress in round bars and shafts and the bending
stress in rectangular bars and levers with given load;
(d)
understands the working and management of steam boilers, super heaters and economizers;
(e)
understands the use and purpose of various valves, cocks, mountings, fitting and other safety devices;
(f)
can give a description of and explain the functions of feed pumps, feed injectors, feed regulators, feed water filters and
softeners, feed heaters, air heaters, calorifiers, steam accumulators, forced drought, induced drought and automatic
drought control devices;
(g)
can answer questions on fact relating to combustion, heat and steam and calculate consumption of coal and water and
quantity of steam that may be generated from a given heating surface under the various systems of drought, in any land
boiler and also calculate the overall efficiency of boiler plant;
(h)
can explain jet and surface condensation, reheating and the working of steam expansion;
(i)
can explain the general methods employed in laying foundation for boilers and chimneys and the suitable area and
height of chimneys to promote efficient combustion;
(j)
can explain the significance of principal appliances in use for the prevention of smoke and the principle on which they
work and give description of the principal mechanical stokers, pulverisers, gas, oil and pulverized fuel systems in use;
(k)
understands the need for periodical cleaning, the methods used for prevention of scale or other deposits on heating
surfaces and the necessity for maintaining a certain PH value in feed water;
(l)
can detect defects in boilers and state the means and methods of rectifying them.
(m)
understands the precautions to be taken for starting a boiler and economizer from cold or from banked fire condition;
(n)
understands the procedure to be adopted in putting an economizer out of commission while the boiler is on steam;
(o)
can explain the methods adopted for the achievement of fuel economy and the use of various instruments used in a
Boiler House:
(p)
materials used in Boiler components and piping; and
(q)
can read and prepare a working sketch and drawing of boilers and boiler mounting or parts thereof.
Chapter IX
Mode of Examination
33.
Page 8/13
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
Nature of Examination.
- Examination for certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer shall be of such nature as to test the practical
ability and technical knowledge of the candidates to be in charge of steam generating plants of all types and pressures
in land use.
34.
Subjects for Examination.
- Examination shall be conducted in the following manner:-
(1)
written examination consisting of one paper on Boilers to cover the syllabus stipulated under sub-rule (a) to sub-rule (h)
of rule 32 and another paper on Boilers to cover the syllabus stipulated under sub-rule (i) to sub-rule (p) of rule 32.
(2)
A written drawing examination covering sub-rule (q) of rule 32.
(3)
An oral examination to answer questions pertaining to Boiler Practices and if required by the examiner to demonstrate in
the examination room or in a workshop, his ability to carry out the practical aspects of his duties in a Boiler House.
35.
Assessment of work.
- A candidate shall secure at least forty five per cent of the marks in each written paper as well as in the oral and
drawing examinations; but the aggregate should not be less than fifty per cent of the total marks in order that he can be
awarded a certificate of proficiency under these rules.
36.
Fees for Examination.
- A Candidate  for examination for certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer shall pay a fee of Rs. 1500/-
(Rupees One thousand five hundred only). Fee shall be paid by Treasury Challan or such other mode as the
Government may notify in this behalf.
37.
Refund of Fee.
- A candidate once admitted to an examination under these rules shall not be entitled to any refund of fees. When a
candidate is unavoidably absent from the examination on the date fixed, the Chairman may allow him to appear without
payment of a second fee at the next examination.
38.
Fee for candidate found ineligible.
- A candidate who has paid the examination fee but is found ineligible for an examination shall forfeit the said fee.
Chapter X
Grant of Certificates.
39.
Grant of certificate of proficiency.
- If a candidate passes the examination, his result shall be notified in the State official Gazette or Union Territory official
Gazette and he shall be granted a certificate of proficiency as soon as practicable after such publication.
40.
Form of certificate.
- A certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer shall be in Form 'B'.
41.
Application for endorsement on a certificate.
- An application for endorsement in the certificate for validity in a State or Union Territory other than the State or Union
Territory of issue, shall be made in Form 'A'.
42.
Identification requirement.
- Every certificate granted under these rules shall bear a bust photograph of the holder thereof previously submitted
along with his application under rule 26 and his signature and such other particulars as may be required for the purpose
of identification.
Page 9/13
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
43.
Grant of duplicate certificate.
(1)
Whenever the holder of a certificate proves to the satisfaction of the Chairman that the certificate granted to him under
these rules has been lost, stolen or destroyed or mutilated, he shall be granted on payment of a fee of Rs.200/- (Rs.
Two hundred only), a duplicate certificate to which, by the record so kept as aforesaid, he appears to be entitled, which
shall have for all purposes the same validity as the original certificate. The words "Duplicate Certificate" shall be written
on such certificate. Fee shall be paid by Treasury Challan or such other mode as the Government may notify in this
behalf.
(2)
If on inquiry the Secretary is satisfied that any statement made by the applicant for the issue of duplicate certificate is
false, he shall report the case to the said Board at its next Meeting and the Board may at its discretion cancel the
certificate or permit the grant as aforesaid of a duplicate certificate either immediately or after such period not exceeding
twelve months as the Board may think fit having regard to the circumstances of each case.
44.
Application for duplicate certificate.
- Application for a duplicate certificate shall be lodged with the Chairman with a declaration before a Gazetted Officer or
a magistrate stating that the certificate granted under these rules, has been lost.
45.
Invalidity of original certificate.
- On the issue, of a duplicate certificate, the original certificate shall cease to be valid, and shall if in the possession of
the holder thereof be returned to the office of the Chairman for cancellation.
46.
Record of duplicate certificate.
- Duplicate of all certificates granted under these rules shall be recorded in the office of the Chairman.
Chapter XI
Enquiry
47.
Enquiry regarding certificate holders.
- If a District Magistrate or the Chief Inspector or Director of Boilers has reason to believe from any cause whatsoever,
that, any enquiry should be made into allegations of incompetence, drunkenness, misconduct or negligence of duties on
the part of a Boiler Operation Engineer holding Certificate of Proficiency under these rules, they shall either themselves
make such enquiry or cause it to be made by their subordinate officers, and
(a)
the proceedings shall be held in the presence of the person whose conduct forms the subject of enquiry and he shall
have an opportunity of making any statement he may wish to make and of producing any evidence in his defence.
(b)
the proceeding of any such enquiry together with the findings thereon by the officer conducting the enquiry shall be
forwarded by that officer for decision of the Board.
48.
Surrender of certificate.
- When an enquiry is being conducted under rule 47, the holder of such certificate shall, on demand by the officer in
charge of the enquiry, forthwith surrender his certificate to the said officer pending the result of such enquiry.
49.
Decision of the Board.
(1)
On receipt of the proceeding of the enquiry conducted under rule 47 together with findings thereon the Board may allow
the certificate to stand or suspend it for such period as it thinks fit or may cancel the certificate permanently.
(2)
Before taking any action under sub-rule (1) the candidate shall be given an opportunity of being heard in the matter.
(3)
Page 10/13
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
Anybody aggrieved by the decision of the Board may, within thirty days of the date of the receipt of the order, appeal to
the government whose decision thereon, shall be final.
Form 'A'
(See rules 26 and 41)
Application for certificate of proficiency as Boiler Operation Engineer
Part I ? {|
|-
|
PHOTO
|}
1. Name etc. of the application
2. Name (in full).
3. Father's Name.
4. Nationality.
5. Date of Birth.
6. Place of Birth
7. Permanent Address
8. Whether appeared in any previous examination
9. If so, details of date and place
Part II ? Particulars of All Certificates Submitted {|
|-
| Number of
the Certificate
| Class of
Certificate
| Place of
issue
| Date of
issue
| If at any
time suspended or canceled, and if so state by whom
| Date of
suspension or cancellation
| Reasons
of suspension or cancellation
|-
| 1
| 2
| 3
| 4
| 5
| 6
| 7
|-
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
Page 11/13
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
|}
Part III ? List of Testimonials And Statements of Service (the testimonials to be numbered serially corresponding to the
numbers given in column 1 below)
Serial Number of testimonials
Date of testimonials
Name of person signing the
testimonials
Address and designation of factory
or Workshop where employed
Number type and heating surface of
boilers worked on
Capacity in which employed
Service of Applicant
Period for which employed
Not to be filled in by the applicant
Date of commencement
Date of termination
Years
Months
Days
Initial of Verifier
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
Total Service
Time served for which certificate are produced
Time served for which no certificates are produced
Part IV ? Declaration To Be Made By The Applicant
I do hereby declare that the statements made in Part I, II and III of this Form are correct and true to the best of my
knowledge and belief and that the papers enumerated in Part II and submitted with this form are true and genuine
documents and further that the copies of the the documents submitted with this form are true and correct. I further
declare that the statements made in Part III contain a true and correct account of the whole period of my service without
exception, and I make this declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true.
Dated at........this......day........of..........20
Signature of the applicant
Present Address
Signed in the presence of
Signature.............
Note:- 1. Every application must be accompanied with the requisite fee in the manner as may be prescribed by the
Government.
Page 12/13
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
2. [ Two copies of a recent passport size photograph of the applicant (size 50mm x 65mm) shall accompany the
application which shall bear the signature of the applicant on the back.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 529 (E), dated 17.5.2016 (w.e.f. 15.3.2011).]
3. Any, person making a false statement for the purpose of the admission to the examination renders himself liable to
prosecution.
4. Incomplete application is liable to be rejected.
Part V ? (Not to be filled by the applicant)
Certified that Shri__________has been examined for Certificate of Proficiency as Boiler Operation Engineer and that he
has passed/failed in the examination held during _________
Issue of Certificate of proficiency as Boiler Operation Engineer when certified to have passed
Certificate No._____________ issued on ___________ and duplica1e recorded.
(Secretary)
Board of Examiners
Form B
(See Rule 40)
Certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer under the Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 2011
No.............. of......................... 20....................
Shri ............................................. aged about...... Years, at present residing at ................................................. having
satisfied the Board of Examiners appointed under the above noted rules of his proficiency to fulfill the duties of a Boiler
Operation Engineer is granted under the Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 2011, this certificate of proficiency
authorizing him to be in-charge of boilers of any type or size provided that all the boilers are situated within a radius of
50 meters
Dated at ..... this .... Day of ............. 20 ..........
Secretary
Board of Examiners
Chairman
Board of Examiners
PHOTO
Description Roll
1. Date and Place of Birth ....................
2. Permanent address ..........................
3. Nationality ...........................................
4. Height (without shoes) ......................
5. Marks of Identification .......................
6. Left Thumb impression .....................
Signature of applicant
Endorsements
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 13/13