
----- PAGE 1 -----
The National Council for Teacher Education (Manner of Appointment and Qualifications of Vi...
The National Council for Teacher Education (Manner of Appointment
and Qualifications of Vice Chairperson) Rules, 2012
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/180381387/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The National Council for Teacher Education (Manner of Appointment and Qualifications of Vice Chairperson) Rules,
2012
UNION OF INDIA
India
The National Council for Teacher Education (Manner of Appointment and Qualifications of Vice Chairperson) Rules,
2012
Rule
THE-NATIONAL-COUNCIL-FOR-TEACHER-EDUCATION-MANNER-OF-APPOINTMENT-AND-QUALIFICATIONS-OF-
VICE-CHAIRPERSON-RULES-2012 of 2012
Published on 19 October 2012
Commenced on 19 October 2012
[This is the version of this document from 19 October 2012.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The National Council for Teacher Education (Manner of Appointment and Qualifications of Vice Chairperson) Rules,
2012
Published vide Notification New Delhi, the 19th October, 2012
Ministry of Human Resource Development
(Department of School Education and Literacy)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The National Council for Teacher Education (Manner of Appointment and Qualifications of Vi...
G.S.R. 779(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 31 of the National Council for Teacher
Education Act, 1993 (73 of 1993) the Central Government hereby makes the following rules regulating the manner of
appointment and qualifications of the Vice-Chairperson of the National Council for Teacher Education, namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the National Council for Teacher Education (Manner of Appointment and Qualifications of
Vice Chairperson) Rules, 2012.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Pay and Allowances.
- The Vice-Chairperson shall receive pay in the pay scale of Rs.67,000-Rs.79,000 (Higher Administrative Grade plus
Scale) with annual increment at the rate of 3 percent.
3.
Age Limit.
- The maximum age limit of appointment shall be not exceeding fifty six years as on the last date for the receipt of
application.
4.
Manner and period of appointment.
- The appointment shall be made by deputation (including short term contract) on tenure basis for a maximum period of
four years or till the age of sixty years, whichever is earlier.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, the period of deputation including the period of deputation in another
ex-cadre post held immediately preceding this appointment in the same or other organization or department of the
Central Government shall ordinarily not exceed five years.
5.
Educational and other qualifications.
- No person shall be eligible for being appointed as the Vice-Chairperson under clause (b) of sub-section (4) of section 3
of the National Council for Teacher Education Act, 1993, unless-
(a)
he is an officer of the Central Government or State Governments or autonomous organization or University, holding-
(i)
analogous or equivalent posts on regular basis in the parent cadre or department; or
(A)
Essential
(i)
Doctoral Degree from a recognised university ; and
(ii)
experience of working as a Professor or equivalent in State or Central University or educational institution of State or
Central Government;
(ii)
a post in the Pay Band of Rs.37400-Rs.67000 with Grade Pay Rs. 10000 or equivalent with 3 year of regular service in
the grade in the parent cadre or department and
(iii)
possessing the following qualifications namely :-
Or
3. years' administrative experience in school/teacher education in the Central or State Government
(B)
Desirable
(i)
Doctoral degree in Education from a recognized university;
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The National Council for Teacher Education (Manner of Appointment and Qualifications of Vi...
(ii)
Masters degree from a recognized university with First Class;
(iii)
impressive academic credentials;
(iv)
experience in the field of teacher education;
(v)
publications in journals, especially in journals of education, of national and international repute;
(vi)
demonstrated administrative, organisational and leadership capability.
6.
The composition of Selection Committee.
- The selection shall be made on the recommendation of the Selection Committee consisting of -
(a)
Chairman - to be nominated by the Central Government;
(b)
two Heads of Institutions of the Central Educational Institutions or Central Universities or Central autonomous bodies - to
be nominated by the Central Government - Members;
(c)
two eminent persons from outside the Ministry of Human Resource Development and its subordinate offices - to be
nominated by the Central Government Members.
(d)
Chairperson, NCTE - Member.
7.
Disqualification.
- No person,-
(a)
who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living; or
(b)
who, having a spouse living, has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person,
shall be eligible for appointment to the said post:
Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the personal law
applicable to such person and the other party to the marriage and that there are other grounds for so doing, exempt any
person from the operation of this rule.
8.
Power to relax.
- Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do , it may, by order, for reasons
to be recorded in writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class or category of persons.
9.
Savings.
- Nothing in these rules shall affect reservations, relaxation of age limit and other concessions required to be provided
for the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, ex-servicemen and other special categories of
persons in accordance with the orders issued by the Central Government from time to time in this regard.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3