
----- PAGE 1 -----
Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at railway premises) Rules...
Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at
railway premises) Rules, 2012
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/134572875/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at railway premises) Rules, 2012
UNION OF INDIA
India
Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at railway premises) Rules, 2012
Rule
INDIAN-RAILWAYS-PENALTIES-FOR-ACTIVITIES-AFFECTING-CLEANLINESS-AT-RAILWAY-PREMISES-RULES-20
12 of 2012
Published on 26 November 2012
Commenced on 26 November 2012
[This is the version of this document from 26 November 2012.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at railway premises) Rules, 2012
Published vide Notification New Delhi, the 26th November, 2012
Ministry of Railways
(Railway Board)
G.S.R. 846(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause (g) of sub-section (2) and sub-section (3) of Section 60
read with Section 198 of the Railways Act, 1989 (
24 of 1989
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at railway premises) Rules...
) the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and Commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at railway premises) Rules,
2012.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
'Act' means the Railways Act, 1989;
(b)
'litter' means all refuse and include any other waste material which, if thrown or deposited. tends to create unclean or
unhygienic conditions or a danger to life, environment pollution. public health, safety and welfare;
(c)
'littering' means,-
(i)
putting litter in a location from where it fails, descends, blows, is washed, percolates or otherwise escapes; or is likely to
fall, descend, blow, be washed, percolate or otherwise escape into or onto any public place; or
(ii)
causing, permitting or allowing litter to fall, descend, blow, be washed, percolate or otherwise escape into or onto any
public place;
(d)
'railway premises' means station building, platforms, railway track and other property belonging to railways including
trains;
(e)
'person' means any person or persons coming to railway premises with or without the intention of travelling;
(f)
'carriage' means the carriage of passengers or goods by a railway administration.
3.
Prohibition of activities affecting cleanliness and hygiene in the railway premises.
(1)
No person shall,-
(a)
throw or deposit litter in any occupied or unoccupied railway premises or the carriage except in authorized places;
(b)
cook, bathe, spit, urinate, defecate, feed animal or birds, repair or wash vehicles, washing utensils or clothes or any
other objects or keep any type of storage in any railway premises except in such facilities or conveniences specifically
provided for any of these purposes;
(c)
paste or put up any poster or write or draw anything or matter in any compartment or carriage of the railway or any
premises thereof, without any lawful authority;
(d)
indulge in defacing railway property.
(2)
Authorised Vendors/hawkers will make necessary arrangement to keep the container or waste basket for collecting litter
and proper disposal of its contents.
4.
Penalties for contravention of these rules.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at railway premises) Rules...
- Whosoever contravenes any of the provisions of these rules or fails to comply with such provisions shall be punished
with a fine which shall not exceed five hundred rupees.
5.
Officials authorized to collect penalties under these rules.
- The following officials are authorized to collect fine mentioned in these rules, namely:-
(a)
The Station Master or Station Manager;
(b)
An officer not below the rank of ticket Collector of the Commercial Department or an officer.of equivalent rank of the
Operating Department;
(c)
Any other official (s) authorized by the Railway Administration for the purpose of implementing these rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3