
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers' Rights (Use of Denomination of Registered V...
The Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers' Rights (Use of
Denomination of Registered Variety) Rules, 2012
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/62331636/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers' Rights (Use of Denomination of Registered Variety) Rules, 2012
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers' Rights (Use of Denomination of Registered Variety) Rules, 2012
Rule
THE-PROTECTION-OF-PLANT-VARIETIES-AND-FARMERS-RIGHTS-USE-OF-DENOMINATION-OF-REGISTERED-V
ARIETY-RULES-2012 of 2012
Published on 17 December 2012
Commenced on 17 December 2012
[This is the version of this document from 17 December 2012.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers' Rights (Use of Denomination of Registered Variety) Rules, 2012
Published vide Notification New Delhi, the 17th December, 2012
Ministry of Agriculture
(Department of Agriculture and Cooperation)
G.S.R. 903(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 68 read with clause (Lxiv) of
sub-section (2) of Section 96 of the Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmer's Rights Act, 2001 (
53 of 2001
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers' Rights (Use of Denomination of Registered V...
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers' Rights (Use of Denomination of Registered
Variety) Rules, 2012.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(i)
"Act" means the Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers' Rights Act, 2001 (
53 of 2001
).
(ii)
All other words and expressions used in these rules but not defined, shall have the same meaning respectively assigned
to them in the Act.
3.
Use of denomination.
- The use of a denomination in relation to a variety registered shall be construed as a reference to the use of printed or
other visual representation of the denomination.
4.
Indication of details of registration.
- The package or any other container, containing the seeds of a variety registered under the Act shall indicate the
denomination and details of registration obtained under the Act.
5.
Use of the denomination in relation to a registered variety.
- The use of a denomination in relation to a variety registered shall be construed as a reference to the use of the
denomination upon, or in any physical or in any other relation whatsoever, to such variety.
6.
Manner of using the denomination in the container.
(1)
The denomination shall appear on each container of seed in a conspicuous place on the container in which the seed is
packed and on every other covering in which that container is packed and shall be clear and legible.
(2)
The application of a denomination of a registered variety within the meaning of sub-section (2) and (3) of Section 68 of
the Act shall also be construed as a use of denomination.
7.
Use of denomination by registered agent or registered licensee.
- The use of a denomination by registered agent or registered licensee shall be construed as use of denomination,
where only.
(a)
the said registered agent or registered licensee is connected in the course of the trade;
(b)
in respect of which variety the denomination remains registered for the time being;
(c)
he is registered as licensee or registered agent under the provisions of the Act;
(d)
he complies with the conditions and limitations to which the registration of a registered licensee or registered agent is
subject.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers' Rights (Use of Denomination of Registered V...
8.
Use in India and use for export trade.
(1)
Use of a denomination of a variety shall be construed as use in India
(2)
Applying a denomination in India to a variety to be exported from India shall constitute use of the denomination.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3