
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Debts Recovery Tribunals (Refund of Court Fee) Rules, 2013
The Debts Recovery Tribunals (Refund of Court Fee) Rules, 2013
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/51337853/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Debts Recovery Tribunals (Refund of Court Fee) Rules, 2013
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Debts Recovery Tribunals (Refund of Court Fee) Rules, 2013
Rule THE-DEBTS-RECOVERY-TRIBUNALS-REFUND-OF-COURT-FEE-RULES-2013 of 2013
Published on 15 May 2013
Commenced on 15 May 2013
[This is the version of this document from 15 May 2013.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Debts Recovery Tribunals (Refund of Court Fee) Rules, 2013
Published vide Notification New Delhi, the 15th May, 2013
G.S.R. 311 (E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (cc) of sub-section (2) of Section 36 read with
subsection (3A) of section 19 of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (
51 of 1993
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules regulating the refund of court fee in the Debts Recovery
Tribunals (hereinafter called the Tribunal) namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Debts Recovery Tribunals (Refund of Court Fee) Rules, 2013.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Debts Recovery Tribunals (Refund of Court Fee) Rules, 2013
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Applicability.
- These rules shall be applicable in all cases filed before the Tribunal which are settled prior to the commencement of
the hearing before that Tribunal or at any stage of the proceedings before the final order is passed by the Presiding
Officer.
Provided that no refund shall be allowed when the recovery proceedings are pending with the Recovery Officer.
3.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Act" means the Recovery of Debts due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993;
(b)
"Presiding Officer" means the Presiding Officer of the Debts Recovery Tribunal appointed under subsection (1) of
section 4 of the Act;
(c)
"Tribunal" means the Debts Recovery Tribunal established under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act;
(d)
The words and expressions used in these rules and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
4.
Amount of refund.
- The Presiding Officer of the Tribunal before which any case is filed for settlement of the dues of the Banks and
Financial Institutions may order refund of fee remitted at the time of filing the case at the following rates:
(a)
50 percent of the fee remitted in the cases which are settled prior to the commencement of the hearing before the
Tribunal;
(b)
25 percent of the fee remitted in the cases which are settled at any stage of the proceedings before the final order by the
Presiding Officer is passed.
5.
Procedure for refund.
(1)
The applicant(s) and the defendant(s) shall file a joint application before the Registrar of the Tribunal for refund of court
fee indicating the details of the settlement.
(2)
On receipt of such application, the Registrar shall certify the amount of court fee remitted in the case and the amount to
be refunded and place the application before the Presiding Officer.
(3)
The Presiding Officer shall pass orders for refund of the court fee indicating the amount of refund in the order.
(4)
The Registrar shall accordingly take further action for issue of financial sanction and presentation of bill in Pay and
Accounts Office and refund of the due amount to the applicant.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2