
----- PAGE 1 -----
The State Bank of India Administrator (Salary and Allowances) Rules, 2013
The State Bank of India Administrator (Salary and Allowances) Rules,
2013
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/40187147/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The State Bank of India Administrator (Salary and Allowances) Rules, 2013
UNION OF INDIA
India
The State Bank of India Administrator (Salary and Allowances) Rules, 2013
Rule THE-STATE-BANK-OF-INDIA-ADMINISTRATOR-SALARY-AND-ALLOWANCES-RULES-2013 of 2013
Published on 11 July 2013
Commenced on 11 July 2013
[This is the version of this document from 11 July 2013.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The State Bank of India Administrator (Salary and Allowances) Rules, 2013
Published vide Notification New Delhi, the 11th July, 2013
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Financial Services)
G.S.R. 476(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) read with clause (e) of sub-section (2) of section
49 of the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955), the Central Government in consultation with the Reserve Bank,
hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The State Bank of India Administrator (Salary and Allowances) Rules, 2013
(1)
These rules may be called the State Bank of India Administrator (Salary and Allowances) Rules, 2013.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955).
(b)
"Administrator" means an Administrator appointed under sub-section (2) of section 24A of the Act;
(c)
"Committee" means a Committee constituted under sub-section (5) of section 24A of the Act;
(d)
"Form" means the form appended to these rules;
(e)
"Member" means a member of the Committee constituted under subsection (5) of section 24A of the Act.
(2)
All other words and expressions used and not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Salary and Allowances.
(1)
The Administrator shall be entitled to such salary and allowances as are available to a Secretary to the Government of
India.
(2)
A member shall be entitled to such salary and allowances as are available to a Joint Secretary to the Government of
India:
Provided that the Central Government shall have the power to fix the salary and allowances of the Administrator or a
member in a higher scale in any appropriate case:
Provided further that if a member is already in service under the Central Government or any local body or authority
owned or controlled by the Central Government and is in receipt of salary from such Central Government, local body or
authority, such member shall be paid such fee and allowances as may be determined by the Central Government for
attending meetings of the Committee.
4.
Residuary provision.
- Any matter relating to the conditions of service of the Administrator and the members with respect to which no express
provision has been made in these rules shall be as may be determined by the Central Government.
5.
Oaths of office and secrecy.
- The Administrator and every member shall, before entering upon his office, make a declaration of fidelity and secrecy
in the Form appended to these rules.
Form
(See rule 5)
Declaration of Fidelity and Secrecy
I.........................................................................................................................do hereby declare that I will faithfully, truly
and to the best of my skill and ability execute and perform the duties required of me as Administrator/ Member (as the
case may be) of the State Bank and which properly relate to the office or position in the said State Bank held by me.
I further declare that I will not communicate or allow to be communicated to any person not legally entitled thereto any
information relating to the affairs of the State Bank or to the affairs of any person having any dealing with the State
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The State Bank of India Administrator (Salary and Allowances) Rules, 2013
Bank; nor will I allow any such person to inspect or have access to any books or documents belonging to or in the
possession of the State Bank and relating to the business of the State Bank or any information relating to or to the
affairs of its constituents.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3