
----- PAGE 1 -----
The State Bank of India Committee (Procedure) Rules, 2013
The State Bank of India Committee (Procedure) Rules, 2013
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/153167077/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The State Bank of India Committee (Procedure) Rules, 2013
UNION OF INDIA
India
The State Bank of India Committee (Procedure) Rules, 2013
Rule THE-STATE-BANK-OF-INDIA-COMMITTEE-PROCEDURE-RULES-2013 of 2013
Published on 11 July 2013
Commenced on 11 July 2013
[This is the version of this document from 11 July 2013.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The State Bank of India Committee (Procedure) Rules, 2013
Published vide Notification New Delhi, the 11th July, 2013
G.S.R. 477(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) read with clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section
49 of the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955), the Central Government in consultation with the Reserve Bank,
hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the State Bank of India Committee (Procedure) Rules, 2013.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The State Bank of India Committee (Procedure) Rules, 2013
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955).
(b)
"Administrator" means an Administrator appointed under sub-section (2) of section 24A of the Act;
(c)
"Committee" means a Committee constituted under sub-section (5) of section 24A of the Act;
(d)
"Member" means a member of the Committee constituted under sub-section (5) of section 24A of the Act.
(2)
All other words and expressions used and not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Meetings of the Committee.
(1)
The meetings of the Committee shall be convened by the Administrator at least once in every month:
Provided that the Administrator shall have the right to convene additional meetings of the Committee at any time.
(2)
The meetings of the Committee shall be held at the Central Office of the State Bank, or at such other place as the
Administrator may decide.
(3)
Seven days notice shall be given for each meeting of the Committee, and such notice shall be sent to every member at
his registered address and registered e-mail address;
Provided that the Administrator may convene an emergency meeting of the Committee by giving at least twenty-four
hours notice.
(4)
The Administrator shall be entitled to decide the Agenda and such other matters which are to be discussed at a meeting
of the Committee.
(5)
The Administrator shall be entitled to seek the assistance of any person having knowledge or experience in any matter
to facilitate the Committee to discharge its functions.
(6)
A copy of the proceedings of each meeting shall be circulated as soon as possible thereafter for the information of the
Members.
4.
Quorum.
- Three members shall form a quorum for the transaction of business of the Committee:
Provided that in the absence of Quorum, the Administrator shall consult the members present and take a decision either
to conduct or adjourn the meeting.
5.
Residuary provision.
- Any matter with respect to which no express provision has been made in these rules or relating to interpretation of
these rules shall be referred to the Central Government for its decision and the decision of the Central Government
thereon shall be binding on the Administrator.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2