
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/61278856/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Rule THE-COMPANIES-MANAGEMENT-AND-ADMINISTRATION-RULES-2014 of 2014
Published on 31 March 2014
Commenced on 31 March 2014
[This is the version of this document from 31 March 2014.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 260(E), dated 31st March, 2014
Last Updated 6th June, 2018
Ministry of Corporate Affairs
G.S.R. 260(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (1) of section 88, sub-section (4) of section 88,
sub-section (1) of section 89, sub-section (2) section 89, sub-section (6) of section 89, sub-section (1) of section 91,
sub-section (2) of section 92, sub-section (3) of section 92, sub-section (2) of section 92, section 93, sub-section (1) of
section 94, sub-section (4) of section 100, sub-section (2) of section 114, sections 102, 101, 105, 108, sub-section (5) of
section 109, sections 112, 113, 110, sub-section (3) of section 186, section 115, sub-section (1) of section 117,
sub-section (1) of section 118, sub-section (2) of section 119, section 120 and sub-section (1) of section 121, read with
sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 469 of the Companies Act, 2013 (
Page 1/92
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
18 of 2013
) and in supersession of Companies (Central Government's) General Rules and Forms, 1956 or any other relevant rules
prescribed under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) on matters covered under these rules, except as respects things
done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules,
namely: -
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014.
(2)
They shall come into force on the 1st day of April 2014.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,
(a)
"Act" means the Companies Act, 2013 (
18 of 2013
);
(b)
"Annexure" means the Annexure to these Rules;
(c)
"Fees" means the fees as specified in the Companies (Registration offices and fees) Rules, 2014;
(d)
"Form" or an e-form means an form set forth in Annexure to these rules which shall be used for the matter to which it
relates;
(e)
"Regional Director" means the person appointed by the Central Government in the Ministry of Corporate Affairs as a
Regional Director;
(f)
"section" means section of the Act;
(2)
Words and expressions used in these rules but not defined and defined in the Act or in Companies (Specification of
definitions details) Rules, 2014 shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act and of in the rules.
3.
Register of members.
(1)
Every company limited by shares shall, from the date of its registration, maintain a register of its members in Form No.
MGT.1:
[Provided that in the case of a company existing on the commencement of the Act, the particulars as available in the
register of members maintained under the Companies Act, 1956 shall be transferred to the new register of members in
Form No. MGT-1 and in case additional information, required as per provisions of the Act and these rules, is provided by
the members, such information may also be added in the register as and when provided.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 908(E), dated 23.8.2016 (w.e.f. 31.3.2014).]
(2)
In the case of a company not having share capital, the register of members shall contain the following particulars, in
respect of each member, namely:-
(a)
name of the member; address (registered office address in case the member is a body corporate); e-mail address;
Permanent Account Number or CIN; Unique Identification Number, if any; Father's /Mother's /Spouse's name;
Occupation; Status; Nationality; in case member is a minor, name of the guardian and the date of birth of the member;
Page 2/92
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
name and address of nominee;
(b)
date of becoming member;
(c)
date of cessation;
(d)
amount of guarantee, if any;
any other interest if any; and instructions, if any, given by the member with regard to sending of notices etc:
[Provided that in the case of a company existing on the date of commencement of the Act, the particulars as available in
the register of members maintained under the Companies Act, 1956 shall be transferred to the new register of members
in Form No.MGT-1 and in case additional information, required as per provisions of the Act and these rules, is provided
by the members, such information may also be added in the register as and when provided.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 908(E), dated 23.8.2016 (w.e.f. 31.3.2014).]
4.
Register of debenture holders or any other security holders.
- Every company which issues or allots debentures or any other security shall maintain a separate register of debenture
holders or security holders, as the case may be, for each type of debentures or other securities in Form No. MGT.2.
5.
Maintenance of the Register of members etc. under section 88.
- Every company shall maintain the registers under clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub-section (1) of section 88 in the
following manner namely:-
(1)
The entries in the registers maintained under section 88 shall be made within seven days after the Board of Directors or
its duly constituted committee approves the allotment or transfer of shares, debentures or any other securities, as the
case may be.
(2)
The registers shall be maintained at the registered office of the company unless a special resolution is passed in a
general meeting authorising the keeping of the register at any other place within the city, town or village in which the
registered office is situated or any other place in India in which more than one-tenth of the total members entered in the
register of members reside.
(3)
Consequent upon any forfeiture, buy-back, reduction, sub-division, consolidation or cancellation of shares, issue of
sweat equity shares, transmission of shares, shares issued under any scheme of arrangements, mergers, reconstitution
or employees stock option scheme or any of such scheme provided under this Act or by issue of duplicate or new share
certificates or new debenture or other security certificates, entry shall be made within seven days after approval by the
Board or committee, in the register of members or in the respective registers, as the case may be.
(4)
If any change occurs in the status of a member or debenture holder or any other security holder whether due to death or
insolvency or change of name or due to transfer to Investor Education Protection Fund or due to any other reason,
entries thereof explaining the change shall be made in the respective register.
(5)
If any rectification is made in the register maintained under section 88 by the company pursuant to any order passed by
the competent authority under the Act, the necessary reference of such order shall be indicated in the respective
register.
(6)
If any order is passed by any judicial or revenue authority or by Security and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) or
competent authority attaching the shares, debentures or other securities and giving directions for remittance of dividend
or interest, the necessary reference of such order shall be indicated in the respective register.
(7)
In case of companies whose securities are listed on a stock exchange in or outside India, the particulars of any pledge,
charge, lien or hypothecation created by the promoters in respect of any securities of the company held by the promoter
Page 3/92
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
including the names of pledgee/pawnee and any revocation therein shall be entered in the register within fifteen days
from such an event.
(8)
If promoters of any listed company, which has formed a joint venture company with another company have pledged or
hypothecated or created charge or lien in respect of any security of the listed company in connection with such joint
venture company, the particulars of such pledge, hypothecation, charge and lien shall be entered in the register
members of the listed company within fifteen days from such an event.
6.
Index of names to be included in Register.
(1)
Every register maintained under sub-section (1) of section 88 shall include an index of the names entered in the
respective registers and the index shall, in respect of each folio, contain sufficient indication to enable the entries relating
to that folio in the register to be readily found:
Provided that the maintenance of index is not necessary in case the number of members is less than fifty.
(2)
The company shall make the necessary entries in the index simultaneously with the entry for allotment or transfer of any
security in such Register.
7.
Foreign register of members, debenture holders, other security holders or beneficial owners residing outside India.
(1)
A company which has share capital or which has issued debentures or any other security may, if so authorized by its
articles, keep in any country outside India, a part of the register of members or as the case may be, of debenture holders
or of any other security holders or of beneficial owners, resident in that country (hereafter in this rule referred to as the
"foreign register").
(2)
The company shall, within thirty days from the date of the opening of any foreign register, file with the Registrar notice of
the situation of the office in Form No. MGT.3 along with the fee where such register is kept; and in the event of any
change in the situation of such office or of its discontinuance, shall, within thirty days from the date of such change or
discontinuance, as the case may be, file notice in Form No. MGT.3 with the Registrar of such change or discontinuance.
(3)
A foreign register shall be deemed to be part of the company's register (hereafter in this rule referred to as the "principal
register") of members or of debenture holders or of any other security holders or beneficial owners, as the case may be.
(4)
The foreign register shall be maintained in the same format as the principal register.
(5)
A foreign register shall be open to inspection and may be closed, and extracts may be taken there from and copies
thereof may be required, in the same manner, mutatis mutandis, as is applicable to the principal register, except that the
advertisement before closing the register shall be inserted in at least two newspapers circulating in the place wherein
the foreign register is kept.
(6)
If a foreign register is kept by a company in any country outside India, the decision of the appropriate competent
authority in regard to the rectification of the register shall be binding.
(7)
Entries in the foreign register maintained under sub-section (4) of section 88 shall be made simultaneously after the
Board of Directors or its duly constituted committee approves the allotment or transfer of shares, debentures or any
other securities, as the case may be.
(8)
The company shall-
(a)
transmit to its registered office in India a copy of every entry in any foreign register within fifteen days after the entry is
made; and
Page 4/92
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
(b)
keep at such office a duplicate register of every foreign register duly entered up from time to time.
(9)
Every such duplicate register shall, for all the purposes of this Act, be deemed to be part of the principal register.
(10)
Subject to the provisions of section 88 and the rules made thereunder, with respect to duplicate registers, the shares or
as the case may be, debentures or any other security, registered in any foreign register shall be distinguished from the
shares or as the case may be, debentures or any other security, registered in the principal register and in every other
foreign register; and no transaction with respect to any shares or as the case may be, debentures or any other security,
registered in a foreign register shall, during the continuance of that registration, be registered in any other register.
(11)
The company may discontinue the keeping of any foreign register; and thereupon all entries in that register shall be
transferred to some other foreign register kept by the company outside India or to the principal register.
8.
Authentication.
(1)
The entries in the registers maintained under section 88 and index included therein shall be authenticated by the
company secretary of the company or by any other person authorized by the Board for the purpose, and the date of the
board resolution authorising the same shall be mentioned.
(2)
The entries in the foreign register shall be authenticated by the company secretary of the company or person authorized
by the Board by appending his signature to each entry.
9.
Declaration in respect of beneficial interest in any shares.
(1)
A person whose name is entered in the register of members of a company as the holder of shares in that company but
who does not hold the beneficial interest in such shares (hereinafter referred to as "the registered owner"), shall file with
the company, a declaration to that effect in Form No. MGT.4 [* * *]
[Omitted 'in duplicate' by Notification No. G.S.R. 908(E), dated 23.8.2016 (w.e.f. 31.3.2014).]
, within a period of thirty days from the date on which his name is entered in the register of members of such company:
Provided that where any change occurs in the beneficial interest in such shares, the registered owner shall, within a
period of thirty days from the date of such change, make a declaration of such change to the company in Form No.
MGT.4 in duplicate.
(2)
Every person holding and exempted from furnishing declaration or acquiring a beneficial interest in shares of a company
not registered in his name (hereinafter referred to as "the beneficial owner") shall file with the company, a declaration
disclosing such interest in Form No. MGT.5 [* * *]
[Omitted 'in duplicate' by Notification No. G.S.R. 908(E), dated 23.8.2016 (w.e.f. 31.3.2014).]
, within thirty days after acquiring such beneficial interest in the shares of the company:
Provided that where any change occurs in the beneficial interest in such shares, the beneficial owner shall, within a
period of thirty days from the date of such change, make a declaration of such change to the company in Form No.
MGT.5 in duplicate.
(3)
Where any declaration under section 89 is received by the company, the company shall make a note of such declaration
in the register of members and shall file, within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of declaration by it, a
return in Form No. MGT.6 with the Registrar in respect of such declaration with fee.
10.
Closure of register of members or debenture holders or other security holders.
(1)
A company closing the register of members or the register of debenture holders or the register of other security holders
shall give at least seven days previous notice and in such manner, as may be specified by Securities and Exchange
Page 5/92
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Board of India, if such company is a listed company or intends to get its securities listed, by advertisement at least once
in a vernacular newspaper in the principal vernacular language of the district and having a wide circulation in the place
where the registered office of the company is situated, and at least once in English language in an English newspaper
circulating in that district and having wide circulation in the place where the registered office of the company is situated
and publish the notice on the website as may be notified by the Central Government and on the website, if any, of the
Company.
(2)
The provisions contained in sub-rule (1) shall not be applicable to a private company provided that the notice has been
served on all members of the private company not less than seven days prior to closure of the register of members or
debenture holders or other security holders.
11.
Annual Return.
(1)
Every company shall prepare its annual return in Form No. MGT.7.
(2)
The annual return, filed by a listed company or a company having paid-up share capital of ten crore rupees or more or
turnover of fifty crore rupees or more, shall be certified by a Company Secretary in practice and the certificate shall be in
Form No. MGT.8.
12.
Extract of annual return.
(1)
The extract of the annual return to be attached with the Board's Report shall be in Form No. MGT.9.
(2)
A copy of the annual return shall be filed with the Registrar with such fee as may be specified for the purpose.
13.
[
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 560(E), dated 13.6.2018 (w.e.f 31.3.2014)]
***]
13. Return of changes in shareholding position of promoters and top ten shareholders.-[Every listed company shall file
with the Registrar, a return inForm No. MGT. 10, with respect to changes in the shareholding position of promoters and
top ten shareholders of the company, in each case, representing increase or decrease by two per cent or more of the
paid-up share capital of the company, within fifteen days of such change.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 908(E), dated 23.8.2016 (w.e.f. 31.3.2014).]
Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub-rule, the the expression  "change" means increase or decrease by two percent
or more in the shareholding of each of the promoters and each of the top ten shareholders of the company.
14.
Inspection of registers, returns etc.
(1)
The registers and indices maintained pursuant to section 88 and copies of returns prepared pursuant to section 92, shall
be open for inspection during business hours, at such reasonable time on every working day as the board may decide,
by any member, debenture holder, other security holder or beneficial owner without payment of fee and by any other
person on payment of such fee as may be specified in the articles of association of the company but not exceeding fifty
rupees for each inspection.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-rule, reasonable time of not less than two hours on every working day shall
be considered by the company.
(2)
Any such member, debenture holder, security holder or beneficial owner or any other person may require a copy of any
such register or entries therein or return on payment of such fee as may be specified in the articles of association of the
company but not exceeding ten rupees for each page. Such copy or entries or return shall be supplied within seven days
of deposit of such fee.
15.
Page 6/92
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Preservation of register of members etc. and annual return.
(1)
The register of members along with the index shall be preserved permanently and shall be kept in the custody of the
company secretary of the company or any other person authorized by the Board for such purpose; and
(2)
The register of debenture holders or any other security holders along with the index shall be preserved for a period of
eight years from the date of redemption of debentures or securities, as the case may be, and shall be kept in the
custody of the company secretary of the company or any other person authorized by the Board for such purpose.
(3)
Copies of all annual returns prepared under section 92 and copies of all certificates and documents required to be
annexed thereto shall be preserved for a period of eight years from the date of filing with the Registrar.
(4)
The foreign register of members shall be preserved permanently, unless it is discontinued and all the entries are
transferred to any other foreign register or to the principal register. Foreign register of debenture holders or any other
security holders shall be preserved for a period of eight years from the date of redemption of such debentures or
securities.
(5)
The foreign register shall be kept in the custody of the company secretary or person authorized by the Board.
(6)
[***]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 560(E), dated 13.6.2018 (w.e.f 31.3.2014)]
16.
Copies of the registers and annual return.
- Copies of the registers maintained under section 88 or entries therein and annual return filed under section 92 shall be
furnished to any member, debenture-holder, other security holder or beneficial owner of the company or any other
person on payment of such fee as may be specified in the Articles of Association of the company but not exceeding
rupees ten for each page and such copy shall be supplied by the company within a period of seven days from the date
of deposit of fee to the company.
17.
Calling of Extraordinary general meeting by requistionists.
(1)
The members may requisition convening of an extraordinary general meeting in accordance with sub-section (4) of
section 100, by providing such requisition in writing or through electronic mode at least clear twenty-one days prior to the
proposed date of such extraordinary general meeting.
(2)
The notice shall specify  the place, date, day and hour of the meeting and shall contain the business to be transacted at
the meeting -
Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-rule, it is here by clarified that requistionists should convene meeting at
Registered office or in the same city or town where Registered office is situated and such meeting should be convened
[on any day except national holiday]
[Substituted 'on working day' by Notification No. G.S.R. 908(E), dated 23.8.2016 (w.e.f. 31.3.2014).]
.
(2)
If the resolution is to be proposed as a special resolution, the notice shall be given as required by sub-section (2) of
section 114.
(4)
The notice shall be signed by all the requistionists or by a requistionists duly authorized in writing by all other
requistionists on their behalf or by sending an electronic request attaching therewith a scanned copy of such duly signed
requisition.
(5)
No explanatory statement as required under section 102 need be annexed to the notice of an extraordinary general
Page 7/92
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
meeting convened by the requistionists and the requistionists may disclose the reasons for the resolution(s) which they
propose to move at the meeting.
(6)
The notice of the meeting shall be given to those members whose names appear in the Register of members of the
company within three days on which the requistionists deposit with the Company a valid requisition for calling an
extraordinary general meeting.
(7)
Where the meeting is not convened, the requistionists shall have a right to receive list of members together with their
registered address and number of shares held and the company concerned is bound to give a list of members together
with their registered address made as on twenty first day from the date of receipt of valid requisition together with such
changes, if any, before the expiry of the forty-five days from the date of receipt of a valid requisition.
(8)
The notice of the meeting shall be given by speed post or registered post or through electronic mode. Any accidental
omission to give notice to, or the non-receipt of such notice by, any member shall not invalidate the proceedings of the
meeting.
18.
Notice of the meeting.
(1)
A company may give notice through electronic mode.
Explanation: For the purpose of this rule, the expression "electronic mode" shall mean any communication sent by a
company through its authorized and secured computer programme which is capable of producing confirmation and
keeping record of such communication addressed to the person entitled to receive such communication at the last
electronic mail address provided by the member.
(2)
A notice may be sent through e-mail as a text or as an attachment to e-mail or as a notification providing electronic link
or Uniform Resource Locater for accessing such notice.
(3)
(i)
The e-mail shall be addressed to the person entitled to receive such e-mail as per the records of the company or as
provided by the depository:
Provided that the company shall provide an advance opportunity at-least once in a financial year, to the member to
register his e-mail address and changes therein and such request may be made by only those members who have not
got their email id recorded or to update a fresh email id and not from the members whose e-mail ids are already
registered.
(ii)
The subject line in e-mail shall state the name of the company, notice of the type of meeting, place and the date on
which the meeting is scheduled.
(iii)
If notice is sent in the form of a non-editable attachment to e-mail, such attachment shall be in the Portable Document
Format or in a non-editable format together with a 'link or instructions' for recipient for downloading relevant version of
the software.
(iv)
When notice or notifications of availability of notice are sent by e-mail, the company should ensure that it uses a system
which produces confirmation of the total number of recipients e-mailed and a record of each recipient to whom the notice
has been sent and copy of such record and any notices of any failed transmissions and subsequent re-sending shall be
retained by or on behalf of the company as "proof of sending".
(v)
The company's obligation shall be satisfied when it transmits the e-mail and the company shall not be held responsible
for a failure in transmission beyond its control:
(vi)
If a member entitled to receive notice fails to provide or update relevant e-mail address to the company, or to the
Page 8/92
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
depository participant as the case may be, the company shall not be in default for not delivering notice via e-mail.
(vii)
The company may send e-mail through in-house facility or its registrar and transfer agent or authorise any third party
agency providing bulk e-mail facility.
(viii)
The notice made available on the electronic link or Uniform Resource Locater has to be readable, and the recipient
should be able to obtain and retain copies and the company shall give the complete Uniform Resource Locater or
address of the website and full details of how to access the document or information.
Explanation.- For the purpose of this rule, it is hereby declared that the extra ordinary general meeting shall be held at a
place within India.
(ix)
[ ***]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 560(E), dated 13.6.2018 (w.e.f 31.3.2014)]
19.
Proxies.
(1)
A member of a company registered under section 8 shall not be entitled to appoint any other person as his proxy unless
such other person is also a member of such company.
(2)
A person can act as proxy on behalf of members not exceeding fifty and holding in the aggregate not more than ten
percent of the total share capital of the company carrying voting rights:
Provided that a member holding more than ten percent of the total share capital of the Company carrying voting rights
may appoint a single person as proxy and such person shall not act as proxy for any other person or shareholder.
(3)
The appointment of proxy shall be in the Form No. MGT.11.
20.
[ Voting through electronic means.
[Substituted by Notification No. 207(E), dated 19.3.2015 (w.e.f. 31.3.2014).]
(1)
The provisions of this rule shall apply in respect of the general meetings for which notices are issued on or after the date
of commencement of this rule.
(2)
[ Every company which has listed its equity shares on a recognized stock exchange and every company having not less
than one thousand members shall provide to its members facility to exercise their right to vote on resolutions proposed
to be considered at a general meeting by electronic means:
Provided that a Nidhi, or an enterprise or institutional investor referred to in Chapter XB or Chapter XC of the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 is not required to
provide the facility to vote by electronic means:
Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-rule, "Nidhi" means a company which has been incorporated as a Nidhi with
the object of cultivating the habit of thrift and savings amongst its members, receiving deposits from and lending to, its
members only, for their mutual benefit, and which complies with such rules as are prescribed by the Central Government
for regulation of such class of companies.]
Explanation. - For the purposes of this rule, the expression-
(i)
"agency" means the National Securities Depository Limited, the Central Depository Services (India) Limited or any other
entity approved by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs subject to the condition that the National Securities Depository
Limited, the Central Depository Services (India) Limited or such other entity has obtained a certificate from the
Standardisation Testing and Quality Certification Directorate, Department of Information Technology, Ministry of
Communications and Information Technology, Government of India including with regard to compliance with parameters
specified under Explanation (vi);
(ii)
Page 9/92
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
"cut-off date" means a date not earlier than seven days before the date of general meeting for determining the eligibility
to vote by electronic means or in the general meeting;
(iii)
"Cyber security" means protecting information, equipment, devices, computer, computer resource, communication
device and information stored therein from unauthorized access, use, disclosures, disruption, modification or
destruction;
(iv)
"electronic voting system" means a secured system based process of display of electronic ballots, recording of votes of
the members and the number of votes polled in favour or against, in such a manner that the entire voting exercised by
way of electronic means gets registered and counted in an electronic registry in a centralised server with adequate cyber
security;
(v)
"remote e-voting" means the facility of casting votes by a member using an electronic voting system from a place other
than venue of a general meeting;
(vi)
"secured system" means computer hardware, software, and procedure that -
(a)
are reasonably secure from unauthorized access and misuse;
(b)
provide a reasonable level of reliability and correct operation;
(c)
are reasonably suited to performing the intended functions; and
(d)
adhere to generally accepted security procedures;
(vii)
"voting by electronic means" includes "remote e-voting" and voting at the general meeting through an electronic voting
system which may be the same as used for remote e-voting.
(3)
A member may exercise his right to vote through voting by electronic means on resolutions referred to in sub-rule (2)
and the company shall pass such resolutions in accordance with the provisions of this rule.
(4)
A company which provides the facility to its members to exercise voting by electronic means shall comply with the
following procedure, namely:-
(i)
the notice of the meeting shall be sent to all the members, directors and auditors of the company either-
(a)
by registered post or speed post ; or
(b)
through electronic means, namely, registered e-mail ID of the recipient; or
(c)
by courier service;
(ii)
the notice shall also be placed on the website, if any, of the company and of the agency forthwith after it is sent to the
members;
(iii)
the notice of the meeting shall clearly state-
(A)
that the company is providing facility for voting by electronic means and the business may be transacted through such
voting;
(B)
that the facility for voting, either through electronic voting system or ballot or polling paper shall also be made available
Page 10/92
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
at the meeting and members attending the meeting who have not already cast their vote by remote e-voting shall be
able to exercise their right at the meeting;
(C)
that the members who have cast their vote by remote e-voting prior to the meeting may also attend the meeting but shall
not be entitled to cast their vote again;
(iv)
the notice shall -
(A)
indicate the process and manner for voting by electronic means ;
(B)
indicate the time schedule including the time period during which the votes may be cast by remote e-voting;
(C)
provide the details about the login ID;
(D)
specify the process and manner for generating or receiving the password and for casting of vote in a secure manner.
(v)
the company shall cause a public notice by way of an advertisement to be published, immediately on completion of
despatch of notices for the meeting under clause (i) of sub-rule (4) but at least twenty-one days before the date of
general meeting, at least once in a vernacular newspaper in the principal vernacular language of the district in which the
registered office of the company is situated, and having a wide circulation in that district, and at least once in English
language in an English newspaper having country-wide circulation, and specifying in the said advertisement, inter alia,
the following matters, namely:-
(a)
statement that the business may be transacted through voting by electronic means ;
(b)
the date and time of commencement of remote e-voting;
(c)
the date and time of end of remote e-voting;
(d)
cut-off date;
(e)
the manner in which persons who have acquired shares and become members of the company after the despatch of
notice may obtain the login ID and password;
(f)
the statement that-
(A)
remote e-voting shall not be allowed beyond the said date and time;
(B)
the manner in which the company shall provide for voting by members present at the meeting; and
(C)
a member may participate in the general meeting even after exercising his right to vote through remote e-voting but shall
not be allowed to vote again in the meeting; and
(D)
a person whose name is recorded in the register of members or in the register of beneficial owners maintained by the
depositories as on the cut-off date only shall be entitled to avail the facility of remote e-voting as well as voting in the
general meeting;
(g)
website address of the company, if any, and of the agency where notice of the meeting is displayed; and
(h)
name, designation, address, email id and phone number of the person responsible to address the grievances connected
with facility for voting by electronic means:
Page 11/92
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Provided that the public notice shall be placed on the website of the company, if any, and of the agency;
(vi)
the facility for remote e-voting shall remain open for not less than three days and shall close at 5.00 p.m. on the date
preceding the date of the general meeting;
(vii)
during the period when facility for remote e-voting is provided, the members of the company, holding shares either in
physical form or in dematerialised form, as on the cut-off date, may opt for remote e-voting:
Provided that once the vote on a resolution is cast by the member, he shall not be allowed to change it subsequently or
cast the vote again:
Provided further that a member may participate in the general meeting even after exercising his right to vote through
remote e-voting but shall not be allowed to vote again;
(viii)
at the end of the remote e-voting period, the facility shall forthwith be blocked:
Provided that if a company opts to provide the same electronic voting system as used during remote e-voting during the
general meeting, the said facility shall be in operation till all the resolutions are considered and voted upon in the
meeting and may be used for voting only by the members attending the meeting and who have not exercised their right
to vote through remote e-voting.
(ix)
the Board of Directors shall appoint one or more scrutinisers, who may be Chartered Accountant in practice, Cost
Accountant in practice, or Company Secretary in practice or an Advocate, or any other person who is not in employment
of the company and is a person of repute who, in the opinion of the Board can scrutinise the voting and remote e-voting
process in a fair and transparent manner:
Provided that the scrutinisers so appointed may take assistance of a person who is not in employment of the company
and who is well-versed with the electronic voting system;
(x)
the scrutiniser shall be willing to be appointed and be available for the purpose of ascertaining the requisite majority;
(xi)
the Chairman shall, at the general meeting, at the end of discussion on the resolutions on which voting is to be held,
allow voting, as provided in clauses (a) to (h) of sub-rule (1) of rule 21, as applicable, with the assistance of scrutinisers,
by use of ballot or polling paper or by using an electronic voting system for all those members who are present at the
general meeting but have not cast their votes by availing the remote e-voting facility.
(xii)
the scrutinisers shall, immediately after the conclusion of voting at the general meeting, first count the votes cast at the
meeting, thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote e-voting in the presence of at least two witnesses not in the
employment of the company and make, not later than three days of conclusion of the meeting, a consolidated
scrutiniser's report of the total votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or a person authorized by him in
writing who shall countersign the same:
Provided that the Chairman or a person authorized by him in writing shall declare the result of the voting forthwith;
Explanation. - It is hereby clarified that the manner in which members have cast their votes, that is, affirming or negating
the resolution, shall remain secret and not available to the Chairman, Scrutiniser or any other person till the votes are
cast in the meeting.
(xiii)
For the purpose of ensuring that members who have cast their votes through remote e-voting do not vote again at the
general meeting, the scrutinisers shall have access, after the closure of period for remote e-voting and before the start of
general meeting, to details relating to members, such as their names, folios, number of shares held and such other
information that the scrutinisers may require, who have cast votes through remote e-voting but not the manner in which
they have cast their votes:
(xiv)
the scrutinisers shall maintain a register either manually or electronically to record the assent or dissent received,
mentioning the particulars of name, address, folio number or client ID of the members, number of shares held by them,
nominal value of such shares and whether the shares have differential voting rights;
Page 12/92
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
(xv)
the register and all other papers relating to voting by electronic means shall remain in the safe custody of the
scrutinisers until the Chairman considers, approves and signs the minutes and thereafter, the scrutinisers shall hand
over the register and other related papers to the company.
(xvi)
the results declared along with the report of the scrutiniser shall be placed on the website of the company, if any, and on
the website of the agency immediately after the result is declared by the Chairman :
Provided that in case of companies whose equity shares are listed on a recognized stock exchange, the company shall,
simultaneously, forward the results to the concerned stock exchange or exchanges where its equity shares are listed
and such stock exchange or exchanges shall place the results on its or their website.
(xvii)
subject to receipt of requisite number of votes, the resolution shall be deemed to be passed on
the date of the relevant general meeting.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this clause, the requisite number of votes shall be the votes required to pass the
resolution as the `ordinary resolution' or the `special resolution', as the case may be, under section 114 of the Act.
(xviii)
a resolution proposed to be considered through voting by electronic means shall not be withdrawn.]
Substituted by Notification No. 207(E), dated 19.3.2015
20. Voting through electronic means.- (1) Every listed company or a company having not less than one thousand
shareholders, shall provide to its members facility to exercise their right to vote at general meetings by electronic means.
(2) A member may exercise his right to vote at any general meeting by electronic means and company may pass any
resolution by electronic voting system in accordance with the provisions of this rule.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this rule. - (i) the expressions "voting by electronic means" or "electronic voting
system" means a 'secured system' based process of display of electronic ballots, recording of votes of the members and
the number of votes polled in favour or against, such that the entire voting exercised by way of electronic means gets
registered and counted in an electronic registry in a Centralised server with adequate 'cyber security';
(ii) the expression "secured system" means computer hardware, software, and procedure that -
(a) are reasonably secure from unauthorized access and misuse;
(b) provide a reasonable level of reliability and correct operation;
(c) are reasonably suited to performing the intended functions; and
(d) adhere to generally accepted security procedures.
(iii) the expression "Cyber security" means protecting information, equipment, devices, computer, computer resource,
communication device and information stored therein from unauthorized access, use, disclosures, disruption,
modification or destruction.
(3) A company which opts to provide the facility to its members to exercise their votes at any general meeting by
electronic voting system shall follow the following procedure, namely;
(i) the notices of the meeting shall be sent to all the members, auditors of the company, or directors either -
(a) by registered post or speed post; or
(b) through electronic means like registered e-mail id;
(c) through courier service;
(ii) the notice shall also be placed on the website of the company, if any and of the agency forthwith after it is sent to the
members;
(iii) the notice of the meeting shall clearly mention that the business may be transacted through electronic voting system
and the company is providing facility for voting by electronic means;
(iv) the notice shall clearly indicate the process and manner for voting by electronic means and the time schedule
including the time period during which the votes may be cast and shall also provide the login ID and create a facility for
generating password and for keeping security and casting of vote in a secure manner;
(v) the company shall cause an advertisement to be published, not less than five days before the date of beginning of
the voting period, at least once in a vernacular newspaper in the principal vernacular language of the district in which the
registered office of the company is situated, and having a wide circulation in that district, and at least once in English
language in an English newspaper having a wide circulation in that district, about having sent the notice of the meeting
Page 13/92
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
and specifying therein,inter alia, the following matters, namely:-
(a) statement that the business may be transacted by electronic voting;
(b) the date of completion of sending of notices;
(c) the date and time of commencement of voting through electronic means;
(d) the date and time of end of voting through electronic means;
(e) the statement that voting shall not be allowed beyond the said date and time;
(f) website address of the company and agency, if any, where notice of the meeting is displayed; and
(g) contact details of the person responsible to address the grievances connected with the electronic voting;
(vi) the e-voting shall remain open for not less than one day and not more than three days:
Provided that in all such cases, such voting period shall be completed three days prior to the date of the general
meeting;
(vii) during the e-voting period, shareholders of the company, holding shares either in physical form or in dematerialised
form, as on the record date, may cast their vote electronically:
Provided that once the vote on a resolution is cast by the shareholder, he shall not be allowed to change it
subsequently.
(viii) at the end of the voting period, the portal where votes are cast shall forthwith be blocked.
(ix) the Board of directors shall appoint one scrutiniser, who may be chartered Accountant in practice, Cost Accountant
in practice, or Company Secretary in practice or an advocate, but not in employment of the company and is a person of
repute who, in the opinion of the Board can scrutinize the e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner:
Providedthat the scrutiniser so appointed may take assistance of a person who is not in employment of the company
and who is well-versed with the e-voting system;
(x) the scrutiniser shall be willing to be appointed and be available for the purpose of ascertaining the requisite majority;
(xi) the scrutiniser shall, within a period of not exceeding three working days from the date of conclusion of e-voting
period, unblock the votes in the presence of at least two witnesses not in the employment of the company and make a
scrutiniser's report of the votes cast in favour or against, if any, forthwith to the Chairman;
(xii) the scrutiniser shall maintain a register either manually or electronically to record the assent or dissent, received,
mentioning the particulars of name, address, folio number or client ID of the shareholders, number of shares held by
them, nominal value of such shares and whether the shares have differential voting rights;
(xiii) the register and all other papers relating to electronic voting shall remain in the safe custody of the scrutiniser until
the chairman considers, approves and signs the minutes and thereafter, the scrutiniser shall return the register and
other related papers to the company.
(xiv) the results declared along with the scrutiniser's report shall be placed on the website of the company and on the
website of the agency within two days of passing of the resolution at the relevant general meeting of members;
(xv) subject to receipt of sufficient votes, the resolution shall be deemed to be passed on the date of the relevant general
meeting of members.
21.
Manner in which the Chairman of meeting shall get the poll process scrutinised and report thereon.
(1)
The Chairman of a meeting shall ensure that-
(a)
The Scrutinisers are provided with the Register of Members, specimen signatures of the members, Attendance Register
and Register of Proxies.
(b)
The Scrutinisers are provided with all the documents received by the Company pursuant to sections 105, 112 and
section 113.
(c)
The Scrutinisers shall arrange for Polling papers and distribute them to the members and proxies present at the
meeting; in case of joint shareholders, the polling paper shall be given to the first named holder or in his absence to the
joint holder attending the meeting as appearing in the chronological order in the folio and the Polling paper shall be in
Form No. MGT.12.
(d)
Page 14/92
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
The Scrutinisers shall keep a record of the polling papers received in response to poll, by initialling it.
(e)
The Scrutinisers shall lock and seal an empty polling box in the presence of the members and proxies.
(f)
The Scrutinisers shall open the Polling box in the presence of two persons as witnesses after the voting process is over.
(g)
In case of ambiguity about the validity of a proxy, the Scrutinisers shall decide the validity in consultation with the
Chairman.
(h)
The Scrutinisers shall ensure that if a member who has appointed a proxy has voted in person, the proxy's vote shall be
disregarded.
(i)
The Scrutinisers shall count the votes cast on poll and prepare a report thereon addressed to the Chairman.
(j)
Where voting is conducted by electronic means under the provisions of section 108 and rules made thereunder, the
company shall provide all the necessary support, technical and otherwise, to the Scrutinisers in orderly conduct of the
voting and counting the result thereof.
(k)
The Scrutinisers report shall state total votes cast, valid votes, votes in favour and against the resolution including the
details of invalid polling papers and votes comprised therein.
(l)
The Scrutinisers shall submit the Report to the Chairman who shall counter-sign the same.
(m)
The Chairman shall declare the result of Voting on poll. The result may either be announced by him or a person
authorized by him in writing.
(2)
The Scrutinisers appointed for the poll, shall submit a report to the Chairman of the meeting in Form No. MGT.13 and
the report shall be signed by the scrutiniser and, in case there is more than one scrutiniser by all the scrutiniser, and the
same shall be submitted by them to the Chairman of the meeting within seven days from the date the poll is taken.
22.
Procedure to be followed for conducting business through postal ballot.
(1)
Where a company is required or decides to pass any resolution by way of postal ballot, it shall send a notice to all the
shareholders, along with a draft resolution explaining the reasons therefor and requesting them to send their assent or
dissent in writing on a postal ballot because postal ballot means voting by post or through electronic means within a
period of thirty days from the date of dispatch of the notice.
(2)
The notice shall be sent either (a) by Registered Post or speed post, or (b) through electronic means like registered
e-mail id or (c) through courier service for facilitating the communication of the assent or dissent of the shareholder to
the resolution within the said period of thirty days.
(3)
An advertisement shall be published at least once in a vernacular newspaper in the principal vernacular language of the
district in which the registered office of the company is situated, and having a wide circulation in that district, and at least
once in English language in an English newspaper having a wide circulation in that district, about having dispatched the
ballot papers and specifying therein, inter alia, the following matters, namely:-
(a)
a statement to the effect that the business is to be transacted by postal ballot which includes voting by electronic means;
(b)
the date of completion of dispatch of notices;
(c)
the date of commencement of voting;
Page 15/92
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
(d)
the date of end of voting;
(e)
the statement that any postal ballot received from the member beyond the said date will not be valid and voting whether
by post or by electronic means shall not be allowed beyond the said date;
(f)
a statement to the effect that members, who have not received postal ballot forms may apply to the company and obtain
a duplicate thereof; and
(g)
contact details of the person responsible to address the grievances connected with the voting by postal ballot including
voting by electronic means.
(4)
The notice of the postal ballot shall also be placed on the website of the company forthwith after the notice is sent to the
members and such notice shall remain on such website till the last date for receipt of the postal ballots from the
members.
(5)
The Board of directors shall appoint one scrutiniser, who is not in employment of the company and who, in the opinion of
the Board can conduct the postal ballot voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
(6)
The scrutiniser shall be willing to be appointed and be available for the purpose of ascertaining the requisite majority.
(7)
[ * * *]
[Omitted 'If a resolution is assented to by the requisite majority of the shareholders by means of postal ballot including
voting by electronic means, it shall be deemed to have been duly passed at a general meeting convened in that behalf.'
by Notification No. G.S.R. 908(E), dated 23.8.2016 (w.e.f. 31.3.2014).]
(8)
Postal ballot received back from the shareholders shall be kept in the safe custody of the scrutiniser and after the receipt
of assent or dissent of the shareholder in writing on a postal ballot, no person shall deface or destroy the ballot paper or
declare the identity of the shareholder.
(9)
The scrutiniser shall submit his report as soon as possible after the last date of receipt of postal ballots but not later than
seven days thereof;
(10)
The scrutiniser shall maintain a register either manually or electronically to record their assent or dissent received,
mentioning the particulars of name, address, folio number or client ID of the shareholder, number of shares held by
them, nominal value of such shares, whether the shares have differential voting rights, if any, details of postal ballots
which are received in defaced or mutilated form and postal ballot forms which are invalid.
(11)
The postal ballot and all other papers relating to postal ballot including voting by electronic means, shall be under the
safe custody of the scrutiniser till the chairman considers, approves and signs the minutes and thereafter, the scrutiniser
shall return the ballot papers and other related papers or register to the company who shall preserve such ballot papers
and other related papers or register safely.
(12)
The assent or dissent received after thirty days from the date of issue of notice shall be treated as if reply from the
member has not been received.
(13)
The results shall be declared by placing it, along with the scrutiniser's report, on the website of the company.
(14)
[ * * *]
[Omitted 'The resolution shall be deemed to be passed on the date of at a meeting convened in that behalf.' by
Notification No. G.S.R. 908(E), dated 23.8.2016 (w.e.f. 31.3.2014).]
Page 16/92
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
(15)
The provisions of rule 20 regarding voting by electronic means shall apply, as far as applicable, mutatis mutandis to this
rule in respect of the voting by electronic means.
(16)
pursuant to clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 110, the following items of business shall be transacted only by
means of voting through a postal ballot-
(a)
alteration of the objects clause of the memorandum and in the case of the company in existence immediately before the
commencement of the Act, alteration of the main objects of the memorandum;
(b)
alteration of articles of association in relation to insertion or removal of provisions which, under sub-section (68) of
section 2, are required to be included in the articles of a company in order to constitute it a private company;
(c)
change in place of registered office outside the local limits of any city, town or village as specified in sub-section (5) of
section 12;
(d)
change in objects for which a company has raised money from public through prospectus and still has any unutilised
amount out of the money so raised under sub-section (8) of section 13;
(e)
issue of shares with differential rights as to voting or dividend or otherwise under sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of section
43;
(f)
variation in the rights attached to a class of shares or debentures or other securities as specified under section 48;
(g)
buy-back of shares by a company under sub-section (1) of section 68;
(h)
election of a director under section 151 of the Act;
(i)
sale of the whole or substantially the whole of an undertaking of a company as specified under sub-clause (a) of
sub-section (1) of section 180;
(j)
giving loans or extending guarantee or providing security in excess of the limit specified under sub-section (3) of section
186:
[Provided that One Person Company and other companies having members upto two hundred are not required to
transact any business through postal ballot.
Provided that any aforesaid items of business under this sub-rule, required to be transacted by means of postal ballot,
may be transacted at a general meeting by a company which is required to provide the facility to members to vote by
electronic means under section 108, in the manner provided in that section:
Provided further that One Person Companies and other companies having members upto two hundred are not required
to transact any business through postal ballot.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 560(E), dated 13.6.2018 (w.e.f 31.3.2014)]
23.
Special Notice.
(1)
A special notice required to be given to the company shall be signed, either individually or collectively by such number of
members holding not less than one percent of total voting power or holding shares on which an aggregate sum of [not
less than five lakh rupees]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 669(E), dated 26.8.2015 (w.e.f. 31.3.2014).]
has been paid up on the date of the notice.
(2)
The notice referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be sent by members to the company not earlier than three months but at least
Page 17/92
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
fourteen days before the date of the meeting at which the resolution is to be moved, exclusive of the day on which the
notice is given and the day of the meeting.
(3)
The company shall immediately after receipt of the notice, give its members notice of the resolution at least seven days
before the meeting, exclusive of the day of dispatch of notice and day of the meeting, in the same manner as it gives
notice of any general meetings.
(4)
Where it is not practicable to give the notice in the same manner as it gives notice of any general meetings, the notice
shall be published in English language in English newspaper and in vernacular language in a vernacular newspaper,
both having wide circulation in the State where the registered office of the Company is situated and such notice shall
also be posted on the website, if any, of the Company.
(5)
The notice shall be published at least seven days before the meeting, exclusive of the day of publication of the notice
and day of the meeting.
24.
Resolutions and agreements to be filed.
- A copy of every resolution or any agreement required to be filed, together with the explanatory statement under section
102, if any, shall be filed with the Registrar in Form No. MGT.14 along with the fee.
25.
Minutes of proceedings of general meeting, meeting of Board of Directors and other meetings and resolutions passed by
postal ballot.
(1)
(a)
A distinct minute book shall be maintained for each type of meeting namely:-
(i)
general meetings of the members;
(ii)
meetings of the creditors
(iii)
meetings of the Board; and
(iv)
meetings of each of the committees of the Board.
Explanation.- For the proposes of this sub-rule, resolutions passed by postal ballot shall be recorded in the minute book
of general meetings as if it has been deemed to be passed in the general meeting.
(b)
(i)
The minutes of proceedings of each meeting shall be entered in the books maintained for that purpose along with the
date of such entry within thirty days of the conclusion of the meeting.
(ii)
In case of every resolution passed by postal ballot, a brief report on the postal ballot conducted including the resolution
proposed, the result of the voting thereon and the summary of the scrutiniser's report shall be entered in the minutes
book of general meetings along with the date of such entry within thirty days from the date of passing of resolution.
(d)
Each page of every such book shall be initialed or signed and the last page of the record of proceedings of each
meeting or each report in such books shall be dated and signed -
(i)
in the case of minutes of proceedings of a meeting of the Board or of a committee thereof, by the chairman of the said
meeting or the chairman of the next succeeding meeting;
(ii)
in the case of minutes of proceedings of a general meeting, by the chairman of the same meeting within the aforesaid
period of thirty days or in the event of the death or inability of that chairman within that period, by a director duly
Page 18/92
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
authorized by the Board for the purpose;
(iii)
In case of every resolution passed by postal ballot, by the chairman of the Board within the aforesaid period of thirty
days or in the event of there being no chairman of the Board or the death or inability of that chairman within that period,
by a director duly authorized by the Board for the purpose.
(e)
The minute books of general meetings, shall be kept at the registered office of the company and shall be preserved
permanently and kept in the custody of the company secretary or any director duly authorized by the board [* * *]
[Omitted 'or at such other place as may be approved by the Board' by Notification No. G.S.R. 908(E), dated 23.8.2016
(w.e.f. 31.3.2014).]
.
(f)
The minutes books of the Board and committee meetings shall be preserved permanently and kept in the custody of the
company secretary of the company or any director duly authorized by the Board for the purpose and shall be kept in the
registered office or such place as Board may decide.
26.
Copy of minute book of general meeting.
- Any member shall be entitled to be furnished, within seven working days after he has made a request in that behalf to
the company, with a copy of any minutes of any general meeting, on payment of such sum as may be specified in the
articles of association of the company, but not exceeding a sum of ten rupees for each page or part of any page:
Provided that a member who has made a request for provision of soft copy in respect of minutes of any previous general
meetings held during a period immediately preceding three financial years shall be entitled to be furnished, with the
same free of cost.
27.
Maintenance and inspection of document in electronic form.
(1)
Every listed company or a company having not less than one thousand shareholders, debenture holders and other
security holders, shall maintain its records, as required to be maintained under the Act or rules made there under, in
electronic form.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-rule, it is hereby clarified that in case of existing companies, data shall be
converted from physical mode to electronic mode within six months from the date of notification of provisions of section
120 of the Act.
(2)
The records in electronic form shall be maintained in such manner as the Board of directors of the company may think
fit,
Provided that -
(a)
the records are maintained in the same formats and in accordance with all other requirements as provided in the Act or
the rules made there under;
(b)
the information as required under the provisions of the Act or the rules made there under should be adequately recorded
for future reference;
(c)
the records must be capable of being readable, retrievable and reproducible in printed form;
(d)
the records are capable of being dated and signed digitally wherever it is required under the provisions of the Act or the
rules made thereunder;
(e)
the records, once dated and signed digitally, shall not be capable of being edited or altered;
(f)
the records shall be capable of being updated, according to the provisions of the Act or the rules made there under, and
Page 19/92
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
the date of updating shall be capable of being recorded on every updating.
Explanation:- For the purpose of this rule, the term "records" means any register, index, agreement, memorandum,
minutes or any other document required by the Act or the rules made there under to be kept by a company.
28.
Security of records maintained in electronic form.
(1)
The Managing Director, Company Secretary or any other director or officer of the company as the Board may decide
shall be responsible for the maintenance and security of electronic records.
(2)
The person who is responsible for the maintenance and security of electronic records shall-
(a)
provide adequate protection against unauthorized access, alteration or tampering of records;
(b)
ensure against loss of the records as a result of damage to, or failure of the media on which the records are maintained;
(c)
ensure that the signatory of electronic records does not repudiate the signed record as not genuine;
(d)
ensure that computer systems, software and hardware are adequately secured and validated to ensure their accuracy,
reliability and consistent intended performance;
(e)
ensure that the computer systems can discern invalid and altered records;
(f)
ensure that records are accurate, accessible, and capable of being reproduced for reference later;
(g)
ensure that the records are at all times capable of being retrieved to a readable and printable form;
(h)
ensure that records are kept in a non-rewritable and non-erasable format like pdf. version or some other version which
cannot be altered or tampered;
(i)
ensure that at least one backup, taken at a periodicity of not exceeding one day, are kept of the updated records kept in
electronic form, every backup is authenticated and dated and such backups shall be securely kept at such places as
may be decided by the Board;
(j)
limit the access to the records to the managing director, company secretary or any other director or officer or persons
performing work of the company as may be authorized by the Board in this behalf;
(k)
ensure that any reproduction of non-electronic original records in electronic form is complete, authentic, true and legible
when retrieved;
(l)
arrange and index the records in a way that permits easy location, access and retrieval of any particular record; and
(m)
take necessary steps to ensure security, integrity and confidentiality of records.
29.
Inspection and copies of records maintained in electronic form.
- Where a company maintains its records in electronic form, any duty imposed by the Act or rules made thereunder to
make those records available for inspection or to provide copies of the whole or a part of those records, shall be
construed as a duty to make the records available for inspection in electronic form or to provide copies of those records
containing a clear reproduction of the whole or part thereof, as the case may be on payment of not exceeding ten rupees
per page.
30.
Penalty.
Page 20/92
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
- If any default is made in compliance with any of the provisions of this rule, the company and every officers or such
other person who is in default shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees and where the
contravention is a continuing one, with a further fine which may extend to five hundred rupees for every day after the first
during which such contravention continues.
31.
Report on Annual General Meeting.
(1)
The report in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 121 shall be prepared in the following manner,
namely:-
(a)
the report under this section shall be prepared in addition to the minutes of the general meeting;
(b)
the report shall be signed and dated by the Chairman of the meeting or in case of his inability to sign, by any two
directors of the company, one of whom shall be the Managing director, if there is one and company secretary of the
company;
(c)
the report shall contain the details in respect of the following, namely:-
(i)
the day, date, hour and venue of the annual general meeting;
(ii)
confirmation with respect to appointment of Chairman of the meeting;
(iii)
number of members attending the meeting;
(iv)
confirmation of quorum;
(v)
confirmation with respect to compliance of the Act and the Rules, secretarial standards made there under with respect to
calling, convening and conducting the meeting;
(vi)
business transacted at the meeting and result thereof;
(vii)
particulars with respect to any adjournment, postponement of meeting, change in venue; and
(viii)
any other points relevant for inclusion in the report.
(d)
the Report shall contain fair and correct summary of the proceedings of the meeting.
(2)
The copy of the report prepared in pursuance of sub-section (1) of section 121 and sub-rule (1), shall be filed with the
Registrar in Form No. MGT.15 within thirty days of the conclusion of the annual general meeting along with the fee.
Form No. MGT-1
Register of members
[Pursuant to section 88 (1)(a) of the
Companies Act, 2013 and rule 3(1) of the Companies(Management and
Administration) Rules, 2014]
Name of the company:
Registered office address:
(TO BE MAINTAINED SEPARATELY FOR EACH CLASS OF SHARES)
{|
Class of shares:
Nominal value per share (in Rs.):
Total shares held:
Page 21/92
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
FOLIO NO.
Personal details
Name of the member:
Name of joint holders, if any:
Address/ Registered address (in case of body corporate):
E-mail Id:
CIN/ Registration No.:
Unique Identification No:
Father's/ Mother's/ Spouse's name:
Status:
Occupation:
PAN No.
Nationality:
In case member is a minor,
Name of Guardian:
Date of birth of minor:
Details of membership
Date of becoming member:
Date of declaration under section 89, if applicable:
Name and address of beneficial owner:
Date of receipt of nomination, if applicable:
Name and address of nominee:
No. of shares kept in abeyance, if applicable:
Record of lien on shares, if applicable:
Date of cessation of membership:
Instructions
Particulars of dividend mandates, power of attorney and other
instructions, if any:
Instruction for sending notices etc., if any:
Details of share holding
{|
Allotment No./ Transfer No.
Date of allotment/ transfer
No. of shares allotted/ transferred
Distinctive numbers (both inclusive)
Folio of transferor, if applicable
Name of the transferor, if applicable
From
To
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Date of issue or endorsement of share certificate
Certificate No.
Lock in period, if any
Amount (Rs)
If shares are issued for consideration other than
cash, brief particulars thereof
Page 22/92
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Payable
Paid/ Deemed to be paid
Due
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
Date of transfer/ transmission/ forfeiture /
redemption etc
No. of shares transferred/ transmitted/ forfeited
/redeemed etc
Distinctive numbers (both inclusive)
Folio of transferee
Name of transferee
Balance shares (after transfer / transmission/
forfeiture / redemption etc)
From
To
(12)
(13)
(14)
(15)
(16)
(17)
Remarks
Authentication/ signature
(18)
(19)
|}
|}
Form No. MGT-2
Register of debenture holders/ other
securities holders
[Pursuant to section 88(1)(b) and ( c) of the
Companies Act, 2013 and rule 4 of the Companies(Management
and Administration) Rules, 2014]
Name of the company:
Registered office address:
(TO BE MAINTAINED SEPARATELY FOR EACH CLASS OF DEBENTURES /
OTHER SECURITIES IN RESPECT OF EACH HOLDER)
{|
Class of debentures / other securities:
Nominal value per unit (in Rs.):
Total no. of debentures / other securities held:
FOLIO NO.
Personal details
Name of the debenture holder/other security holder:
Name of joint holders, if any:
Address/ Registered address (in case of body corporate):
E-mail Id:
Page 23/92
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
PAN/ CIN/ Registration No.:
Unique Identification No:
Father's/ Mother's/ Spouse's name:
Occupation, if any:
Nationality:
In case debenture holder/other security holder is a minor:
Name of Guardian:
Date of birth of minor:
Details of holding
Date of becoming debenture holder/ other security holder:
Date of receipt of nomination:
Name and address of nominee:
No. of debentures / securities kept in abeyance, if any:
Record of lien on debentures / securities , if any :
Date of cessation as debenture holder/ other security holder:
Details of Security
Whether repayment of the debentures / other securities is
secured: Yes / No
If secured, date of registration of charge with the ROC:
Charge Identification Number allotted for the charge
Brief particulars of the assets to secure such debentures /
other securities:
Instructions
Particulars of interest mandates, power of attorney and other
instructions, if any:
Instruction for sending notices of class meetings, etc., if
any:
Details of debentures / other securities
{|
Allotment No./ transfer No.
Date of allotment/ transfer
No. of debentures/ other
securities allotted/ transferred
Distinctive numbers
(both inclusive)
Folio of transferor, if applicable
Name of the transferor, if applicable
From
To
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Date of issue/ endorsement of certificate
Certificate No.
Amount (Rs.)
If debentures /other securities
Payable
Paid/deemed to be paid
Page 24/92
----- PAGE 25 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Due
issued for consideration other than cash, brief particulars
thereof
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
Date of transfer/ transmission/ redemption forfeiture of
securities
No. of units transferred/ transmitted/ forfeited/ redeemed
Distinctive numbers (both inclusive)
Folio of  transferee
Name of the transferee
From
To
(11)
(12)
(13)
(14)
(15)
Balance units left (after transfer, transmission, redemption
etc)
Other remarks
Authentication
(16)
(17)
(18)
|}
|}
Form No. MGT-3
Notice of situation or change of situation or
discontinuation of situation, of place where foreign register
shall be kept
[Pursuant to section 88(4) of the Companies
Act, 2013 and rule 7(2) of the Companies(Management and
Administration) Rules, 2014]
1. (a) CIN:
(b) GLN:
2. (a) Name of the company:
(b) Registered office address:
(c) E-mail id:
3. This notice is in respect of:
Situation of office where foreign register is kept
Change of situation of office where foreign register is kept
Discontinuance of maintenance of foreign register
4. Foreign register relates to
Register of members
Register of debenture holders
Register of other security holders
Beneficial owners
Part A: Notice of situation of office where foreign
Page 25/92
----- PAGE 26 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
register is kept
5. Notice is hereby given that the foreign register shall be
kept at:
{|
Address
Line I
Line II
City
District
State
ISO Country Code
Country
Pin Code
E-mail ID
|-
| Part B: Notice of change of situation where foreign
register is kept
|-
| 6. Existing situation of the office where the foreign register
is kept:
|-
| 7. Purpose for changing such office:
|-
| 8. Notice is hereby given that the foreign register shall be
kept with effect from??? at:
|-
| {|
|-
| Address
| Line I
|-
|
| Line II
|-
| City
|
|-
| District
|
|-
| State
|
|-
| Country
|
|-
| Pin Code
|
|-
| E-mail ID
|
Page 26/92
----- PAGE 27 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|}
|-
| Part C: Notice of change of situation where foreign
register is kept
|-
| 9. Existing situation of the office where the foreign register is kept:
|-
| 10. Reason for such discontinuance:
|-
| 11. Notice is hereby given that the foreign register is discontinued to be maintained at the existing situation with effect
from??? and all the entries in the said register is transferred to
|-
|
| Another foreign register maintained at???
|-
|
| The principal register
|-
| Date:
|-
| Place:
|-
| Signature:
|}
Form No. MGT-4
Declaration by the registered owner of shares
who does not hold the beneficial interest in such shares
[Pursuant to section 89(1) of the Companies
Act, 2013 and rule 9(1) of the Companies(Management and
Administration) Rules, 2014]
To-
Name of the company
Registered office address:
1. Particulars of the Registered owner of shares:
(i) Name :
(ii) Father's / Mother's / Spouse'
name:
(iii) Occupation :
(iv) Whether citizen of India
Yes
No
(v) Nationality
(vi) Date of Birth
(vii) Gender
Male
Female
(viii) PAN No.
(ix) Proof of Identity :
For Indian Nationals :
(Any of the following):
Income-tax permanent account
Page 27/92
----- PAGE 28 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
number
Voter's identity card number
Passport number
Driving License
Unique Identification Number (UIN)
For Foreign nationals and Non Resident Indians :
Passport
Others
(x) Permanent Residential Address
{|
ISO Country Code
Country
Phone
Mobile
Fax
Email ID
|-
| (xi) Whether present residential
address is same as the permanent residential address :
|-
| {|
|-
| Yes     No
|
|-
| If no, present residential address
|
|-
| ISO Country Code
| Country
|-
| Phone
| Mobile
|-
| Fax
| Email ID
|}
|-
| 2. Particulars of the shares in respect of which
declaration is being made by the registered owner:
|-
| (i) Class of shares:
|-
| (ii) Number of shares:
|-
| (iii) Distinctive numbers:
From???. To???..
|-
| (iv) Certificate No.:
|-
| (v) Folio No.
Page 28/92
----- PAGE 29 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|-
| (vi) Nominal value of shares:
|-
| (vii) Paid up value of shares:
|-
| 3. Declaration:
|-
| In pursuance of sub-section (1) of section 89 of the Companies
Act, 2013, I ??????hereby
declare that the person (s) name below hold(s) the beneficial
interest in the above mentioned shares registered in my name in
the register of members of the company:
|-
| {|
|-
| Sl. No.
| Name of the beneficial owner(s)
| Address and Email id
| Date of birth/Age
| Father?s/Spouse?s name
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (3)
| (4)
| (5)
|-
| Occupation
| Nationality
| PAN/ UIN/ CIN (in case of company)
| Passport No. (in case of foreign national)
| Distinctive No.,if applicable.
|-
| (6)
| (7)
| (8)
| (9)
|
|}
|-
| 4. Details of the beneficial interest:
|-
| (i) Nature of the beneficial
interest:
|-
| (ii) Date of creation of the
beneficial interest:
|-
| (iii) Reasons for not registering
shares in the name of the beneficial owner(s):
|-
Page 29/92
----- PAGE 30 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
| (iv) Particulars of the
instrument/ document, if any, showing the creation of such
beneficial interest:
|-
| 5. Particulars of change in beneficial interest:
|-
| (i) Date of change:
|-
| (ii) Nature of the change in the
beneficial interest:
|-
| (iii) Brief particulars of such
change:
|-
| (iv) Reason for such change:
|-
| (v) Particulars of the instrument/
document, if any, showing the change in such beneficial interest:
|-
| Date:
|-
| Place:
|-
| Signature of the registered owner
|-
| Enclosures:
|-
| (a) Proof of identity of the
registered owner and beneficial owner
|-
| (b) Instrument/ document under
which the beneficial interest is created/ transferred/ changed.
|}
Form No. MGT-5
Declaration by the beneficial owner who holds
or acquires beneficial interest in shares but whose name is not
entered in the register of member
[Pursuant to sub-section (2) and (3) of
section 89 of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 9(2) of
theCompanies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014]
To-
Name of the company
Registered office address:
1. Particulars of the shares in which beneficial interest
is held by the person making declaration:
(i) Class of shares:
(ii) Number of shares:
(iii) Distinctive numbers:
From???. To???..
(iv) Certificate No.:
(v) Folio No.
Page 30/92
----- PAGE 31 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
(vi) Nominal value of shares:
(vii) Paid up value of shares:
2. Particulars of the beneficial owner
{|
Sl. No.
Name of the beneficial owner(s)
Address and Email id
Date of birth/ Age
Father?s/ Mother?s Spouse?s
name
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
Occupation
Nationality
PAN/ UIN/ CIN (in case of company)
Passport No. (in case of foreign national)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
|-
| 3. Declaration
|-
| In pursuance of sub-section (2) of section 89 of the Companies
Act 2013, I ???????hereby
declare that I hold / have acquired the beneficial interest in
the above mentioned shares of the company which are registered in
the name of the person whose particulars are furnished below:
|-
| 4. Particulars of the registered owner
|-
| {|
|-
| Sl. No.
| Name of the beneficial owner(s)
| Address and Email id
| Date of birth/ Age
| Father?s/ Mother?s Spouse?s
name
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (3)
| (4)
| (5)
|-
| Occupation
| Nationality
Page 31/92
----- PAGE 32 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
| PAN/ UIN/ CIN (in case of company)
| Passport No. (in case of foreign national)
|
|-
| (6)
| (7)
| (8)
| (9)
|
|}
|-
| 5. Details of the beneficial interest:
|-
| (i) Date of creation / acquisition
of beneficial interest:
|-
| (ii) Mode of acquisition of
beneficial interest: Allotment / Transfer / others, specify
|-
| (iii) Nature of the beneficial
interest:
|-
| (iv) Reasons for not registering
shares in my name:
|-
| (v) Particulars of the instrument/
document, if any, showing the creation of such beneficial
interest:
|-
| 6. Particulars of the person from whom the beneficial
interest is acquired, if applicable:
|-
| (i) Name of the transferor of
beneficial interest:
|-
| (ii) Whether shares were
registered in his name:
|-
| (If not, whether any declaration
under sub-section (2) of section 89 was filed by him to the
company. If so, date of such declaration)
|-
| (iii) Particulars of the
instrument/ document, if any, showing the transfer of such
beneficial interest :
|-
| 7. Particulars of change in beneficial interest:
|-
| (i) Date of change:
|-
| (ii) Nature of the change in the
Page 32/92
----- PAGE 33 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
beneficial interest:
|-
| (iii) Brief particulars of such
change:
|-
| (iv) Reason for such change:
|-
| (v) Particulars of the instrument/
document, if any, showing the change in such beneficial interest:
|-
| Date:
|-
| Place:
|-
| Signature of beneficial owner
|-
| CERTIFICATE
|-
| I hereby certify that the beneficial interest in the shares
mentioned above has been transferred by me on ?????.
|-
| Signature of the person who has transferred the beneficial
interest in the shares
|-
| Date:
|-
| Place:
|-
| Enclosures:
|-
| 1. Proof of identity of the
registered owner and beneficial owner;
|-
| 2. Instrument/ document under
which the beneficial interest is created/ transferred/ changed.
|}
{|
[FORM NO. MGT-6]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 175(E), dated 16.2.2018 (w.e.f. 31.3.2014).]
[Pursuant to section 89(6) of The CompaniesAct, 2013 and pursuant to rule 9(3) of TheCompanies (Management
andAdministration) Rules, 2014]
Return to the Registrar in respect
ofdeclaration under section 89 received by thecompany
Form languageEnglishHindi
Refer the instruction kit for filing the form.
1.*(a)
Corporate identity number (CIN) of company
{|
|
|-
| (b)
Page 33/92
----- PAGE 34 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
| Global location number (GLN) of company
|
|
|}
2.(a)
Name of the company
{|
|-
| (b)
| Address of the registered office of the company
|
|}
I.
Particulars of shares in respect of which the person whose
name is entered in the register of members of the company as a
holder of shares does not hold the beneficial interest in such
shares
1.(a)
*Number of shares
{|
|
|-
| (b)
| Distinctive number of shares
| From
| To
|-
| (c)
| *Kind of shares
|
|-
| (d)
| *Face value of shares             (Rs.)
|
|
|-
| (e)
| *Paid-up value of shares        (Rs.)
|
|
|}
2.(a)
*Name of the person in whose name the above shares have been registered as holder in the register of members
{|
|-
| (b)
| *Address     Line I
|
|-
|
| Line II
Page 34/92
----- PAGE 35 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|
|-
| (c)
| *City
|
|-
| (d)
| *State
|
|-
| (e)
| *Country
|
|-
| (f)
| *Pin code
|
|-
| (g)
| *Nationality
|
|-
| (h)
| Father's name or Husband's nameFather's nameHusband's name
|-
|
|-
| (i)
| Name of the Authorized person
|
|-
| (j)
| *Date of entry of name in register
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (k)
| *Date of declaration
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (l)
| *Date of receipt of declaration by the company
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|}
3.(a)
*Name of person who holds a beneficial interest in such shares
{|
|-
| (b)
| *Address     Line I
|
|-
Page 35/92
----- PAGE 36 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|
| Line II
|
|-
| (c)
| *City
|
|-
| (d)
| *State
|
|-
| (e)
| *Country
|
|-
| (f)
| *Pin code
|
|-
| (g)
| *Nationality
|
|-
| (h)
| *Date of declaration
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (i)
| *Date of receipt of declaration by the company
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|}
II.
Particulars of shares in respect of which the person whose
name is entered in the register of members of the company as a
holder of shares does not hold the beneficial interest in such
shares
1.(a)
Number of shares
{|
|
|-
| (b)
| Distinctive number of shares
| From
| To
|-
| (c)
| Kind of shares
|
|-
Page 36/92
----- PAGE 37 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
| (d)
| Face value of shares             (Rs.)
|
|
|-
| (e)
| Paid-up value of shares        (Rs.)
|
|
|}
2.(a)
Name of the person in whose name the above shares have been registered as holder in the register of members
{|
|-
| (b)
| Address     Line I
|
|-
|
| Line II
|
|-
| (c)
| City
|
|-
| (d)
| State
|
|-
| (e)
| Country
|
|-
| (f)
| Pin code
|
|-
| (g)
| Nationality
|
|-
| (h)
| Father's name or Husband's nameFather's nameHusband's name
|-
|
|-
| (i)
| Name of the Authorized person
|
|-
Page 37/92
----- PAGE 38 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
| (j)
| Date of entry of name in register
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (k)
| Date of declaration
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (l)
| Date of receipt of declaration by the company
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|}
3.(a)
Name of person who holds a beneficial interest in such shares
{|
|-
| (b)
| Address     Line I
|
|-
|
| Line II
|
|-
| (c)
| City
|
|-
| (d)
| State
|
|-
| (e)
| Country
|
|-
| (f)
| Pin code
|
|-
| (g)
| Nationality
|
|-
| (h)
| Date of declaration
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (i)
| Date of receipt of declaration by the company
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
Page 38/92
----- PAGE 39 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|}
III.
Particulars of shares in respect of which the person whose
name is entered in the register of members of the company as a
holder of shares does not hold the beneficial interest in such
shares
1.(a)
Number of shares
{|
|
|-
| (b)
| Distinctive number of shares
| From
| To
|-
| (c)
| Kind of shares
|
|-
| (d)
| Face value of shares             (Rs.)
|
|
|-
| (e)
| Paid-up value of shares        (Rs.)
|
|
|}
2.(a)
Name of the person in whose name the above shares have been registered as holder in the register of members
{|
|-
| (b)
| Address     Line I
|
|-
|
| Line II
|
|-
| (c)
| City
|
|-
| (d)
| State
|
|-
| (e)
Page 39/92
----- PAGE 40 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
| Country
|
|-
| (f)
| Pin code
|
|-
| (g)
| Nationality
|
|-
| (h)
| Father's name or Husband's nameFather's nameHusband's name
|-
|
|-
| (i)
| Name of the Authorized person
|
|-
| (j)
| Date of entry of name in register
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (k)
| Date of declaration
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (l)
| Date of receipt of declaration by the company
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|}
3.(a)
Name of person who holds a beneficial interest in such shares
{|
|-
| (b)
| Address     Line I
|
|-
|
| Line II
|
|-
| (c)
| City
|
|-
| (d)
| State
|
Page 40/92
----- PAGE 41 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|-
| (e)
| Country
|
|-
| (f)
| Pin code
|
|-
| (g)
| Nationality
|
|-
| (h)
| Date of declaration
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (i)
| Date of receipt of declaration by the company
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|}
IV.
Particulars of shares in respect of which the person whose
name is entered in the register of members of the company as a
holder of shares does not hold the beneficial interest in such
shares
1.(a)
Number of shares
{|
|
|-
| (b)
| Distinctive number of shares
| From
| To
|-
| (c)
| Kind of shares
|
|-
| (d)
| Face value of shares             (Rs.)
|
|
|-
| (e)
| Paid-up value of shares        (Rs.)
|
|
|}
2.(a)
Page 41/92
----- PAGE 42 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Name of the person in whose name the above shares have been registered as holder in the register of members
{|
|-
| (b)
| Address     Line I
|
|-
|
| Line II
|
|-
| (c)
| City
|
|-
| (d)
| State
|
|-
| (e)
| Country
|
|-
| (f)
| Pin code
|
|-
| (g)
| Nationality
|
|-
| (h)
| Father's name or Husband's nameFather's nameHusband's name
|-
|
|-
| (i)
| Name of the Authorized person
|
|-
| (j)
| Date of entry of name in register
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (k)
| Date of declaration
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (l)
| Date of receipt of declaration by the company
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
Page 42/92
----- PAGE 43 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|}
3.(a)
Name of person who holds a beneficial interest in such shares
{|
|-
| (b)
| Address     Line I
|
|-
|
| Line II
|
|-
| (c)
| City
|
|-
| (d)
| State
|
|-
| (e)
| Country
|
|-
| (f)
| Pin code
|
|-
| (g)
| Nationality
|
|-
| (h)
| Date of declaration
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (i)
| Date of receipt of declaration by the company
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|}
V.
Particulars of shares in respect of which the person whose
name is entered in the register of members of the company as a
holder of shares does not hold the beneficial interest in such
shares
1.(a)
Number of shares
{|
|
|-
Page 43/92
----- PAGE 44 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
| (b)
| Distinctive number of shares
| From
| To
|-
| (c)
| Kind of shares
|
|-
| (d)
| Face value of shares             (Rs.)
|
|
|-
| (e)
| Paid-up value of shares        (Rs.)
|
|
|}
2.(a)
Name of the person in whose name the above shares have been registered as holder in the register of members
{|
|-
| (b)
| Address     Line I
|
|-
|
| Line II
|
|-
| (c)
| City
|
|-
| (d)
| State
|
|-
| (e)
| Country
|
|-
| (f)
| Pin code
|
|-
| (g)
| Nationality
|
|-
Page 44/92
----- PAGE 45 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
| (h)
| Father's name or Husband's nameFather's nameHusband's name
|-
|
|-
| (i)
| Name of the Authorized person
|
|-
| (j)
| Date of entry of name in register
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (k)
| Date of declaration
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (l)
| Date of receipt of declaration by the company
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|}
3.(a)
Name of person who holds a beneficial interest in such shares
{|
|-
| (b)
| Address     Line I
|
|-
|
| Line II
|
|-
| (c)
| City
|
|-
| (d)
| State
|
|-
| (e)
| Country
|
|-
| (f)
| Pin code
|
|-
| (g)
| Nationality
Page 45/92
----- PAGE 46 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|
|-
| (h)
| Date of declaration
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (i)
| Date of receipt of declaration by the company
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|}
VI.
Particulars of shares in respect of which the person whose
name is entered in the register of members of the company as a
holder of shares does not hold the beneficial interest in such
shares
1.(a)
Number of shares
{|
|
|-
| (b)
| Distinctive number of shares
| From
| To
|-
| (c)
| Kind of shares
|
|-
| (d)
| Face value of shares             (Rs.)
|
|
|-
| (e)
| Paid-up value of shares        (Rs.)
|
|
|}
2.(a)
Name of the person in whose name the above shares have been registered as holder in the register of members
{|
|-
| (b)
| Address     Line I
|
|-
|
| Line II
|
|-
Page 46/92
----- PAGE 47 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
| (c)
| City
|
|-
| (d)
| State
|
|-
| (e)
| Country
|
|-
| (f)
| Pin code
|
|-
| (g)
| Nationality
|
|-
| (h)
| Father's name or Husband's nameFather's nameHusband's name
|-
|
|-
| (i)
| Name of the Authorized person
|
|-
| (j)
| Date of entry of name in register
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (k)
| Date of declaration
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (l)
| Date of receipt of declaration by the company
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|}
3.(a)
Name of person who holds a beneficial interest in such shares
{|
|-
| (b)
| Address     Line I
|
|-
|
| Line II
Page 47/92
----- PAGE 48 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|
|-
| (c)
| City
|
|-
| (d)
| State
|
|-
| (e)
| Country
|
|-
| (f)
| Pin code
|
|-
| (g)
| Nationality
|
|-
| (h)
| Date of declaration
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
| (i)
| Date of receipt of declaration by the company
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|}
Attachments
1. *Declaration by person referred to in section 89(1)
2. *Declaration by person referred to in section 89(2) or
89(3)
3. Optional attachment(s) ? if any
List of attachments
{|
|-
| Declaration
|
|-
| To the best of my knowledge and belief, the information given
in this form and its attachments is correct and complete. I have
been authorized by the board of directors' resolution dated *(DD/MM/YYYY) to sign and submit this form.
|}
*To be digitally signed by
*Designation
*Director identification number of
the director; orDIN or PAN of the manager or CEO or
CFO; orMembership number of the Company secretary
{|
Page 48/92
----- PAGE 49 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|}
Note: Attention is also drawn to provisions of Section 448 abd 449 which provide for punishment for false statement and
punishment for false evidence respectively
This eForm has been taken on file maintained by the Registrar of Companies through electronic mode and on the basis
of statement of correctness given by the company.
|}
[FORM NO.MGT-7]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 862(E), dated 16.11.2015 (w.e.f. 31.3.2014).]
[Pursuant to sub-section (1) of section 92 of the Companies Act, 2013 and sub-rule (1) of rule 11 of the Companies
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014]|
Annual Return
Form language O English       O HindiRefer the instruction kit for filing the form.
I.
Registration and Other Details
(i)
*Corporate Identification Number (CIN) of the company
{|
{|
|
Pre-fill
|}
|-
| (ii)
| Global Location Number (GLN) of the company
|
|}
(ii)
(a) Name of company
{|
|-
|
| (b) Registered office address
|
|-
|
|
|-
|
| (c) *email-ID of the company
|
|-
|
| (d) *Telephone number with STD code
|
|-
|
| (e) Website
|
|}
(iii)
Date of Incorporation
Page 49/92
----- PAGE 50 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
{|
|-
| (iv)
|
Type of Company
Category of the Company
Sub-category of the Company
|-
| (v)
| Whether company is having share capital
| O      Yes                       O      No
|}
(vi)
*Whether shares listed on recognized Stock Exchange(s)
O      Yes                       O      No
(a) Details of stock exchanges where share are listed
{|
S. No.
Stock Exchange Name
Code
1
2
|-
|
| (b) CIN of the Registrar and Transfer Agent
|
{|
|
Pre-fill
|}
|-
|
| Name of the Registrar and Transfer Agent
|-
|
|
|-
|
| Registered office address of the Registrar and Transfer Agents
|-
|
|
|}
(vii)
*Financial year
{|
From
{|
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
To
|
Page 50/92
----- PAGE 51 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|}
|}
(viii)
*Whether Annual General Meeting (AGM) held
O      Yes                       O      No
(a) If yes, date of AGM
{|
|-
|
| (b) Due date of AGM
|
|-
|
| (c) Whether any extension for AGM granted
| O      Yes                       O      No
|-
|
| (d) If yes, provide the Service Request Number of the
application form filed for extension
|
|-
|
| (e) Extended due date of AGM after grant of extension
|
{|
|
Pre-fill
|}
|-
|
| (f) Specify the reasons for not holding the same
|
|-
|
|
|}
II.
Principal Business Activities of the Company
*Number of business activities
{|
|-
|
|
Sl. No.
Main Activity group code
Description of Main Activity group
Business Activity Code
Description of Business Activity
% to total turnover of company
1
Page 51/92
----- PAGE 52 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
2
|}
III.
Particulars of Holding, Subsidiary, Joint Ventures and
Associate Companies
*No. of Companies for which information is to be given
{|
{|
|
Pre-fill All
|}
|-
|
|
Sl. No.
Name of company
CIN/FCRN
Holding/ Subsidiary/ Joint Ventures/ Associate
% of shares held
1
2
|}
IV.
Share Capital,debentures and Other Securities of the
Company
(i)
*Share Capital
(a) Equity share capital
{|
Particulars
Face Value
Authorized Capital
Issued Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid Up Capital
Total number of equity shares
Total amount of equity shares (in rupees)
|-
|
|
Number of classes
{|
|}
|-
|
|
Class of shares
{|
| Authorized Capital
| Issued Capital
| Subscribed Capital
Page 52/92
----- PAGE 53 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
| Paid Up Capital
|-
| Number of equity shares
|
|
|
|
|-
| Nominal value per share (in rupees)
|
|
|
|
|-
| Total amount of equity shares (in rupees)
|
|
|
|
|}
|-
|
| (b) Preference share capital
|-
|
|
Particulars
Authorized Capital
Issued Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid Up Capital
Total number of preference shares
Total amount of preference shares (in rupees)
|-
|
|
Number of classes
{|
|}
|-
|
|
Class of shares
{|
| Authorized Capital
| Issued Capital
| Subscribed Capital
| Paid Up Capital
|-
| Number of preference shares
|
Page 53/92
----- PAGE 54 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|
|
|
|-
| Nominal value per share (in rupees)
|
|
|
|
|-
| Total amount of preference shares (in rupees)
|
|
|
|
|}
|-
|
| (c) Unclassified share capital
|-
|
|
Particulars
Authorized Capital
Total amount of unclassified shares
|-
|
| (d) Break-up of paid share capital
|-
|
|
Class of Shares
Number of shares
Total Nominal Amount
Total paid-up amount
Total premium
Equity shares
At the beginning of the year
Increase during the year
i. Public Issues
ii. Rights issue
iii. Bonus issue
iv. Private Placement/ Preferential allotment
v. ESOPs
vi. Sweat equity shares allotted
vii. Conversion of Preference share
viii. Conversion of Debentures
ix. GDRs/ADRs
x. Others, Specify
{|
|
Page 54/92
----- PAGE 55 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|
|
|
|-
| Decrease during the year
|
|
|
|
|-
| i. Buy-back of shares
|
|
|
|
|-
| ii. Shares forfeited
|
|
|
|
|-
| iii. Reduction of share capital
|
|
|
|
|-
| iv. Others, Specify
|
|
|
|
|-
| At the end of the year
|
|
|
|
|-
| Preference shares
|
|
|
|
|-
| At the beginning of the year
|
|
|
|
Page 55/92
----- PAGE 56 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|-
| Increase during the year
|
|
|
|
|-
| i. Issues of shares
|
|
|
|
|-
| ii. Re-issue of forfeited shares
|
|
|
|
|-
| iii. Others, Specify
|
|
|
|
|-
| Decrease during the year
|
|
|
|
|-
| i. Redemption of shares
|
|
|
|
|-
| ii. Shares forfeited
|
|
|
|
|-
| iii. Reduction of share capital
|
|
|
|
|-
| iv. Others, Specify
|
Page 56/92
----- PAGE 57 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|
|
|
|-
| At the end of the year
|
|
|
|
|}
|}
(ii)
Details of stock/consolidation during the year (for each class
of shares)
{|
|-
|
|
Class of shares
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
Before split/Consolidation
Number of shares
Face value per share
After split/Consolidation
Number of shares
Face value per share
|}
(iii)
Details of shares/Debentures Transfers since closure date of
last financial year (or in the case of the first return at any
time since the incorporation of the company)*
{|
{|
| Nil
|}
|-
|
| [Details being provided in a CD/Digital Media]O Yes       O No       O
Not applicable
|-
|
| Separate sheet attached for details of transfersO Yes       O No
|-
|
| Note:In case list of transfer exceeds 10, option for
submission as a separate sheet attachment or submission in a
CD/Digital Media may be shown.
|}
{|
Page 57/92
----- PAGE 58 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Date of Previous AGM
{|
|}
|-
|
|
Date of Registration of Transfer of Shares
{|
|-
| Type of Transfer
|
| 1. Equity, 2. Preference Shares, 3. Debentures, 4. Stock
|-
| Number of Shares/Debentures Transferred
|
| Amount per Share (in Rs.)
|
|-
| Ledger Folio of Transferor
|
|-
| Transferor's Name
|
|
|
|-
|
| Surname
| Middle Name
| First Name
|-
| Ledger Folio of Transferee
|
|-
| Transferee's Name
|
|
|
|-
|
| Surname
| Middle Name
| First Name
|}
|-
|
|
Date of Registration of Transfer of Shares
{|
|-
| Type of Transfer
Page 58/92
----- PAGE 59 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|
| 1. Equity, 2. Preference Shares, 3. Debentures, 4. Stock
|-
| Number of Shares/Debentures Transferred
|
| Amount per Share (in Rs.)
|
|-
| Ledger Folio of Transferor
|
|-
| Transferor's Name
|
|
|
|-
|
| Surname
| Middle Name
| First Name
|-
| Ledger Folio of Transferee
|
|-
| Transferee's Name
|
|
|
|-
|
| Surname
| Middle Name
| First Name
|}
|}
(iv)
*Indebtedness including debentures (Outstanding as at the end
of financial year)
{|
Particulars
Number of units
Nominal value per unit
Total value
Non-convertible debentures
Partly convertible debentures
Fully convertible debentures
Secured Loans excluding deposits
Unsecured Loans excluding deposits
Deposit
Total
|-
Page 59/92
----- PAGE 60 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|
| Details of debentures
|-
|
|
Class of Debentures
Outstanding as at the beginning of the year
Increase during the year
Decrease during the year
Outstanding as at the end of the year
Non-convertible debentures
Partly convertible debentures
Fully convertible debentures
|}
(v)
Securities (other than shares and debentures)
{|
|-
|
|
Type of Securities
Number of Securities
Nominal Value of each Unit
Total Nominal Value
Paid up Value of each Unit
Total paid up Value
Total
|}
V.
*Turnover and net worth of the company (as defined in the
Companies Act, 2013)
(i)
Total Turnover
{|
|-
| (ii)
| Net worth of the Company
|
|}
VI.
(a) *Share Holding Pattern - Promoters
{|
S. No.
Category
Indian
Foreign
Number of shares
Percentage
Number of shares
Percentage
1.
Page 60/92
----- PAGE 61 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Individual/HUF
(i) Indian
(ii) Non-resident Indian (NRI)
(iii) Foreign national (other than NRI)
2.
Government
(i) Central Government
(ii) State Government
(iii) Government companies
3.
Insurance companies
4.
Banks
5.
Financial Institutions
6.
Foreign Institutional Investors
7.
Mutual Funds
8.
Venture capital
9.
Body corporate(not mentioned above)
10.
{|
Others
|
|
|
|
|-
|
| Total
|
|
|
|
|}
|-
|
|
Total number of shareholders
|-
|
| (b) *Share Holding Pattern - Public
|-
|
|
S. No.
Category
Indian
Page 61/92
----- PAGE 62 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Foreign
Number of shares
Percentage
Number of shares
Percentage
1.
Individual/HUF
(i) Indian
(ii) Non-resident Indian (NRI)
(iii) Foreign national (other than NRI)
2.
Government
(i) Central Government
(ii) State Government
(iii) Government companies
3.
Insurance companies
4.
Banks
5.
Financial Institutions
6.
Foreign Institutional Investors
7.
Mutual Funds
8.
Venture capital
9.
Body corporate(not mentioned above)
10.
{|
Others
|
|
|
|
|-
|
| Total
|
|
|
|
|}
|-
|
|
Total number of shareholders
|-
|
|
Page 62/92
----- PAGE 63 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Total number of shareholders (Promoters + Public)
|-
|
|
(c) *Details of Foreign institutional investors' (FIIs)
holding shares of the company
{|
|}
|-
|
|
Name of FII
Address
Date of Incorporation
Country of Incorporation
Number of shares held
% of shares held
|}
VII.
*Number of Promoters, Member, Debenture Holders
{|
Details
As at beginning of the year
Addition during the year
Cessation during the year
As at the end of the year
Promoters
Members (other than promoters)
Debenture holders
|-
| VIII.
| Details of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
|-
| (A)
| *Composition of Board of Directors
|-
|
|
Category
Number of directors at the beginning of the
year
Number of directors at the end of the year
Percentage of shares held by directors as at
the end of the year
Executive
Non-executive
Executive
Non-executive
Executive
Non-executive
A. Promoter
Page 63/92
----- PAGE 64 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
B. Non-promoter
(i) Non-Independent
(ii) Independent
C. Nominee Directors representing
(i) Banks & FIs
(ii) Investing institutions
(iii) Government
(iv) Small share holders
(v) Others
Total
|-
|
|
Number of Directors and key managerial personnel (who is
not director) as on the financial year and date
{|
|}
|-
| (B)
|
(i) *Details of directors and Key managerial personnel as
on the closure of financial year
{|
|}
|-
|
|
Name
DIN/PAN
Designation
Number of equity shares held
Date of cessation(after closure of financial
year : if any)
|-
|
|
(ii) Particulars of change in director(s) and Key
managerial personnel during the year
{|
|}
|-
|
|
Name
DIN/PAN
Designation at the beginning/ during the
financial year
Date of appointment/ change in designation/
cessation
Nature of change(Appointment/ Change in
designation/ Cessation)
Page 64/92
----- PAGE 65 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|}
IX.
Meetings of Members/Class of Members/Board/Committees of
the Board of Directors
A.
Members/Class/Requisitioned/CLB/NCLT/Court Convened Meetings
{|
Number of meetings held
{|
|}
|-
|
|
Type of meeting
Date of meeting
Total Number of Members entitled to attend
meeting
Attendance
Number of members attended
% of total shareholding
|-
| B.
| Board Meetings
|-
|
|
*Number of meetings held
{|
|}
|-
|
|
Sl. No.
Date of meeting
Total Number of Directors as on the date of
meeting
Attendance
Number of directors attended
% of attendance
1.
2.
|-
| C.
| Committee Meetings
|-
|
|
Number of meetings held
{|
|}
|-
Page 65/92
----- PAGE 66 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|
|
Sl. No.
Type of meeting
Date of meeting
Total Number of Members as on the ate of meeting
Attendance
Number of members attended
% of total shareholding
1.
2.
|-
| D.
| *Attendance of Directors
|-
|
|
S. No.
Name of the Director
No. of Meetings which were entitled to attend
No. of Meeting attended
% of attendance
No. of Meetings Held
No. of Meeting attended
% of attendance
Whether attended last AGM held on
{|
(Y/N/NA)
|-
| 1.
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|}
|}
X.
*Remuneration of Directors and Key managerial Personnel
{|
{|
| Nil
|}
|-
| A.
|
Number of Managing Director, Whole-time Directors and/or
Manager whose remuneration details to be entered
Page 66/92
----- PAGE 67 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
{|
|}
|-
|
|
S. No.
Name
Designation
Gross Salary
Commission
Stock Option/ Sweat equity
Others
Total Amount
1.
Total
|-
| B.
|
Number of CEO, CFO and Company secretary whose remuneration
details to be entered
{|
|}
|-
|
|
S. No.
Name
Designation
Gross Salary
Commission
Stock Option/ Sweat equity
Others
Total Amount
1.
Total
|-
| C.
|
Number of other directors whose remuneration details to be
entered
{|
|}
|-
|
|
S. No.
Name
Designation
Gross Salary
Commission
Stock Option/ Sweat equity
Page 67/92
----- PAGE 68 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Others
Total Amount
1.
Total
|}
XI.
Matters related to certification of Compliances and
Disclosures
A.
Certification of Compliancies
Whether company has made all companies and disclosure during
the yearO Yes          O No
If No, give details along with the reasons and supporting
documents
{|
|}
XII.
Penalty and Punishment ? Details Thereof
(A)
{|
Details of Penalties/Punishment imposed on
Company/Directors/Officers
{|
| Nil
|
|}
|-
|
|
Name of the company/ directors/ officers
Name of the court/ concerned Authority
Date of Order
Name of the act and section under which
penalized/ punished
Details of penalty/ punishment
Details of appeal (if any) including present
status
|-
| (B)
|
Details of Compounding of Offences
{|
| Nil
|
|}
|-
|
|
Name of the company/ directors/ officers
Name of the court/ concerned Authority
Date of Order
Page 68/92
----- PAGE 69 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Name of the act and section under which offence
committed
Particulars of offence
Amount of compounding (in rupees)
|-
| XIII.
| Whether complete list of Shareholders, Debenture Holders has
been enclosed as an attachmentO Yes           O No
|-
|
| (In case of 'No', submit the details separately through method
specified in instruction kit)
|}
XIV.
Compliance of Sub-Section (2) of Section 92, in
Case of Listed Companies
In case of a listed company or a company having paid up share
capital of Ten Crore rupees or moreorturnover of Fifty
Crore rupees or more, details of company secretary in whole time
practice certifying the annual return in form MGT-8.
{|
Name
{|
|-
| Whether associate or fellow
| O AssociateO Fellow
|-
| Certificate of particular number
|
|}
|-
|
| I/We certify that:
|-
|
| (a) The return states the facts, as they stood on the date of
the closure of the financial year aforesaid Correctly And
Adequately.
|-
|
| (b) Unless otherwise expressly stated to the contrary
elsewhere in this Return, the Company has complied with all the
provisions of the Act during the financial year.
|-
|
| (c) The company has not, since the date of the closure of the
last financial year with reference to which the last return was
submitted or in the case of a first return since the date of the
incorporation of the company, issued any invitation to the public
to subscribe for any securities of the company.
|-
Page 69/92
----- PAGE 70 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|
| (d) Where the annual return discloses the fact that the number
of members, (except in case of a one person company), of the
company exceeds two hundred, the excess consists wholly of
persons who under second proviso to clause (ii) of sub-section
(68)
of section 2 of the Act are not to be included in reckoning
the number of two hundred.
|-
|
| Declaration
|-
|
| I am authorized by the Board of Directors of the company vide
resolution no. dated(DD/MM/YYYY) to sign this form and declare
that all the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 and the
rules made thereunder in respect of the subject matter of this
form and matters incidental thereto have been complied with. I
further declare that:
|-
|
| 1. Whatever is stated in this form and in the attachments
thereto is true, correct and complete and no information material
to the subject matter of this form has been suppressed or
concealed and is as per the original records maintained by the
company.
|-
|
| 2. All the required attachments have been completely and
legibly attached to this form.
|-
|
| Note: Attention is also drawn to the provisions of Section
447.
, section 448 and 449 of the Companies Act, 2013 which provide
for punishment for fraud, punishment for false statement and
punishment for false evidence respectively.
|}
To be digitally signed by
{|
Director
{|
DSC BOX
|-
| DIN of the director
|
|-
| To be digitally signed by
|
DSC BOX
|}
Page 70/92
----- PAGE 71 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|-
|
| oCompany Secretary
|-
|
| oCompany Secretary in practice
|-
|
|
Membership number
{|
| Certificate of Practice number
|
|}
|}
Attachments
List of attachments
1. list of share holders, debenture holders;
{|
Attach
|
|-
|
| 2. Approval letter for extension of AGM;
|
Attach
|-
|
| 3. Copy of MGT-8;
|
Attach
|-
|
| 4. Optional Attachment(s), if any.
|
Attach
|-
|
|
|
|
Remove Attachment
|}
{|
Modify
|
Check Form
|
Prescutiny
|
Submit
Page 71/92
----- PAGE 72 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|-
|
| This e-Form has been taken on file maintained by the
registrar of companies through electronic mode and on the basis
of statement of correctness given by the company
|}
Form No. MGT-8
[Pursuant to section 92(2) of the Companies
Act, 2013 and rule 11(2) of Companies(Management and
Administration) Rules, 2014]
CERTIFICATE BY A
COMPANY SECRETARY IN PRACTICE
I/ We have examined the registers, records and books and
papers of---------Limited/Private Limited(the Company) as
required to be maintained under the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act)
and the rules made thereunder for the financial year ended on
-------- , 20----. In my/ our opinion and to the best of my
information and according to the examinations carried out by me/
us and explanations furnished to me/ us by the company, its
officers and agents, I/ we certify that:
A. the Annual Return states the facts as at the close of the
aforesaid financial year correctly and adequately.
B. during the aforesaid financial year the Company has
complied with provisions of the Act & Rules made there under
in respect of:
1. its status under the Act;
2. maintenance of registers/records & making entries
therein within the time prescribed therefor;
3. filing of forms and returns as stated in the annual return,
with the Registrar of Companies, Regional Director, Central
Government, the Tribunal, Court or other authorities
within/beyond the prescribed time;
4. calling/ convening/ holding meetings of Board of Directors
or its committees, if any, and the meetings of the members of the
company on due dates as stated in the annual return in respect of
which meetings, proper notices were given and the proceedings
including the circular resolutions and resolutions passed by
postal ballot, if any, have been properly recorded in the Minute
Book/registers maintained for the purpose and the same have been
signed;
5. closure of Register of Members / Security holders, as the
case may be.
6. advances/loans to its directors and/or persons or firms or
companies referred in section 185 of the Act;
7. contracts/arrangements with related parties as specified in
section 188 of the Act;
8. issue or allotment or transfer or transmission or buy back
of securities/ redemption of preference shares or debentures/
alteration or reduction of share capital/ conversion of shares/
securities and issue of security certificates in all instances;
9. keeping in abeyance the rights to dividend, rights shares
Page 72/92
----- PAGE 73 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
and bonus shares pending registration of transfer of shares in
compliance with the provisions of the Act
10. declaration/ payment of dividend; transfer of unpaid/
unclaimed dividend/other amounts as applicable to the Investor
Education and Protection Fund in accordance with section 125 of
the Act;
11. signing of audited financial statement as per the
provisions of section 134 of the Act and report of directors is
as per sub - sections (3), (4) and (5) thereof;
12. constitution/ appointment/ re-appointments/ retirement/
filling up casual vacancies/ disclosures of the Directors, Key
Managerial Personnel and the remuneration paid to them;
13. appointment/ reappointment/ filling up casual vacancies of
auditors as per the provisions of section 139 of the Act;
14. approvals required to be taken from the Central
Government, Tribunal, Regional Director, Registrar, Court or such
other authorities under the various provisions of the Act;
15. acceptance/ renewal/ repayment of deposits;
16. borrowings from its directors, members, public financial
institutions, banks and others and creation/ modification/
satisfaction of charges in that respect, wherever applicable;
17. loans and investments or guarantees given or providing of
securities to other bodies corporate or persons falling under the
provisions of section 186 of the Act ;
18. alteration of the provisions of the Memorandum and/ or
Articles of Association of the Company;
Place:Date:
Signature:Name of Company Secretary in
practices:C.P. No.
Note: The qualification, reservation or adverse remarks, if
any, may be stated at the relevant place(s).
Form No. MGT-9
EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN
as on the financial year ended on _______
[Pursuant to section 92(3)of the Companies
Act, 2013 and rule 12(1) of the Companies(Management and
Administration) Rules, 2014]
I. REGISTRATION AND OTHER DETAILS:
i) CIN:-
ii) Registration Date
iii) Name of the Company
iv) Category / Sub-Category of
the Company
v) Address of the Registered
office and contact details
vi) Whether listed company
Yes / No
vii) Name, Address and Contact
details of Registrar and Transfer Agent, if any
II. PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY
All the business activities contributing 10 % or more of the
Page 73/92
----- PAGE 74 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
total turnover of the company shall be stated:-
Sl. No.
Name and Description of main products / services
NIC Code of the Product/ service
% to total turnover of the company
1
2
3
III. PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE
COMPANIES -
S.No.
Name and Address of The Company
CIN/GLN
Holding/Subsidiary/Associate
% of shares held
Applicable Section
1
2
IV. SHARE HOLDING PATTERN (EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL BREAKUP AS
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL EQUITY)
i) Category-wise Share Holding
Category of Shareholders
No. of Shares held at the beginning of the year
No. of Shares held at the end of the year
% Change during the year
Demat
Physical
Total
% of Total Shares
Demat
Physical
Total
% of Total Shares
A. Promoters
(1) Indian
a) Individual/HUF
b) Central Govt
c) State Govt (s)
d) Bodies Corp.
e) Banks / FI
f) Any Other?.
Sub-total (A) (1):-
(2) Foreign
a) NRIs - Individuals
b) Other ? Individuals
c) Bodies Corp.
d) Banks / FI
e) Any Other?.
Sub-total (A) (2):-
Total shareholding of Promoter (A) = (A)(1)+(A)(2)
B. Public Shareholding
Page 74/92
----- PAGE 75 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
1. Institutions
a) Mutual Funds
b) Banks / FI
c) Central Govt
d) State Govt(s)
e) Venture Capital Funds
f) Insurance Companies
g) FIIs
h) Foreign Venture Capital Funds
i) Others (specify)
Sub-total (B)(1):-
2. Non-Institutions
a) Bodies Corp.
i) Indian
ii) Overseas
b) Individuals
i) Individual shareholders holding nominal share capital upto
Rs. 1 lakh
ii) Individual shareholders holding nominal share capital in
excess of Rs 1 lakh
c) Others(specify)
Sub-total (B)(2):-
Total Public Shareholding (B)=(B)(1)+ (B)(2)
C. Shares held by Custodian for GDRs & ADRs
Grand Total (A+B+C)
(ii) Shareholding of Promoters
Sl.No.
Shareholder?s Name
Shareholding at the beginning of the year
Share holding at the end of the year
No. of Shares
% of total Shares of the company
%of Shares Pledged / encumbered to total shares
No. of Shares
% of total Shares of the company
%of Shares Pledged / encumbered to total shares
% change in share holding during the year
1
2
3
Total
(iii) Change in Promoters' Shareholding ( please specify,
if there is no change)
Sl.No.
Shareholding at the beginning of the year
Cumulative Shareholding during the year
No. of shares
% of total shares of the company
No. of shares
% of total shares of the company
At the beginning of the year
Page 75/92
----- PAGE 76 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Date wise Increase / Decrease in Promoters Share holding
during the year specifying the reasons for increase / decrease
(e.g. allotment / transfer / bonus/ sweat equity etc):
At the End of the year
(iv) Shareholding Pattern of top ten Shareholders (other
than Directors, Promoters and Holders of GDRs and ADRs):
Sl.No.
Shareholding at the beginning of the year
Cumulative Shareholding during the year
For Each of the Top 10 Shareholders
No. of shares
% of total shares of the company
No. of shares
% of total shares of the company
At the beginning of the year
Date wise Increase / Decrease in Share holding during the
year specifying the reasons for increase / decrease (e.g.
allotment / transfer / bonus / sweat equity etc):
At the End of the year ( or on the date of separation, if
separated during the year)
(v) Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial
Personnel:
Sl.No.
Shareholding at the beginning of the year
Cumulative Shareholding during the year
For Each of the Directors and KMP
No. of shares
% of total shares of the company
No. of shares
% of total shares of the company
At the beginning of the year
Date wise Increase / Decrease in Share holding during the
year specifying the reasons for increase / decrease (e.g.
allotment / transfer / bonus/ sweat equity etc):
At the End of the year
V. INDEBTEDNESS
Indebtedness of the Company including interest
outstanding/accrued but not due for payment
Secured Loans excluding deposits
Unsecured Loans
Deposits
Total Indebtedness
Indebtedness at the beginning of the financial year
i) Principal Amount
ii) Interest due but not paid
iii) Interest accrued but not due
Total (i+ii+iii)
Change in Indebtedness during the financial year
? Addition
? Reduction
Net Change
Page 76/92
----- PAGE 77 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Indebtedness at the end of the financial year
i) Principal Amount
ii) Interest due but not paid
iii) Interest accrued but not due
Total (i+ii+iii)
VI. REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
A. Remuneration to Managing Director, Whole-time Directors
and/or Manager:
Sl.no.
Particulars of Remuneration
Name of MD/WTD/ Manager
Total Amount
----
---
---
----
1.
Gross salary
(a) Salary as per provisions contained in section 17(1) of
the Income-tax Act,1961
(b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2)Income-tax Act, 1961
(c) Profits in lieu of salary under section 17(3) Income-tax
Act, 1961
2.
Stock Option
3.
Sweat Equity
4.
Commission- as % of profit- others, specify?
5.
Others, please specify
Total (A)
Ceiling as per the Act
B. Remuneration to other directors:
Sl.no.
Particulars of Remuneration
Name of Directors
Total Amount
-----
----
----
---
3.
Independent Directors
? Fee for attending board / committee meetings
? Commission
? Others, please specify
Total (1)
4.
Other Non-Executive Directors
? Fee for attending board / committee meetings
Page 77/92
----- PAGE 78 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
? Commission
? Others, please specify
Total (2)
Total (B)=(1+2)
Total Managerial Remuneration
Overall Ceiling as per the Act
C. Remuneration To Key Managerial Personnel Other Than
MD/MANAGER/WTD
Sl.no.
Particulars of Remuneration
Key Managerial Personnel
CEO
Company Secretary
CFO
Total
1.
Gross salary
(a) Salary as per provisions contained in section 17(1) of
the Income-tax Act, 1961
(b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act, 1961
(c) Profits in lieu of salary under section 17(3) Income-tax
Act, 1961
2.
Stock Option
3.
Sweat Equity
4.
Commission- as % of profit- others, specify?
5.
Others, please specify
Total
VII. PENALTIES / PUNISHMENT/ COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES:
Type
Section of the Companies Act
Brief Description
Details of Penalty / Punishment/ Compounding
fees imposed
Authority [RD / NCLT/ COURT]
Appeal made, if any (give Details)
Penalty
Punishment
Compounding
C. OTHER OFFICERS IN DEFAULT
Penalty
Punishment
Compounding
[***]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 560(E), dated 13.6.2018 (w.e.f. 31.3.2014)]
{|
Form No. MGT-10
Changes in shareholding position of promoters
Page 78/92
----- PAGE 79 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
and top ten shareholders
[Pursuant to section 93 of the Companies Act,
2013 and rule 13 of the Companies(Management and
Administration) Rules, 2014]
1. (a) CIN:
(b) GLN:
2. (a) Name of the company:
(b) Registered office address:
(c) E-mail id:
3. Name of the stock exchange where the shares of the company
are listed:
(i)
(ii)
4. Details of change in shareholding position of promoters:
{|
Name of the Promoter
No. of shares held before the change
% of shareholding before the change
Change in share holding in number of shares(+)
Increase (-) decrease
No. of shares held after the change
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
% of shareholding after the change
Reason for change
No. of shares pledged/encumbered after the change
Remarks
(6)
(7)
(8)
|-
|
|-
| 5. Details of change in shareholding position of top ten share
holders:
|-
| {|
|-
| Name of the share holders
| No. of shares held before the change
| % of shareholding before the change
| Change in share holding in number of shares(+)
Increase (-) decrease
| No. of shares held after the change
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (3)
Page 79/92
----- PAGE 80 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
| (4)
| (5)
|-
|
|
|
|
|
|-
|
|
|
|
|
|-
|
|
|
|
|
|-
|
|-
| % of shareholding after the change
| Reason for change
| No. of shares pledged/encumbered after the change
| Remarks
|-
| (6)
| (7)
| (8)
|
|-
|
|
|
|
|-
|
|
|
|
|-
|
|
|
|
|}
|-
| Signature:
|-
Page 80/92
----- PAGE 81 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
| Date:
|-
| Place:
|}
|}
Form No. MGT-11
Proxy form
[Pursuant to section 105(6) of the Companies
Act, 2013 and rule 19(3) of the Companies(Management and
Administration) Rules, 2014]
CIN:
Name of the company:
Registered office:
Name of the member (s) :
Registered address :
E-mail Id:
Folio No/ Client Id :
DP ID :
I/We, being the member (s) of ????.
shares of the above named company, hereby appoint
1. Name : ????????
Address :
E-mail Id :
Signature :?????., or
failing him
2. Name : ????????
Address:
E-mail Id :
Signature:?????., or
failing him
3. Name : ????????
Address:
E-mail Id:
Signature:?????.
as my/our proxy to attend and vote (on a poll) for me/us and
on my/our behalf at the????.. Annual
general meeting/ Extraordinary general meeting of the company,
to be held on the?? day of??. At???.
a.m. / p.m. at??????(place)
and at any adjournment thereof in respect of such resolutions as
are indicated below :
Resolution No.
1?????????????.
2?????????????
3????????????.
Signed this?? day of???
20?.
Signature of shareholder
Affix Revenue Stamp
Signature of Proxy holder(s)
Note: This form of proxy in order to be effective should
Page 81/92
----- PAGE 82 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
be duly completed and deposited at the Registered Office of the
Company, not less than 48 hours before the commencement of the
Meeting.
Form No. MGT-12
Polling Paper
[Pursuant to section 109(5) of the Companies
Act, 2013 and rule 21(1)(c) of the Companies(Management and
Administration) Rules, 2014]
Name of the Company:
Registered office:
BALLOT PAPER
S No.
Particulars
Details
1.
Name of the First Named Shareholder (In block letters)
2.
Postal address
3.
Registered folio No. / *Client ID No.(*Applicable to investors
holding shares in dematerialised form)
4.
Class of Share
I hereby exercise my vote in respect of
Ordinary/ Special resolution enumerated below by recording my
assent or dissent to the said resolution in the following manner:
No
Item No.
No. of shares held by me
I assent to the resolution
I dissent from the resolution
1.
Place:Date:
(Signature of the shareholder)
Form No. MGT-13
Report of Scrutinizer(s)
[Pursuant to rule section 109 of the
Companies Act, 2013 and rule 21(2) of the Companies(Management
and Administration) Rules, 2014]
To,
__________________________
Chairman
______________ Annual / Extraordinary General Meeting of the
Equity Shareholders of ___________ Limited
Held on ______________ at _________________
Dear Sir,
I/We, ____________________________, *and
___________________________, appointed as Scrutinizer(s) for the
purpose of the poll taken on the below mentioned resolution(s),
at the___________ meeting of the Equity Shareholders of
______________Limited, held on______________at___________,
Page 82/92
----- PAGE 83 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
submit our report as under:
1. After the time fixed for closing of the poll by the
Chairman, ________ ballot boxes kept for polling were locked in
my/our presence with due identification marks placed by me/us.
2. The locked ballot boxes were subsequently opened in my/our
presence and poll papers were diligently scrutinized. The poll
papers were reconciled with the records maintained by the
Company / Registrar and Transfer Agents of the Company and the
authorizations / proxies lodged with the Company.
3. The poll papers, which were incomplete and/or which were
otherwise found defective have been treated as invalid and kept
separately.
OR
I/We did not find any poll papers invalid.
* Not applicable if there is only one scrutinizer
appointed.
4. The result of the Poll is as under:
(a) Resolution_______ -
________________________________________
(Reproduce Item No. and heading of the Resolution)
(i) Votedin favourof the resolution:
Number of members present and voting(in
person or by proxy)
Number of votes cast by them
% of total number of valid votes cast
(ii) Votedagainstof the resolution:
Number of members present and voting(in
person or by proxy)
Number of votes cast by them
% of total number of valid votes cast
(iii)Invalidvotes :
Total number of members(in person or by
proxy)whose votes were declared invalid
Total number of votes cast by them
(a) Resolution_______ -
________________________________________
(Reproduce Item No. and heading of the Resolution)
(i) Votedin favourof the resolution:
Number of members present and voting(in
person or by proxy)
Number of votes cast by them
% of total number of valid votes cast
(ii) Votedagainstof the resolution:
Number of members present and voting(in
person or by proxy)
Number of votes cast by them
% of total number of valid votes cast
(iii)Invalidvotes :
Total number of members(in person or by
proxy)whose votes were declared invalid
Total number of votes cast by them
Page 83/92
----- PAGE 84 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
-------------------(Enumerate depending on the number of
resolutions for which poll is taken)
5. A Compact Disc (CD) containing a list of equity
shareholders who voted "FOR", "AGAINST" and
those whose votes were declared invalid for each resolution is
enclosed.
6. The poll papers and all other relevant records were sealed
and handed over to the Company Secretary / Director authorized
by the Board for safe keeping.
Thanking you,
Yours faithfully,
Place:Date:
________________________________________________________________________________Name/s
and Signature/s of the Scrutiniser/ s
FORM NO.MGT.14[Pursuant to section 94 (1) , 117(1) of The Companies Act, 2013 and section 192 of the Companies
Act, 1956 and rules made thereunder]|
Filing or Resolutions and agreements to the Registrar
Form languageEnglishHindiRefer the instruction kit for filing the form.|-
1.| (a) *Corporate identity number (CIN) of company| | | |-
| (b) Global location number (GLN) of company| | | |-
2.| (a) Name of the company| |-
| (b) Address of the registered office of the company| |-
| (c) *e-mail ID of the company| |-
{|
3.
*Registration of
Resolution(s)
Agreement
Postal ballot resolution(s) under Section 110
Proposed resolution under section 94(1)
|-
| 4.| Date of dispatch of notice for passing of|-
| | (a) Resolution(s)| | | (DD/MM/YYYY)|-
| | (b) Postal ballot resolution(s)| | | (DD/MM/YYYY)|-
| 5.| Date of passing of|-
| | (a) Resolution(s)| | | (DD/MM/YYYY)|-
| | (b) Postal ballot resolution(s)| | | (DD/MM/YYYY)|-
| 6.| Number of resolution(s) for which the form is being filed| |-
| | Details of the resolution|-
| | I.|-
| {|
|-
|
| (a)(i)
| Section of the Companies Act, 2013 under which passed
|
|-
|
|
|
|
Page 84/92
----- PAGE 85 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|-
|
| (ii)
| Section of the Companies Act, 1956 under which passed
|
|-
|
|
|
|
|-
|
| (b)
| Purpose of passing the resolution
|
|-
|
|
|
|
|-
|
|
|
|-
|
| If others, mention the section and purpose
|-
|
|
|
|-
|
| (c)
| Subject matter of the resolution
|-
|
|
|
|-
|
| (d)
| Mention whether resolution passed by postal ballotYesNo
|-
|
| (e)
| Indicate the authority passing or agreeing to the resolution
|-
|
|
| Board of directorsShareholdersClass of shareholdersCreditors
Page 85/92
----- PAGE 86 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
Whether ordinary or special resolution or with requisite
majority
|-
|
| (f)
|-
|
|
| Ordinary resolutionSpecial resolutionRequisite majority
|}
|-
| | |-
| 7.| (a) In case of alteration in object clause, whether there is any change in the industrial activity of the company|-
| | YesNo|-
| | (b) If yes, provide the main division of new industrial activity of the company| |-
| | Description of the main division|-
| | |-
| 8.| In case of voluntary winding up under section 304, provide the following details|-
| | (a) Mode of winding upMembers'Creditors|-
| | (b) Date of commencement of winding up| | (DD/MM/YYYY)|-
| | (c) Number of liquidators| |-
| | Details of liquidator(s)|-
| | I.|-
| {|
|-
|
| Income-tax permanent account number (Income-tax PAN)
|
|-
|
|
|
|
|-
|
| Name
|
|-
|
| Address
|
|
|-
|
| Line I
|
|-
|
|
|
|-
Page 86/92
----- PAGE 87 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|
| Line II
|
|-
|
|
|
|-
|
| City
|
|
|-
|
|
|
|
|-
|
| State
|
|
|-
|
|
|
|
|-
|
| Country
|
|
|-
|
|
|
|
|-
|
| Pin code
|
|
|}
|-
| | |-
| 9.| Details of agreement|-
| {|
|-
|
| (a)
| Date of agreement
Page 87/92
----- PAGE 88 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|
| (DD/MM/YYYY)
|-
|
|
|
|
|
|-
|
| (b)(i)
| Section of the Companies Act, 2013 under which entered
|
|-
|
|
|
|
|-
|
| (ii)
| Section of the Companies Act, 1956 under which entered
|
|-
|
|
|
|
|-
|
| (c)
| Purpose of entering into the agreement
|
|-
|
|
|
|
|-
|
|
|
|-
|
| If others, mention the section and purpose
|-
|
|
|
|-
|
Page 88/92
----- PAGE 89 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
| (d)
| Subject matter of the agreement
|-
|
|
|
|-
|
| (e)
| Indicate the authority adopting the agreement
|-
|
|
| Board of directorsShareholdersClass of shareholdersCreditors
|}
|-
| | |-
| 10.| Service request number(SRN) of Form INC.28| |-
| 11.| Total number of members as on the date of filing| |-
| | |-
| | Attachment| | List of Attachments|-
| | 1. Copy(s) of resolution(s) along with copy of explanatory statement under section 102| | |-
| | 2. Altered memorandum of association| |-
| | 3. Altered articles of association| |-
| | 4. Copy of agreement| |-
| | 5. Optional attachment(s) - if any| |-
| | | | | |-
| | |-
| | Declaration|-
| | |-
| | I am authorized by the Board of Directors of the Company vide resolution numberDated(DD/MM/YYYY) to sign this
form and declare that all the requirements of Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder in respect of the
subject matter of this form and matters incidental thereto have been complied with. I further declare that :|-
| | 1. Whatever is stated in this form and in the attachments thereto is true, correct and complete and no information
material to the subject matter of this form has been suppressed or concealed and is as per the original records
maintained by the company.|-
| | 2. All the required attachments have been completely and legibly attachment to this form. If is also certified that copy
of the resolution(s) or agreement(s) filed herewith is or are a ture copy(s) of the original.|-
| | 3. Any application, writ petition or suit had not been filed regarding the matter in respect of which this
petition/application has been made, before any court of law or any other authority or any other Bench or the Board and
not any such application, writ petition or suit is pending before any of them.|-
| | |-
| | *To be digitally signed by| |-
| | *Designation| |-
| | Name of liquidator| |-
| | *Director identification number of the director; or Income-tax| |-
| | PAN of the liquidator; DIN or Income-tax PAN of manager or|-
| | CEO or CFO; or membership number of Company secretary;|-
| | Note: Attention is also drawn to provisions of Section 448 and 449 which provide for punishment for false statement
and punishment for false evidence respectively|-
| | |-
Page 89/92
----- PAGE 90 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
| | | | | |-
| | |-
| | For office use only:| | |-
| | e-Form Service request number (SRN)| | eForm filing date| (DD/MM/YYYY)|-
| | This e-Form is hereby registered|-
| | Digital signature of the authorising officer| | |-
| | Date of signing| | (DD/MM/YYYY)
|}
[FORM NO. MGT-15]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 175(E), dated 16.2.2018 (w.e.f. 31.3.2014).]
Form for filing Report on Annual General Meeting
[Pursuant to section 121(1) of the Companies Act,2013 and Rules 31(2) of Companies (Management)and
Administration) Rules, 2014]
Form language
English
Hindi
Refer the instruction kit for filing the form
1.
(a)   *Corporate identity number (CIN) of company
{|
|
|-
|
| (b)   Global location number (GLN) of Company
|
|
|-
| 2.
| (a) Name of the Company
|
|-
|
| (b) Registered office address
|
|-
|
| (c) E-mail id
|
|}
3.
Details of the Meeting
(i)   *Date of the Annual General Meeting
{|
|
|-
|
| (ii)   Day of AGM
|
|-
|
| (iii) *Start time of AGM
Page 90/92
----- PAGE 91 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|
| *End time of AGM
|-
|
| (iv) *Venue of the Annual General Meeting
|
|}
(v)   *Whether chairman of the meeting appointed
Yes
No
(vi) *Name of the chairman
{|
|-
|
| (vii) *Number of members attended the meeting
|
|-
|
| (viii) *Whether the requisite quorum is present
| YesNo
|-
|
| (ix) *Business transacted at the meeting and result thereof
|
|-
|
| (x) *Particulars with respect to any adjournment of meeting and change in venue
|
|-
|
| (xi) *Particulars with respect of postponement of meeting and change in venue
|
|-
|
| (xii) *Any other points relevant for inclusion in the Report
|
|-
| 4.
| * Fair summary of proceedings of the meeting.
|-
| {|
|-
|
|}
|-
| 5.
| * Confirmed that the meeting was called, convened, held and conducted as per the provisions of the Act, the rules and
secretarial standards made thereunder.
|-
| {|
|-
Page 91/92
----- PAGE 92 -----
The Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014
|
|}
|}
Attachments
List of attachments
1.
* Optional attachments(s) - if any
{|
|}
Declaration
To the best of my knowledge and belief, the information given in this form and its attachments is correct and complete
To be digitally signed by the Chairman
OR
To be digitally signed by
Designation
{|
|}
DIN of the director; or DIN or PAN of the manageror CEO or CFO; or membership number of thecompany secretary
{|
|}
Note: Attention is drawn to provisions of Section 448 and 449 which provide for punishment for false
statement/certificate and punishment for false evidence respectively.
This eForm has been taken on file maintained by the registrar of companies through electronic mode and on the basis of
statement of correctness given by the filling company
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 92/92