
----- PAGE 1 -----
Central Road Fund (State Roads) Rules, 2014
Central Road Fund (State Roads) Rules, 2014
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/117141963/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Central Road Fund (State Roads) Rules, 2014
UNION OF INDIA
India
Central Road Fund (State Roads) Rules, 2014
Rule CENTRAL-ROAD-FUND-STATE-ROADS-RULES-2014 of 2014
Published on 24 July 2014
Commenced on 24 July 2014
[This is the version of this document from 24 July 2014.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Central Road Fund (State Roads) Rules, 2014
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 531(E), dated 24th July, 2014
Ministry of Road Transport And Highways
G.S.R. 531(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Central Road Fund Act, 2000 (54 of 2000), and
in supersession of the Central Road Fund (State roads) Rules, 2007, published in the Gazette of India vide G.S.R. 475
(E), dated the 10th July, 2007 except as respects things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the
Central Government hereby makes the following rules for the utilisation of the Central Road Fund in respect of specified
projects, schemes and activities relating to development and maintenance of State roads including roads of inter-State
connectivity and economic importance, namely :-
1.
Short title, and commencement.
Page 1/10
----- PAGE 2 -----
Central Road Fund (State Roads) Rules, 2014
(1)
These rules may be called the Central Road Fund (State Roads) Rules, 2014.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Central Road Fund Act, 2000 (54 of 2000);
(b)
"core network" means the network comprising of selected State Highways and Major District Roads in a State, which
have the potential to be upgraded as National Highways;
(c)
"executive agency" means-
(i)
in case of a Union territory, the Administrator thereof to whom the functions of the Central Government in relation to the
execution of works pertaining to national highways are delegated under article 239 of the Constitution; and
(ii)
in any other case, the State Government to which such functions are delegated under section 5 of the National
Highways Act, 1956 (
48 of 1956
);
(d)
"Expressways" means the highway with a divided carriageway, controlled access, grade separations at cross-roads and
fencing, permitting only fast moving vehicles and it may be either "National Expressways" (owned by the Government of
India) or "State Expressways" (owned by the concerned State Government);
(e)
"Form" means the form appended to these rules;
(f)
"Major District Roads (MDRs)" means the important roads within a district notified as "the Major District Roads" by the
concerned State Government;
(g)
"National Highways" (NHs) means the highways specified in the Schedule to the National Highways Act, 1956;
(ga)
[ "National Level Expert Committee for Road Safety" means the Committee constituted by the Central Government for
the purpose of review and recommendations of the proposals for Road Safety Works submitted by the State
Governments;
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 619(E), dated 23.6.2016 (w.e.f. 24.7.2014).]
(gb)
"road safety works" means the works on State roads (other than Rural Roads) for rectification of identified road accident
black spots based on road accident or fatality data or the works based on the recommendations of specialized bodies or
expert committees set up for this purpose]
(h)
"Rural Roads" means "the roads serving the rural areas or other main roads other than the National Highways, the State
Highways and the Major District Roads and the roads connecting the villages or groups of villages with each other and
connecting nearest road of a higher category;
(i)
"State Highways (SHs)" means the arterial roads of a State notified as "State Highways" by the concerned State
Government;
(j)
Page 2/10
----- PAGE 3 -----
Central Road Fund (State Roads) Rules, 2014
"scheme" means the scheme for development of state roads including roads of inter-State connectivity and economic
importance and includes the schemes relating to development of State roads sanctioned under the Central Road Fund
by the Resolution governing the Central Road Fund as passed by the Houses of Parliament, dated the 13th May, 1988;
(2)
All the words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the same meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
[ Allocation of Fund.
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 619(E), dated 23.6.2016 (w.e.f. 24.7.2014).]
- The allocation of fund to the executive agencies shall be made on the basis of thirty per cent. weightage to fuel
consumption and seventy per cent. weightage to the geographical area of the concerned States or Union territories and
out of the fund allocated, ten per cent. of the fund shall be earmarked for road safety works:
Provided that the Central Government may earmark part of the fund (earmarked for road safety works) for other works
under the scheme depending upon progress of projects and detailed guidelines shall be issued by the Central
Government covering various aspects such as pre-construction works, clubbing of adjacent works, detailed identification
of types of road safety activity and their technical specifications, completion period, Detailed Project Report preparation
etc.
4.
Utilization of Fund in respect of projects, schemes and activities.
- Subject to the provisions specified under section 7 of the Act, the Fund shall be utilized for projects, schemes or
activities relating to the construction and development of State Roads including road safety works, roads of inter-State
connectivity and of economic importance, but excluding the Rural Roads and to be identified in accordance with the rule
5.
5.
Identification and prioritization of schemes under State roads including road safety works, roads of economic importance
and inter-State connectivity.
(1)
The Central Government shall identify and prioritize the projects, schemes or activities for release of Funds in
consultation with the executing agencies and the executing agencies shall observe the criteria and furnish necessary
details of the projects, schemes or activities as specified under these rules, to the Central Government to facilitate
identification and prioritization of the schemes.
(2)
If, all the projects, schemes or activities so identified cannot be sanctioned due to shortage of resources in the Fund, the
Central Government shall prioritize the projects, schemes or activities on State Roads including roads of economic
importance and inter-State connectivity as per the following procedure, namely:-
(a)
the priority shall be given to take up projects from the Core Network only and within the Core Network, priority shall be
assigned in the following order-
(i)
the potential roads which are considered as important from the perspective of declaration as new national highways;
(ii)
the State Highways;
(iii)
the Major District Roads; and
(iv)
the other District Roads:
Provided that while identifying the schemes on a selected stretch, priority shall further be given in the following order-
(i)
to the road safety works;
(ii)
to the construction of Railway Over Bridges (ROBs) and Railway Under Bridges (RUBs);
Page 3/10
----- PAGE 4 -----
Central Road Fund (State Roads) Rules, 2014
(iii)
to the construction of bridges;
(iv)
to the construction of road safety and bridge projects on State Border;
(b)
the State Highways and major district roads either directly connecting to or leading to an important market center,
economic zone, industrial zone, agricultural region, tourist center, religious center, schools and educational institutions,
socially important structure, such as cremation grounds, bathing ghats, old-age homes, orphanages and public utilities,
benefiting vulnerable sections of the society, such as, the Scheduled castes, the Scheduled tribes, ferry-ghat roads and
roads connecting ecologically sensitive areas and the like where significant economic activity is being undertaken shall
be considered as the projects of economic importance;
(c)
the inter-State roads or bridges at the border on State Highway and major district roads necessary for ensuring through
communication between two adjacent States shall be considered as the project of inter-State connectivity;
(d)
the road safety works submitted by the State Governments and reviewed and recommended by National Level Expert
Committee for Road Safety in order of priority of road categories as stated in rule 5, clause (a) of sub-rule (2) of this
rule.]
3. Allocation of Fund.- The allocation of fund to the executive agencies shall be made on the basis of thirty per cent.
weightage to fuel consumption and seventy per cent. weightage to the geographical area of the concerned States or
Union territories.
4. Utilisation of Fund in respect of projects, schemes and activities.- Subject to the provisions specified under section 7
of the Act, the Fund shall be utilised for projects, schemes or activities relating to the construction and development of
State Roads including roads of inter-State connectivity and of economic importance, but excluding the Rural Roads, and
to be identified in accordance with the rule 5.
5. Identification and prioritisation of schemes under State roads including roads of economic importance and inter-State
Connectivity.- (1) The Central Government shall identify and prioritise the projects, schemes or activities for release of
Funds in consultation with the executing agencies and the executing agencies shall observe the criteria and furnish
necessary details of the projects, schemes or activities as specified under these rules, to the Central Government to
facilitate identification and prioritisation of the schemes.
(2) If, all the projects, schemes or activities so identified cannot be sanctioned due to shortage of resources in the Fund,
the Central Government shall prioritise the projects, schemes or activities on State Roads including roads of economic
importance and inter-State connectivity as per the following procedure, namely:-
(a) the priority shall be given to take up projects from the Core Network only and within the Core Network, priority shall
be assigned in the following order-
(i) the potential roads which are considered as important from the perspective of declaration as new national highways;
(ii) the State Highways;
(iii) the Major District Roads; and
(iv) the other District Roads:
Provided that while identifying the schemes on a selected stretch, priority shall further be given in the following order-
(i) to the construction of Railway Over Bridges (ROBs) and Railway Under Bridges (RUBs);
(ii) to the construction of bridges;
(iii) to the construction of road safety and bridge projects on State Border;
(b) the State highways and major district roads either directly connecting to or leading to an important market centre,
economic zone, industrial zone, agricultural region, tourist centre, religious centre, schools and educational institutions,
socially important structure, such as cremation grounds, bathing ghats, old-age homes, orphanages and public utilities,
benefiting vulnerable sections of the society, such as, the Scheduled castes, the Scheduled tribes, ferry-ghat roads and
roads connecting ecologically sensitive areas and the like where significant economic activity is being undertaken shall
be considered as the projects of economic importance;
(c) the inter-State roads or bridges at the border on State highway and major district roads necessary for ensuring
through communication between two adjacent States shall be considered as the project of inter-State connectivity;
Page 4/10
----- PAGE 5 -----
Central Road Fund (State Roads) Rules, 2014
6.
Criteria for selection of Schemes.
- (1) The types of works to be considered in the Scheme shall comprise . -
(i)
the construction or rehabilitation of cross drainage works, widening or strengthening of roads, improvements to road
geometrics;
(ii)
the engineering aspects of road safety works covering improvement of traffic junctions, road marking, signalling,
construction of subways and over-bridges, construction of parking, lay-byes, bus sheds and the like;
(iii)
the construction of bypasses, parallel service roads along national highways or State highways;
(iv)
the pre-construction activities for ring-roads or bypasses or service roads along National Highways;
(v)
to clear liability of the executing agencies towards the Central Government created on account of road development.
(2)
The proposals shall cover sufficient length of road and shall generally be covering at least ten kilometres length, unless
the requirement for connecting two places is less than ten kilometres in so far as works mentioned in sub-rule (1) are
concerned, and shall include only those works where land is available without any encumbrance except for works
mentioned in clause (iv) of sub-rule (1).
(3)
The estimated cost of the proposed project under state roads of inter-State connectivity and state roads of economic
importance shall generally be not less than ten crore rupees and not exceeding fifty crore rupees unless permitted by
the Central Government and no improvement work has been done in the last three years in respect of these roads.
(4)
The executive agency shall make available to the Central Government a list of projects to be taken up, which shall be
shown on the State road map indicating district boundaries, National Highways, State highways, major district roads,
rural roads or other types of roads in different colours, in addition to the roads already approved under the Fund and a
separate list containing number of roads and bridge projects of inter-State connectivity and economic importance
alongwith details and justification shall also be included.
(5)
The projects shall be selected with a view to have a balanced development of the road network in the entire State or the
Union territory, as the case may be, and the proposals shall include-
(i)
the name of the work and districts;
(ii)
the index map showing the area and the proposed road or bridge or improvement works;
(iii)
the category of the road proposed to be improved whether the State highway or major district road;
(iv)
the scope of the work including the specifications to be adopted in brief;
(v)
the length;
(vi)
the estimated cost of the project based on the actual requirement and realistic cost estimate;
(vii)
the justification of work for inclusion in this scheme along with details of last improvement work done on this road and
the calendar year in which it was carried out;
(viii)
the probable starting date;
(ix)
Page 5/10
----- PAGE 6 -----
Central Road Fund (State Roads) Rules, 2014
the target date of completion;
(x)
a certificate regarding availability of the entire unencumbered land needed for the project;
(xi)
a certificate that the concerned State Government or Union territory shall ensure taking up proper Maintenance and
Repair (M&R) of the project roads after it is developed under this scheme;
(xii)
the Project-wise details of previous approved ongoing projects, indicating their approved cost, dates of approval
accorded by the Central Government, Technical and Financial sanction accorded by the executive agencies, date of
award of works, status of progress of works (both physical and financial along with funds released and pending
Utilisation Certificates, if any), along with reasons for delay (if any), etc.; and
(xiii)
a certificate intimating de-sanctioning of the approved projects which have not been technically and financially
sanctioned and awarded within the specified time-line as per sub-rule (4) of rule 7 along with details thereof and if such
projects have not been de-sanctioned already, proposal or request for de-sanctioning of such projects shall accompany
the proposal.
7.
Approval and financing of schemes.
(1)
The approval of schemes relating to State roads shall be done in the following manner, namely:-
(a)
A sum equal to the liability created by the executing agency related to development of roads on account of the Central
Government shall be first set aside to clear the liability.
(b)
Thereafter, the fund shall be utilized to already sanctioned projects under the scheme and the balance allocations shall
be utilised for new works to be sanctioned.
(2)
The Central Government shall accord administrative approval of the identified individual works on the basis of details
forwarded by the executive agency as per sub-rule (5) of rule 6.
(3)
The technical and financial sanction of the work shall be accorded by the executive agency concerned and there shall
not be any change in scope of work from those as per administrative approval.
(4)
The executive agency shall ensure that individual project is technically approved, financially sanctioned within a period
of four months from the date of administrative approval of the work failing which the work shall be deemed to have been
de-sanctioned.
(5)
The copy of the sanction of the work referred to in sub-rule (3) and abstract of cost estimate of the sanctioned works
shall be forwarded to the Central Government alongwith the application for reimbursement.
(6)
The approval of schemes related to inter-state connectivity and economic importance are based on all India priority
which shall be decided by the Central Government based on the criteria specified in rule 5 and it shall accord
administrative, technical and financial approval of the identified individual works following the existing procedure and
guidelines applicable for National Highways works.
(7)
[ No excess cost beyond ten per cent. of the amount administratively approved for the proposal shall be permissible and
the excess, if any, shall be arranged by the executive agency from their own resources except for the projects of
economic importance and inter-State connectivity.
(8)
The revised estimates relating to projects of economic importance and inter-State connectivity, if any, shall be
considered by the Central Government and revised estimates of any other projects shall not be considered.]
Page 6/10
----- PAGE 7 -----
Central Road Fund (State Roads) Rules, 2014
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1521(E), dated 18.12.2017 (w.e.f. 24.7.2014).]
(9)
The specifications for roads proposed under this scheme shall be similar to those of National Highways works in terms
of pavement width, crust thickness and geometrics, etc.
(10)
The standard design and specification of the works to be proposed shall follow the relevant guidelines, codes, Indian
Roads Congress specifications as directed by the Central Government and the period of completion of projects shall not
exceed thirty six months for hill States, North East states and twenty four months for other States unless permitted by
the Central Government.
(11)
The estimates for land acquisition shall not be considered except for items referred to clause (iv) of sub-rule (1) of rule 6
and the executive agency shall render a certificate to the effect that land is available for road development and is in its
possession and removing of utilities, if any, has been completed.
(12)
The total cost of the schemes to be approved shall be limited to the bank of sanctions which shall generally be two times
of the annual allocation except for hill States and North-East States where working season is limited and for these
States, the bank of sanctions shall generally be three times of the annual allocation for the year in which the schemes
are sanctioned in respect of any State or Union territory.
(13)
The estimate for each work shall include provisions for-
(a)
an amount equal to three per cent. towards contingency;
(b)
an amount equal to one per cent. for meeting the cost of devising and operation of a Quality Assurance System and
monitoring of the works by a State Quality Monitor, and training of the state's officials in quality awareness by the
executing agency;
(c)
an amount equal to one per cent. for meeting the cost of quality control, for monitoring of works and towards training,
research and development by the Central Government; and
(d)
an amount equal to half per cent. towards work charged establishment.
(14)
The agency charges shall not be payable for the execution of works under the scheme.
(15)
The sanctioned works generally shall be completed within the time schedule as submitted along with the particulars
referred to in sub-rule (5) of rule 6 and in case of failure on the part of the executing agency to adhere to the time limit
without any justifiable reasons, the execution agency shall be liable to bear the balance cost for completion of the works:
Provided that, the Central Government may, on being sufficient cause shown by the executing agency, extend the time
of completion of works with the reasons to be recorded in writing.
8.
Release of funds.
(1)
For works on State roads other than roads of economic importance and inter-State connectivity-
(a)
one third of the allocation for the current year for each State or Union territory, as the case may be, shall be placed at
the disposal of the concerned executive agency for utilisation against the sanctioned works and the said amount shall be
maintained as a reserve by replenishing the expenditure from subsequent releases:
Provided that the subsequent instalments shall be released on the basis of the progress of works and actual expenditure
subject to the condition that the total amount released for any State or Union territory during the year shall not exceed
the total allocation for that year in respect of that State or Union territory and the amount which has not been released
from allocation of previous years:
Page 7/10
----- PAGE 8 -----
Central Road Fund (State Roads) Rules, 2014
Provided further that if in any case, the complaint about the poor quality of roads developed by the State Governments
under Central Road Fund is received, the funds under Central Road Fund equal to the amount of sanction of the works
against which complaint has been received shall be withheld;
(b)
the executive agency shall submit the utilisation certificate in Form-I annexed to these rules and shall also submit
quarterly progress report in Form-II annexed to these rules and monthly expenditure report in Form-III annexed to these
rules, duly verified by the regional officer appointed by the Central Government for the State or the Union territory, for
the amount released, duly considering observation report, if any, from the person appointed under the quality monitoring
system.
(2)
For roads of economic importance and inter-State connectivity, the direct payment procedure applicable for National
Highway works shall be followed.
(3)
In all these cases, the overall availability of budget provision shall be the determining factor for allocations and the
payments shall be regulated accordingly.
9.
Execution of works.
(1)
The executive agency shall, for the implementation of all the projects sanctioned under the Fund including inter-State
connectivity and economic importance works, observe that.-
(a)
the design of the road or bridge projects shall be carried out as per the relevant Central Government codes and
guidelines;
(b)
the project monitoring and quality control of the works shall be done at regular interval in a methodical manner by
adopting the following procedure-
(i)
the measurements shall be checked by the officers of Public Works Departments to the extent specified in their Manual
or Code;
(ii)
there should be a quality monitoring system at the State Level or Union territory level, consisting of such experts and
supporting staff as may be appointed by the State Government or Union territory, as the case may be;
(iii)
the quality monitoring system referred in item (ii) above shall devise a Quality Assurance (QA) System delineating the
requirements of quality, the responsibility of the officers and contractors, conduct independent tests, and examine QA
documentation to spot non-conformities and shall have the responsibility of training of PWD staff and recommending
laboratory and field testing facilities.
(2)
In addition to the quality monitoring system, the Central Government shall depute an officer or agency as an
independent quality Monitor to inspect the works every quarter during the execution and exercise such checks as may
be necessary to ensure observance of the time schedule and proper implementation:
Provided that no personnel other than a civil engineer having a minimum qualification of degree in Civil Engineering and
possessing a minimum of ten years experience in the construction and maintenance of roads, bridges or related
infrastructure shall be authorised to inspect the works.
(3)
The funds for funding Quality Monitoring System, training, research and development shall be earmarked at the
allocation stage itself and placed at the disposal of the executing agencies and the Central Government in accordance
with rule 7.
(4)
The executive agency shall install signs at both ends of the projects displaying the name of work and other details as per
instructions issued by the Government from time to time.
Page 8/10
----- PAGE 9 -----
Central Road Fund (State Roads) Rules, 2014
10.
Progress reports and review.
(1)
The executive agency shall furnish the progress report, expenditure report and utilisation certificate as specified in
clause (b) of sub-rule (1) of rule 8.
(2)
In the case of State Roads of economic importance and inter-State connectivity, copy of the quarterly progress report
and the monthly expenditure report submitted to the Central Government in Form-II and Form III shall be endorsed to
such other officer by the concerned Chief Engineer of the executive agency.
(3)
The accounts of the fund shall be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India at such intervals as may be
specified by him.
(4)
The physical progress as well as expenditure shall be reviewed and discussed with executive agency on quarterly basis
by the Central Government.
(5)
The executive agency shall send completion report or certificate duly verified by the audit as soon as the works are
completed and positively within a period of three months from the date of completion of the works, failing which no
further works shall be sanctioned to the concerned State or Union territory till the requisite completion report or
certificate in respect of such completed works is received by the Central Government.
11.
Power of Central Government.
- The Central Government reserves all the authority and right to exclude any approved work under this Fund, in case, if
the executive agency fails to comply any of provisions of the Act and the rules framed under the Act.
Form I
[See rule 8(1) and 10 (2)]
Utilisation Certificate
It is to certify that out of an amount of Rs.........crores/lakhs released by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways,
vide letter No. .................... dated............., an amount of Rs. ........crores/lakhs has been spent on works sanctioned
under the Central Road Fund Scheme. It is further certified that expenditure has been incurred on sanctioned works only
and has not exceeded the sanctioned cost of individual works.
Deputy Secretary/Joint Secretary/Secretary
Government of..................................................
From-II
[See rule 8(1) and 10 (2)]
Progress Report of Works Executed From Central Road Fund
Report for the Quarter Ending.................
Sl.No.
Name of the work
Length (Km.)/M (for Bridges)
Amount of AA (Rs. In lakh)
AA No. and date
Amount of Technical Sanction
Date of sanction
Physical Progress In %
Up to the end of previous year
During the Year
Total Progress up to the end of the
Quarter
1
2
Page 9/10
----- PAGE 10 -----
Central Road Fund (State Roads) Rules, 2014
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Signature
Executive Engineer of the PWD
Form-III
[See rule 8(1) and 10 (2)]
Expenditure Report of Works Executed From Central Road Fund
State
Month:
Head of Account to which the expenditure is debitable :
Sl. No.
Name of the project
Job No.
Amount of Central assistance
approved of the work
Progressive total of funds released
upto end of the previous financial year
Total expenditure against the work
upto the end of previous financial year
Expenditure from 1st April of the
year under report to the end of the previous month
Expenditure during the month to
which the return relates
Total of columns 5, 6 and 7
Remarks (if any)
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 10/10