
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Agar Agar Grading and Marking Rules, 2014
The Agar Agar Grading and Marking Rules, 2014
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/95959242/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Agar Agar Grading and Marking Rules, 2014
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Agar Agar Grading and Marking Rules, 2014
Rule THE-AGAR-AGAR-GRADING-AND-MARKING-RULES-2014 of 2014
Published on 11 August 2014
Commenced on 11 August 2014
[This is the version of this document from 11 August 2014.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Agar Agar Grading and Marking Rules, 2014
Published vide Notification New Delhi, the 11th August, 2014
Ministry of Agriculture
(Department of Agriculture and Co-operation)
G.S.R. 575(E). - Whereas, the draft of Agar Agar Grading and Marking Rules, 2014, was published as required by
section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937) in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary,
Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (i) vide notification number G.S.R. 580(E) dated the 29th August, 2013 inviting objections
and suggestions from all persons likely to be affected thereby within forty five days from the date on which copies of the
said notification published in the Gazette of India were made available to the public;
And, whereas, copies of the said notification were made available to the public on the 2ndSeptember, 2013;
And, whereas, the objections and suggestions received from the public in respect of the said draft rules have been duly
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Agar Agar Grading and Marking Rules, 2014
considered;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act,
1937 (1 of 1937), and in supersession of the Agar Agar Grading and Marking Rules, 1979, except as respects things
done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules,
namely :-
1.
Short title, application and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Agar Agar Grading and Marking Rules, 2014.
(2)
They shall apply to Agar Agar extracted from red algae of the class Rhodophyceae, such as Gelidiella species and
Gracilaria species.
(3)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Agricultural Marketing Adviser" means the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India;
(b)
"Authorised packer" means a person or a body of persons who has been granted a Certificate of Authorisation to grade
and mark Agar Agar in accordance with the grade standards and procedure provided under these rules;
(c)
"Certificate of Authorisation" means a certificate issued under the provisions of the General Grading and Marking Rules,
1988 authorising a person or a body of persons to grade and mark Agar Agar with the grade designation mark;
(d)
"General Grading and Marking Rules" means the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1988 made under section 3 of
the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937);
(e)
"grade designation mark" means the Agmark insignia referred to in rule 5; and
(f)
"Schedule" means a Schedule appended to these rules.
(2)
Words and expression used in these rules and not defined but defined in the Agricultural Produce (Grading and
Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937) and the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1988 shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the said Act and the said rules.
3.
Grade designations.
- The grade designations to indicate the quality of Agar Agar shall be as set out in column 1 of the Table in Schedule II.
4.
Quality.
- For the purposes of these rules, the quality of Agar Agar shall be as specified in Schedule II.
5.
Grade designation mark.
- The grade designation mark shall be "AGMARK insignia" consisting of a design incorporating the Certificate of
Authorisation number, the word "AGMARK", name of commodity and grade designation resembling the design as set
out in Schedule I.
6.
Method of packing.
(1)
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Agar Agar Grading and Marking Rules, 2014
Agar Agar shall be packed in new, sound and clean plastic containers of food grade, tin containers, paper cartons with
polythene lining, laminated polyethylene or polypropylene or high density polyethylene bags or pouches or any other
food grade material approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser or an officer authorised by him in this behalf in
accordance with rule 11 of the General Grading and Marking Rules.
(2)
The packing material shall be free from insect and fungal infestation and should not impart any toxic substance or
undesirable odour or flavour to the product.
(3)
Agar Agar shall be packed in pack sizes as per the provisions of the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules,
2011 made under sub-section (1) read with clauses (j) and (q) of sub-section (2) of section 52 of the Legal Metrology
Act, 2009 (
1 of 2010
) or as per the instructions issued by Agricultural Marketing Adviser from time to time.
(4)
Graded material of small pack sizes of the same lot or batch and grade may be packed in a master container with
complete details thereon along with grade designation mark.
(5)
Each package shall contain Agar Agar of the same type and of the same grade designation.
(6)
Each package shall be properly and securely closed and sealed so as to preclude any contamination.
7.
Method of Marking.
(1)
The grade designation mark shall be securely affixed to or printed on each package in a manner approved by the
Agricultural Marketing Adviser or an officer authorised by him in this behalf in accordance with rule 11 of the General
Grading and Marking Rules.
(2)
In addition to the grade designation mark, following particulars shall be clearly and indelibly marked on each package,
namely :-
(a)
Name of the commodity;
(b)
Grade;
(c)
Variety or trade name (optional);
(d)
Lot number;
(e)
Date of packing;
(f)
Address of the place of packing;
(g)
Net weight;
(h)
Name and address of the packer;
(i)
Maximum retail price (inclusive of all taxes);
(j)
Best before__________month______year;
(k)
any other particulars as may be specified under the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011 made under
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Agar Agar Grading and Marking Rules, 2014
Legal Metrology Act, 2009 (
1 of 2010
), Regulations notified under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, (34 of 2006) any other law being in force or
instructions issued by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser or an officer authorised by him in this behalf in accordance with
the General Grading and Marking Rules.
(3)
The ink used for marking on packages shall not contaminate the Agar Agar.
(4)
The authorised packer, may, after obtaining prior approval of the Agricultural Marketing Adviser or an officer authorised
by him in this behalf in accordance with rule 11 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, mark his private trade mark
or trade brand on the graded packages which do not indicate quality other than that indicated by the grade designation
mark affixed to the graded packages in accordance with these rules.
8.
Special conditions of Certificate of Authorization.
(1)
In addition to the conditions specified in the sub-rule (8) of rule 3 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, every
authorised packer shall follow all the instructions specified by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser from time to time.
(2)
The authorised packer shall either set up his own laboratory or have access to an approved State Grading Laboratory or
cooperative or association laboratory or a private commercial laboratory manned by a qualified chemist approved by the
Agricultural Marketing Adviser or an officer authorised by him in this behalf in accordance with rule 9 of the General
Grading and Marking Rules for testing the quality of Agar Agar.
(3)
The premises shall be maintained in hygienic and sanitary conditions with proper ventilations and well lighted
arrangement and the personnel engaged in these operations should be in sound health and free from any infectious,
contagious or communicable diseases.
(4)
The authorised packer shall have storage facilities with pucca floor and free from rodent and insect infestation.
(5)
The authorised packer and the aforesaid approved chemist shall comply with all instructions regarding testing, grading,
packing, marking, sealing and maintenance of records which may be issued by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser or an
officer authorised by him in this behalf in accordance with the General Grading and Marking Rules from time to time.
I
(See rule 5)
(Design of Agmark insignia)
Name of commodity__________________________
Grade_____________________________________
II
(See rules 3 and 4)
Grade designation and quality of Agar Agar
1. Agar Agar is dried hydrophilic, colloidal substance extracted from red algae of the class Rhodophyceae, such as
Gelidiella species and Gracilaria Species and it may be in the form of bundles consisting of thin membranous strips or in
cut, flaked, granulated or powdered form for human consumption.
2. Minimum requirements: (i) Agar Agar shall be -
(a)
colourless, white to pale yellow in colour;
(b)
either odourless or having slight characteristic odour and mucilaginous taste;
(c)
insoluble in cold water but soluble in boiling water;
(d)
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Agar Agar Grading and Marking Rules, 2014
free from traces of chemicals, artificial colouring and bleaching matter;
(e)
free from rodent hair and excreta;
(f)
free from living and dead insects, insect fragments, parasites;
(g)
free from any foreign matter.
(ii)
Agar Agar shall comply with the restrictions in regard to residual levels of metal contaminants, insecticides and
pesticides, microbial requirements, crop contaminants, naturally occurring toxic substances and other food safety
requirements as specified under the Food Safety and Standards (Contaminants, Toxins and Residues) Regulations,
2011 and the Food Safety and Standards (Food Products Standards and Food Additives) Regulations, 2011, made
under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 (
34 of 2006
), for domestic trade.
(iii)
Agar Agar shall comply with the residual limits of heavy metals, pesticides and other food safety requirements as laid
down by the Codex Alimentarius Commission, or importing countries requirement for exports.
3. Criteria for grade designation and quality of Agar Agar:
Table
Grade designation
Water absorption (minimum)
Moisture, per cent. by mass on drying (maximum)
Total ash, per cent. by mass (maximum)
Acid insoluble ash, per cent. by mass (maximum)
Water insoluble matter, per cent. by mass (maximum)
Gelatin
Starch and dextrines
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Special
5 times of its weight
18
6.0
0.3
1.0
Not detectable*
Not detectable**
Standard
5 times of its weight
20
6.5
0.5
1.0
Not detectable*
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Agar Agar Grading and Marking Rules, 2014
Not detectable**
* Dissolve about 1 gram of the material in 100 millilitres of boiling water, and allow to cool to about 50°C. To 5 millilitres
of the solution, add 5 millilitres of trinitrophenol. No turbidity shall appear within 10 minutes.
** Prepare 0.5 percent aqueous solution of the material, warm it to 40°C and add 2 drops of iodine solution. Where the
drops fall a red-voilet colour shall appear. On mixing, the solution shall become golden brown and not blue or reddish in
colour.
4. Other requirements: -
(i)
The condition of the Agar Agar shall be such so as to enable it
(a)
to withstand transport and handling; and
(b)
to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
(ii)
Agar Agar shall be stored in cool and dry place maintained in a clean and hygienic condition.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6