
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Metro Railways (Notice of Accidents and Inquiries) Rules, 2014
The Metro Railways (Notice of Accidents and Inquiries) Rules, 2014
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/113185363/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Metro Railways (Notice of Accidents and Inquiries) Rules, 2014
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Metro Railways (Notice of Accidents and Inquiries) Rules, 2014
Rule THE-METRO-RAILWAYS-NOTICE-OF-ACCIDENTS-AND-INQUIRIES-RULES-2014 of 2014
Published on 16 December 2014
Commenced on 16 December 2014
[This is the version of this document from 16 December 2014.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Metro Railways (Notice of Accidents and Inquiries) Rules, 2014
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 898(E), dated 16th December, 2014
Ministry of Urban Development
G.S.R. 898(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 47 of the Metro Railways (Operation and Maintenance)
Act, 2002 (60 of 2002), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Metro Railways (Notice of Accidents and Inquiries) Rules, 2014.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Metro Railways (Notice of Accidents and Inquiries) Rules, 2014
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Act" means the Metro Railways (Operation and Maintenance) Act, 2002 (60 of 2002);
(b)
"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety appointed under section 7 of the Act;
(c)
"Form" means a form appended to these rules;
(d)
"Passenger" means a person travelling on the metro railway with a valid ticket or pass;
(e)
"Central Government" in relation to technical planning and safety of metro railways means the Ministry of the
Government of India dealing with Railways.
(2)
All other words and expressions used in these rules and not defined, but defined in the Act or the Metro Railways
General Rules, 2013 shall have the same meaning as respectively assigned to them in that Act or rules.
3.
Notice of accident.
(1)
A notice of metro railways accident under section 38 of the Act shall be given without delay by the metro railway official
in charge of the section of the metro railway to the following authorities in Form I, namely:-
i. the Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety concerned;
ii. the Ministry of Railways;
iii. the Ministry of Urban Development;
iv. the State Government concerned ;
v. the Deputy Commissioner or the District Collector, as the case may be;
vi. the Deputy Commissioner of Police, within whose jurisdiction the accident has occurred;
vii. the Officer in-Charge of the police station within local limits of which the accident has occurred; and
viii. such other Magistrate or police officer as may be appointed in this behalf by the Central Government.
(2)
A notice of accident under sub-rule (1) shall be sent without delay by email or telefax or telephone or through a special
messenger or such other means as may be available.
4.
Facility for reaching the site of the accident.
- Whenever any accident has occurred in the course of working of the metro railway, the metro railway administration
shall extend all reasonable assistance to (a) the Deputy Commissioner or the District Collector, as the case may be, (b)
the Deputy Commissioner of Police, (c) the Magistrate appointed under section 38 of the Act, (d) the Commission of
Inquiry appointed under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 (60 of 1952) or any other authority to whom the provisions
of the said Commissions of Inquiry Act have been made applicable, (e) the Commissioner, (f) the Medical Officers, (g)
the Police or (h) any other person concerned to reach the site of the accident promptly and to make inquiry into the
cause of the accident and obtain necessary evidence thereon.
5.
Inquiry of accidents by the Commissioner.
(1)
The Commissioner shall be bound to hold inquiry into the accidents which result in death or total or partial disablement
of permanent nature to a passenger.
(2)
The Commissioner shall also hold inquiry in any accident involving non-revenue train or accident relief train or tower
wagon or departmental train carrying metro railway officials resulting in death or grievous hurt to such officials.
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Metro Railways (Notice of Accidents and Inquiries) Rules, 2014
(3)
The Commissioner may, if he considers necessary, inquire into the accidents resulting in the death or grievous hurt to a
metro railway official or to any other person holding a valid pass or ticket but travelling outside the rolling stock including
on the roof or buffers of the metro railway or is run over on the metro railway track.
6.
Notice of Inquiry and attendance.
(1)
The Commissioner or the metro railway administration shall cause notice of inquiry to be given to such metro railway
official whose evidence is necessary informing the date, time and place of such inquiry.
(2)
The metro railway administration shall arrange for the attendance of metro railway officials at the place of inquiry whose
evidence is necessary for such period as may be necessary.
(3)
The metro railway administration shall also cause notice of the date, time and place at which the inquiry shall be held to
such other persons including passengers and eyewitnesses who are willing to give evidence during the inquiry.
7.
Procedure for inquiry into accident by the Commissioner.
(1)
The Commissioner shall, as soon as may be, after receiving notice under rule 3, notify the metro railway administration
of his intention to hold inquiry and communicate the date, time and place of such inquiry.
(2)
The Commissioner shall inform the Chief Secretary of the State Government, the Deputy Commissioner or the District
Collector and the concerned Commissioner of Police or the Superintendent of Police, as the case may be, the date, time
and place of inquiry.
(3)
The Deputy Commissioner or the District Collector and the Commissioner of Police or Superintendent of Police, as the
case may be, shall, as far as possible, personally attend the inquiry conducted by the Commissioner and where not
possible, depute a senior officer to represent him at such inquiry.
(4)
On completion of the inquiry, the Commissioner shall submit to the metro railway administration and the Chief
Commissioner of Railway Safety, a preliminary report on the immediate cause of accident, whether it was due to system
failure or human failure, without making any reference to the persons responsible for the same.
(5)
The Commissioner shall, as soon as possible, submit a detailed report as specified in sub-rule (6) to the Chief
Commissioner of Railway Safety and shall forward copies of this report to-
(i)
the Metro Railway Administration;
(ii)
the Government of India in the Ministries of Urban Development and Railways;
(iii)
the State Government concerned;
Provided that where the Commissioner finds that such accident was caused by sabotage or train wrecking, he shall also
forward a copy of his report to the Director, Intelligence Bureau, Ministry of Home Affairs in the Government of India and
the Commissioner of Police concerned.
(6)
The detailed report to be submitted by the Commissioner under sub-rule (5) shall be confidential and shall contain the
following particulars, namely:-
(a)
brief description of the accident;
(b)
description of the locality of the accident;
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Metro Railways (Notice of Accidents and Inquiries) Rules, 2014
(c)
detailed statement of the evidence taken;
(d)
the conclusions arrived at together with a note of dissent, if any;
(e)
reasons for the conclusion arrived at;
(f)
the nature and extent of the damage done;
(g)
a sketch or photograph illustrative of the accident, if necessary;
(h)
the number of metro railway employees killed or injured;
(i)
the number of passengers killed or injured;
(j)
whether it has been a system failure or failure of an individual;
(k)
an appendix containing extracts of the rules violated by the staff responsible for the accidents; and
(l)
remedial actions proposed.
8.
Publication of report by the Chief Commissioner of Railway Safety.
(1)
After receiving the detailed report under sub-rule (5) of rule 7, the Chief Commissioner of Railway Safety shall, after
taking approval of the Ministry of Urban Development and the Ministry of Railways in the Government of India, cause
publication of the report.
(2)
Where the Ministry of Urban Development has any reservations on publication of the report, the Chief Commissioner of
Railway Safety shall not cause publication of the report until the matter is finally decided by the Ministry of Civil Aviation.
9.
Inquiry into accidents by the Metro Railway Administration.
(1)
If for any reason, the Commissioner is unable to hold an inquiry into an accident at an early date after the occurrence of
such an accident, he shall inform the metro railway administration the reason as to why the inquiry cannot be held by
him and thereafter the metro railway administration shall cause an inquiry to be held in accordance with the procedure
specified in rule 10.
(2)
Where, in the course of working of metro railway, any accident, excluding the nature of accidents specified in sub-rules
(1) & (2) of rule 5, occurs either on account of breach of rules or due to technical/human failure, the metro railway
administration shall cause an inquiry to be held into such accident in accordance with the procedure specified in rule 10.
10.
Procedure for inquiry by the Metro Railway Administration.
(1)
On receipt of information from the Commissioner under sub-rule (1) of rule 9 or where an accident of the nature
specified in sub-rule (2) thereof occurs, the metro railway administration shall cause either a joint inquiry or a
departmental inquiry to be held for thorough investigation of the causes which led to such accident.
(2)
The metro railway administration concerned shall constitute a Committee of Metro Railway Officers for holding a joint
inquiry and give necessary orders/instructions to that Committee.
(3)
Where any department of the metro railway administration concerned is found responsible for the accident or it accepts
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Metro Railways (Notice of Accidents and Inquiries) Rules, 2014
the responsibility for such accident, the metro railway administration shall cause a Departmental Inquiry to be held and
shall give necessary orders/instructions to the Head of the Department responsible for such accident to adopt and
suggest such measures as may be necessary to prevent recurrence of such accidents.
(4)
Before initiating a joint inquiry or departmental inquiry, as the case may be, the office-in-charge of the metro railway
administration shall cause a notice to be given informing the date, place and time of the inquiry to the following officers,
namely:-
(a)
the Commissioner;
(b)
the Deputy Commissioner or the District Collector as the case may be, of the district in whose jurisdiction the accident
occurred or such other officer as the State Government may appoint in this behalf;
(c)
the Deputy Commissioner of Police having jurisdiction at the place where the accident occurred; and
(d)
the officer-in-charge of the police station having Jurisdiction at such place.
(5)
A detailed report of the Joint Inquiry or the Departmental Inquiry, as the case may be, containing details of the cause of
the accident and all particulars as specified in sub-rule (6) of rule 7 shall be prepared and submitted to the metro railway
administration.
(6)
The metro railway administration shall, after receiving the report under sub-rule (5), forward a copy of the report to the
Commissioner and Ministry of Railways alongwith his recommendation on the action to be taken in regard to the staff
responsible for the accident and revision if any, to be made in the rules or in the system of working of metro railway.
11.
Annual Return of accidents.
(1)
At the end of each financial year, the metro railway administration shall prepare and forward to the Ministry of Urban
Development and the Ministry of Railways in the Government of India, an annual return of all accidents that have
occurred on the metro railway during that financial year in Form II.
Form I
(See rule 3)
Notice of Accident
Consequential Train Accident Message No.:
Accident* of Passenger Train on Metro Railway on DD/MM/YYYY
Information received from Nodal Officer / Metro at HH : MM hrs on DD/MM/YYYY
Date and Time of
Accident
DD/MM/YYYY
Section
Block Section/At
Station
System of Working
Train No.
Load
Brief Particulars
Casualty
Relief Arrangements
Officers visiting site
Prima-facie cause
Restoration
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Metro Railways (Notice of Accidents and Inquiries) Rules, 2014
Other information
State/District
*Type of Accident
Date: DD/MM/YYY
(Name)
Designation
Form II
(See rule 11)
Annual Return of Accidents
S.No.
Date
Regions
Gauge
Section
At Station / Mid Section / At work site
Train No.
Brief Particulars
Casualties
Prima Facie Cause
Final Cause
P*R*O*
K*
G*
S*
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
Cost of Damage
Interruption to through Traffic
Type of Inquiry CRS / Department
Findings / Outcome
Responsibility
Action taken
Whether Section 45(Yes / No)
Engg.
Mech.
Elect.
Others
12
13
14
15
16
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Metro Railways (Notice of Accidents and Inquiries) Rules, 2014
17
18
*P - Passenger
*R - Staff (Metro Staff)
*O - Others
*K - Killed
*G - Grievous Injured
*S - Simple Injured
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7