
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/18022667/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
Union of India - Act
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Rule THE-COMPANIES-INDIAN-ACCOUNTING-STANDARDS-RULES-2015 of 2015
Published on 16 February 2015
Commenced on 16 February 2015
[This is the version of this document from 16 February 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 111(E), dated 16th February, 2015
Last Updated 9th April, 2019
Ministry of Corporate Affairs
G.S.R. 111(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 133 read with section 469 of the Companies Act, 2013 (
18 of 2013
) and sub-section (1) of Section 210A of the Companies Act, 1956 (
1 of 1956
), the Central Government, in consultation with the National Advisory Committee on Accounting Standards, hereby
makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Page 1/765
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015.
(2)
They shall come into force on the 1st day of April, 2015.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Accounting Standards" means the standards of accounting, or any addendum thereto for companies or class of
companies as specified in rule 3;
(b)
"Act" means the Companies Act, 2013 (
18 of 2013
);
(c)
"Annexure" in relation to these rules means the Annexure containing the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)
appended to these rules;
(d)
"entity" means a company as defined in clause (20) of Section 2 of the Act;
(e)
"financial statements" means financial statements as defined in clause (40) of Section 2 of the Act;
(f)
"net worth" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (57) of Section 2 of the Act.
(g)
[ "Non-Banking Financial Company" means a Non-Banking Financial Company as defined in clause (f) of section 45-I of
the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 and includes Housing Finance Companies, Merchant Banking companies, Micro
Finance Companies, Mutual Benefit Companies, Venture Capital Fund Companies, Stock Broker or Sub-Broker
Companies, Nidhi Companies, Chit Companies, Securitisation and Reconstruction Companies, Mortgage Guarantee
Companies, Pension Fund Companies, Asset Management Companies and Core Investment Companies.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(2)
Words and expressions used herein and not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall have the same meaning
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Applicability of Accounting Standards.
(1)
The accounting standards as specified in the Annexure to these rules to be called the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind
AS) shall be the accounting standards applicable to classes of companies specified in rule 4.
(2)
The Accounting standards as specified in Annexure to the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006 shall be the
Accounting Standards applicable to the companies other than the classes of companies specified in rule 4.
(3)
A company which follows the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified in Annexure to these rules in accordance
with the provisions of rule 4 shall follow such standards only.
(4)
A company which follows the accounting standards specified in Annexure to the Companies (Accounting Standards)
Rules, 2006 shall comply with such standards only and not the Standards specified in Annexure to these rules.
4.
Obligation to comply with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS).
Page 2/765
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(1)
The Companies and their auditors shall comply with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified in Annexure to
these rules in preparation of their financial statements and audit respectively, in the following manner, namely:-
(i)
[any company and its holding, subsidiary, joint venture or associate company]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
may comply with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) for financial statements for accounting periods beginning on
or after 1st April, 2015, with the comparatives for the periods ending on 31st March, 2015, or thereafter;
(ii)
the following companies shall comply with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) for the accounting periods
beginning on or after 1st April, 2016, with the comparatives for the periods ending on 31st March, 2016, or thereafter,
namely:-
(a)
companies whose equity or debt securities are listed or are in the process of being listed on any stock exchange in India
or outside India and having net worth of rupees five hundred crore or more;
(b)
companies other than those covered by sub-clause (a) of clause (ii) of sub-rule (1) and having net worth of rupees five
hundred crore or more;
(c)
holding, subsidiary, joint venture or associate companies of companies covered by sub-clause (a) of clause (ii) of
sub-rule (1) and sub-clause (b) of clause (ii) of sub-rule (1) as the case may be; and
(iii)
the following companies shall comply with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) for the accounting periods
beginning on or after 1st April, 2017, with the comparatives for the periods ending on 31st March, 2017, or thereafter,
namely:-
(a)
companies whose equity or debt securities are listed or are in the process of being listed on any stock exchange in India
or outside India and having net worth of less than rupees five hundred crore;
(b)
companies other than those covered in clause (ii) of sub-rule (1) and sub-clause (a) of clause (iii) of sub-rule (1), that is,
unlisted companies having net worth of rupees two hundred and fifty crore or more but less than rupees five hundred
crore.
(c)
holding, subsidiary, joint venture or associate companies of companies covered under sub-clause (a) of clause (iii) of
sub-rule (1) and sub-clause (b) of clause (iii) of sub-rule (1), as the case may be:
(iv)
[ Notwithstanding the requirement of clauses (i) to (iii), Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) shall comply with the
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind ASs) in preparation of their financial statements and audit respectively, in the following
manner, namely:-
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(a)
The following NBFCs shall comply with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) for accounting periods beginning on or
after the 1st April, 2018, with comparatives for the periods ending on 31st March, 2018, or thereafter-
(A)
NBFCs having net worth of rupees five hundred crore or more;
(B)
holding, subsidiary, joint venture or associate companies of companies covered under item (A), other than those already
covered under clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of sub-rule (1) of rule 4.
(b)
The following NBFCs shall comply with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) for accounting periods beginning on or
after the 1st April, 2019, with comparatives for the periods ending on 31st March, 2019, or thereafter-
Page 3/765
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(A)
NBFCs whose equity or debt securities are listed or in the process of listing on any stock exchange in India or outside
India and having net worth less than rupees five hundred crore;
(B)
NBFCs, that are unlisted companies, having net worth of rupees two-hundred and fifty crore or more but less than
rupees five hundred crore; and
(C)
holding, subsidiary, joint venture or associate companies of companies covered under item (A) or item (B) of sub-clause
(b), other than those already covered in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of sub-rule (1) or item (B) of sub-clause (a) of clause (iv).
Explanation. - For the purposes of clause (iv), if in a group of Companies, some entities apply Accounting Standards
specified in the Annexure to the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006 and others apply accounting standards
as specified in the Annexure to these rules, in such cases, for the purpose of individual financial statements, the entities
should apply respective standards applicable to them. For preparation of consolidated financial statements, the following
conditions are to be followed, namely:-
(i)
where an NBFC is a parent (at ultimate level or at intermediate level), and prepares consolidated financial statements as
per Accounting Standards specified in the Annexure to the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006, and its
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, if covered by clause (i), (ii) and (iii) of sub-rule (1) has to provide the relevant
financial statement data in accordance with the accounting policies followed by the parent company for consolidation
purposes (until the NBFC is covered under clause (iv) of sub-rule (1);
(ii)
where a parent is a company covered under clause (i), (ii) and (iii) of sub-rule (1) and has an NBFC subsidiary,
associate or a joint venture, the parent has to prepare Ind AS-compliant consolidated financial statements and the NBFC
subsidiary, associate and a joint venture has to provide the relevant financial statement data in accordance with the
accounting policies followed by the parent company for consolidation purposes (until the NBFC is covered under clause
(iv) of sub-rule (1).
(v)
Notwithstanding clauses (i) to (iv), the holding, subsidiary, joint venture or associate companies of Scheduled
commercial banks (excluding RRBs) would be required to prepare Ind AS based financial statements for accounting
periods beginning from 1st April, 2018 onwards, with comparatives for the periods ending 31st March, 2018 or
thereafter:]
Provided that nothing in this sub-rule, except clause (i), shall apply to companies whose securities are listed or are in the
process of being listed on SME exchange as referred to in Chapter XB or on the Institutional Trading Platform without
initial public offering in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XC of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.
Explanation 1. - SME Exchange shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in Chapter XB of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.
Explanation 2. - "Comparatives" shall mean comparative figures for the preceding accounting period.
(2)
For the purposes of calculation of net worth of companies under [clause (i), (ii) and (iii) of sub-rule (1)]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
, the following principles shall apply, namely:-
(a)
the net worth shall be calculated in accordance with the stand-alone financial statements of the company as on 31st
March, 2014 or the first audited financial statements for accounting period which ends after that date;
(b)
for companies which are not in existence on 31st March, 2014 or an existing company falling under any of thresholds
specified in sub-rule (1) for the first time after 31st March, 2014, the net worth shall be calculated on the basis of the first
audited financial statements ending after that date in respect of which it meets the thresholds specified in sub-rule (1).
Explanation. - For the purposes of sub-clause (b), the companies meeting the specified thresholds given in sub-rule (1)
for the first time at the end of an accounting year shall apply Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) from the immediate
Page 4/765
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
next accounting year in the manner specified in sub-rule (1).
Illustration . - (i) The companies meeting threshold for the first time as on 31st March, 2017 shall apply Ind AS for the
financial year 2017-18 onwards.
(ii)
The companies meeting threshold for the first time as on 31st March, 2018 shall apply Ind AS for the financial year
2018-19 onwards and so on.
(2A)
[ For the purposes of calculation of net worth of Non-Banking Financial Companies covered under clause (iv) of sub-rule
(1), the following principles shall apply, namely:-
(a)
the net worth shall be calculated in accordance with the stand-alone financial statements of the NBFCs as on 31st
March, 2016 or the first audited financial statements for accounting period which ends after that date;
(b)
for NBFCs which are not in existence on 31st March, 2016 or an existing NBFC falling first time, after 31st March, 2016,
the net worth shall be calculated on the basis of the first audited stand-alone financial statements ending after that date,
in respect of which it meets the thresholds.
Explanation. - For the purposes of sub-clause (b), the NBFCs meeting the specified thresholds given in sub-clause (b) of
clause (iv) of sub-rule (1) for the first time at the end of an accounting year shall apply Indian Accounting Standards (Ind
ASs) from the immediate next accounting year in the manner specified in sub-clause (b) of clause (iv) of sub-rule (1).
Illustration - (i) The NBFCs meeting threshold for the first time as on 31st March, 2019 shall apply Ind AS for the
financial year 2019-20 onwards.
(ii)
The NBFCs meeting threshold for the first time as on 31st March, 2020 shall apply Ind AS for the financial year 2020-21
onwards and so on.]
(3)
Standards in Annexure to these rules once required to be complied with in accordance with these rules, shall apply to
both stand-alone financial statements and consolidated financial statements.
(4)
Companies to which Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) are applicable as specified in these rules shall prepare their
first set of financial statements in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) effective at the end of its
first Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) reporting period.
Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that the companies preparing financial statements applying
the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) for the accounting period beginning on 1st April, 2016 [or 1st April, 2018, as
the case may be]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
shall apply the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) effective for the financial year ending on 31st March, 2017 [or 31st
March, 2019, as the case may be]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
.
(5)
Overseas subsidiary, associate, joint venture and other similar entities of an Indian company may prepare its standalone
financial statements in accordance with the requirements of the specific jurisdiction:
Provided that such Indian company shall prepare its consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Indian
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) [* * *]
[Omitted 'either voluntarily or mandatorily' by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
if it meets the criteria as specified in sub-rule (1).
(6)
Indian company which is a subsidiary, associate, joint venture and other similar entities of a foreign company shall
prepare its financial statements in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) [* * *]
[Omitted 'either voluntarily or mandatorily' by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
if it meets the criteria as specified in sub-rule (1).
Page 5/765
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(7)
Any company opting to apply the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) voluntarily as specified in sub-rule (1) for its
financial statements shall prepare its financial statements as per the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) consistently.
(8)
Once the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) are applied voluntarily, it shall be irrevocable and such companies shall
not be required to prepare another set of financial statements in accordance with Accounting Standards specified in
Annexure to Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006.
(9)
Once a company starts following the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) [* * *]
[Omitted 'either voluntarily or mandatorily' by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
on the basis of criteria specified in sub-rule (1), it shall be required to follow the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) for
all the subsequent financial statements even if any of the criteria specified in this rule does not subsequently apply to it.
5.
Exemptions.
- [The Banking Companies and Insurance Companies shall apply the Ind ASs as notified by the Reserve Bank of India
(RBI) and Insurance Regulatory Development Authority (IRDA) respectively. An insurer or insurance company shall
however, provide Ind AS compliant financial statement data for the purposes of preparation of consolidated financial
statements by its parent or investor or ventures, as required by the parent or investor or ventures to comply with the
requirements of these rules.]
[Substituted 'The insurance companies, banking companies and non-banking finance companies shall not be required to
apply Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) for preparation of their financial statements either voluntarily or mandatorily
as specified in sub-rule (1) of rule 4.' by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Annexure
[See rule 3]
A. General Instruction. - (1) Indian Accounting Standards, which are specified, are intended to be in conformity with the
provisions of applicable laws. However, if due to subsequent amendments in the law, a particular Indian Accounting
Standard is found to be not in conformity with such law, the provisions of the said law shall prevail and the financial
statements shall be prepared in conformity with such law.
(2)
Indian Accounting Standards are intended to apply only to items which are material.
(3)
The Indian Accounting Standards include paragraphs set in bold italic type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold italic type indicate the main principles. An individual Indian Accounting Standard shall be read in the
context of the objective, if stated, in that Indian Accounting Standard and in accordance with these General Instructions.
B. Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 101
First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Ind AS is to ensure that an entity's first Ind AS financial statements, and its interim financial
reports for part of the period covered by those financial statements, contain high quality information that:
(a)
is transparent for users and comparable over all periods presented;
(b)
provides a suitable starting point for accounting in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind ASs); and
(c)
can be generated at a cost that does not exceed the benefits.
Scope
2. An entity shall apply this Ind AS in:
(a)
Page 6/765
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
its first Ind AS financial statements; and
(b)
each interim financial report, if any, that it presents in accordance with Ind AS 34, Interim Financial Reporting, for part of
the period covered by its first Ind AS financial statements.
3. An entity's first Ind AS financial statements are the first annual financial statements in which the entity adopts Ind ASs,
in accordance with Ind ASs notified under the Companies Act, 2013 and makes an explicit and unreserved statement in
those financial statements of compliance with Ind ASs.
4. [Refer to Appendix 1]
4A.
[Refer to Appendix 1]
4B.
[Refer to Appendix 1]
5. This Ind AS does not apply to changes in accounting policies made by an entity that already applies Ind ASs. Such
changes are the subject of:
(a)
requirements on changes in accounting policies in Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and
Errors; and
(b)
specific transitional requirements in other Ind ASs.
Recognition and measurement Opening Ind AS Balance Sheet
6.
An entity shall prepare and present an opening Ind AS Balance Sheet at the date of transition to Ind ASs. This is the
starting point for its accounting in accordance with Ind ASs subject to the requirements of paragraphs D13AA and D22.
Accounting policies
7.
An entity shall use the same accounting policies in its opening Ind AS Balance Sheet and throughout all periods
presented in its first Ind AS financial statements. Those accounting policies shall comply with each Ind AS effective at
the end of its first Ind AS reporting period, except as specified in paragraphs 13-19 and Appendices B-D.
8.
An entity shall not apply different versions of Ind ASs that were effective at earlier dates. An entity may apply a new Ind
AS that is not yet mandatory if that Ind AS permits early application.
Example: Consistent application of latest version of Ind
ASs
Background
The end of entity A's first Ind AS reporting period is 31
March 2017. Entity A decides to present comparative information
in those financial statements for one year only (see paragraph
21). Therefore, its date of transition to Ind ASs is the
beginning of business on 1 April 2015 (or, equivalently, close of
business on 31 March 2015). Entity A presented financial
statements in accordance with its previous GAAP annually to 31
March each year up to, and including, 31 March 2016.
Application of requirements
Entity A is required to apply the Ind ASs effective for
periods ending on 31 March 2017 in:
a) preparing and presenting its
opening Ind AS balance sheet at 1 April 2015; and
b) preparing and presenting its
balance sheet for 31 March 2017 (including comparative amounts
for the year ended 31 March 2016), statement of profit and loss,
statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for
Page 7/765
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the year to 31 March 2017 (including comparative amounts for the
year ended 31 March 2016) and disclosures (including comparative
information for the year ended 31 March 2016).
If a new Ind AS is not yet mandatory but permits early
application, entity A is permitted, but not required, to apply
that Ind AS in its first Ind AS financial statements.
9.
The transitional provisions in other Ind ASs apply to changes in accounting policies made by an entity that already uses
Ind ASs; they do not apply to a first-time adopter's transition to Ind ASs, except as specified in Appendices B-D.
10.
Except as described in paragraphs 13-19 and Appendices B-D, an entity shall, in its opening Ind AS Balance Sheet:
(a)
recognise all assets and liabilities whose recognition is required by Ind ASs;
(b)
not recognise items as assets or liabilities if Ind ASs do not permit such recognition;
(c)
reclassify items that it recognized in accordance with previous GAAP as one type of asset, liability or component of
equity, but are a different type of asset, liability or component of equity in accordance with Ind ASs; and
(d)
apply Ind ASs in measuring all recognized assets and liabilities.
11.
The accounting policies that an entity uses in its opening Ind AS Balance Sheet may differ from those that it used for the
same date using its previous GAAP. The resulting adjustments arise from events and transactions before the date of
transition to Ind ASs. Therefore, an entity shall recognise those adjustments directly in retained earnings (or, if
appropriate, another category of equity) at the date of transition to Ind ASs.
12.
This Ind AS establishes two categories of exceptions to the principle that an entity's opening Ind AS Balance Sheet shall
comply with each Ind AS:
(a)
paragraphs 14-17 and Appendix B prohibit retrospective application of some aspects of other Ind ASs.
(b)
Appendices C-D grant exemptions from some requirements of other Ind ASs.
Exceptions to the retrospective application of other Ind ASs
13.
This Ind AS prohibits retrospective application of some aspects of other Ind ASs. These exceptions are set out in
paragraphs 14-17 and Appendix B.
Estimates
14.
An entity's estimates in accordance with Ind ASs at the date of transition to Ind ASs shall be consistent with estimates
made for the same date in accordance with previous GAAP (after adjustments to reflect any difference in accounting
policies), unless there is objective evidence that those estimates were in error.
15.
An entity may receive information after the date of transition to Ind ASs about estimates that it had made under previous
GAAP. In accordance with paragraph 14, an entity shall treat the receipt of that information in the same way as
non-adjusting events after the reporting period in accordance with Ind AS 10, Events after the Reporting Period. For
example, assume that an entity's date of transition to Ind ASs is 1 April 2015 and new information on 15 July 2015
requires the revision of an estimate made in accordance with previous GAAP at 31 March 2015. The entity shall not
reflect that new information in its opening Ind AS Balance Sheet (unless the estimates need adjustment for any
differences in accounting policies or there is objective evidence that the estimates were in error). Instead, the entity shall
reflect that new information in profit or loss (or, if appropriate, other comprehensive income) for the year ended 31 March
2016.
Page 8/765
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
16.
An entity may need to make estimates in accordance with Ind ASs at the date of transition to Ind ASs that were not
required at that date under previous GAAP. To achieve consistency with Ind AS 10, those estimates in accordance with
Ind ASs shall reflect conditions that existed at the date of transition to Ind ASs. In particular, estimates at the date of
transition to Ind ASs of market prices, interest rates or foreign exchange rates shall reflect market conditions at that
date.
17.
Paragraphs 14-16 apply to the opening Ind AS Balance Sheet. They also apply to a comparative period presented in an
entity's first Ind AS financial statements, in which case the references to the date of transition to Ind ASs are replaced by
references to the end of that comparative period.
Exemptions from other Ind ASs
18.
An entity may elect to use one or more of the exemptions contained in Appendices C-D. An entity shall not apply these
exemptions by analogy to other items.
19.
[Refer to Appendix 1]
Presentation and disclosure
20.
This Ind AS does not provide exemptions from the presentation and disclosure requirements in other Ind ASs.
Comparative information
21.
An entity's first Ind AS financial statements shall include at least three Balance Sheet, two Statements of profit and loss,
two Statements of cash flows and two Statements of changes in equity and related notes, including comparative
information for all statements presented.
Non-Ind AS comparative information and historical summaries
22.
Some entities present historical summaries of selected data for periods before the first period for which they present full
comparative information in accordance with Ind ASs. This Ind AS does not require such summaries to comply with the
recognition and measurement requirements of Ind ASs. Furthermore, some entities present comparative information in
accordance with previous GAAP as well as the comparative information required by Ind AS 1. In any financial
statements containing historical summaries or comparative information in accordance with previous GAAP, an entity
shall:
(a)
label the previous GAAP information prominently as not being prepared in accordance with Ind ASs; and
(b)
disclose the nature of the main adjustments that would make it comply with Ind ASs. An entity need not quantify those
adjustments.
Explanation of transition to Ind ASs
23.
An entity shall explain how the transition from previous GAAP to Ind ASs affected its reported Balance sheet, financial
performance and cash flows.
23A.
[Refer to Appendix 1]
23B.
[Refer to Appendix 1]
Reconciliations
24.
To comply with paragraph 23, an entity's first Ind AS financial statements shall include:
(a)
reconciliations of its equity reported in accordance with previous GAAP to its equity in accordance with Ind ASs for both
of the following dates:
Page 9/765
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(i)
the date of transition to Ind ASs; and
(ii)
the end of the latest period presented in the entity's most recent annual financial statements in accordance with previous
GAAP.
(b)
a reconciliation to its total comprehensive income in accordance with Ind ASs for the latest period in the entity's most
recent annual financial statements. The starting point for that reconciliation shall be total comprehensive income in
accordance with previous GAAP for the same period or, if an entity did not report such a total, profit or loss under
previous GAAP.
(c)
if the entity recognized or reversed any impairment losses for the first time in preparing its opening Ind AS Balance
Sheet, the disclosures that Ind AS 36, Impairment of Assets, would have required if the entity had recognized those
impairment losses or reversals in the period beginning with the date of transition to Ind ASs.
25.
The reconciliations required by paragraph 24(a) and (b) shall give sufficient detail to enable users to understand the
material adjustments to the Balance Sheet and Statement of profit and loss. If an entity presented a Statement of cash
flows under its previous GAAP, it shall also explain the material adjustments to the Statement of cash flows.
26.
If an entity becomes aware of errors made under previous GAAP, the reconciliations required by paragraph 24(a) and
(b) shall distinguish the correction of those errors from changes in accounting policies.
27.
Ind AS 8 does not apply to the changes in accounting policies an entity makes when it adopts Ind ASs or to changes in
those policies until after it presents its first Ind AS financial statements. Therefore, Ind AS 8's requirements about
changes in accounting policies do not apply in an entity's first Ind AS financial statements.
27A.
If during the period covered by its first Ind AS financial statements an entity changes its accounting policies or its use of
the exemptions contained in this Ind AS, it shall explain the changes between its first Ind AS interim financial report and
its first Ind AS financial statements, in accordance with paragraph 23, and it shall update the reconciliations required by
paragraph 24(a) and (b).
27AA.
If an entity adopts the first time exemption option provided in accordance with paragraph D7AA, the fact and the
accounting policy shall be disclosed by the entity until such time that those items of Property, plant and equipment,
investment properties or intangible assets, as the case may be, are significantly depreciated, impaired or derecognized
from the entity's Balance Sheet.
28.
If an entity did not present financial statements for previous periods, its first Ind AS financial statements shall disclose
that fact.
Designation of financial assets or financial liabilities
29.
An entity is permitted to designate a previously recognized financial asset as a financial asset measured at fair value
through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph D19A. The entity shall disclose the fair value of financial assets so
designated at the date of designation and their classification and carrying amount in the previous financial statements.
29A.
An entity is permitted to designate a previously recognized financial liability as a financial liability at fair value through
profit or loss in accordance with paragraph D19. The entity shall disclose the fair value of financial liabilities so
designated at the date of designation and their classification and carrying amount in the previous financial statements.
Use of fair value as deemed cost
[30 If an entity uses fair value in its opening Ind AS Balance Sheet as deemed cost for an item of property, plant and
equipment, an intangible asset or a right-of-use asset (see paragraphs D5 and D7), the entity's first Ind AS financial
statements shall disclose, for each line item in the opening Ind AS Balance Sheet:
Page 10/765
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
the aggregate of those fair values; and
(b)
the aggregate adjustment to the carrying amounts reported under previous GAAP.]
Use of deemed cost for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
31.
Similarly, if an entity uses a deemed cost in its opening Ind AS Balance Sheet for an investment in a subsidiary, joint
venture or associate in its separate financial statements (see paragraph D15), the entity's first Ind AS separate financial
statements shall disclose:
(a)
the aggregate deemed cost of those investments for which deemed cost is their previous GAAP carrying amount;
(b)
the aggregate deemed cost of those investments for which deemed cost is fair value; and
(c)
the aggregate adjustment to the carrying amounts reported under previous GAAP.
Use of deemed cost for oil and gas assets
31A.
If an entity uses the exemption in paragraph D8A(b) for oil and gas assets, it shall disclose that fact and the basis on
which carrying amounts determined under previous GAAP were allocated.
Use of deemed cost for operations subject to rate regulation
31B.
If an entity uses the exemption in paragraph D8B for operations subject to rate regulation, it shall disclose that fact and
the basis on which carrying amounts were determined under previous GAAP.
Use of deemed cost after severe hyperinflation
31C.
If an entity elects to measure assets and liabilities at fair value and to use that fair value as the deemed cost in its
opening Ind AS Balance Sheet because of severe hyperinflation (see paragraphs D26-D30), the entity's first Ind AS
financial statements shall disclose an explanation of how, and why, the entity had, and then ceased to have, a functional
currency that has both of the following characteristics:
(a)
a reliable general price index is not available to all entities with transactions and balances in the currency.
(b)
exchange-ability between the currency and a relatively stable foreign currency does not exist.
Interim financial reports
32.
To comply with paragraph 23, if an entity presents an interim financial report in accordance with Ind AS 34 for part of the
period covered by its first Ind AS financial statements, the entity shall satisfy the following requirements in addition to the
requirements of Ind AS 34:
(a)
Each such interim financial report shall, if the entity presented an interim financial report for the comparable interim
period of the immediately preceding financial year, include:
(i)
a reconciliation of its equity in accordance with previous GAAP at the end of that comparable interim period to its equity
under Ind ASs at that date; and
(ii)
a reconciliation to its total comprehensive income in accordance with Ind ASs for that comparable interim period (current
and year to date). The starting point for that reconciliation shall be total comprehensive income in accordance with
previous GAAP for that period or, if an entity did not report such a total, profit or loss in accordance with previous GAAP.
(b)
In addition to the reconciliations required by (a), an entity's first interim financial report in accordance with Ind AS 34 for
part of the period covered by its first Ind AS financial statements shall include the reconciliations described in paragraph
Page 11/765
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
24(a) and (b) (supplemented by the details required by paragraphs 25 and 26) or a cross-reference to another published
document that includes these reconciliations.
(c)
If an entity changes its accounting policies or its use of the exemptions contained in this Ind AS, it shall explain the
changes in each such interim financial report in accordance with paragraph 23 and update the reconciliations required
by (a) and (b).
33.
Ind AS 34 requires minimum disclosures, which are based on the assumption that users of the interim financial report
also have access to the most recent annual financial statements. However, Ind AS 34 also requires an entity to disclose
'any events or transactions that are material to an understanding of the current interim period'. Therefore, if a first-time
adopter did not, in its most recent annual financial statements in accordance with previous GAAP, disclose information
material to an understanding of the current interim period, its interim financial report shall disclose that information or
include a cross-reference to another published document that includes it.
[Effective Date
34.
*
35.
*
36.
*
37.
*
38.
*
39.
*
39A.
*
39B.
*
39C.
*
39D.
*
39E.
*
39F.
*
39G.
*
39H.
*
39I.
*
39J.
*
39K.
*
39L.
*
39M.
Page 12/765
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
*
39N.
*
39O.
*
39P.
*
39Q.
*
39R.
*
39S.
*
39T.
*
39U.
*
39V.
*
39W.
*
39X.
As a consequence of issuance of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, paragraphs D1(m),(u), D22 and
heading after paragraph D33 are amended, paragraphs D34-D35 are added and earlier paragraph D36 in context of
`Transfer of assets from customers' is deleted. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 115.
39Y.
*
39Z.
*
39AA.
*
[39AB Ind AS 116, Leases, amended paragraphs 30, C4, D1, D7, D8B, D9 and D9AA, deleted paragraph D9A and
added paragraphs D9B-D9E. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 116.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
39AC.
Appendix B, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration of Ind AS 21 added paragraph D36 in context
of foreign currency transactions and advance consideration and in paragraph D1, renumbered item (v) as (ua) and a
new item (v) is added in its place. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies Appendix B of Ind AS 21.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[39AD *
39AE.
*
39AF.
Appendix C,Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments, to Ind AS 12 added paragraph E8. An entity shall apply that
amendment when it applies Appendix C to Ind AS 12.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
* Refer Appendix 1
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an integral part of this Ind AS.
date of transition to Ind ASs
Page 13/765
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
The beginning of the earliest period for which an entity
presents full comparative information under Ind ASs infirst
Ind AS financial statements
deemed cost
An amount used as a surrogate for cost or depreciated cost at
a given date. Subsequent depreciation or amortisation assumes
that the entity had initially recognized the asset or liability
at the given date and that its cost was equal to the deemed cost.
fair value
Fair valueis the price that would be received to sell
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
(See Ind AS 113.)
first Ind AS financial statements
The first annual financial statements in which an entity
adoptsIndian Accounting Standards(Ind ASs), by an
explicit and unreserved statement of compliance with Ind ASs.
first Ind AS reporting period
The latest reporting period covered by an entity'sfirst
Ind AS financial statements
first-time adopter
An entity that presents itsfirst
Ind AS financial statements.
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind ASs)
Ind ASs are Accounting Standards prescribed under Section 133
of the Companies Act, 2013.
opening Ind AS Balance Sheet
An entity's Balance Sheet at thedate of transition to Ind
ASs.
previous GAAP
The basis of accounting that afirst-time adopterused
for its statutory reporting requirement in India immediately
before adopting Ind AS's. For instance, companies required to
prepare their financial statements in accordance with Section 133
of the Companies Act, 2013, shall consider those financial
statements as previous GAAP financial statements.
Appendix B
Exceptions to the retrospective application of other Ind ASs
This appendix is an integral part of this Ind AS.
B1. An entity shall apply the following exceptions:
(a)
derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities (paragraphs B2 and B3);
(b)
hedge accounting (paragraphs B4-B6);
(c)
non-controlling interests (paragraph B7);
(d)
classification and measurement of financial assets (paragraphs B8-B8C);
(e)
impairment of financial assets (paragraphs B8D-B8G);
(f)
Page 14/765
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
embedded derivatives (paragraph B9); and
(g)
government loans (paragraphs B10-B12).
Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities
B2. Except as permitted by paragraph B3, a first-time adopter shall apply the derecognition requirements in Ind AS 109
prospectively for transactions occurring on or after the date of transition to Ind ASs. For example, if a first-time adopter
derecognized non-derivative financial assets or non-derivative financial liabilities in accordance with its previous GAAP
as a result of a transaction that occurred before the date of transition to Ind ASs, it shall not recognise those assets and
liabilities in accordance with Ind ASs (unless they qualify for recognition as a result of a later transaction or event).
B3. Despite paragraph B2, an entity may apply the derecognition requirements in Ind AS 109 retrospectively from a date
of the entity's choosing, provided that the information needed to apply Ind AS 109 to financial assets and financial
liabilities derecognized as a result of past transactions was obtained at the time of initially accounting for those
transactions.
Hedge accounting
B4. As required by Ind AS 109, at the date of transition to Ind ASs an entity shall:
(a)
measure all derivatives at fair value; and
(b)
eliminate all deferred losses and gains arising on derivatives that were reported in accordance with previous GAAP as if
they were assets or liabilities.
B5. An entity shall not reflect in its opening Ind AS Balance Sheet a hedging relationship of a type that does not qualify
for hedge accounting in accordance with Ind AS 109 (for example, many hedging relationships where the hedging
instrument is a stand-alone written option or a net written option; or where the hedged item is a net position in a cash
flow hedge for another risk than foreign currency risk). However, if an entity designated a net position as a hedged item
in accordance with previous GAAP, it may designate as a hedged item in accordance with Ind ASs an individual item
within that net position, or a net position if that meets the requirements in paragraph 6.6.1 of Ind AS 109, provided that it
does so no later than the date of transition to Ind ASs.
B6. If, before the date of transition to Ind ASs, an entity had designated a transaction as a hedge but the hedge does not
meet the conditions for hedge accounting in Ind AS 109, the entity shall apply paragraphs 6.5.6 and 6.5.7 of Ind AS 109
to discontinue hedge accounting. Transactions entered into before the date of transition to Ind ASs shall not be
retrospectively designated as hedges.
Non-controlling interests
B7. A first-time adopter shall apply the following requirements of Ind AS 110 prospectively from the date of transition to
Ind ASs:
(a)
the requirement in paragraph B94 that total comprehensive income is attributed to the owners of the parent and to the
non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance;
(b)
the requirements in paragraphs 23 and B96 for accounting for changes in the parent's ownership interest in a subsidiary
that do not result in a loss of control; and
(c)
the requirements in paragraphs B97-B99 for accounting for a loss of control over a subsidiary, and the related
requirements of paragraph 8A of Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
However, if a first-time adopter elects to apply Ind AS 103 retrospectively to past business combinations, it shall also
apply Ind AS 110 in accordance with paragraph C1 of this Ind AS.
Classification and measurement of financial assets
B8. An entity shall assess whether a financial asset meets the conditions in paragraph 4.1.2 or the conditions in
paragraph 4.1.2A of Ind AS 109 on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of transition to Ind
ASs.
B8A. If it is impracticable to assess a modified time value of money element in accordance with paragraphs
B4.1.9B-B4.1.9D of Ind AS 109 on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of transition to Ind ASs,
Page 15/765
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
an entity shall assess the contractual cash flow characteristics of that financial asset on the basis of the facts and
circumstances that existed at the date of transition to Ind ASs without taking into account the requirements related to the
modification of the time value of money element in paragraphs B4.1.9B-B4.1.9D of Ind AS 109. An entity shall disclose
the carrying amount at the reporting date of the financial assets whose contractual cash flow characteristics have been
assessed based on the facts and circumstances that existed at the date of transition to Ind ASs without taking into
account the requirements related to the modification of the time value of money element in paragraphs B4.1.9B-B4.1.9D
of Ind AS 109 until those financial assets are derecognized.
B8B. If it is impracticable to assess whether the fair value of a prepayment feature is insignificant in accordance with
paragraph B4.1.12(c) of Ind AS 109 on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of transition to
Ind-ASs, an entity shall assess the contractual cash flow characteristics of that financial asset on the basis of the facts
and circumstances that existed at the date of transition to Ind-ASs without taking into account the exception for
prepayment features in paragraph B4.1.12 of Ind AS 109. An entity shall disclose the carrying amount at the reporting
date of the financial assets whose contractual cash flow characteristics have been assessed based on the facts and
circumstances that existed at the date of transition to Ind ASs without taking into account the exception for prepayment
features in paragraph B4.1.12 of Ind AS 109 until those financial assets are derecognized.
B8C. If it is impracticable (as defined in Ind AS 8) for an entity to apply retrospectively the effective interest method in
Ind AS 109, the fair value of the financial asset or the financial liability at the date of transition to Ind ASs shall be the
new gross carrying amount of that financial asset or the new amortised cost of that financial liability at the date of
transition to Ind ASs.
Impairment of financial assets
B8D. An entity shall apply the impairment requirements in Section 5.5 of Ind AS 109 retrospectively subject to
paragraphs B8E, B8F and B8G of this Ind AS.
B8E. At the date of transition to Ind ASs, an entity shall use reasonable and supportable information that is available
without undue cost or effort to determine the credit risk at the date that financial instruments were initially recognized (or
for loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts the date that the entity became a party to the irrevocable
commitment in accordance with paragraph 5.5.6 of Ind AS 109) and compare that to the credit risk at the date of
transition to Ind ASs (also see paragraphs B8EA-B8EB of this Ind AS.
B8EA. An entity should seek to approximate the credit risk on initial recognition by considering all reasonable and
supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort. An entity is not required to undertake an
exhaustive search for information when determining, at the date of transition to Ind ASs, whether there have been
significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition. If an entity is unable to make this determination without undue
cost or effort paragraph B8G of this Ind AS applies.
B8EB. In order to determine the loss allowance on financial instruments initially recognized (or loan commitments or
financial guarantee contracts to which the entity became a party to the contract) prior to the date of initial application,
both on transition and until the derecognition of those items, an entity shall consider information that is relevant in
determining or approximating the credit risk at initial recognition. In order to determine or approximate the initial credit
risk, an entity may consider internal and external information, including portfolio information, in accordance with
paragraphs B5.5.1-B5.5.6 of Ind AS 109.
B8F. When determining whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, an entity
may apply:
(a)
the requirements in paragraph 5.5.10 and B5.5.22-B5.5.24 of Ind AS 109; and
(b)
the rebuttable presumption in paragraph 5.5.11 of Ind AS 109 for contractual payments that are more than 30 days past
due if an entity will apply the impairment requirements by identifying significant increases in credit risk since initial
recognition for those financial instruments on the basis of past due information.
B8G. If, at the date of transition to Ind ASs, determining whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since
the initial recognition of a financial instrument would require undue cost or effort, an entity shall recognise a loss
allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses at each reporting date until that financial instrument is
derecognized (unless that financial instrument is low credit risk at a reporting date, in which case paragraph B8F(a)
applies).
Page 16/765
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Embedded derivatives
B9. A first-time adopter shall assess whether an embedded derivative is required to be separated from the host contract
and accounted for as a derivative on the basis of the conditions that existed at the later of the date it first became a party
to the contract and the date a reassessment is required by paragraph B4.3.11 of Ind AS 109.
Government loans
B10. A first-time adopter shall classify all government loans received as a financial liability or an equity instrument in
accordance with Ind AS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation. Except as permitted by paragraph B11, a first-time
adopter shall apply the requirements in Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments, and Ind AS 20, Accounting for Government
Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance, prospectively to government loans existing at the date of transition to
Ind ASs and shall not recognise the corresponding benefit of the government loan at a below-market rate of interest as a
government grant. Consequently, if a first-time adopter did not, under its previous GAAP, recognise and measure a
government loan at a below-market rate of interest on a basis consistent with Ind AS requirements, it shall use its
previous GAAP carrying amount of the loan at the date of transition to Ind ASs as the carrying amount of the loan in the
opening Ind AS Balance Sheet. An entity shall apply Ind AS 109 to the measurement of such loans after the date of
transition to Ind ASs.
B11. Despite paragraph B10, an entity may apply the requirements in Ind AS 109 and Ind AS 20 retrospectively to any
government loan originated before the date of transition to Ind ASs, provided that the information needed to do so had
been obtained at the time of initially accounting for that loan.
B12. The requirements and guidance in paragraphs B10 and B11 do not preclude an entity from being able to use the
exemptions described in paragraphs D19-D19C relating to the designation of previously recognized financial
instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Appendix C
Exemptions for business combinations
This appendix is an integral part of this Ind AS. An entity shall apply the following requirements to business
combinations that the entity recognized before the date of transition to Ind ASs. This Appendix should only be applied to
business combinations within the scope of Ind AS 103, Business Combinations.
C1. A first-time adopter may elect not to apply Ind AS 103 retrospectively to past business combinations (business
combinations that occurred before the date of transition to Ind ASs). However, if a first-time adopter restates any
business combination to comply with Ind AS 103, it shall restate all later business combinations and shall also apply Ind
AS 110 from that same date. For example, if a first-time adopter elects to restate a business combination that occurred
on 30 June 2010, it shall restate all business combinations that occurred between 30 June 2010 and the date of
transition to Ind ASs, and it shall also apply Ind AS 110 from 30. June 2010.
C2. An entity need not apply Ind AS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, retrospectively to fair value
adjustments and goodwill arising in business combinations that occurred before the date of transition to Ind ASs. If the
entity does not apply Ind AS 21 retrospectively to those fair value adjustments and goodwill, it shall treat them as assets
and liabilities of the entity rather than as assets and liabilities of the acquiree. Therefore, those goodwill and fair value
adjustments either are already expressed in the entity's functional currency or are non-monetary foreign currency items,
which are reported using the exchange rate applied in accordance with previous GAAP.
C3. An entity may apply Ind AS 21 retrospectively to fair value adjustments and goodwill arising in either:
(a)
all business combinations that occurred before the date of transition to Ind ASs; or
(b)
all business combinations that the entity elects to restate to comply with Ind AS 103, as permitted by paragraph C1
above.
C4. If a first-time adopter does not apply Ind AS 103 retrospectively to a past business combination, this has the
following consequences for that business combination:
(a)
The first-time adopter shall keep the same classification (as an acquisition by the legal acquirer, a reverse acquisition by
the legal acquiree, or a uniting of interests) as in its previous GAAP financial statements.
(b)
The first-time adopter shall recognise all its assets and liabilities at the date of transition to Ind ASs that were acquired or
Page 17/765
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
assumed in a past business combination, other than:
(i)
some financial assets and financial liabilities derecognized in accordance with previous GAAP (see paragraph B2); and
(ii)
assets, including goodwill, and liabilities that were not recognized in the acquirer's consolidated Balance Sheet in
accordance with previous GAAP and also would not qualify for recognition in accordance with Ind ASs in the separate
Balance Sheet of the acquiree (see (f)-(i) below).
The first-time adopter shall recognise any resulting change by adjusting retained earnings (or, if appropriate, another
category of equity), unless the change results from the recognition of an intangible asset that was previously subsumed
within goodwill (see (g)(i) below).
(c)
The first-time adopter shall exclude from its opening Ind AS Balance Sheet any item recognized in accordance with
previous GAAP that does not qualify for recognition as an asset or liability under Ind ASs. The first-time adopter shall
account for the resulting change as follows:
(i)
the first-time adopter may have classified a past business combination as an acquisition and recognized as an intangible
asset an item that does not qualify for recognition as an asset in accordance with Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets. It shall
reclassify that item (and, if any, the related deferred tax and non-controlling interests) as part of goodwill (unless it
deducted goodwill directly from equity in accordance with previous GAAP, see (g)(i) and (i) below) or capital reserve to
the extent not exceeding the balance available in that reserve.
(ii)
[ the first-time adopter shall recognise all other resulting changes in retained earnings.]
[Such changes include reclassifications from or to intangible assets if goodwill was not recognized in accordance with
previous GAAP as an asset. This arises if, in accordance with previous GAAP, the entity (a) deducted goodwill directly
from equity or (b) did not treat the business combination as an acquisition or (c) recognized capital reserve in a business
combination accounted for as an acquisition and the amount of reclassification mentioned in (i) above exceeds the
balance available in that reserve.]
(d)
Ind ASs require subsequent measurement of some assets and liabilities on a basis that is not based on original cost,
such as fair value. The first-time adopter shall measure these assets and liabilities on that basis in its opening Ind AS
Balance Sheet, even if they were acquired or assumed in a past business combination. It shall recognise any resulting
change in the carrying amount by adjusting retained earnings (or, if appropriate, another category of equity), rather than
goodwill/capital reserve.
Immediately after the business combination, the carrying amount in accordance with previous GAAP of assets acquired
and liabilities assumed in that business combination shall be their deemed cost in accordance with Ind ASs at that date.
If Ind ASs require a cost-based measurement of those assets and liabilities at a later date that deemed cost shall be the
basis for cost-based depreciation or
(e)
amortisation from the date of the business combination.
(f)
[ If an asset acquired, or liability assumed, in a past business combination was not recognised in accordance with
previous GAAP, it does not have a deemed cost of zero in the opening Ind AS Balance Sheet. Instead, the acquirer shall
recognise and measure it in its consolidated Balance Sheet on the basis that Ind ASs would require in the Balance
Sheet of the acquiree. To illustrate: if the acquirer had not, in accordance with its previous GAAP, capitalised leases
acquired in a past business combination in which acquiree was a lessee, it shall capitalise those leases in its
consolidated financial statements, as Ind AS 116, Leases, would require the acquiree to do in its Ind AS Balance Sheet.
Similarly, if the acquirer had not, in accordance with its previous GAAP, recognised a contingent liability that still exists
at the date of transition to Ind ASs, the acquirer shall recognise that contingent liability at that date unless Ind AS 37,
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, would prohibit its recognition in the financial statements of the
acquiree. Conversely, if an asset or liability was subsumed in goodwill/capital reserve in accordance with previous
GAAP but would have been recognised separately under Ind AS 103, that asset or liability remains in goodwill/capital
Page 18/765
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
reserve unless Ind ASs would require its recognition in the financial statements of the acquiree.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(g)
The carrying amount of goodwill or capital reserve in the opening Ind AS Balance Sheet shall be its carrying amount in
accordance with previous GAAP at the date of transition to Ind ASs, after the following two adjustments:
(i)
If required by (c)(i) above, the first-time adopter shall increase the carrying amount of goodwill or decrease the carrying
amount of capital reserve when it reclassifies an item that it recognized as an intangible asset in accordance with
previous GAAP. Similarly, if (f) above requires the first-time adopter to recognise an intangible asset that was subsumed
in recognized goodwill or capital reserve in accordance with previous GAAP, the first-time adopter shall decrease the
carrying amount of goodwill or increase the carrying amount of capital reserve accordingly (and, if applicable, adjust
deferred tax and non-controlling interests).
(ii)
Regardless of whether there is any indication that the goodwill may be impaired, the first-time adopter shall apply Ind AS
36 in testing the goodwill for impairment at the date of transition to Ind ASs and in recognising any resulting impairment
loss in retained earnings (or, if so required by Ind AS 36, in revaluation surplus). The impairment test shall be based on
conditions at the date of transition to Ind ASs.
(h)
No other adjustments shall be made to the carrying amount of goodwill / capital reserve at the date of transition to Ind
ASs. For example, the first-time adopter shall not restate the carrying amount of goodwill / capital reserve:
(i)
to exclude in-process research and development acquired in that business combination (unless the related intangible
asset would qualify for recognition in accordance with Ind AS 38 in the Balance Sheet of the acquiree);
(ii)
to adjust previous amortisation of goodwill;
(iii)
to reverse adjustments to goodwill that Ind AS 103 would not permit, but were made in accordance with previous GAAP
because of adjustments to assets and liabilities between the date of the business combination and the date of transition
to Ind ASs.
(i)
If the first-time adopter recognized goodwill in accordance with previous GAAP as a deduction from equity:
(i)
it shall not recognise that goodwill in its opening Ind AS Balance Sheet. Furthermore, it shall not reclassify that goodwill
to profit or loss if it disposes of the subsidiary or if the investment in the subsidiary becomes impaired.
(ii)
adjustments resulting from the subsequent resolution of a contingency affecting the purchase consideration shall be
recognized in retained earnings.
(j)
In accordance with its previous GAAP, the first-time adopter may not have consolidated a subsidiary acquired in a past
business combination (for example, because the parent did not regard it as a subsidiary in accordance with previous
GAAP or did not prepare consolidated financial statements). The first-time adopter shall adjust the carrying amounts of
the subsidiary's assets and liabilities to the amounts that Ind ASs would require in the subsidiary's Balance Sheet. The
deemed cost of goodwill equals the difference at the date of transition to Ind ASs between:
(i)
the parent's interest in those adjusted carrying amounts; and
(ii)
the cost in the parent's separate financial statements of its investment in the subsidiary.
(k)
The measurement of non-controlling interests and deferred tax follows from the measurement of other assets and
liabilities. Therefore, the above adjustments to recognized assets and liabilities affect non-controlling interests and
deferred tax.
Page 19/765
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
C5. The exemption for past business combinations also applies to past acquisitions of investments in associates,
interests in joint ventures and interests in joint operations in which the activity of the joint operation constitutes a
business, as defined in Ind AS 103. Furthermore, the date selected for paragraph C1 applies equally for all such
acquisitions.
Appendix D
Exemptions from other Ind ASs
This appendix is an integral part of this Ind AS.
D1. An entity may elect to use one or more of the following exemptions:
(a)
share-based payment transactions (paragraphs D2 and D3);
(b)
insurance contracts (paragraph D4);
(c)
deemed cost (paragraphs D5-D8B);
(d)
[ leases (paragraphs D9, D9AA and D9B-D9E);]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(e)
[Refer to Appendix 1]
(f)
cumulative translation differences (paragraphs D12 and D13);
(g)
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (paragraphs D14 and D15);
(h)
assets and liabilities of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (paragraphs D16 and D17);
(i)
compound financial instruments (paragraph D18);
(j)
designation of previously recognized financial instruments (paragraphs D19-D19C);
(k)
fair value measurement of financial assets or financial liabilities at initial recognition (paragraph D20);
(l)
decommissioning liabilities included in the cost of property, plant and equipment (paragraphs D21 and D21A);
(m)
[ financial assets or intangible assets accounted for in accordance with Appendix D to Ind AS 115 Service Concession
Arrangements (paragraph D22);]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(n)
borrowing costs (paragraph D23);
(o)
[Refer to Appendix 1];
(p)
extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments (paragraph D25);
(q)
severe hyperinflation (paragraphs D26-D30);
(r)
joint arrangements (paragraph D31-D31AL);
(s)
stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine (paragraph D32);
(t)
designation of contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item (paragraph D33);
Page 20/765
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(u)
[ revenue (paragraphs D34-D35);]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(ua)
[]
[Renumbered 'v' by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations (paragraph D35AA).
(v)
[ foreign currency transactions and advance consideration (paragraph D36).]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
An entity shall not apply these exemptions by analogy to other items.
Share-based payment transactions
D2. A first-time adopter is encouraged, but not required, to apply Ind AS 102 Share-based payment to equity
instruments that vested before date of transition to Ind ASs. However, if a first-time adopter elects to apply Ind AS 102 to
such equity instruments, it may do so only if the entity has disclosed publicly the fair value of those equity instruments,
determined at the measurement date, as defined in Ind AS 102. For all grants of equity instruments to which Ind AS 102
has not been applied (e.g., equity instruments vested but not settled before date of transition to Ind ASs, a first-time
adopter shall nevertheless disclose the information required by paragraphs 44 and 45 of Ind AS 102. If a first-time
adopter modifies the terms or conditions of a grant of equity instruments to which Ind AS 102 has not been applied, the
entity is not required to apply paragraphs 26-29 of Ind AS 102 if the modification occurred before the date of transition to
Ind ASs.
D3. A first-time adopter is encouraged, but not required, to apply Ind AS 102 to liabilities arising from share based
payment transactions that were settled before the date of transition to Ind ASs.
Insurance contracts
D4. An entity shall apply Ind AS 104 Insurance Contracts for annual periods beginning on or after date of transition to
Ind ASs. Earlier application is encouraged. If an entity applies this Ind AS 104 for an earlier period, it shall disclose that
fact.
In applying paragraph 39(c)(iii), of Ind AS 104 an entity need not disclose information about claims development that
occurred earlier than five years before the end of the first financial year in which it applies Ind AS 104. Furthermore, if it
is impracticable, when an entity first applies Ind AS 104, to prepare information about claims development that occurred
before the beginning of the earliest period for which an entity presents full comparative information that complies with
this Ind AS, the entity shall disclose that fact.
When an insurer changes its accounting policies for insurance liabilities, it is permitted, but not required, to reclassify
some or all of its financial assets as 'at fair value through profit or loss'. This reclassification is permitted if an insurer
changes accounting policies when it first applies Ind AS 104 and if it makes a subsequent policy change permitted by
paragraph 22. The reclassification is a change in accounting policy and Ind AS 8 applies.
Deemed cost
D5. An entity may elect to measure an item of property, plant and equipment at the date of transition to Ind ASs at its fair
value and use that fair value as its deemed cost at that date.
D6. A first-time adopter may elect to use a previous GAAP revaluation of an item of property, plant and equipment at, or
before, the date of transition to Ind ASs as deemed cost at the date of the revaluation, if the revaluation was, at the date
of the revaluation, broadly comparable to:
(a)
fair value; or
(b)
cost or depreciated cost in accordance with Ind ASs, adjusted to reflect, for example, changes in a general or specific
price index.
[D7. The elections in paragraphs D5 and D6 are also available for:
(a)
Refer Appendix 1
(aa)
Page 21/765
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
[ right-of-use assets (Ind AS 116, Leases); and]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b)
intangible assets that meet:
(i)
the recognition criteria in Ind AS 38 (including reliable measurement of original cost); and
(ii)
the criteria in Ind AS 38 for revaluation (including the existence of an active market).
An entity shall not use these elections for other assets or for liabilities]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
.
D7AA. Where there is no change in its functional currency on the date of transition to Ind ASs, a first-time adopter to Ind
ASs may elect to continue with the carrying value for all of its property, plant and equipment as recognized in the
financial statements as at the date of transition to Ind ASs, measured as per the previous GAAP and use that as its
deemed cost as at the date of transition after making necessary adjustments in accordance with paragraph D21 and
D21A, of this Ind AS. For this purpose, if the financial statements are consolidated financial statements, the previous
GAAP amount of the subsidiary shall be that amount used in preparing and presenting consolidated financial
statements. Where a subsidiary was not consolidated under previous GAAP, the amount required to be reported by the
subsidiary as per previous GAAP in its individual financial statements shall be the previous GAAP amount. If an entity
avails the option under this paragraph, no further adjustments to the deemed cost of the property, plant and equipment
so determined in the opening balance sheet shall be made for transition adjustments that might arise from the
application of other Ind ASs. This option can also be availed for intangible assets covered by Ind AS 38, Intangible
Assets and investment property covered by Ind AS 40, Investment Property.
D8. A first-time adopter may have established a deemed cost in accordance with previous GAAP for some or all of its
assets and liabilities by measuring them at their fair value at one particular date because of an event such as a
privatization or initial public offering.
(a)
If the measurement date is at or before the date of transition to Ind ASs, the entity may use such event-driven fair value
measurements as deemed cost for Ind ASs at the date of that measurement.
(b)
If the measurement date is after the date of transition to Ind ASs, but during the period covered by the first Ind AS
financial statements, the event-driven fair value measurements may be used as deemed cost when the event occurs. An
entity shall recognise the resulting adjustments directly in retained earnings (or if appropriate, another category of
equity) at the measurement date. At the date of transition to Ind ASs, the entity shall either establish the deemed cost by
applying the criteria in paragraphs D5-D7 or measure assets and liabilities in accordance with the other requirements in
this Ind AS.
D8A. Under some GAAP's exploration and development costs for oil and gas properties in the development or
production phases are accounted for in cost centers that include all properties in a large geographical area. A first-time
adopter using such accounting under previous GAAP may elect to measure oil and gas assets at the date of transition to
Ind ASs on the following basis:
(a)
exploration and evaluation assets at the amount determined under the entity's previous GAAP; and
(b)
assets in the development or production phases at the amount determined for the cost centre under the entity's previous
GAAP. The entity shall allocate this amount to the cost centre's underlying assets pro rata using reserve volumes or
reserve values as of that date.
The entity shall test exploration and evaluation assets and assets in the development and production phases for
impairment at the date of transition to Ind ASs in accordance with Ind AS 106, Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral
Resources, or Ind AS 36 respectively and, if necessary, reduce the amount determined in accordance with (a) or (b)
above. For the purposes of this paragraph, oil and gas assets comprise only those assets used in the exploration,
evaluation, development or production of oil and gas.
Page 22/765
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
[D8B Some entities hold items of property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets or intangible assets that are used,
or were previously used, in operations subject to rate regulation. The carrying amount of such items might include
amounts that were determined under previous GAAP but do not qualify for capitalisation in accordance with Ind ASs. If
this is the case, a first-time adopter may elect to use the previous GAAP carrying amount of such an item at the date of
transition to Ind ASs as deemed cost. If an entity applies this exemption to an item, it need not apply it to all items. At the
date of transition to Ind ASs, an entity shall test for impairment in accordance with Ind AS 36 each item for which this
exemption is used. For the purposes of this paragraph, operations are subject to rate regulation if they are governed by
a framework for establishing the prices that can be charged to customers for goods or services and that framework is
subject to oversight and/or approval by a rate regulator (as defined in Ind AS 114, Regulatory Deferral Accounts).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Leases
[D9 A first-time adopter may assess whether a contract existing at the date of transition to Ind ASs contains a lease by
applying paragraphs 9-11 of Ind AS 116 to those contracts on the basis of facts and circumstances existing at that date.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[***]
[Omitted 'D9A' by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[D9AA When a lease includes both land and building elements, a first time adopter lessor may assess the classification
of each element as finance or an operating lease at the date of transition to Ind ASs on the basis of the facts and
circumstances existing as at that date.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[D9B When a first-time adopter that is a lessee recognises lease liabilities and right-of-use assets, it may apply the
following approach to all of its leases (subject to the practical expedients described in paragraph D9D): -
(a)
measure a lease liability at the date of transition to Ind AS. A lessee following this approach shall measure that lease
liability at the present value of the remaining lease payments (see paragraph D9E), discounted using the lessee's
incremental borrowing rate (see paragraph D9E) at the date of transition to Ind AS.;
(b)
measure a right-of-use asset at the date of transition to Ind AS. The lessee shall choose, on a lease-by-lease basis, to
measure that right-of-use asset at either: -
(i)
its carrying amount as if Ind AS 116 had been applied since the commencement date of the lease (see paragraph D9E),
but discounted using the lessee's incremental borrowing rate at the date of transition to Ind AS; or
(ii)
an amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments relating to that
lease recognised in the Balance Sheet immediately before the date of transition to Ind AS.
(c)
apply Ind AS 36 to right-of-use assets at the date of transition to Ind AS.
D9C Omitted*
D9D A first-time adopter that is a lessee may do one or more of the following at the date of transition to Ind AS, applied
on a lease-by-lease basis:
(a)
apply a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics (for example, a similar
remaining lease term for a similar class of underlying asset in a similar economic environment).
(b)
elect not to apply the requirements in paragraph D9B to leases for which the lease term (see paragraph D9E) ends
within 12 months of the date of transition to Ind AS. Instead, the entity shall account for (including disclosure of
information about) these leases as if they were short-term leases accounted for in accordance with paragraph 6 of Ind
AS 116.
(c)
elect not to apply the requirements in paragraph D9B to leases for which the underlying asset is of low value (as
described in paragraphs B3-B8 of Ind AS 116). Instead, the entity shall account for (including disclosure of information
Page 23/765
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
about) these leases in accordance with paragraph 6 of Ind AS 116.
(d)
exclude initial direct costs (see paragraph D9E) from the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of transition
to Ind AS.
(e)
use hindsight, such as in determining the lease term if the contract contains options to extend or terminate the lease.
D9E Lease payments, lessee, lessee's incremental borrowing rate, commencement date of the lease, initial direct costs
and lease term are defined terms in Ind AS 116 and are used in this Standard with the same meaning.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
* Refer to Appendix 1
D10.-D11. [Refer to Appendix 1]
Cumulative translation differences
D12. Ind AS 21 requires an entity:
(a)
to recognise some translation differences in other comprehensive income and accumulate these in a separate
component of equity; and
(b)
on disposal of a foreign operation, to reclassify the cumulative translation difference for that foreign operation (including,
if applicable, gains and losses on related hedges) from equity to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
D13. However, a first-time adopter need not comply with these requirements for cumulative translation differences that
existed at the date of transition to Ind ASs. If a first-time adopter uses this exemption:
(a)
the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations are deemed to be zero at the date of transition to Ind
ASs; and
(b)
the gain or loss on a subsequent disposal of any foreign operation shall exclude translation differences that arose before
the date of transition to Ind ASs and shall include later translation differences.
Long Term Foreign Currency Monetary Items
D13AA. A first-time adopter may continue the policy adopted for accounting for exchange differences arising from
translation of long-term foreign currency monetary items recognized in the financial statements for the period ending
immediately before the beginning of the first Ind AS financial reporting period as per the previous GAAP.
Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
D14. When an entity prepares separate financial statements, Ind AS 27 requires it to account for its investments in
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates either:
(a)
at cost; or
(b)
in accordance with Ind AS 109.
D15. If a first-time adopter measures such an investment at cost in accordance with Ind AS 27, it shall measure that
investment at one of the following amounts in its separate opening Ind AS Balance Sheet:
(a)
cost determined in accordance with Ind AS 27; or
(b)
deemed cost. The deemed cost of such an investment shall be its:
(i)
fair value at the entity's date of transition to Ind ASs in its separate financial statements; or
(ii)
previous GAAP carrying amount at that date.
A first-time adopter may choose either (i) or (ii) above to measure its investment in each subsidiary, joint venture or
associate that it elects to measure using a deemed cost.
Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
Page 24/765
----- PAGE 25 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
D16. If a subsidiary becomes a first-time adopter later than its parent, the subsidiary shall, in its financial statements,
measure its assets and liabilities at either:
(a)
the carrying amounts that would be included in the parent's consolidated financial statements, based on the parent's
date of transition to Ind ASs, if no adjustments were made for consolidation procedures and for the effects of the
business combination in which the parent acquired the subsidiary (this election is not available to a subsidiary of an
investment entity, as defined in Ind AS 110, that is required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss); or
(b)
the carrying amounts required by the rest of this Ind AS, based on the subsidiary's date of transition to Ind ASs. These
carrying amounts could differ from those described in (a):
(i)
when the exemptions in this Ind AS result in measurements that depend on the date of transition to Ind ASs.
(ii)
when the accounting policies used in the subsidiary's financial statements differ from those in the consolidated financial
statements. For example, the subsidiary may use as its accounting policy the cost model in Ind AS 16 Property, Plant
and Equipment, whereas the group may use the revaluation model.
A similar election is available to an associate or joint venture that becomes a first-time adopter later than an entity that
has significant influence or joint control over it.
D17. However, if an entity becomes a first-time adopter later than its subsidiary (or associate or joint venture) the entity
shall, in its consolidated financial statements, measure the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary (or associate or joint
venture) at the same carrying amounts as in the financial statements of the subsidiary (or associate or joint venture),
after adjusting for consolidation and equity accounting adjustments and for the effects of the business combination in
which the entity acquired the subsidiary. Notwithstanding this requirement, a non-investment entity parent shall not apply
the exception to consolidation that is used by any investment entity subsidiaries. Similarly, if a parent becomes a
first-time adopter for its separate financial statements earlier or later than for its consolidated financial statements, it
shall measure its assets and liabilities at the same amounts in both financial statements, except for consolidation
adjustments.
Compound financial instruments
D18. Ind AS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation requires an entity to split a compound financial instrument at
inception into separate liability and equity components. If the liability component is no longer outstanding, retrospective
application of Ind AS 32 involves separating two portions of equity. The first portion is in retained earnings and
represents the cumulative interest accreted on the liability component. The other portion represents the original equity
component. However, in accordance with this Ind AS, a first-time adopter need not separate these two portions if the
liability component is no longer outstanding at the date of transition to Ind ASs.
Designation of previously recognized financial instruments
D19. Ind AS 109 permits a financial liability (provided it meets certain criteria) to be designated as a financial liability at
fair value through profit or loss. Despite this requirement an entity is permitted to designate, at the date of transition to
Ind ASs, any financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss provided the liability meets the criteria in paragraph
4.2.2 of Ind AS 109 at that date.
D19A. An entity may designate a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with
paragraph 4.1.5 of Ind AS 109 on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of transition to Ind ASs.
D19B. An entity may designate an investment in an equity instrument as at fair value through other comprehensive
income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of Ind AS 109 on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the
date of transition to Ind ASs.
D19C. For a financial liability that is designated as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss, an entity shall
determine whether the treatment in paragraph 5.7.7 of Ind AS 109 would create an accounting mismatch in profit or loss
on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of transition to Ind ASs.
Fair value measurement of financial assets or financial liabilities at initial recognition
D20. Despite the requirements of paragraphs 7 and 9 of this Ind AS, an entity may apply the requirements in paragraph
B5.1.2A (b) of Ind AS 109 prospectively to transactions entered into on or after the date of transition to Ind ASs.
Decommissioning liabilities included in the cost of property, plant and equipment
Page 25/765
----- PAGE 26 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
D21. Appendix 'A' to Ind AS 16 Changes in Existing Decommissioning, Restoration and Similar Liabilities requires
specified changes in a decommissioning, restoration or similar liability to be added to or deducted from the cost of the
asset to which it relates; the adjusted depreciable amount of the asset is then depreciated prospectively over its
remaining useful life. A first-time adopter need not comply with these requirements for changes in such liabilities that
occurred before the date of transition to Ind ASs. If a first-time adopter uses this exemption, it shall:
(a)
measure the liability as at the date of transition to Ind ASs in accordance with Ind AS 37;
(b)
to the extent that the liability is within the scope of Appendix A of Ind AS 16, estimate the amount that would have been
included in the cost of the related asset when the liability first arose, by discounting the liability to that date using its best
estimate of the historical risk-adjusted discount rate(s) that would have applied for that liability over the intervening
period; and
(c)
calculate the accumulated depreciation on that amount, as at the date of transition to Ind ASs, on the basis of the
current estimate of the useful life of the asset, using the depreciation policy adopted by the entity in accordance with Ind
ASs.
D21A. An entity that uses the exemption in paragraph D8A(b) (for oil and gas assets in the development or production
phases accounted for in cost centers that include all properties in a large geographical area under previous GAAP) shall,
instead of applying paragraph D21 or Appendix A of Ind AS 16:
(a)
measure decommissioning, restoration and similar liabilities as at the date of transition to Ind ASs in accordance with Ind
AS 37; and
(b)
recognise directly in retained earnings any difference between that amount and the carrying amount of those liabilities at
the date of transition to Ind ASs determined under the entity's previous GAAP.
[Financial assets or intangible assets accounted for in accordance with Appendix D, Service Concession Arrangements
to Ind AS 115
D22. A first-time adopter may apply the following provisions while applying the [Appendix D to Ind AS 115]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
:]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(i)
Subject to paragraph (ii), changes in accounting policies are accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 8, i.e.
retrospectively, except for the policy adopted for amortisation of intangible assets arising from service concession
arrangements related to toll roads recognized in the financial statements for the period ending immediately before the
beginning of the first Ind AS financial reporting period as per the previous GAAP.
(ii)
If, for any particular service arrangement, it is impracticable for an operator to apply this Appendix retrospectively at the
date of transition to Ind ASs, it shall:
(a)
recognise financial assets and intangible assets that existed at the date of transition to Ind ASs;
(b)
use the previous carrying amounts of those financial and intangible assets (however previously classified) as their
carrying amounts as at that date; and
(c)
test financial and intangible assets recognized at that date for impairment, unless this is not practicable, in which case
the amounts shall be tested for impairment as at the start of the current period.
(iii)
There are two aspects to retrospective determination: reclassification and remeasurement. It will usually be practicable
to determine retrospectively the appropriate classification of all amounts previously included in an operator's Balance
Sheet, but that retrospective remeasurement of service arrangement assets might not always be practicable. However,
Page 26/765
----- PAGE 27 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the fact should be disclosed.
Borrowing costs
D23. [Refer to Appendix 1]
D24. [Refer to Appendix 1]
Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments
D25. A first-time adopter may apply the Appendix E of Ind AS 109 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity
Instruments from the date of transition to Ind ASs.
Severe hyperinflation
D26. If an entity has a functional currency that was, or is, the currency of a hyper inflationary economy, it shall determine
whether it was subject to severe hyperinflation before the date of transition to Ind ASs. This applies to entities that are
adopting Ind ASs for the first time, as well as entities that have previously applied Ind ASs.
D27. The currency of a hyper-inflationary economy is subject to severe hyperinflation if it has both of the following
characteristics:
(a)
a reliable general price index is not available to all entities with transactions and balances in the currency.
(b)
exchange-ability between the currency and a relatively stable foreign currency does not exist.
D28. The functional currency of an entity ceases to be subject to severe hyperinflation on the functional currency
normalisation date. That is the date when the functional currency no longer has either, or both, of the characteristics in
paragraph D27, or when there is a change in the entity's functional currency to a currency that is not subject to severe
hyperinflation.
D29. When an entity's date of transition to Ind ASs is on, or after, the functional currency normalisation date, the entity
may elect to measure all assets and liabilities held before the functional currency normalisation date at fair value on the
date of transition to Ind ASs. The entity may use that fair value as the deemed cost of those assets and liabilities in the
opening Ind AS Balance Sheet.
D30. When the functional currency normalisation date falls within a 12-month comparative period, the comparative
period may be less than 12 months, provided that a complete set of financial statements (as required by paragraph 10 of
Ind AS 1) is provided for that shorter period.
Joint arrangements
D31. [Refer to Appendix 1]
Joint ventures - transition from proportionate consolidation to the equity method
D31AA. When changing from proportionate consolidation to the equity method, an entity shall recognise its investment
in the joint venture at transition date to Ind ASs. That initial investment shall be measured as the aggregate of the
carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities that the entity had previously proportionately consolidated, including any
goodwill arising from acquisition. If the goodwill previously belonged to a larger cash-generating unit, or to a group of
cash-generating units, the entity shall allocate goodwill to the joint venture on the basis of the relative carrying amounts
of the joint venture and the cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units to which it belonged.
D31AB. The balance of the investment in joint venture at the date of transition to Ind ASs, determined in accordance
with paragraph D31AA above is regarded as the deemed cost of the investment at initial recognition.
D31AC. A first-time adopter shall test investment in joint venture for impairment in accordance with Ind AS 36 at the date
of transition to Ind ASs, regardless of whether there is any indication that the investment may be impaired. Any resulting
impairment shall be recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings at the date of transition to Ind ASs. The initial
recognition exception in paragraphs 15 and 24 of Ind AS 12 Income Taxes does not apply when the entity recognises an
investment in a joint venture resulting from applying the transition requirements for joint ventures that had previously
been proportionately consolidated.
D31AD. If aggregating all previously proportionately consolidated assets and liabilities results in negative net assets, an
entity shall assess whether it has legal or constructive obligations in relation to the negative net assets and, if so, the
entity shall recognise the corresponding liability. If the entity concludes that it does not have legal or constructive
obligations in relation to the negative net assets, it shall not recognise the corresponding liability but it shall adjust
retained earnings at the date of transition to Ind ASs. The entity shall disclose this fact, along with its cumulative
unrecognized share of losses of its joint ventures at the date of transition to Ind ASs.
Page 27/765
----- PAGE 28 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
D31AE. An entity shall disclose a breakdown of the assets and liabilities that have been aggregated into the single line
investment balance at the date of transition to Ind ASs. That disclosure shall be prepared in an aggregated manner for
all joint ventures at the date of transition to Ind ASs.
D31AF. After initial recognition at the date of transition to Ind ASs, an entity shall account for its investment in the joint
venture using the equity method in accordance with Ind AS 28.
Joint operations-transition from the equity method to accounting for assets and liabilities
D31AG. When changing from the equity method to accounting for assets and liabilities in respect of its interest in a joint
operation, an entity shall, at the date of transition to Ind ASs, derecognise the investment that was previously accounted
for using the equity method and any other items that formed part of the entity's net investment in the arrangement in
accordance with paragraph 38 of Ind AS 28 and recognise its share of each of the assets and the liabilities in respect of
its interest in the joint operation, including any goodwill that might have formed part of the carrying amount of the
investment.
D31AH. An entity shall determine its interest in the assets and liabilities relating to the joint operation on the basis of its
rights and obligations in a specified proportion in accordance with the contractual arrangement. An entity measures the
initial carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities by disaggregating them from the carrying amount of the investment at
the date of transition to Ind ASs on the basis of the information used by the entity in applying the equity method.
D31AI. Any difference arising from the investment previously accounted for using the equity method together with any
other items that formed part of the entity's net investment in the arrangement in accordance with paragraph 38 of Ind AS
28, and the net amount of the assets and liabilities, including any goodwill, recognized shall be:
a. offset against any goodwill relating to the investment with any remaining difference adjusted against retained earnings
at the date of transition to Ind ASs, if the net amount of the assets and liabilities, including any goodwill, recognized is
higher than the investment (and any other items that formed part of the entity's net investment) derecognized.
b. adjusted against retained earnings at the date of transition to Ind ASs, if the net amount of the assets and liabilities,
including any goodwill, recognized is lower than the investment (and any other items that formed part of the entity's net
investment) derecognized.
D31AJ. An entity changing from the equity method to accounting for assets and liabilities shall provide a reconciliation
between the investment derecognized, and the assets and liabilities recognized, together with any remaining difference
adjusted against retained earnings, at the date of transition to Ind ASs.
D31AK. The initial recognition exception in paragraphs 15 and 24 of Ind AS 12 does not apply when the entity
recognises assets and liabilities relating to its interest in a joint operation.
Transition provisions in an entity's separate financial statements
D31AL. An entity that, in accordance with paragraph 10 of Ind AS 27, was previously accounting in its separate financial
statements for its interest in a joint operation as an investment at cost or in accordance with Ind AS 109 shall:
a. derecognise the investment and recognise the assets and the liabilities in respect of its interest in the joint operation
at the amounts determined in accordance with paragraphs D31AG-D31AI.
b. provide a reconciliation between the investment derecognized, and the assets and liabilities recognized, together with
any remaining difference adjusted in retained earnings, at the date of transition to Ind ASs.
Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine
D32. A first-time adopter may apply the Appendix B of Ind AS 16 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface
Mine from the date of transition to Ind ASs. As at transition date to Ind ASs, any previously recognized asset balance
that resulted from stripping activity undertaken during the production phase ('predecessor stripping asset') shall be
reclassified as a part of an existing asset to which the stripping activity related, to the extent that there remains an
identifiable component of the ore body with which the predecessor stripping asset can be associated. Such balances
shall be depreciated or amortised over the remaining expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body to
which each predecessor stripping asset balance relates. If there is no identifiable component of the ore body to which
that predecessor stripping asset relates, it shall be recognized in opening retained earnings at the transition date to Ind
ASs.
Designation of contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item
D33. Ind AS 109 permits some contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item to be designated at inception as measured at
fair value through profit or loss (see paragraph 2.5 of Ind AS 109). Despite this requirement an entity is permitted to
designate, at the date of transition to Ind ASs, contracts that already exist on that date as measured at fair value through
Page 28/765
----- PAGE 29 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
profit or loss but only if they meet the requirements of paragraph 2.5 of Ind AS109 at that date and the entity designates
all similar contracts.
[Revenue
D34 A first-time adopter may apply the transition provisions in paragraph C5 of Ind AS 115. In those paragraphs
references to the `date of initial application' shall be interpreted as the beginning of the first Ind AS reporting period. If a
first-time adopter decides to apply those transition provisions, it shall also apply paragraph C6 of Ind AS 115.
D35 A first-time adopter is not required to restate contracts that were completed before the earliest period presented. A
completed contract is a contract for which the entity has transferred all of the goods or services identified in accordance
with previous GAAP.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
D35AA. Ind AS 105 requires non-current assets (or disposal groups) that meet the criteria to be classified as held for
sale, non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are held for distribution to owners and operations that meet the criteria
to be classified as discontinued and carried at lower of its carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell on the initial
date of such identification. A first time adopter can:
(a)
measure such assets or operations at the lower of carrying value and fair value less cost to sell at the date of transition
to Ind ASs in accordance with Ind AS 105; and
(b)
recognise directly in retained earnings any difference between that amount and the carrying amount of those assets at
the date of transition to Ind ASs determined under the entity's previous GAAP.
[Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration
D36 A first-time adopter need not apply Appendix B, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration of Ind
AS 21 to assets, expenses and income in the scope of that Appendix initially recognised before the date of transition to
Ind AS Standards.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix E
Short-term exemptions from Ind ASs
[E1 *
E2 *
E3 *
E4 *
E5 *
E6 *
E7 *
Uncertainty over income tax treatments
E8 A first-time adopter whose date of transition to Ind ASs is before the date of notification of this Appendix may elect
not to reflect the application of the Appendix C, Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments, to Ind AS 12, Income Taxes,
in comparative information in its first Ind AS financial statements. An entity that makes that election shall recognise the
cumulative effect of applying Appendix C to Ind AS 12 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings (or
other component of equity, as appropriate) at the beginning of its first Ind AS reporting period.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[* Refer to Appendix 1]
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Ind AS 101, First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards. The purpose of
this Appendix is only to highlight major differences between Ind AS 101 and corresponding International Financial
Reporting Standard (IFRS) 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Major differences between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 101 First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards
and IFRS 1
1. Paragraph 3 of Ind AS 101 specifies that an entity's first Ind AS financial statements are the first annual financial
statements in which the entity adopts Ind ASs in accordance with Ind ASs notified under the Companies Act, 2013
whereas IFRS 1 provides various examples of first IFRS financial statements.
Page 29/765
----- PAGE 30 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
2. Paragraph 4, 4A, 4B, 23A and 23B of IFRS 1 provide various examples of instances when an entity does not apply
this IFRS. Ind AS 101 does not provide the same. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IFRS 1,
the paragraph number is retained in Ind AS 101.
3. IFRS 1 defines previous GAAP as the basis of accounting that a first-time adopter used immediately before adopting
IFRS. However, Ind AS 101 defines previous GAAP as the basis of accounting that a first-time adopter used for its
reporting requirement in India immediately before adopting Ind AS.
The change makes it mandatory for Indian entities to consider the financial statements prepared in accordance with
existing notified Indian accounting standards as was applicable to them as previous GAAP when it transitions to Ind
ASs.
4. Under IFRS 1, para C4(c) requires, the first-time adopter shall exclude from its opening Ind AS Balance Sheet any
item recognized in accordance with previous GAAP that does not qualify for recognition as an asset or liability under Ind
ASs. The first-time adopter shall account for the resulting change in the retained earnings as at the transition date
except in certain specific instances where it requires adjustment in the goodwill. In such specific instances where IFRS 1
allows adjustment in the goodwill, under Ind AS 101 it can be adjusted with the Capital reserve to the extent such
adjustment amount does not exceed the balance available in Capital reserve.
5. Ind AS 101 in addition to exemptions provided under IFRS 1, also provides certain optional exemptions relating to the
long-term foreign currency monetary items and service concession arrangements relating to toll roads. Accordingly,
paragraphs 6 and D22 have been modified. Further a heading and paragraph D13AA have been added after paragraph
D13.
6. Certain IFRS 1 exceptions to the retrospective application of other IFRS refer to transitional provisions of other IFRSs.
However Ind ASs does not provide transitional provisions, accordingly transitional provisions in other IFRSs have been
incorporated in the paragraphs B8A, B8B, B8D, B8E, B8EA and B8EB of Ind AS 101.
7. Certain exemptions in Appendix D of IFRS 1 refer to transitional provisions of other IFRSs. However Ind ASs do not
provide transitional provisions, accordingly wherever considered an appropriate transitional provision in other IFRSs has
been incorporated in the respective exemptions in Appendix D of Ind AS 101. The following paragraphs in IFRS 1
provide the transitional provisions of other IFRSs which are included in Ind AS 101:
(i)
Paragraph D4 includes the transitional provisions of IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts;
(ii)
Paragraph D9 includes the transitional provisions of IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease;
(iii)
Paragraph D22 includes the transitional provisions of IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements;
(iv)
Paragraph D25 includes the transitional provisions of IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity
Instruments;
(v)
Paragraph D31 includes the transitional provisions of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements;
(vi)
Paragraph D32 includes the transitional provisions of IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface
Mine; and
(vii)
Paragraph D34 and D35 includes the transitional provisions of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts customer.
8. IFRS 1 provides for various optional exemptions that an entity can seek while an entity transitions to IFRS from its
previous GAAP. Similar provisions have been retained under Ind AS 101. However, there are few changes that have
been made, which can be broadly categorized as follows:
(a)
Elimination of effective dates prior to transition date to Ind ASs. IFRS 1 provides for various dates from which a standard
could have been implemented. For example,
Paragraph D2 of IFRS 1 provides that an entity is encouraged, but not required, to apply IFRS 2 Share based Payment
to equity instruments that were granted on or before 7 November 2002 or to instruments that were granted after 7
November 2002 and vested before the later of (a) the date of transition to IFRSs and (b) 1 January 2005. However, for
Page 30/765
----- PAGE 31 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Ind AS 101 purposes, all these dates have been changed to coincide with the transition date elected by the entity
adopting these converged standards i.e. Ind AS.
(b)
Deletion of borrowing cost exemptions not relevant for India:
Paragraph D23 of IFRS 1 provides for transitional adjustment requiring companies to apply the provisions of IAS 23
prospectively after the transition date to IFRS. However, this was considered as not relevant in Indian situation as AS 16
always required an entity to capitalize borrowing costs as compared to IAS 23 where it provided an option to expense
out such borrowing cost.
(c)
Inclusion/modification of existing exemptions to make it relevant for India. For example,
1. Paragraph D7AA has been added to provide for transitional relief from the retrospective application of Ind AS 16:
Property, Plant and Equipment. Paragraph D7AA, provides an entity option to use carrying values of all such assets as
on the date of transition to Ind ASs, in accordance with previous GAAP as an acceptable starting point under Ind AS.
Paragraph 27AA has been included in Ind AS 101. which requires the disclosure that if an entity adopts for first time
exemption the option provided in accordance with paragraph D7AA, the fact and the accounting policy shall be disclosed
by the entity until such time that those items of property, plant and equipment, investment properties or intangible
assets, as the case maybe, are significantly depreciated, impaired or derecognized from the entity's Balance Sheet.
2. Paragraph D9AA has been added to provide for transitional relief while applying Ind AS 17: Leases. D9AA provides
an entity to use the transition date facts and circumstances for lease arrangements which includes both land and
building elements to assess the classification of each element as finance or an operating lease at the transition date to
Ind ASs. Also, if there is any land lease newly classified as finance lease then the first time adopter may recognise
assets and liability at fair value on that date; any difference between those fair values is recognized in retained earnings.
3. Paragraph D35AA has been added to provide for transitional relief while applying Ind AS 105 - Non-current Assets
Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. Paragraph D35AA provides an entity to use the transitional date
circumstances to measure such assets or operations at the lower of carrying value and fair value less cost to sell.
9. [ Paragraphs E1-E2 of Appendix E of IFRS 1 provides 'Short-term exemptions from IFRSs', however Ind AS 101 does
not provide the aforesaid short-term exemptions. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IFRS 1,
the same have been retained in Ind AS 101.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
10. [ IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is effective from annual period beginning on or after January 1, 2018. As the above
said standard is not yet effective consequential amendments due to this standard have not been incorporated in current
version of IFRS 1. However, corresponding Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments has been issued with consequential
amendments in other Ind ASs including Ind AS 101. Accordingly, its consequential amendments to Ind AS 109 have
been incorporated in Ind AS 101.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
11. Different terminology is used in Ind AS 101, e.g., the term 'Balance Sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'.
12. [ Following paragraph numbers appear as 'deleted' in IFRS 1. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IFRS 1, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 101:
(i)
Paragraph 19
(ii)
Paragraph D1(e)
(iii)
Paragraph D1(o)
(iv)
Paragraphs D9A and D9C
(v)
Paragraphs D10-11
(vi)
Paragraph D24
Page 31/765
----- PAGE 32 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(vii)
Paragraph D31]
(viii)
[ Paragraphs E3-E7.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
13. [ IAS 40, Investment Property permits both cost model and fair value model (except in some situations) for
measurement of investment properties after initial recognition. Ind AS 40, Investment Property, permits only the cost
model. As a consequence, paragraph 30 is amended and paragraphs D7(a) and D9C are deleted.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
14. [ Paragraphs 34 to 39W and 39Y to 39AB and 39AD of IFRS 1 have not been included in Ind AS 101 as these
paragraphs relate to effective date and are not relevant in Indian context. Paragraph 39AE has not been included since
it refers to amendments due to issuance of IFRS 17, Insurance Contracts, for which corresponding Ind AS is under
formulation. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IFRS 1, these paragraph numbers
have been retained in Ind AS 101.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 102
Share-based Payment
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.).
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to specify the financial reporting by an entity when it undertakes a share based
payment transaction. In particular, it requires an entity to reflect in its profit or loss and financial position the effects of
share-based payment transactions, including expenses associated with transactions in which share options are granted
to employees.
Scope
2. An entity shall apply this Standard in accounting for all share-based payment transactions, whether or not the entity
can identify specifically some or all of the goods or services received, including:
(a)
equity-settled share-based payment transactions,
(b)
cash-settled share-based payment transactions, and
(c)
transactions in which the entity receives or acquires goods or services and the terms of the arrangement provide either
the entity or the supplier of those goods or services with a choice of whether the entity settles the transaction in cash (or
other assets) or by issuing equity instruments,
except as noted in paragraphs 3A-6. In the absence of specifically identifiable goods or services, other circumstances
may indicate that goods or services have been (or will be) received, in which case this Standard applies.
3. [Refer Appendix 1]
3A.
A share-based payment transaction may be settled by another group entity (or a shareholder of any group entity) on
behalf of the entity receiving or acquiring the goods or services. Paragraph 2 also applies to an entity that,
(a)
receives goods or services when another entity in the same group (or a shareholder of any group entity) has the
obligation to settle the share-based payment transaction, or
(b)
has an obligation to settle a share-based payment transaction when another entity in the same group receives the goods
or services,
unless the transaction is clearly for a purpose other than payment for goods or services supplied to the entity receiving
them.
4. For the purposes of this Standard, a transaction with an employee (or other party) in his/her capacity as a holder of
equity instruments of the entity is not a share-based payment transaction. For example, if an entity grants all holders of a
Page 32/765
----- PAGE 33 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
particular class of its equity instruments the right to acquire additional equity instruments of the entity at a price that is
less than the fair value of those equity instruments, and an employee receives such a right because he/she is a holder of
equity instruments of that particular class, the granting or exercise of that right is not subject to the requirements of this
Standard.
5. As noted in paragraph 2, this Standard applies to share-based payment transactions in which an entity acquires or
receives goods or services. Goods includes inventories, consumables, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets
and other non-financial assets. However, an entity shall not apply this Standard to transactions in which the entity
acquires goods as part of the net assets acquired in a business combination as defined by Ind AS 103, Business
Combinations, in a combination of entities or businesses under common control as described in Appendix C of Ind AS
103, or the contribution of a business on the formation of a joint venture as defined by Ind AS 111, Joint Arrangements.
Hence, equity instruments issued in a business combination in exchange for control of the acquiree are not within the
scope of this Standard. However, equity instruments granted to employees of the acquiree in their capacity as
employees (eg in return for continued service) are within the scope of this Standard. Similarly, the cancellation,
replacement or other modification of share-based payment arrangements because of a business combination or other
equity restructuring shall be accounted for in accordance with this Standard. Ind AS 103 provides guidance on
determining whether equity instruments issued in a business combination are part of the consideration transferred in
exchange for control of the acquiree (and therefore within the scope of Ind AS 103) or are in return for continued service
to be recognized in the post-combination period (and therefore within the scope of this Standard).
6. This Standard does not apply to share-based payment transactions in which the entity receives or acquires goods or
services under a contract within the scope of paragraphs 8-10 of Ind AS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, or
paragraphs 2.4-2.7 of Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments.
6A.
This Standard uses the term 'fair value' in a way that differs in some respects from the definition of fair value in Ind AS
113, Fair Value Measurement. Therefore, when applying Ind AS 102 an entity measures fair value in accordance with
this Standard, not Ind AS 113.
Recognition
7. An entity shall recognise the goods or services received or acquired in a share-based payment transaction when it
obtains the goods or as the services are received. The entity shall recognise a corresponding increase in equity if the
goods or services were received in an equity-settled share-based payment transaction, or a liability if the goods or
services were acquired in a cash-settled share-based payment transaction.
8. When the goods or services received or acquired in a share-based payment transaction do not qualify for recognition
as assets, they shall be recognized as expenses.
9. Typically, an expense arises from the consumption of goods or services. For example, services are typically
consumed immediately, in which case an expense is recognized as the counter-party renders service. Goods might be
consumed over a period of time or, in the case of inventories, sold at a later date, in which case an expense is
recognized when the goods are consumed or sold. However, sometimes it is necessary to recognise an expense before
the goods or services are consumed or sold, because they do not qualify for recognition as assets. For example, an
entity might acquire goods as part of the research phase of a project to develop a new product. Although those goods
have not been consumed, they might not qualify for recognition as assets under the applicable Ind AS.
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions
Overview
10. For equity-settled share-based payment transactions, the entity shall measure the goods or services received, and
the corresponding increase in equity, directly, at the fair value of the goods or services received, unless that fair value
cannot be estimated reliably. If the entity cannot estimate reliably the fair value of the goods or services received, the
entity shall measure their value, and the corresponding increase in equity, indirectly, [by reference to]
[This Standard uses the phrase 'by reference to' rather than 'at', because the transaction is ultimately measured by
multiplying the fair value of the equity instruments granted, measured at the date specified in paragraph 11 or 13
(whichever is applicable), by the number of equity instruments that vest, as explained in paragraph 19.]
the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
11. To apply the requirements of paragraph 10 to transactions with [employees and others providing similar services,]
[In the remainder of this Standard, all references to employees also include others providing similar services.]
Page 33/765
----- PAGE 34 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the entity shall measure the fair value of the services received by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments
granted, because typically it is not possible to estimate reliably the fair value of the services received, as explained in
paragraph 12. The fair value of those equity instruments shall be measured at grant date.
12. Typically, shares, share options or other equity instruments are granted to employees as part of their remuneration
package, in addition to a cash salary and other employment benefits. Usually, it is not possible to measure directly the
services received for particular components of the employee's remuneration package. It might also not be possible to
measure the fair value of the total remuneration package independently, without measuring directly the fair value of the
equity instruments granted. Furthermore, shares or share options are sometimes granted as part of a bonus
arrangement, rather than as a part of basic remuneration, e.g. as an incentive to the employees to remain in the entity's
employment or to reward them for their efforts in improving the entity's performance. By granting shares or share
options, in addition to other remuneration, the entity is paying additional remuneration to obtain additional benefits.
Estimating the fair value of those additional benefits is likely to be difficult. Because of the difficulty of measuring directly
the fair value of the services received, the entity shall measure the fair value of the employee services received by
reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
13. To apply the requirements of paragraph 10 to transactions with parties other than employees, there shall be a
rebuttable presumption that the fair value of the goods or services received can be estimated reliably. That fair value
shall be measured at the date the entity obtains the goods or the counter-party renders service. In rare cases, if the
entity rebuts this presumption because it cannot estimate reliably the fair value of the goods or services received, the
entity shall measure the goods or services received, and the corresponding increase in equity, indirectly, by reference to
the fair value of the equity instruments granted, measured at the date the entity obtains the goods or the counter-party
renders service.
13A.
In particular, if the identifiable consideration received (if any) by the entity appears to be less than the fair value of the
equity instruments granted or liability incurred, typically this situation indicates that other consideration (i.e. unidentifiable
goods or services) has been (or will be) received by the entity. The entity shall measure the identifiable goods or
services received in accordance with this Standard. The entity shall measure the unidentifiable goods or services
received (or to be received) as the difference between the fair value of the share-based payment and the fair value of
any identifiable goods or services received (or to be received). The entity shall measure the unidentifiable goods or
services received at the grant date. However, for cash-settled transactions, the liability shall be remeasured at the end of
each reporting period until it is settled in accordance with paragraphs 30-33.
Transactions in which services are received
14. If the equity instruments granted vest immediately, the counter-party is not required to complete a specified period of
service before becoming unconditionally entitled to those equity instruments. In the absence of evidence to the contrary,
the entity shall presume that services rendered by the counter-party as consideration for the equity instruments have
been received. In this case, on grant date the entity shall recognise the services received in full, with a corresponding
increase in equity.
15. If the equity instruments granted do not vest until the counter-party completes a specified period of service, the entity
shall presume that the services to be rendered by the counter-party as consideration for those equity instruments will be
received in the future, during the vesting period. The entity shall account for those services as they are rendered by the
counter-party during the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity.
For example:
(a)
if an employee is granted share options conditional upon completing three years' service, then the entity shall presume
that the services to be rendered by the employee as consideration for the share options will be received in the future,
over that three-year vesting period.
(b)
if an employee is granted share options conditional upon the achievement of a performance condition and remaining in
the entity's employment until that performance condition is satisfied, and the length of the vesting period varies
depending on when that performance condition is satisfied, the entity shall presume that the services to be rendered by
the employee as consideration for the share options will be received in the future, over the expected vesting period. The
entity shall estimate the length of the expected vesting period at grant date, based on the most likely outcome of the
Page 34/765
----- PAGE 35 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
performance condition. If the performance condition is a market condition, the estimate of the length of the expected
vesting period shall be consistent with the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the options granted, and shall
not be subsequently revised. If the performance condition is not a market condition, the entity shall revise its estimate of
the length of the vesting period, if necessary, if subsequent information indicates that the length of the vesting period
differs from previous estimates.
Transactions measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted
Determining the fair value of equity instruments granted
16. For transactions measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted, an entity shall measure
the fair value of equity instruments granted at the measurement date, based on market prices if available, taking into
account the terms and conditions upon which those equity instruments were granted (subject to the requirements of
paragraphs 19-22).
17. If market prices are not available, the entity shall estimate the fair value of the equity instruments granted using a
valuation technique to estimate what the price of those equity instruments would have been on the measurement date in
an arm's length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties. The valuation technique shall be consistent with
generally accepted valuation methodologies for pricing financial instruments, and shall incorporate all factors and
assumptions that knowledgeable, willing market participants would consider in setting the price (subject to the
requirements of paragraphs 19-22).
18. Appendix B contains further guidance on the measurement of the fair value of shares and share options, focusing on
the specific terms and conditions that are common features of a grant of shares or share options to employees.
Treatment of vesting conditions
19. [ A grant of equity instruments might be conditional upon satisfying specified vesting conditions. For example, a
grant of shares or share options to an employee is typically conditional on the employee remaining in the entity's
employment for a specified period of time. There might be performance conditions that must be satisfied, such as the
entity achieving a specified growth in profit or a specified increase in the entity's share price. Vesting conditions, other
than market conditions, shall not be taken into account when estimating the fair value of the shares or share options at
the measurement date, Instead, vesting conditions, other than market conditions, shall be taken into account by
adjusting the number of equity instruments included in the measurement of the transaction amount so that, ultimately,
the amount recognized for goods or services received as consideration for the equity instruments granted shall be based
on the number of equity instruments that eventually vest. Hence, on a cumulative basis, no amount is recognized for
goods or services received if the equity instruments granted do not vest because of failure to satisfy a vesting condition,
other than a market condition, for example, the counterparty fails to complete a specified service period, or a
performance condition is not satisfied, subject to the requirements of paragraph 21.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 258(E), dated 17.3.2017 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
20. To apply the requirements of paragraph 19, the entity shall recognise an amount for the goods or services received
during the vesting period based on the best available estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest and
shall revise that estimate, if necessary, if subsequent information indicates that the number of equity instruments
expected to vest differs from previous estimates. On vesting date, the entity shall revise the estimate to equal the
number of equity instruments that ultimately vested, subject to the requirements of paragraph 21.
21. Market conditions, such as a target share price upon which vesting (or exercise-ability) is conditioned, shall be taken
into account when estimating the fair value of the equity instruments granted. Therefore, for grants of equity instruments
with market conditions, the entity shall recognise the goods or services received from a counter-party who satisfies all
other vesting conditions (e.g. services received from an employee who remains in service for the specified period of
service), irrespective of whether that market condition is satisfied.
Treatment of non-vesting conditions
21A.
Similarly, an entity shall take into account all non-vesting conditions when estimating the fair value of the equity
instruments granted. Therefore, for grants of equity instruments with non-vesting conditions, the entity shall recognise
the goods or services received from a counter-party that satisfies all vesting conditions that are not market conditions
(e.g. services received from an employee who remains in service for the specified period of service), irrespective of
whether those non-vesting conditions are satisfied.
Treatment of a reload feature
Page 35/765
----- PAGE 36 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
22. For options with a reload feature, the reload feature shall not be taken into account when estimating the fair value of
options granted at the measurement date. Instead, a reload option shall be accounted for as a new option grant, if and
when a reload option is subsequently granted.
After vesting date
23. Having recognized the goods or services received in accordance with paragraphs 10-22, and a corresponding
increase in equity, the entity shall make no subsequent adjustment to total equity after vesting date. For example, the
entity shall not subsequently reverse the amount recognized for services received from an employee if the vested equity
instruments are later forfeited or, in the case of share options, the options are not exercised. However, this requirement
does not preclude the entity from recognising a transfer within equity, i.e. a transfer from one component of equity to
another.
[If the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be estimated reliably]
[For example, in case of share options granted to employees, the credit given to an appropriate equity account, say,
'share options outstanding account' (upon receiving the services) may be transferred to another appropriate equity
account, say, 'General Reserves' when the options are not exercised.]
24. The requirements in paragraphs 16-23 apply when the entity is required to measure a share-based payment
transaction by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted. In rare cases, the entity may be unable to
estimate reliably the fair value of the equity instruments granted at the measurement date, in accordance with the
requirements in paragraphs 16-22. In these rare cases only, the entity shall instead:
(a)
measure the equity instruments at their intrinsic value, initially at the date the entity obtains the goods or the
counter-party renders service and subsequently at the end of each reporting period and at the date of final settlement,
with any change in intrinsic value recognized in profit or loss. For a grant of share options, the share-based payment
arrangement is finally settled when the options are exercised, are forfeited (e.g. upon cessation of employment) or lapse
(e.g. at the end of the option's life).
(b)
recognise the goods or services received based on the number of equity instruments that ultimately vest or (where
applicable) are ultimately exercised. To apply this requirement to share options, for example, the entity shall recognise
the goods or services received during the vesting period, if any, in accordance with paragraphs 14 and 15, except that
the requirements in paragraph 15(b) concerning a market condition do not apply. The amount recognized for goods or
services received during the vesting period shall be based on the number of share options expected to vest. The entity
shall revise that estimate, if necessary, if subsequent information indicates that the number of share options expected to
vest differs from previous estimates. On vesting date, the entity shall revise the estimate to equal the number of equity
instruments that ultimately vested. After vesting date, the entity shall reverse the amount recognized for goods or
services received if the share options are later forfeited, or lapse at the end of the share option's life.
25. If an entity applies paragraph 24, it is not necessary to apply paragraphs 26-29, because any modifications to the
terms and conditions on which the equity instruments were granted will be taken into account when applying the intrinsic
value method set out in paragraph 24. However, if an entity settles a grant of equity instruments to which paragraph 24
has been applied:
(a)
if the settlement occurs during the vesting period, the entity shall account for the settlement as an acceleration of
vesting, and shall therefore recognise immediately the amount that would otherwise have been recognized for services
received over the remainder of the vesting period.
(b)
any payment made on settlement shall be accounted for as the repurchase of equity instruments, i.e. as a deduction
from equity, except to the extent that the payment exceeds the intrinsic value of the equity instruments, measured at the
repurchase date. Any such excess shall be recognized as an expense.
Modifications to the terms and conditions on which equity instruments were granted, including cancellations and
settlements
26. An entity might modify the terms and conditions on which the equity instruments were granted. For example, it might
reduce the exercise price of options granted to employees (i.e. reprice the options), which increases the fair value of
those options. The requirements in paragraphs 27-29 to account for the effects of modifications are expressed in the
Page 36/765
----- PAGE 37 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
context of share-based payment transactions with employees. However, the requirements shall also be applied to
share-based payment transactions with parties other than employees that are measured by reference to the fair value of
the equity instruments granted. In the latter case, any references in paragraphs 27-29 to grant date shall instead refer to
the date the entity obtains the goods or the counter-party renders service.
27. The entity shall recognise, as a minimum, the services received measured at the grant date fair value of the equity
instruments granted, unless those equity instruments do not vest because of failure to satisfy a vesting condition (other
than a market condition) that was specified at grant date. This applies irrespective of any modifications to the terms and
conditions on which the equity instruments were granted, or a cancellation or settlement of that grant of equity
instruments. In addition, the entity shall recognise the effects of modifications that increase the total fair value of the
share-based payment arrangement or are otherwise beneficial to the employee. Guidance on applying this requirement
is given in Appendix B.
28. If a grant of equity instruments is canceled or settled during the vesting period (other than a grant canceled by
forfeiture when the vesting conditions are not satisfied):
(a)
the entity shall account for the cancellation or settlement as an acceleration of vesting, and shall therefore recognise
immediately the amount that otherwise would have been recognized for services received over the remainder of the
vesting period.
(b)
any payment made to the employee on the cancellation or settlement of the grant shall be accounted for as the
repurchase of an equity interest, i.e. as a deduction from equity, except to the extent that the payment exceeds the fair
value of the equity instruments granted, measured at the repurchase date. Any such excess shall be recognized as an
expense. However, if the share-based payment arrangement included liability components, the entity shall remeasure
the fair value of the liability at the date of cancellation or settlement. Any payment made to settle the liability component
shall be accounted for as an extinguishment of the liability.
(c)
if new equity instruments are granted to the employee and, on the date when those new equity instruments are granted,
the entity identifies the new equity instruments granted as replacement equity instruments for the canceled equity
instruments, the entity shall account for the granting of replacement equity instruments in the same way as a
modification of the original grant of equity instruments, in accordance with paragraph 27 and the guidance in Appendix
B. The incremental fair value granted is the difference between the fair value of the replacement equity instruments and
the net fair value of the canceled equity instruments, at the date the replacement equity instruments are granted. The
net fair value of the canceled equity instruments is their fair value, immediately before the cancellation, less the amount
of any payment made to the employee on cancellation of the equity instruments that is accounted for as a deduction
from equity in accordance with (b) above. If the entity does not identify new equity instruments granted as replacement
equity instruments for the canceled equity instruments, the entity shall account for those new equity instruments as a
new grant of equity instruments.
28A.
If an entity or counter-party can choose whether to meet a non-vesting condition, the entity shall treat the entity's or
counter-party's failure to meet that non-vesting condition during the vesting period as a cancellation.
29. If an entity repurchases vested equity instruments, the payment made to the employee shall be accounted for as a
deduction from equity, except to the extent that the payment exceeds the fair value of the equity instruments
repurchased, measured at the repurchase date. Any such excess shall be recognized as an expense.
Cash-settled share-based payment transactions
30.
[ For cash-settled share-based payment transactions, the entity shall measure the goods or services acquired and the
liability incurred at the fair value of the liability, subject to the requirements of paragraphs 31-33D. Until the liability is
settled, the entity shall remeasure the fair value of the liability at the end of each reporting period and at the date of
settlement, with any changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss for the period.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 258(E), dated 17.3.2017 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
31. [ For example, an entity might grant share appreciation rights to employees as part of their remuneration package,
whereby the employees will become entitled to a future cash payment (rather than an equity instrument), based on the
Page 37/765
----- PAGE 38 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
increase in the entity's share price from a specified level over a specified period of time. Alternatively, an entity might
grant to its employees a right to receive a future cash payment by granting to them a right to shares (including shares to
be issued upon the exercise of share options) that are redeemable, either mandatorily (for example, upon cessation of
employment) or at the employee's option. These arrangements are examples of cash-settled share-based payment
transactions. Share appreciation rights are used to illustrate some of the requirements in paragraphs 32-33D; however,
the requirements in those paragraphs apply to all cash-settled share-based payment transactions.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 258(E), dated 17.3.2017 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
32. The entity shall recognise the services received, and a liability to pay for those services, as the employees render
service. For example, some share appreciation rights vest immediately, and the employees are therefore not required to
complete a specified period of service to become entitled to the cash payment. In the absence of evidence to the
contrary, the entity shall presume that the services rendered by the employees in exchange for the share appreciation
rights have been received. Thus, the entity shall recognise immediately the services received and a liability to pay for
them. If the share appreciation rights do not vest until the employees have completed a specified period of service, the
entity shall recognise the services received, and a liability to pay for them, as the employees render service during that
period.
33. [ The liability shall be measured, initially and at the end of each reporting period until settled, at the fair value of the
share appreciation rights, by applying an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions on which the
share appreciation rights were granted, and the extent to which the employees have rendered service to date subject to
the requirements of paragraphs 33A-33D. An entity might modify the terms and conditions on which a cash-settled
share-based payment is granted. Guidance for a modification of a share-based payment transaction that changes its
classification from cash-settled to equity-settled is given in paragraphs B44A-B44C in Appendix B.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 258(E), dated 17.3.2017 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[Treatment of vesting and non-vesting conditions
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 258(E), dated 17.3.2017 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
33A.
A cash-settled share-based payment transaction might be conditional upon satisfying specified vesting conditions. There
might be performance conditions that must be satisfied, such as the entity achieving a specified growth in profit or a
specified increase in the entity's share price. Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, shall not be taken into
account when estimating the fair value of the cash-settled share-based payment at the measurement date. Instead,
vesting conditions, other than market conditions, shall be taken into account by adjusting the number of awards included
in the measurement of the liability arising from the transaction.
33B.
To apply the requirements in paragraph 33A, the entity shall recognise an amount for the goods or services received
during the vesting period. That amount shall be based on the best available estimate of the number of awards that are
expected to vest. The entity shall revise that estimate, if necessary, if subsequent information indicates that the number
of awards that are expected to vest differs from previous estimates. On the vesting date, the entity shall revise the
estimate to equal the number of awards that ultimately vested.
33C.
Market conditions, such as a target share price upon which vesting (or exercisability) is conditioned, as well as
non-vesting conditions, shall be taken into account when estimating the fair value of the cashsettled share-based
payment granted and when remeasuring the fair value at the end of each reporting period and at the date of settlement.
33D.
As a result of applying paragraphs 30-33C, the cumulative amount ultimately recognized for goods or services received
as consideration for the cash-settled share-based payment is equal to the cash that is paid.
Share-based payment transactions with a net settlement feature for withholding tax obligations
33E.
Tax laws or regulations may oblige an entity to withhold an amount for an employee's tax obligation associated with a
share-based payment and transfer that amount, normally in cash, to the tax authority on the employee's behalf. To fulfil
this obligation, the terms of the share-based payment arrangement may permit or require the entity to withhold the
number of equity instruments equal to the monetary value of the employee's tax obligation from the total number of
equity instruments that otherwise would have been issued to the employee upon exercise (or vesting) of the
Page 38/765
----- PAGE 39 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
share-based payment (i.e. the share-based payment arrangement has a `net settlement feature').
33F.
As an exception to the requirements in paragraph 34, the transaction described in paragraph 33E shall be classified in
its entirety as an equity-settled share-based payment transaction if it would have been so classified in the absence of
the net settlement feature.
33G.
The entity applies paragraph 29 of this Standard to account for the withholding of shares to fund the payment to the tax
authority in respect of the employee's tax obligation associated with the share-based payment. Therefore, the payment
made shall be accounted for as a deduction from equity for the shares withheld, except to the extent that the payment
exceeds the fair value at the net settlement date of the equity instruments withheld.
33H.
The exception in paragraph 33F does not apply to:
(a)
a share-based payment arrangement with a net settlement feature for which there is no obligation on the entity under tax
laws or regulations to withhold an amount for an employee's tax obligation associated with that share-based payment; or
(b)
any equity instruments that the entity withholds in excess of the employee's tax obligation associated with the
share-based payment (i.e. the entity withheld an amount of shares that exceeds the monetary value of the employee's
tax obligation). Such excess shares withheld shall be accounted for as a cashsettled share-based payment when this
amount is paid in cash (or other assets) to the employee.]
Share-based payment transactions with cash alternatives
34. For share-based payment transactions in which the terms of the arrangement provide either the entity or the
counter-party with the choice of whether the entity settles the transaction in cash (or other assets) or by issuing equity
instruments, the entity shall account for that transaction, or the components of that transaction, as a cash-settled
share-based payment transaction if, and to the extent that, the entity has incurred a liability to settle in cash or other
assets, or as an equity-settled share-based payment transaction if, and to the extent that, no such liability has been
incurred.
Share-based payment transactions in which the terms of the arrangement provide the counter-party with a choice of
settlement
35. If an entity has granted the counter-party the right to choose whether a share-based payment transaction is settled in
[cash]
[In paragraphs 35-43, all references to cash also include other assets of the entity.]
or by issuing equity instruments, the entity has granted a compound financial instrument, which includes a debt
component (i.e. the counter-party's right to demand payment in cash) and an equity component (i.e. the counter-party's
right to demand settlement in equity instruments rather than in cash). For transactions with parties other than
employees, in which the fair value of the goods or services received is measured directly, the entity shall measure the
equity component of the compound financial instrument as the difference between the fair value of the goods or services
received and the fair value of the debt component, at the date when the goods or services are received.
36. For other transactions, including transactions with employees, the entity shall measure the fair value of the
compound financial instrument at the measurement date, taking into account the terms and conditions on which the
rights to cash or equity instruments were granted.
37. To apply paragraph 36, the entity shall first measure the fair value of the debt component, and then measure the fair
value of the equity component-taking into account that the counter-party must forfeit the right to receive cash in order to
receive the equity instrument. The fair value of the compound financial instrument is the sum of the fair values of the two
components. However, share-based payment transactions in which the counter-party has the choice of settlement are
often structured so that the fair value of one settlement alternative is the same as the other. For example, the
counter-party might have the choice of receiving share options or cash-settled share appreciation rights. In such cases,
the fair value of the equity component is zero, and hence the fair value of the compound financial instrument is the same
as the fair value of the debt component. Conversely, if the fair values of the settlement alternatives differ, the fair value
of the equity component usually will be greater than zero, in which case the fair value of the compound financial
instrument will be greater than the fair value of the debt component.
Page 39/765
----- PAGE 40 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
38. The entity shall account separately for the goods or services received or acquired in respect of each component of
the compound financial instrument. For the debt component, the entity shall recognise the goods or services acquired,
and a liability to pay for those goods or services, as the counter-party supplies goods or renders service, in accordance
with the requirements applying to cash-settled share-based payment transactions (paragraphs 30-33). For the equity
component (if any), the entity shall recognise the goods or services received, and an increase in equity, as the
counter-party supplies goods or renders service, in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled
share-based payment transactions (paragraphs 10-29).
39. At the date of settlement, the entity shall remeasure the liability to its fair value. If the entity issues equity instruments
on settlement rather than paying cash, the liability shall be transferred direct to equity, as the consideration for the equity
instruments issued.
40.
If the entity pays in cash on settlement rather than issuing equity instruments, that payment shall be applied to settle the
liability in full. Any equity component previously recognized shall remain within equity. By electing to receive cash on
settlement, the counter-party forfeited the right to receive equity instruments. However, this requirement does not
preclude the entity from recognising a transfer within equity, i.e. a transfer from one component of equity to another.
Share-based payment transactions in which the terms of the arrangement provide the entity with a choice of settlement
41.
For a share-based payment transaction in which the terms of the arrangement provide an entity with the choice of
whether to settle in cash or by issuing equity instruments, the entity shall determine whether it has a present obligation
to settle in cash and account for the share-based payment transaction accordingly. The entity has a present obligation to
settle in cash if the choice of settlement in equity instruments has no commercial substance (e.g. because the entity is
legally prohibited from issuing shares), or the entity has a past practice or a stated policy of settling in cash, or generally
settles in cash whenever the counter-party asks for cash settlement.
42.
If the entity has a present obligation to settle in cash, it shall account for the transaction in accordance with the
requirements applying to cash-settled share-based payment transactions, in paragraphs 30-33.
43.
If no such obligation exists, the entity shall account for the transaction in accordance with the requirements applying to
equity-settled share-based payment transactions, in paragraphs 10-29. Upon settlement:
(a)
if the entity elects to settle in cash, the cash payment shall be accounted for as the repurchase of an equity interest, i.e.
as a deduction from equity, except as noted in (c) below.
(b)
if the entity elects to settle by issuing equity instruments, no further accounting is required (other than a transfer from
one component of equity to another, if necessary), except as noted in (c) below.
(c)
if the entity elects the settlement alternative with the higher fair value, as at the date of settlement, the entity shall
recognise an additional expense for the excess value given, i.e. the difference between the cash paid and the fair value
of the equity instruments that would otherwise have been issued, or the difference between the fair value of the equity
instruments issued and the amount of cash that would otherwise have been paid, whichever is applicable.
Share-based payment transactions among group entities
43A.
For share-based payment transactions among group entities, in its separate or individual financial statements, the entity
receiving the goods or services shall measure the goods or services received as either an equity settled or a
cash-settled share-based payment transaction by assessing:
(a)
the nature of the awards granted, and
(b)
its own rights and obligations.
The amount recognized by the entity receiving the goods or services may differ from the amount recognized by the
consolidated group or by another group entity settling the share-based payment transaction.
Page 40/765
----- PAGE 41 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
43B.
The entity receiving the goods or services shall measure the goods or services received as an equity-settled
share-based payment transaction when:
(a)
the awards granted are its own equity instruments, or
(b)
the entity has no obligation to settle the share-based payment transaction.
The entity shall subsequently remeasure such an equity-settled share-based payment transaction only for changes in
non-market vesting conditions in accordance with paragraphs 19-21. In all other circumstances, the entity receiving the
goods or services shall measure the goods or services received as a cash-settled share-based payment transaction.
43C.
The entity settling a share-based payment transaction when another entity in the group receives the goods or services
shall recognise the transaction as an equity-settled share-based payment transaction only if it is settled in the entity's
own equity instruments. Otherwise, the transaction shall be recognized as a cash-settled share-based payment
transaction.
43D.
Some group transactions involve repayment arrangements that require one group entity to pay another group entity for
the provision of the share-based payments to the suppliers of goods or services. In such cases, the entity that receives
the goods or services shall account for the share-based payment transaction in accordance with paragraph 43B
regardless of intra-group repayment arrangements.
Disclosures
44.
An entity shall disclose information that enables users of the financial statements to understand the nature and extent of
share-based payment arrangements that existed during the period.
45.
To give effect to the principle in paragraph 44, the entity shall disclose at least the following:
(a)
a description of each type of share-based payment arrangement that existed at any time during the period, including the
general terms and conditions of each arrangement, such as vesting requirements, the maximum term of options
granted, and the method of settlement (e.g. whether in cash or equity). An entity with substantially similar types of
share-based payment arrangements may aggregate this information, unless separate disclosure of each arrangement is
necessary to satisfy the principle in paragraph 44.
(b)
the number and weighted average exercise prices of share options for each of the following groups of options:
(i)
outstanding at the beginning of the period;
(ii)
granted during the period;
(iii)
forfeited during the period;
(iv)
exercised during the period;
(v)
expired during the period;
(vi)
outstanding at the end of the period; and
(vii)
exercisable at the end of the period.
(c)
for share options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise. If options were
exercised on a regular basis throughout the period, the entity may instead disclose the weighted average share price
Page 41/765
----- PAGE 42 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
during the period.
(d)
for share options outstanding at the end of the period, the range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining
contractual life. If the range of exercise prices is wide, the outstanding options shall be divided into ranges that are
meaningful for assessing the number and timing of additional shares that may be issued and the cash that may be
received upon exercise of those options.
46.
An entity shall disclose information that enables users of the financial statements to understand how the fair value of the
goods or services received, or the fair value of the equity instruments granted, during the period was determined.
47.
If the entity has measured the fair value of goods or services received as consideration for equity instruments of the
entity indirectly, by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted, to give effect to the principle in
paragraph 46, the entity shall disclose at least the following:
(a)
for share options granted during the period, the weighted average fair value of those options at the measurement date
and information on how that fair value was measured, including:
(i)
the option pricing model used and the inputs to that model, including the weighted average share price, exercise price,
expected volatility, option life, expected dividends, the risk-free interest rate and any other inputs to the model, including
the method used and the assumptions made to incorporate the effects of expected early exercise;
(ii)
how expected volatility was determined, including an explanation of the extent to which expected volatility was based on
historical volatility; and
(iii)
whether and how any other features of the option grant were incorporated into the measurement of fair value, such as a
market condition.
(b)
for other equity instruments granted during the period (i.e. other than share options), the number and weighted average
fair value of those equity instruments at the measurement date, and information on how that fair value was measured,
including:
(i)
if fair value was not measured on the basis of an observable market price, how it was determined;
(ii)
whether and how expected dividends were incorporated into the measurement of fair value; and
(iii)
whether and how any other features of the equity instruments granted were incorporated into the measurement of fair
value.
(c)
for share-based payment arrangements that were modified during the period:
(i)
an explanation of those modifications;
(ii)
the incremental fair value granted (as a result of those modifications); and
(iii)
information on how the incremental fair value granted was measured, consistently with the requirements set out in (a)
and (b) above, where applicable.
48.
If the entity has measured directly the fair value of goods or services received during the period, the entity shall disclose
how that fair value was determined, e.g. whether fair value was measured at a market price for those goods or services.
49.
If the entity has rebutted the presumption in paragraph 13, it shall disclose that fact, and give an explanation of why the
Page 42/765
----- PAGE 43 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
presumption was rebutted.
50.
An entity shall disclose information that enables users of the financial statements to understand the effect of
share-based payment transactions on the entity's profit or loss for the period and on its financial position.
51.
To give effect to the principle in paragraph 50, the entity shall disclose at least the following:
(a)
the total expense recognized for the period arising from share-based payment transactions in which the goods or
services received did not qualify for recognition as assets and hence were recognized immediately as an expense,
including separate disclosure of that portion of the total expense that arises from transactions accounted for as
equity-settled share-based payment transactions;
(b)
for liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions:
(i)
the total carrying amount at the end of the period; and
(ii)
the total intrinsic value at the end of the period of liabilities for which the counter-party's right to cash or other assets had
vested by the end of the period (e.g. vested share appreciation rights).
52.
[ If the information required to be disclosed by this Standard does not satisfy the principles in paragraphs 44, 46 and 50,
the entity shall disclose such additional information as is necessary to satisfy them. For example, if an entity has
classified any share-based payment transactions as equity-settled in accordance with paragraph 33F, the entity shall
disclose an estimate of the amount that it expects to transfer to the tax authority to settle the employee's tax obligation
when it is necessary to inform users about the future cash flow effects associated with the share-based payment
arrangement.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 258(E), dated 17.3.2017 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[Transitional provisions
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 258(E), dated 17.3.2017 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
53.
-59 [Refer Appendix 1]
59A.
An entity shall apply the amendments in paragraphs 30-31, 33-33H and B44A-B44C as set out below. Prior periods shall
not be restated.
(a)
The amendments in paragraphs B44A-B44C apply only to modifications that occur on or after the date that an entity first
applies the amendments.
(b)
The amendments in paragraphs 30-31 and 33-33D apply to share-based payment transactions that are unvested at the
date that an entity first applies the amendments and to share-based payment transactions with a grant date on or after
the date that an entity first applies the amendments. For unvested share-based payment transactions granted prior to
the date that an entity first applies the amendments, an entity shall remeasure the liability at that date and recognise the
effect of the remeasurement in opening retained earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) of the reporting
period in which the amendments are first applied.
(c)
The amendments in paragraphs 33E-33H and the amendment to paragraph 52 apply to share-based payment
transactions that are unvested (or vested but unexercised), at the date that an entity first applies the amendments and to
share-based payment transactions with a grant date on or after the date that an entity first applies the amendments. For
unvested (or vested but unexercised) share-based payment transactions (or components thereof) that were previously
classified as cash-settled share-based payments but now are classified as equity-settled in accordance with the
amendments, an entity shall reclassify the carrying value of the share-based payment liability to equity at the date that it
first applies the amendments.
Page 43/765
----- PAGE 44 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
59B.
Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraph 59A, an entity may apply the amendments in paragraph 63D
retrospectively, in accordance with Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, if and
only if it is possible without hindsight. If an entity elects retrospective application, it must do so for all of the amendments
made by Amendments to Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions under Ind AS 102.
Effective date
60.
-63C [Refer Appendix 1]
63D.
Amendments to Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions under Ind AS 102 amended
paragraphs 19, 30-31, 33 and 52 and added paragraphs 33A-33H, 59A-59B, 63D and B44A-B44C and their related
headings. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 April, 2017.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an
integral part of the Ind AS.
cash-settled share-based payment transaction
Ashare-based payment transactionin
which the entity acquires goods or services by incurring a
liability to transfer cash or other assets to the supplier of
those goods or services for amounts that are based on the price
(or value) ofequity instruments(including shares orshare options) of the entity or another group entity.
employees and others providing similar services
Individuals who render personal services to the
entity and either (a) the individuals are regarded as employees
for legal or tax purposes, (b) the individuals work for the
entity under its direction in the same way as individuals who are
regarded as employees for legal or tax purposes, or (c) the
services rendered are similar to those rendered by employees. For
example, the term encompasses all management personnel, i.e.
those persons having authority and responsibility for planning,
directing and controlling the activities of the entity, including
non-executive directors.
equity instrument
[A contract that evidences a residual interest
in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its
liabilities.]
[The Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements in accordance with Indian Accounting
Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India,defines a liability as a present obligation of the entity
arising from past events, the settlement of which is expected to result in an outflow from the entity of resources
embodying economic benefits (i.e. an outflow of cash or other assets of the entity).]
equity instrument granted
The right (conditional or unconditional) to anequity instrumentof the entity conferred by the entity on
another party, under ashare-based payment arrangement.
equity-settled share-based payment transaction
Ashare-based payment transactionin
which the entity
(a) receives goods or services as consideration
for its ownequity instruments(including shares orshare
options), or
Page 44/765
----- PAGE 45 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b) receives goods or services but has no
obligation to settle the transaction with the supplier.
fair value
The amount for which an asset could be
exchanged, a liability settled, or anequity instrument
grantedcould be exchanged, between knowledgeable, willing
parties in an arm's length transaction.
grant date
The date at which the entity and another party
(including an employee) agree to ashare-based payment
arrangement, being when the entity and the counter-party have
a shared understanding of the terms and conditions of the
arrangement. At grant date the entity confers on the
counter-party the right to cash, other assets, orequity
instrumentsof the entity, provided the specifiedvesting
conditions, if any, are met. If that agreement is subject to
an approval process (for example, by shareholders), grant date is
the date when that approval is obtained.
intrinsic value
The difference between thefair valueof
the shares to which the counter-party has the (conditional or
unconditional) right to subscribe or which it has the right to
receive, and the price (if any) the counter-party is (or will be)
required to pay for those shares. For example, ashare optionwith an exercise price of Rs. 15, on a share with a fair value
of
Rs. 20, has an intrinsic value of Rs. 5.
market condition
Aperformance conditionupon which the
exercise price, vesting or excise-ability of anequity
instrumentdepends that is related to the market price (or
value) of the entity'sequity instruments(or the equity
instruments of another entity in the same group), such as:
(a) attaining a specified share price or a
specified amount ofintrinsic valueof ashare option;
or
(b) achieving a specified target that is based
on the market price (or value) of the entity'sequity
instruments(or the equity instruments of another entity in
the same group) relative to an index of market prices ofequity
instrumentsof other entities.
A market condition requires the counter-party to
complete a specified period of service (i.e. aservice
condition); the service requirement can be explicit or
implicit.
measurement date
The date at which thefair valueof theequity instruments grantedis measured for the purposes of
this Ind AS. For transactions withemployees and others
providing similar services, the measurement date isgrant
date. For transactions with parties other than employees (and
those providing similar services), the measurement date is the
date the entity obtains the goods or the counter-party renders
Page 45/765
----- PAGE 46 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
service.
performance condition
A vesting condition that requires:
(a) the counter-party to complete a specified
period of service (i.e. a service condition); the service
requirement can be explicit or implicit; and
(b) specified performance target(s) to be met
while the counter-party is rendering the service required in (a).
The period of achieving the performance
target(s):
(a) shall not extend beyond the end of the
service period; and
(b) may start before the service period on the
condition that the commencement date of the performance target is
not substantially before the commencement of the service period.
A performance target is defined by reference to:
(a) the entity's own operations (or activities)
or the operations or activities of another entity in the same
group (i.e. a non-market condition); or
(b) the price (or value) of the entity'sequity
instrumentsor the equity instruments of another entity in
the same group (including shares andshare options) (i.e.
amarket condition).
A performance target might relate either to the
performance of the entity as a whole or to some part of the
entity (or part of the group), such as a division or an
individual employee.
reload feature
A feature that provides for an automatic grant
of additional share options whenever the option holder exercises
previously granted options using the entity's shares, rather than
cash, to satisfy the exercise price.
reload option
A newshare optiongranted when a share
is used to satisfy the exercise price of a previous share option.
service condition
Avesting conditionthat requires the
counter-party to complete a specified period of service during
which services are provided to the entity. If the counter-party,
regardless of the reason, ceases to provide service during thevesting period, it has failed to satisfy the condition. A
service condition does not require a performance target to be
met.
share-based payment arrangement
An agreement between the entity (or another[group]
[A 'group' is defined in Appendix A of Ind AS 110, Consolidated Financial Statements,as 'a parent and its subsidiaries'
from the perspective of the reporting entity's ultimate parent.]
entity or any shareholder of any group entity) and
another party (including an employee) that entitles the other
party to receive
(a) cash or other assets of the entity for
amounts that are based on the price (or value) ofequity
Page 46/765
----- PAGE 47 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
instruments(including shares orshare options) of the
entity or another group entity, or
(b)equity
instruments(including shares orshare options) of the
entity or another group entity,
provided the specifiedvesting conditions,
if any, are met.
share-based payment transaction
A transaction in which the entity
(a) receives goods or services from the supplier
of those goods or services (including an employee) in ashare-based payment arrangement, or
(b) incurs an obligation to settle the
transaction with the supplier in ashare-based payment
arrangementwhen another group entity receives those goods or
services.
share option
A contract that gives the holder the right, but
not the obligation, to subscribe to the entity's shares at a
fixed or determinable price for a specified period of time.
vest
To become an entitlement. Under ashare-based
payment arrangement, a counter-party's right to receive cash,
other assets orequity instrumentsof the entity vests
when the counter-party's entitlement is no longer conditional on
the satisfaction of any vesting conditionsvesting condition.
vesting condition
A condition that determine whether the entity
receives the services that entitle the counter-party to receive
cash, other assets orequity instrumentsof the entity,
under ashare-based payment arrangement.A vesting
condition is either aservice conditionor aperformance
condition.
vesting period
The period during which all the specifiedvesting conditionsof ashare-based payment arrangementare to be satisfied.
Appendix B
Application guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Estimating the fair value of equity instruments granted
B1. Paragraphs B2-B41 of this appendix discuss measurement of the fair value of shares and share options granted,
focusing on the specific terms and conditions that are common features of a grant of shares or share options to
employees. Therefore, it is not exhaustive. Furthermore, because the valuation issues discussed below focus on shares
and share options granted to employees, it is assumed that the fair value of the shares or share options is measured at
grant date. However, many of the valuation issues discussed below (e.g. determining expected volatility) also apply in
the context of estimating the fair value of shares or share options granted to parties other than employees at the date
the entity obtains the goods or the counter-party renders service.
Shares
B2. For shares granted to employees, the fair value of the shares shall be measured at the market price of the entity's
shares (or an estimated market price, if the entity's shares are not publicly traded), adjusted to take into account the
terms and conditions upon which the shares were granted (except for vesting conditions that are excluded from the
measurement of fair value in accordance with paragraphs 19-21).
B3. For example, if the employee is not entitled to receive dividends during the vesting period, this factor shall be taken
Page 47/765
----- PAGE 48 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
into account when estimating the fair value of the shares granted. Similarly, if the shares are subject to restrictions on
transfer after vesting date, that factor shall be taken into account, but only to the extent that the post-vesting restrictions
affect the price that a knowledgeable, willing market participant would pay for that share. For example, if the shares are
actively traded in a deep and liquid market, post-vesting transfer restrictions may have little, if any, effect on the price
that a knowledgeable, willing market participant would pay for those shares. Restrictions on transfer or other restrictions
that exist during the vesting period shall not be taken into account when estimating the grant date fair value of the
shares granted, because those restrictions stem from the existence of vesting conditions, which are accounted for in
accordance with paragraphs 19-21.
Share options
B4. For share options granted to employees, in many cases market prices are not available, because the options
granted are subject to terms and conditions that do not apply to traded options. If traded options with similar terms and
conditions do not exist, the fair value of the options granted shall be estimated by applying an option pricing model.
B5. The entity shall consider factors that knowledgeable, willing market participants would consider in selecting the
option pricing model to apply. For example, many employee options have long lives, are usually exercisable during the
period between vesting date and the end of the options' life, and are often exercised early. These factors should be
considered when estimating the grant date fair value of the options. For many entities, this might preclude the use of the
Black-Scholes-Merton formula, which does not allow for the possibility of exercise before the end of the option's life and
may not adequately reflect the effects of expected early exercise. It also does not allow for the possibility that expected
volatility and other model inputs might vary over the option's life. However, for share options with relatively short
contractual lives, or that must be exercised within a short period of time after vesting date, the factors identified above
may not apply. In these instances, the Black-Scholes-Merton formula may produce a value that is substantially the same
as a more flexible option pricing model.
B6. All option pricing models take into account, as a minimum, the following factors:
(a)
the exercise price of the option;
(b)
the life of the option;
(c)
the current price of the underlying shares;
(d)
the expected volatility of the share price;
(e)
the dividends expected on the shares (if appropriate); and
(f)
the risk-free interest rate for the life of the option.
B7. Other factors that knowledgeable, willing market participants would consider in setting the price shall also be taken
into account (except for vesting conditions and reload features that are excluded from the measurement of fair value in
accordance with paragraphs 19-22).
B8. For example, a share option granted to an employee typically cannot be exercised during specified periods (e.g.
during the vesting period or during periods specified by securities regulators). This factor shall be taken into account if
the option pricing model applied would otherwise assume that the option could be exercised at any time during its life.
However, if an entity uses an option pricing model that values options that can be exercised only at the end of the
options' life, no adjustment is required for the inability to exercise them during the vesting period (or other periods during
the options' life), because the model assumes that the options cannot be exercised during those periods.
B9. Similarly, another factor common to employee share options is the possibility of early exercise of the option, for
example, because the option is not freely transferable, or because the employee must exercise all vested options upon
cessation of employment. The effects of expected early exercise shall be taken into account, as discussed in
paragraphs B16-B21.
B10. Factors that a knowledgeable, willing market participant would not consider in setting the price of a share option (or
other equity instrument) shall not be taken into account when estimating the fair value of share options (or other equity
instruments) granted. For example, for share options granted to employees, factors that affect the value of the option
Page 48/765
----- PAGE 49 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
from the individual employee's perspective only are not relevant to estimating the price that would be set by a
knowledgeable, willing market participant.
Inputs to option pricing models
B11. In estimating the expected volatility of and dividends on the underlying shares, the objective is to approximate the
expectations that would be reflected in a current market or negotiated exchange price for the option. Similarly, when
estimating the effects of early exercise of employee share options, the objective is to approximate the expectations that
an outside party with access to detailed information about employees' exercise behaviour would develop based on
information available at the grant date.
B12. Often, there is likely to be a range of reasonable expectations about future volatility, dividends and exercise
behaviour. If so, an expected value should be calculated, by weighting each amount within the range by its associated
probability of occurrence.
B13. Expectations about the future are generally based on experience, modified if the future is reasonably expected to
differ from the past. In some circumstances, identifiable factors may indicate that unadjusted historical experience is a
relatively poor predictor of future experience. For example, if an entity with two distinctly different lines of business
disposes of the one that was significantly less risky than the other, historical volatility may not be the best information on
which to base reasonable expectations for the future.
B14. In other circumstances, historical information may not be available. For example, a newly listed entity will have
little, if any, historical data on the volatility of its share price. Unlisted and newly listed entities are discussed further
below.
B15. In summary, an entity should not simply base estimates of volatility, exercise behaviour and dividends on historical
information without considering the extent to which the past experience is expected to be reasonably predictive of future
experience.
Expected early exercise
B16. Employees often exercise share options early, for a variety of reasons. For example, employee share options are
typically non-transferable. This often causes employees to exercise their share options early, because that is the only
way for the employees to liquidate their position. Also, employees who cease employment are usually required to
exercise any vested options within a short period of time, otherwise the share options are forfeited. This factor also
causes the early exercise of employee share options. Other factors causing early exercise are risk aversion and lack of
wealth diversification.
B17. The means by which the effects of expected early exercise are taken into account depends upon the type of option
pricing model applied. For example, expected early exercise could be taken into account by using an estimate of the
option's expected life (which, for an employee share option, is the period of time from grant date to the date on which the
option is expected to be exercised) as an input into an option pricing model (e.g. the Black-Scholes-Merton formula).
Alternatively, expected early exercise could be modelled in a binomial or similar option pricing model that uses
contractual life as an input.
B18. Factors to consider in estimating early exercise include:
(a)
the length of the vesting period, because the share option typically cannot be exercised until the end of the vesting
period. Hence, determining the valuation implications of expected early exercise is based on the assumption that the
options will vest. The implications of vesting conditions are discussed in paragraphs 19-21.
(b)
the average length of time similar options have remained outstanding in the past.
(c)
the price of the underlying shares. Experience may indicate that the employees tend to exercise options when the share
price reaches a specified level above the exercise price.
(d)
the employee's level within the organisation. For example, experience might indicate that higher-level employees tend to
exercise options later than lower-level employees (discussed further in paragraph B21).
(e)
expected volatility of the underlying shares. On average, employees might tend to exercise options on highly volatile
shares earlier than on shares with low volatility.
Page 49/765
----- PAGE 50 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B19. As noted in paragraph B17, the effects of early exercise could be taken into account by using an estimate of the
option's expected life as an input into an option pricing model. When estimating the expected life of share options
granted to a group of employees, the entity could base that estimate on an appropriately weighted average expected life
for the entire employee group or on appropriately weighted average lives for subgroups of employees within the group,
based on more detailed data about employees' exercise behaviour (discussed further below).
B20. Separating an option grant into groups for employees with relatively homogeneous exercise behaviour is likely to
be important. Option value is not a linear function of option term; value increases at a decreasing rate as the term
lengthens. For example, if all other assumptions are equal, although a two-year option is worth more than a one-year
option, it is not worth twice as much. That means that calculating estimated option value on the basis of a single
weighted average life that includes widely differing individual lives would overstate the total fair value of the share
options granted. Separating options granted into several groups, each of which has a relatively narrow range of lives
included in its weighted average life, reduces that overstatement.
B21. Similar considerations apply when using a binomial or similar model. For example, the experience of an entity that
grants options broadly to all levels of employees might indicate that top-level executives tend to hold their options longer
than middle-management employees hold theirs and that lower-level employees tend to exercise their options earlier
than any other group. In addition, employees who are encouraged or required to hold a minimum amount of their
employer's equity instruments, including options, might on average exercise options later than employees not subject to
that provision. In those situations, separating options by groups of recipients with relatively homogeneous exercise
behaviour will result in a more accurate estimate of the total fair value of the share options granted.
Expected volatility
B22. Expected volatility is a measure of the amount by which a price is expected to fluctuate during a period. The
measure of volatility used in option pricing models is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded
rates of return on the share over a period of time. Volatility is typically expressed in annualised terms that are
comparable regardless of the time period used in the calculation, for example, daily, weekly or monthly price
observations.
B23. The rate of return (which may be positive or negative) on a share for a period measures how much a shareholder
has benefited from dividends and appreciation (or depreciation) of the share price.
B24. The expected annualised volatility of a share is the range within which the continuously compounded annual rate of
return is expected to fall approximately two-thirds of the time. For example, to say that a share with an expected
continuously compounded rate of return of 12 per cent has a volatility of 30 per cent means that the probability that the
rate of return on the share for one year will be between-18 per cent (12% - 30%) and 42 per cent (12% + 30%) is
approximately two-thirds. If the share price is Rs.100 at the beginning of the year and no dividends are paid, the
year-end share price would be expected to be between Rs.83.53 (Rs.100 x e-0.18) and Rs. 152.20 (Rs. 100 x e0.42)
approximately two-thirds of the time.
B25. Factors to consider in estimating expected volatility include:
(a)
implied volatility from traded share options on the entity's shares, or other traded instruments of the entity that include
option features (such as convertible debt), if any.
(b)
the historical volatility of the share price over the most recent period that is generally commensurate with the expected
term of the option (taking into account the remaining contractual life of the option and the effects of expected early
exercise).
(c)
the length of time an entity's shares have been publicly traded. A newly listed entity might have a high historical volatility,
compared with similar entities that have been listed longer. Further guidance for newly listed entities is given below.
(d)
the tendency of volatility to revert to its mean, i.e. its long-term average level, and other factors indicating that expected
future volatility might differ from past volatility. For example, if an entity's share price was extraordinarily volatile for some
identifiable period of time because of a failed takeover bid or a major restructuring, that period could be disregarded in
computing historical average annual volatility.
(e)
Page 50/765
----- PAGE 51 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
appropriate and regular intervals for price observations. The price observations should be consistent from period to
period. For example, an entity might use the closing price for each week or the highest price for the week, but it should
not use the closing price for some weeks and the highest price for other weeks. Also, the price observations should be
expressed in the same currency as the exercise price.
Newly listed entities
B26. As noted in paragraph B25, an entity should consider historical volatility of the share price over the most recent
period that is generally commensurate with the expected option term. If a newly listed entity does not have sufficient
information on historical volatility, it should nevertheless compute historical volatility for the longest period for which
trading activity is available. It could also consider the historical volatility of similar entities following a comparable period
in their lives. For example, an entity that has been listed for only one year and grants options with an average expected
life of five years might consider the pattern and level of historical volatility of entities in the same industry for the first six
years in which the shares of those entities were publicly traded.
Unlisted entities
B27. An unlisted entity will not have historical information to consider when estimating expected volatility. Some factors
to consider instead are set out below.
B28. In some cases, an unlisted entity that regularly issues options or shares to employees (or other parties) might have
set up an internal market for its shares. The volatility of those share prices could be considered when estimating
expected volatility.
B29. Alternatively, the entity could consider the historical or implied volatility of similar listed entities, for which share
price or option price information is available, to use when estimating expected volatility. This would be appropriate if the
entity has based the value of its shares on the share prices of similar listed entities.
B30. If the entity has not based its estimate of the value of its shares on the share prices of similar listed entities, and
has instead used another valuation methodology to value its shares, the entity could derive an estimate of expected
volatility consistent with that valuation methodology. For example, the entity might value its shares on a net asset or
earnings basis. It could consider the expected volatility of those net asset values or earnings.
Expected dividends
B31. Whether expected dividends should be taken into account when measuring the fair value of shares or options
granted depends on whether the counter-party is entitled to dividends or dividend equivalents.
B32. For example, if employees were granted options and are entitled to dividends on the underlying shares or dividend
equivalents (which might be paid in cash or applied to reduce the exercise price) between grant date and exercise date,
the options granted should be valued as if no dividends will be paid on the underlying shares, i.e. the input for expected
dividends should be zero.
B33. Similarly, when the grant date fair value of shares granted to employees is estimated, no adjustment is required for
expected dividends if the employee is entitled to receive dividends paid during the vesting period.
B34. Conversely, if the employees are not entitled to dividends or dividend equivalents during the vesting period (or
before exercise, in the case of an option), the grant date valuation of the rights to shares or options should take
expected dividends into account. That is to say, when the fair value of an option grant is estimated, expected dividends
should be included in the application of an option pricing model. When the fair value of a share grant is estimated, that
valuation should be reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid during the vesting period.
B35. Option pricing models generally call for expected dividend yield. However, the models may be modified to use an
expected dividend amount rather than a yield. An entity may use either its expected yield or its expected payments. If
the entity uses the latter, it should consider its historical pattern of increases in dividends. For example, if an entity's
policy has generally been to increase dividends by approximately 3 per cent per year, its estimated option value should
not assume a fixed dividend amount throughout the option's life unless there is evidence that supports that assumption.
B36. Generally, the assumption about expected dividends should be based on publicly available information. An entity
that does not pay dividends and has no plans to do so should assume an expected dividend yield of zero. However, an
emerging entity with no history of paying dividends might expect to begin paying dividends during the expected lives of
its employee share options. Those entities could use an average of their past dividend yield (zero) and the mean
dividend yield of an appropriately comparable peer group.
Risk-free interest rate
B37. Typically, the risk-free interest rate is the implied yield currently available on zero-coupon government issues of the
Page 51/765
----- PAGE 52 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
country in whose currency the exercise price is expressed, with a remaining term equal to the expected term of the
option being valued (based on the option's remaining contractual life and taking into account the effects of expected
early exercise). It may be necessary to use an appropriate substitute, if no such government issues exist or
circumstances indicate that the implied yield on zero-coupon government issues is not representative of the risk-free
interest rate (for example, in high inflation economies). Also, an appropriate substitute should be used if market
participants would typically determine the risk-free interest rate by using that substitute, rather than the implied yield of
zero-coupon government issues, when estimating the fair value of an option with a life equal to the expected term of the
option being valued.
Capital structure effects
B38. Typically, third parties, not the entity, write traded share options. When these share options are exercised, the
writer delivers shares to the option holder. Those shares are acquired from existing shareholders. Hence the exercise of
traded share options has no dilutive effect.
B39. In contrast, if share options are written by the entity, new shares are issued when those share options are
exercised (either actually issued or issued in substance, if shares previously repurchased and held in treasury are used).
Given that the shares will be issued at the exercise price rather than the current market price at the date of exercise, this
actual or potential dilution might reduce the share price, so that the option holder does not make as large a gain on
exercise as on exercising an otherwise similar traded option that does not dilute the share price.
B40. Whether this has a significant effect on the value of the share options granted depends on various factors, such as
the number of new shares that will be issued on exercise of the options compared with the number of shares already
issued. Also, if the market already expects that the option grant will take place, the market may have already factored
the potential dilution into the share price at the date of grant.
B41. However, the entity should consider whether the possible dilutive effect of the future exercise of the share options
granted might have an impact on their estimated fair value at grant date. Option pricing models can be adapted to take
into account this potential dilutive effect.
Modifications to equity-settled share-based payment arrangements
B42. Paragraph 27 requires that, irrespective of any modifications to the terms and conditions on which the equity
instruments were granted, or a cancellation or settlement of that grant of equity instruments, the entity should recognise,
as a minimum, the services received measured at the grant date fair value of the equity instruments granted, unless
those equity instruments do not vest because of failure to satisfy a vesting condition (other than a market condition) that
was specified at grant date. In addition, the entity should recognise the effects of modifications that increase the total fair
value of the share-based payment arrangement or are otherwise beneficial to the employee.
B43. To apply the requirements of paragraph 27:
(a)
if the modification increases the fair value of the equity instruments granted (e.g. by reducing the exercise price),
measured immediately before and after the modification, the entity shall include the incremental fair value granted in the
measurement of the amount recognized for services received as consideration for the equity instruments granted. The
incremental fair value granted is the difference between the fair value of the modified equity instrument and that of the
original equity instrument, both estimated as at the date of the modification. If the modification occurs during the vesting
period, the incremental fair value granted is included in the measurement of the amount recognized for services
received over the period from the modification date until the date when the modified equity instruments vest, in addition
to the amount based on the grant date fair value of the original equity instruments, which is recognized over the
remainder of the original vesting period. If the modification occurs after vesting date, the incremental fair value granted is
recognized immediately, or over the vesting period if the employee is required to complete an additional period of
service before becoming unconditionally entitled to those modified equity instruments.
(b)
similarly, if the modification increases the number of equity instruments granted, the entity shall include the fair value of
the additional equity instruments granted, measured at the date of the modification, in the measurement of the amount
recognized for services received as consideration for the equity instruments granted, consistently with the requirements
in (a) above. For example, if the modification occurs during the vesting period, the fair value of the additional equity
instruments granted is included in the measurement of the amount recognized for services received over the period from
the modification date until the date when the additional equity instruments vest, in addition to the amount based on the
Page 52/765
----- PAGE 53 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
grant date fair value of the equity instruments originally granted, which is recognized over the remainder of the original
vesting period.
(c)
if the entity modifies the vesting conditions in a manner that is beneficial to the employee, for example, by reducing the
vesting period or by modifying or eliminating a performance condition (other than a market condition, changes to which
are accounted for in accordance with (a) above), the entity shall take the modified vesting conditions into account when
applying the requirements of paragraphs 19-21.
B44. Furthermore, if the entity modifies the terms or conditions of the equity instruments granted in a manner that
reduces the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or is not otherwise beneficial to the employee, the
entity shall nevertheless continue to account for the services received as consideration for the equity instruments
granted as if that modification had not occurred (other than a cancellation of some or all the equity instruments granted,
which shall be accounted for in accordance with paragraph 28). For example:
(a)
if the modification reduces the fair value of the equity instruments granted, measured immediately before and after the
modification, the entity shall not take into account that decrease in fair value and shall continue to measure the amount
recognized for services received as consideration for the equity instruments based on the grant date fair value of the
equity instruments granted.
(b)
if the modification reduces the number of equity instruments granted to an employee, that reduction shall be accounted
for as a cancellation of that portion of the grant, in accordance with the requirements of paragraph 28.
(c)
if the entity modifies the vesting conditions in a manner that is not beneficial to the employee, for example, by increasing
the vesting period or by modifying or adding a performance condition (other than a market condition, changes to which
are accounted for in accordance with (a) above), the entity shall not take the modified vesting conditions into account
when applying the requirements of paragraphs 19-21.
[Accounting for a modification of a share-based payment transaction that changes its classification from cash-settled to
equity-settled
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 258(E), dated 17.3.2017 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
B44A If the terms and conditions of a cash-settled share-based payment transaction are modified with the result that it
becomes an equity-settled share-based payment transaction, the transaction is accounted for as such from the date of
the modification. Specifically:
(a)
The equity-settled share-based payment transaction is measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments
granted at the modification date. The equity-settled share-based payment transaction is recognized in equity on the
modification date to the extent to which goods or services have been received.
(b)
The liability for the cash-settled share-based payment transaction as at the modification date is derecognized on that
date.
(c)
Any difference between the carrying amount of the liability derecognized and the amount of equity recognized on the
modification date is recognized immediately in profit or loss.
B44B If, as a result of the modification, the vesting period is extended or shortened, the application of the requirements
in paragraph B44A reflect the modified vesting period. The requirements in paragraph B44A apply even if the
modification occurs after the vesting period.
B44C A cash-settled share-based payment transaction may be canceled or settled (other than a transaction canceled by
forfeiture when the vesting conditions are not satisfied). If equity instruments are granted and, on that grant date, the
entity identifies them as a replacement for the canceled cash-settled share-based payment, the entity shall apply
paragraphs B44A and B44B.]
Share-based payment transactions among group entities
B45. Paragraphs 43A-43C address the accounting for share-based payment transactions among group entities in each
entity's separate or individual financial statements. Paragraphs B46-B61 discuss how to apply the requirements in
Page 53/765
----- PAGE 54 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
paragraphs 43A-43C. As noted in paragraph 43D, share-based payment transactions among group entities may take
place for a variety of reasons depending on facts and circumstances. Therefore, this discussion is not exhaustive and
assumes that when the entity receiving the goods or services has no obligation to settle the transaction, the transaction
is a parent's equity contribution to the subsidiary, regardless of any intra-group repayment arrangements.
B46. Although the discussion below focuses on transactions with employees, it also applies to similar share-based
payment transactions with suppliers of goods or services other than employees. An arrangement between a parent and
its subsidiary may require the subsidiary to pay the parent for the provision of the equity instruments to the employees.
The discussion below does not address how to account for such an intra-group payment arrangement.
B47. Four issues are commonly encountered in share-based payment transactions among group entities. For
convenience, the examples below discuss the issues in terms of a parent and its subsidiary.
Share-based payment arrangements involving an entity's own equity instruments
B48. The first issue is whether the following transactions involving an entity's own equity instruments should be
accounted for as equity-settled or as cash-settled in accordance with the requirements of this Standard:
(a)
an entity grants to its employees rights to equity instruments of the entity (e.g. share options), and either chooses or is
required to buy equity instruments (i.e. treasury shares) from another party, to satisfy its obligations to its employees;
and
(b)
an entity's employees are granted rights to equity instruments of the entity (e.g. share options), either by the entity itself
or by its shareholders, and the shareholders of the entity provide the equity instruments needed.
B49. The entity shall account for share-based payment transactions in which it receives services as consideration for its
own equity instruments as equity-settled. This applies regardless of whether the entity chooses or is required to buy
those equity instruments from another party to satisfy its obligations to its employees under the share-based payment
arrangement. It also applies regardless of whether:
(a)
the employee's rights to the entity's equity instruments were granted by the entity itself or by its shareholder(s); or
(b)
the share-based payment arrangement was settled by the entity itself or by its shareholder(s).
B50. If the shareholder has an obligation to settle the transaction with its investee's employees, it provides equity
instruments of its investee rather than its own. Therefore, if its investee is in the same group as the shareholder, in
accordance with paragraph 43C, the shareholder shall measure its obligation in accordance with the requirements
applicable to cash-settled share-based payment transactions in the shareholder's separate financial statements and
those applicable to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in the shareholder's consolidated financial
statements.
Share-based payment arrangements involving equity instruments of the parent
B51. The second issue concerns share-based payment transactions between two or more entities within the same group
involving an equity instrument of another group entity. For example, employees of a subsidiary are granted rights to
equity instruments of its parent as consideration for the services provided to the subsidiary.
B52. Therefore, the second issue concerns the following share-based payment arrangements:
(a)
a parent grants rights to its equity instruments directly to the employees of its subsidiary: the parent (not the subsidiary)
has the obligation to provide the employees of the subsidiary with the equity instruments; and
(b)
a subsidiary grants rights to equity instruments of its parent to its employees: the subsidiary has the obligation to provide
its employees with the equity instruments.
A parent grants rights to its equity instruments to the employees of its subsidiary [paragraph B52(a)]
B53. The subsidiary does not have an obligation to provide its parent's equity instruments to the subsidiary's employees.
Therefore, in accordance with paragraph 43B, the subsidiary shall measure the services received from its employees in
accordance with the requirements applicable to equity-settled share-based payment transactions, and recognise a
corresponding increase in equity as a contribution from the parent.
B54. The parent has an obligation to settle the transaction with the subsidiary's employees by providing the parent's own
Page 54/765
----- PAGE 55 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
equity instruments. Therefore, in accordance with paragraph 43C, the parent shall measure its obligation in accordance
with the requirements applicable to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
A subsidiary grants rights to equity instruments of its parent to its employees [paragraph B52(b)]
B55. Because the subsidiary does not meet either of the conditions in paragraph 43B, it shall account for the transaction
with its employees as cash-settled. This requirement applies irrespective of how the subsidiary obtains the equity
instruments to satisfy its obligations to its employees.
Share-based payment arrangements involving cash-settled payments to employees
B56. The third issue is how an entity that receives goods or services from its suppliers (including employees) should
account for share-based arrangements that are cash-settled when the entity itself does not have any obligation to make
the required payments to its suppliers. For example, consider the following arrangements in which the parent (not the
entity itself) has an obligation to make the required cash payments to the employees of the entity:
(a)
the employees of the entity will receive cash payments that are linked to the price of its equity instruments.
(b)
the employees of the entity will receive cash payments that are linked to the price of its parent's equity instruments.
B57. The subsidiary does not have an obligation to settle the transaction with its employees. Therefore, the subsidiary
shall account for the transaction with its employees as equity-settled, and recognise a corresponding increase in equity
as a contribution from its parent. The subsidiary shall remeasure the cost of the transaction subsequently for any
changes resulting from non-market vesting conditions not being met in accordance with paragraphs 19-21. This differs
from the measurement of the transaction as cash-settled in the consolidated financial statements of the group.
B58. Because the parent has an obligation to settle the transaction with the employees, and the consideration is cash,
the parent (and the consolidated group) shall measure its obligation in accordance with the requirements applicable to
cash-settled share-based payment transactions in paragraph 43C.
Transfer of employees between group entities
B59. The fourth issue relates to group share-based payment arrangements that involve employees of more than one
group entity. For example, a parent might grant rights to its equity instruments to the employees of its subsidiaries,
conditional upon the completion of continuing service with the group for a specified period. An employee of one
subsidiary might transfer employment to another subsidiary during the specified vesting period without the employee's
rights to equity instruments of the parent under the original share-based payment arrangement being affected. If the
subsidiaries have no obligation to settle the share-based payment transaction with their employees, they account for it
as an equity-settled transaction. Each subsidiary shall measure the services received from the employee by reference to
the fair value of the equity instruments at the date the rights to those equity instruments were originally granted by the
parent as defined in Appendix A, and the proportion of the vesting period the employee served with each subsidiary.
B60. If the subsidiary has an obligation to settle the transaction with its employees in its parent's equity instruments, it
accounts for the transaction as cash-settled. Each subsidiary shall measure the services received on the basis of grant
date fair value of the equity instruments for the proportion of the vesting period the employee served with each
subsidiary. In addition, each subsidiary shall recognise any change in the fair value of the equity instruments during the
employee's service period with each subsidiary.
B61. Such an employee, after transferring between group entities, may fail to satisfy a vesting condition other than a
market condition as defined in Appendix A, e.g. the employee leaves the group before completing the service period. In
this case, because the vesting condition is service to the group, each subsidiary shall adjust the amount previously
recognized in respect of the services received from the employee in accordance with the principles in paragraph 19.
Hence, if the rights to the equity instruments granted by the parent do not vest because of an employee's failure to meet
a vesting condition other than a market condition, no amount is recognized on a cumulative basis for the services
received from that employee in the financial statements of any group entity.
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 102 and the corresponding International
Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 2, Share-based Payment, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IFRS 2, Share-based Payment
1. The transitional provisions given in IFRS 2 and portions related thereto have not been given in Ind AS 102, since all
Page 55/765
----- PAGE 56 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
transitional provisions related to Indian ASs, wherever considered appropriate, have been included in Ind AS 101,
First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International
Financial Reporting Standards.
2. Cross-reference to paragraphs B1-B4 of IFRS 3 contained in paragraph 5 of IFRS 2 has been modified as
cross-reference to Appendix C of Ind AS 103 in paragraph 5 of Ind AS 102. This is consequential to the insertion of
Appendix C in Ind AS 103 to deal with business combination of entities under common control.
3. Different terminology is used in the Standard. e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position'.
4. Paragraph number 3 appears as 'Deleted' in IFRS 2. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of
IFRS 2, the paragraph number is retained in Ind AS 102.
5. [ Paragraphs 53-59 and 60-63C in IFRS 2 have not been included in Ind AS 102 as these paragraphs relate to
Transitional Provisions and Effective date, respectively. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IFRS 2, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 102.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 258(E), dated 17.3.2017 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 103
Business Combinations
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set out in bold type and plain type which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) is to improve the relevance, reliability and comparability of
the information that a reporting entity provides in its financial statements about a business combination and its effects.
To accomplish that, this Ind AS establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer:
(a)
recognises and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any
non-controlling interest in the acquiree;
(b)
recognises and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a [bargain purchase]
[In this standard as well as in all other Indian Accounting Standards, reference to bargain purchase gain arising on a
business combination includes amounts recognized in paragraphs 34 and 36A of this Ind AS, as the case may be,
unless otherwise specified.]
; and
(c)
determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial
effects of the business combination.
Scope
2. This Ind AS applies to a transaction or other event that meets the definition of a business combination. This Ind AS
does not apply to:
(a)
the accounting for the formation of a joint arrangement in the financial statements of the joint arrangement itself.
(b)
the acquisition of an asset or a group of assets that does not constitute a business. In such cases the acquirer shall
identify and recognise the individual identifiable assets acquired (including those assets that meet the definition of, and
recognition criteria for, intangible assets in Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets) and liabilities assumed. The cost of the group
shall be allocated to the individual identifiable assets and liabilities on the basis of their relative fair values at the date of
purchase. Such a transaction or event does not give rise to goodwill.
(c)
[Refer Appendix 1]
2A.
The requirements of this Standard do not apply to the acquisition by an investment entity, as defined in Ind AS 110,
Consolidated Financial Statements, of an investment in a subsidiary that is required to be measured at fair value through
profit or loss.
Page 56/765
----- PAGE 57 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
2B.
Appendix C deals with accounting for combination of entities or businesses under common control.
Identifying a business combination
3. An entity shall determine whether a transaction or other event is a business combination by applying the definition in
this Ind AS, which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed constitute a business. If the assets acquired
are not a business, the reporting entity shall account for the transaction or other event as an asset acquisition.
Paragraphs B5-B12 provide guidance on identifying a business combination and the definition of a business.
The acquisition method
4. An entity shall account for each business combination by applying the acquisition method.
5. Applying the acquisition method requires:
(a)
identifying the acquirer;
(b)
determining the acquisition date;
(c)
recognising and measuring the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in
the acquiree; and
(d)
recognising and measuring goodwill or a gain from a bargain purchase.
Identifying the acquirer
6. For each business combination, one of the combining entities shall be identified as the acquirer.
7. The guidance in Ind AS 110 shall be used to identify the acquirer-the entity that obtains control of another entity, i.e.
the acquiree. If a business combination has occurred but applying the guidance in Ind AS 110 does not clearly indicate
which of the combining entities is the acquirer, the factors in paragraphs B14-B18 shall be considered in making that
determination.
Determining the acquisition date
8. The acquirer shall identify the acquisition date, which is the date on which it obtains control of the acquiree.
9. The date on which the acquirer obtains control of the acquiree is generally the date on which the acquirer legally
transfers the consideration, acquires the assets and assumes the liabilities of the acquiree-the closing date. However,
the acquirer might obtain control on a date that is either earlier or later than the closing date. For example, the
acquisition date precedes the closing date if a written agreement provides that the acquirer obtains control of the
acquiree on a date before the closing date. An acquirer shall consider all pertinent facts and circumstances in identifying
the acquisition date.
Recognising and measuring the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in
the acquiree
Recognition principle
10. As of the acquisition date, the acquirer shall recognise, separately from goodwill, the identifiable assets acquired, the
liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. Recognition of identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities assumed is subject to the conditions specified in paragraphs 11. and 12.
Recognition conditions
11. To qualify for recognition as part of applying the acquisition method, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
assumed must meet the definitions of assets and liabilities in the Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of
Financial Statements in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of India at the acquisition date. For example, costs the acquirer expects but is not obliged to incur in the future to effect
its plan to exit an activity of an acquiree or to terminate the employment of or relocate an acquiree's employees are not
liabilities at the acquisition date. Therefore, the acquirer does not recognise those costs as part of applying the
acquisition method. Instead, the acquirer recognises those costs in its post-combination financial statements in
accordance with other Ind AS.
12. In addition, to qualify for recognition as part of applying the acquisition method, the identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities assumed must be part of what the acquirer and the acquiree (or its former owners) exchanged in the business
combination transaction rather than the result of separate transactions. The acquirer shall apply the guidance in
Page 57/765
----- PAGE 58 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
paragraphs 51-53 to determine which assets acquired or liabilities assumed are part of the exchange for the acquiree
and which, if any, are the result of separate transactions to be accounted for in accordance with their nature and the
applicable Ind AS.
13. The acquirer's application of the recognition principle and conditions may result in recognising some assets and
liabilities that the acquiree had not previously recognized as assets and liabilities in its financial statements. For
example, the acquirer recognises the acquired identifiable intangible assets, such as a brand name, a patent or a
customer relationship, that the acquiree did not recognise as assets in its financial statements because it developed
them internally and charged the related costs to expense.
14. [ Paragraphs B31-B40 provide guidance on recognising intangible assets. Paragraphs 22-28B specify the types of
identifiable assets and liabilities that include items for which this Ind AS provides limited exceptions to the recognition
principle and conditions.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Classifying or designating identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination
15. At the acquisition date, the acquirer shall classify or designate the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
assumed as necessary to apply other Ind ASs subsequently. The acquirer shall make those classifications or
designations on the basis of the contractual terms, economic conditions, its operating or accounting policies and other
pertinent conditions as they exist at the acquisition date.
16. In some situations, Ind ASs provide for different accounting depending on how an entity classifies or designates a
particular asset or liability. Examples of classifications or designations that the acquirer shall make on the basis of the
pertinent conditions as they exist at the acquisition date include but are not limited to:
(a)
classification of particular financial assets and liabilities as measured at fair value through profit or loss or at amortised
cost, or as a financial asset measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with Ind AS 109,
Financial Instruments;
(b)
designation of a derivative instrument as a hedging instrument in accordance with Ind AS 109; and
(c)
assessment of whether an embedded derivative should be separated from a host contract in accordance with Ind AS
109 (which is a matter of 'classification' as this Ind AS uses that term).
17. This Ind AS provides two exceptions to the principle in paragraph 15:
(a)
[ classification of a lease contract in which acquiree is the lessor as either an operating lease or a finance lease in
accordance with Ind AS 116, Leases; and]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b)
classification of a contract as an insurance contract in accordance with Ind AS 104, Insurance Contracts.
The acquirer shall classify those contracts on the basis of the contractual terms and other factors at the inception of the
contract (or, if the terms of the contract have been modified in a manner that would change its classification, at the date
of that modification, which might be the acquisition date).
Measurement principle
18. The acquirer shall measure the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair
values.
19. For each business combination, the acquirer shall measure at the acquisition date components of non-controlling
interest in the acquiree that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the
entity's net assets in the event of liquidation at either:
(a)
fair value; or
(b)
The present ownership instruments' proportionate share in the recognized amounts of the acquiree's identifiable net
assets
All other components of non-controlling interests shall be measured at their acquisition-date fair values, unless another
Page 58/765
----- PAGE 59 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
measurement basis is required by Ind AS.
20. Paragraphs 24-31 specify the types of identifiable assets and liabilities that include items for which this Ind AS
provides limited exceptions to the measurement principle.
Exceptions to the recognition or measurement principles
21. This Ind AS provides limited exceptions to its recognition and measurement principles. Paragraphs 22-31 specify
both the particular items for which exceptions are provided and the nature of those exceptions. The acquirer shall
account for those items by applying the requirements in paragraphs 22-31, which will result in some items being:
(a)
recognized either by applying recognition conditions in addition to those in paragraphs 11 and 12 or by applying the
requirements of other Ind ASs, with results that differ from applying the recognition principle and conditions.
(b)
measured at an amount other than their acquisition-date fair values.
Exception to the recognition principle
Contingent liabilities
22. Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, defines a contingent liability as:
(a)
a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or
non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the entity; or
(b)
a present obligation that arises from past events but is not recognized because:
(i)
it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; or
(ii)
the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
23. The requirements in Ind AS 37 do not apply in determining which contingent liabilities to recognise as of the
acquisition date. Instead, the acquirer shall recognise as of the acquisition date a contingent liability assumed in a
business combination if it is a present obligation that arises from past events and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Therefore, contrary to Ind AS 37, the acquirer recognises a contingent liability assumed in a business combination at the
acquisition date even if it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation. Paragraph 56 provides guidance on the subsequent accounting for contingent liabilities.
Exceptions to both the recognition and measurement principles
Income taxes
24. The acquirer shall recognise and measure a deferred tax asset or liability arising from the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed in a business combination in accordance with Ind AS 12, Income Taxes.
25. The acquirer shall account for the potential tax effects of temporary differences and carry forwards of an acquiree
that exist at the acquisition date or arise as a result of the acquisition in accordance with Ind AS 12.
Employee benefits
26. The acquirer shall recognise and measure a liability (or asset, if any) related to the acquiree's employee benefit
arrangements in accordance with Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits.
Indemnification assets
27. The seller in a business combination may contractually indemnify the acquirer for the outcome of a contingency or
uncertainty related to all or part of a specific asset or liability. For example, the seller may indemnify the acquirer against
losses above a specified amount on a liability arising from a particular contingency; in other words, the seller will
guarantee that the acquirer's liability will not exceed a specified amount. As a result, the acquirer obtains an
indemnification asset. The acquirer shall recognise an indemnification asset at the same time that it recognises the
indemnified item measured on the same basis as the indemnified item, subject to the need for a valuation allowance for
uncollectible amounts. Therefore, if the indemnification relates to an asset or a liability that is recognized at the
acquisition date and measured at its acquisition-date fair value, the acquirer shall recognise the indemnification asset at
the acquisition date measured at its acquisition-date fair value. For an indemnification asset measured at fair value, the
effects of uncertainty about future cash flows because of collectibility considerations are included in the fair value
measure and a separate valuation allowance is not necessary (paragraph B41 provides related application guidance).
Page 59/765
----- PAGE 60 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
28. In some circumstances, the indemnification may relate to an asset or a liability that is an exception to the recognition
or measurement principles. For example, an indemnification may relate to a contingent liability that is not recognized at
the acquisition date because its fair value is not reliably measurable at that date. Alternatively, an indemnification may
relate to an asset or a liability, for example, one that results from an employee benefit, that is measured on a basis other
than acquisition-date fair value. In those circumstances, the indemnification asset shall be recognized and measured
using assumptions consistent with those used to measure the indemnified item, subject to management's assessment of
the collectibility of the indemnification asset and any contractual limitations on the indemnified amount. Paragraph 57
provides guidance on the subsequent accounting for an indemnification asset.
[Leases in which the acquiree is the lessee
28A. The acquirer shall recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for leases identified in accordance with Ind AS
116 in which the acquiree is the lessee. The acquirer is not required to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities
for:
(a)
leases for which the lease term (as defined in Ind AS 116) ends within 12 months of the acquisition date; or
(b)
leases for which the underlying asset is of low value (as described in paragraphs B3-B8 of Ind AS 116).
28B.
The acquirer shall measure the lease liability at the present value of the remaining lease payments (as defined in Ind AS
116) as if the acquired lease were a new lease at the acquisition date. The acquirer shall measure the right-of-use asset
at the same amount as the lease liability, adjusted to reflect favourable or unfavourable terms of the lease when
compared with market terms.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Exceptions to the measurement principle
Reacquired rights
29. The acquirer shall measure the value of a reacquired right recognized as an intangible asset on the basis of the
remaining contractual term of the related contract regardless of whether market participants would consider potential
contractual renewals when measuring its fair value. Paragraphs B35 and B36 provide related application guidance.
Share-based payment transactions
30. The acquirer shall measure a liability or an equity instrument related to share-based payment transactions of the
acquiree or the replacement of an acquiree's share-based payment transactions with share-based payment transactions
of the acquirer in accordance with the method in Ind AS 102, Share-based Payment, at the acquisition date. (This Ind
AS refers to the result of that method as the 'market-based measure' of the share-based payment transaction.)
Assets held for sale
31. The acquirer shall measure an acquired non-current asset (or disposal group) that is classified as held for sale at the
acquisition date in accordance with Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, at fair
value less costs to sell in accordance with paragraphs 15-18 of that Ind AS.
Recognising and measuring goodwill or a gain from a bargain purchase
32. The acquirer shall recognise goodwill as of the acquisition date measured as the excess of (a) over (b) below:
(a)
the aggregate of:
(i)
the consideration transferred measured in accordance with this Ind AS, which generally requires acquisition-date fair
value (see paragraph 37);
(ii)
the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree measured in accordance with this Ind AS; and
(iii)
in a business combination achieved in stages (see paragraphs 41 and 42), the acquisition-date fair value of the
acquirer's previously held equity interest in the acquiree.
(b)
the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed measured in
accordance with this Ind AS.
Page 60/765
----- PAGE 61 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
33. In a business combination in which the acquirer and the acquiree (or its former owners) exchange only equity
interests, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquiree's equity interests may be more reliably measurable than the
acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer's equity interests. If so, the acquirer shall determine the amount of goodwill by
using the acquisition-date fair value of the acquiree's equity interests instead of the acquisition-date fair value of the
equity interests transferred. To determine the amount of goodwill in a business combination in which no consideration is
transferred, the acquirer shall use the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer's interest in the acquiree in place of the
acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred (paragraph 32(a)(i)). Paragraphs B46-B49 provide related
application guidance.
Bargain purchases
34. In extremely rare circumstances, an acquirer will make a bargain purchase in a business combination in which the
amount in paragraph 32(b) exceeds the aggregate of the amounts specified in paragraph 32(a). If that excess remains
after applying the requirements in paragraph 36, the acquirer shall recognise the resulting gain in other comprehensive
income on the acquisition date and accumulate the same in equity as capital reserve. The gain shall be attributed to the
acquirer.
35. A bargain purchase might happen, for example, in a business combination that is a forced sale in which the seller is
acting under compulsion. However, the recognition or measurement exceptions for particular items discussed in
paragraphs 22-31 may also result in recognising a gain (or change the amount of a recognized gain) on a bargain
purchase.
36. Before recognising a gain on a bargain purchase, the acquirer shall determine whether there exists clear evidence of
the underlying reasons for classifying the business combination as a bargain purchase. If such evidence exists, the
acquirer shall reassess whether it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and
shall recognise any additional assets or liabilities that are identified in that review. The acquirer shall then review the
procedures used to measure the amounts this Ind AS requires to be recognized at the acquisition date for all of the
following:
(a)
the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed;
(b)
the non-controlling interest in the acquiree, if any;
(c)
for a business combination achieved in stages, the acquirer's previously held equity interest in the acquiree; and
(d)
the consideration transferred.
The objective of the review is to ensure that the measurements appropriately reflect consideration of all available
information as of the acquisition date.
36A.
If there does not exist clear evidence of the underlying reasons for classifying the business combination as a bargain
purchase, the acquirer shall apply the requirements of reassessment and review described in paragraph 36. The
excess, if any, as determined in accordance with paragraph 32 after applying the said requirements of paragraph 36,
shall be recognized directly in equity as capital reserve.
Consideration transferred
37. The consideration transferred in a business combination shall be measured at fair value, which shall be calculated
as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred by the acquirer, the liabilities incurred by the
acquirer to former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the acquirer. (However, any portion of the
acquirer's share-based payment awards exchanged for awards held by the acquiree's employees that is included in
consideration transferred in the business combination shall be measured in accordance with paragraph 30 rather than at
fair value.) Examples of potential forms of consideration include cash, other assets, a business or a subsidiary of the
acquirer, contingent consideration, ordinary or preference equity instruments, options, warrants and member interests of
mutual entities.
38. The consideration transferred may include assets or liabilities of the acquirer that have carrying amounts that differ
from their fair values at the acquisition date (for example, non-monetary assets or a business of the acquirer). If so, the
acquirer shall remeasure the transferred assets or liabilities to their fair values as of the acquisition date and recognise
Page 61/765
----- PAGE 62 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the resulting gains or losses, if any, in profit or loss. However, sometimes the transferred assets or liabilities remain
within the combined entity after the business combination (for example, because the assets or liabilities were transferred
to the acquiree rather than to its former owners), and the acquirer therefore retains control of them. In that situation, the
acquirer shall measure those assets and liabilities at their carrying amounts immediately before the acquisition date and
shall not recognise a gain or loss in profit or loss on assets or liabilities it controls both before and after the business
combination.
Contingent consideration
39. The consideration the acquirer transfers in exchange for the acquiree includes any asset or liability resulting from a
contingent consideration arrangement (see paragraph 37). The acquirer shall recognise the acquisition date fair value of
contingent consideration as part of the consideration transferred in exchange for the acquiree.
40. The acquirer shall classify an obligation to pay contingent consideration that meets the definition of a financial
instrument as a financial liability or as equity on the basis of the definitions of an equity instrument and a financial liability
in paragraph 11 of Ind AS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation. The acquirer shall classify as an asset a right to the
return of previously transferred consideration if specified conditions are met. Paragraph 58 provides guidance on the
subsequent accounting for contingent consideration.
Additional guidance for applying the acquisition method to particular types of business combinations
A business combination achieved in stages
41. An acquirer sometimes obtains control of an acquiree in which it held an equity interest immediately before the
acquisition date. For example, on 31 December 20X1, Entity A holds a 35 per cent non-controlling equity interest in
Entity B. On that date, Entity A purchases an additional 40 per cent interest in Entity B, which gives it control of Entity B.
This Ind AS refers to such a transaction as a business combination achieved in stages, sometimes also referred to as a
step acquisition.
42. In a business combination achieved in stages, the acquirer shall remeasure its previously held equity interest in the
acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value and recognise the resulting gain or loss, if any, in profit or loss or other
comprehensive income, as appropriate. In prior reporting periods, the acquirer may have recognized changes in the
value of its equity interest in the acquiree in other comprehensive income. If so, the amount that was recognized in other
comprehensive income shall be recognized on the same basis as would be required if the acquirer had disposed directly
of the previously held equity interest.
42A.
[ When a party to a joint arrangement (as defined in Ind AS 111, Joint Arrangements) obtains control of a business that
is a joint operation (as defined in Ind AS 111), and had rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to
that joint operation immediately before the acquisition date, the transaction is a business combination achieved in
stages. The acquirer shall therefore apply the requirements for a business combination achieved in stages, including
remeasuring its previously held interest in the joint operation in the manner described in paragraph 42. In doing so, the
acquirer shall remeasure its entire previously held interest in the joint operation.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
A business combination achieved without the transfer of consideration
43. An acquirer sometimes obtains control of an acquiree without transferring consideration. The acquisition method of
accounting for a business combination applies to those combinations. Such circumstances include:
(a)
The acquiree repurchases a sufficient number of its own shares for an existing investor (the acquirer) to obtain control.
(b)
Minority veto rights lapse that previously kept the acquirer from controlling an acquiree in which the acquirer held the
majority voting rights.
(c)
The acquirer and acquiree agree to combine their businesses by contract alone. The acquirer transfers no consideration
in exchange for control of an acquiree and holds no equity interests in the acquiree, either on the acquisition date or
previously. Examples of business combinations achieved by contract alone include bringing two businesses together in
a stapling arrangement or forming a dual listed corporation.
44. In a business combination achieved by contract alone, the acquirer shall attribute to the owners of the acquiree the
amount of the acquiree's net assets recognized in accordance with this Ind AS. In other words, the equity interests in the
Page 62/765
----- PAGE 63 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
acquiree held by parties other than the acquirer are a non-controlling interest in the acquirer's post-combination financial
statements even if the result is that all of the equity interests in the acquiree are attributed to the non-controlling interest.
Measurement period
45. If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the
combination occurs, the acquirer shall report in its financial statements provisional amounts for the items for which the
accounting is incomplete. During the measurement period, the acquirer shall retrospectively adjust the provisional
amounts recognized at the acquisition date to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that
existed as of the acquisition date and, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of
that date. During the measurement period, the acquirer shall also recognise additional assets or liabilities if new
information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and, if known, would have
resulted in the recognition of those assets and liabilities as of that date. The measurement period ends as soon as the
acquirer receives the information it was seeking about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date or
learns that more information is not obtainable. However, the measurement period shall not exceed one year from the
acquisition date.
46. The measurement period is the period after the acquisition date during which the acquirer may adjust the provisional
amounts recognized for a business combination. The measurement period provides the acquirer with a reasonable time
to obtain the information necessary to identify and measure the following as of the acquisition date in accordance with
the requirements of this Ind AS:
(a)
the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree;
(b)
the consideration transferred for the acquiree (or the other amount used in measuring goodwill);
(c)
in a business combination achieved in stages, the equity interest in the acquiree previously held by the acquirer; and
(d)
the resulting goodwill or gain on a bargain purchase.
47. The acquirer shall consider all pertinent factors in determining whether information obtained after the acquisition
date should result in an adjustment to the provisional amounts recognized or whether that information results from
events that occurred after the acquisition date. Pertinent factors include the date when additional information is obtained
and whether the acquirer can identify a reason for a change to provisional amounts. Information that is obtained shortly
after the acquisition date is more likely to reflect circumstances that existed at the acquisition date than is information
obtained several months later. For example, unless an intervening event that changed its fair value can be identified, the
sale of an asset to a third party shortly after the acquisition date for an amount that differs significantly from its
provisional fair value measured at that date is likely to indicate an error in the provisional amount.
48. The acquirer recognises an increase (decrease) in the provisional amount recognized for an identifiable asset
(liability) by means of a decrease (increase) in goodwill. However, new information obtained during the measurement
period may sometimes result in an adjustment to the provisional amount of more than one asset or liability. For example,
the acquirer might have assumed a liability to pay damages related to an accident in one of the acquiree's facilities, part
or all of which are covered by the acquiree's liability insurance policy. If the acquirer obtains new information during the
measurement period about the acquisition-date fair value of that liability, the adjustment to goodwill resulting from a
change to the provisional amount recognized for the liability would be offset (in whole or in part) by a corresponding
adjustment to goodwill resulting from a change to the provisional amount recognized for the claim receivable from the
insurer. If the adjustment results in reduction of goodwill and if the amount of adjustment exceeds the amount previously
recognized as goodwill that excess shall be accounted for in accordance with paragraph 34 or paragraph 36A as
applicable.
49. During the measurement period, the acquirer shall recognise adjustments to the provisional amounts as if the
accounting for the business combination had been completed at the acquisition date. Thus, the acquirer shall revise
comparative information for prior periods presented in financial statements as needed, including making any change in
depreciation, amortisation or other income effects recognized in completing the initial accounting.
50. After the measurement period ends, the acquirer shall revise the accounting for a business combination only to
correct an error in accordance with Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
Page 63/765
----- PAGE 64 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Determining what is part of the business combination transaction
51. The acquirer and the acquiree may have a pre-existing relationship or other arrangement before negotiations for the
business combination began, or they may enter into an arrangement during the negotiations that is separate from the
business combination. In either situation, the acquirer shall identify any amounts that are not part of what the acquirer
and the acquiree (or its former owners) exchanged in the business combination, i.e. amounts that are not part of the
exchange for the acquiree. The acquirer shall recognise as part of applying the acquisition method only the
consideration transferred for the acquiree and the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the exchange for the
acquiree. Separate transactions shall be accounted for in accordance with the relevant Ind AS.
52. A transaction entered into by or on behalf of the acquirer or primarily for the benefit of the acquirer or the combined
entity, rather than primarily for the benefit of the acquiree (or its former owners) before the combination, is likely to be a
separate transaction. The following are examples of separate transactions that are not to be included in applying the
acquisition method:
(a)
a transaction that in effect settles pre-existing relationships between the acquirer and acquiree;
(b)
a transaction that remunerates employees or former owners of the acquiree for future services; and
(c)
a transaction that reimburses the acquiree or its former owners for paying the acquirer's acquisition related costs.
Paragraphs B50-B62 provide related application guidance
Acquisition-related costs
53. Acquisition-related costs are costs the acquirer incurs to effect a business combination. Those costs include finder's
fees; advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other professional or consulting fees; general administrative costs,
including the costs of maintaining an internal acquisitions department; and costs of registering and issuing debt and
equity securities. The acquirer shall account for acquisition-related costs as expenses in the periods in which the costs
are incurred and the services are received, with one exception. The costs to issue debt or equity securities shall be
recognized in accordance with Ind AS 32 and Ind AS 109.
Subsequent measurement and accounting
54.
In general, an acquirer shall subsequently measure and account for assets acquired, liabilities assumed or incurred and
equity instruments issued in a business combination in accordance with other applicable Ind ASs for those items,
depending on their nature. However, this Ind AS provides guidance on subsequently measuring and accounting for the
following assets acquired, liabilities assumed or incurred and equity instruments issued in a business combination:
(a)
reacquired rights;
(b)
contingent liabilities recognized as of the acquisition date;
(c)
indemnification assets; and
(d)
contingent consideration.
Paragraph B63 provides related application guidance.
Reacquired rights
55.
A reacquired right recognized as an intangible asset shall be amortised over the remaining contractual period of the
contract in which the right was granted. An acquirer that subsequently sells a reacquired right to a third party shall
include the carrying amount of the intangible asset in determining the gain or loss on the sale.
Contingent liabilities
56.
[ After initial recognition and until the liability is settled, cancelled or expires, the acquirer shall measure a contingent
liability recognised in a business combination at the higher of :
(a)
Page 64/765
----- PAGE 65 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the amount that would be recognised in accordance with Ind AS 37; and
(b)
the amount initially recognised less, if appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with the
principles of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
This requirement does not apply to contracts accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 109.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indemnification assets
57.
At the end of each subsequent reporting period, the acquirer shall measure an indemnification asset that was
recognized at the acquisition date on the same basis as the indemnified liability or asset, subject to any contractual
limitations on its amount and, for an indemnification asset that is not subsequently measured at its fair value,
management's assessment of the collectibility of the indemnification asset. The acquirer shall de-recognise the
indemnification asset only when it collects the asset, sells it or otherwise loses the right to it.
Contingent consideration
58.
Some changes in the fair value of contingent consideration that the acquirer recognises after the acquisition date may
be the result of additional information that the acquirer obtained after that date about facts and circumstances that
existed at the acquisition date. Such changes are measurement period adjustments in accordance with paragraphs
45-49. However, changes resulting from events after the acquisition date, such as meeting an earnings target, reaching
a specified share price or reaching a milestone on a research and development project, are not measurement period
adjustments. The acquirer shall account for changes in the fair value of contingent consideration that are not
measurement period adjustments as follows:
(a)
Contingent consideration classified as equity shall not be remeasured and its subsequent settlement shall be accounted
for within equity.
(b)
Other contingent consideration that:
(i)
is within the scope of Ind AS 109 shall be measured at fair value at each reporting date and changes in fair value shall
be recognized in profit or loss in accordance with Ind AS 109.
(ii)
is not within the scope of Ind AS 109 shall be measured at fair value at each reporting date and changes in fair value
shall be recognized in profit or loss.
Disclosures
59.
The acquirer shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial
effect of a business combination that occurs either:
(a)
during the current reporting period; or
(b)
after the end of the reporting period but before the financial statements are approved for issue.
60. To meet the objective in paragraph 59, the acquirer shall disclose the information specified in paragraphs B64-B66.
61.
The acquirer shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements to evaluate the financial effects of
adjustments recognized in the current reporting period that relate to business combinations that occurred in the period or
previous reporting periods.
62.
To meet the objective in paragraph 61, the acquirer shall disclose the information specified in paragraph B67.
63.
If the specific disclosures required by this and other Ind ASs do not meet the objectives set out in paragraphs 59. and
61, the acquirer shall disclose whatever additional information is necessary to meet those objectives.
Page 65/765
----- PAGE 66 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
[Effective Date
64.
*
64A.
*
64B.
*
64C.
*
64D.
*
64E.
*
64F.
*
64G.
*
64H.
*
64I.
*
64J.
*
64K.
As a consequence of issuance of Ind AS 115, paragraph 56 has been amended. An entity shall follow the amendment
when it applies Ind AS 115.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[64L Omitted *
64M.
Ind AS 116 amended paragraphs 14, 17, B32 and B42, deleted paragraphs B28-B30 and their related heading and
added paragraphs 28A-28B and their related heading. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS
116.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[64 N*
64O.
Annual Improvements to Ind AS (2018) added paragraph 42A. An entity shall apply those amendments to business
combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on
or after 1 April, 2019.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
acquiree
The business or businesses that theacquirer
obtains control of in abusiness combination.
acquirer
The entity that obtains control of theacquiree.
acquisition date
The date on which theacquirerobtains
control of theacquiree.
business
Page 66/765
----- PAGE 67 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
An integrated set of activities and assets that
is capable of being conducted and managed for the purpose of
providing a return in the form of dividends, lower costs or other
economic benefits directly to investors or other owners, members
or participants.
business combination
A transaction or other event in which anacquirerobtains control of one or morebusinesses.Transactions sometimes
referred to as 'true mergers' or 'mergers
of equals' are alsobusiness combinationsas that term is
used in this Ind AS.
contingent consideration
Usually, an obligation of theacquirerto
transfer additional assets orequity intereststo the
former owners of anacquireeas part of the exchange for
control of the acquiree if specified future events occur or
conditions are met. However,contingent considerationalso
may give the acquirer the right to the return of previously
transferred consideration if specified conditions are met.
equity interests
For the purposes of this Ind AS,equity
interestsis used broadly to mean ownership interests of
investor-owned entities and owner, member or participant
interests ofmutual entities.
fair value
Fair valueis the price that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date. (See Ind AS 113.)
goodwill
An asset representing the future economic
benefits arising from other assets acquired in abusiness
combinationthat are not individually identified and
separately recognized.
identifiable
An asset isidentifiableif it either:
(a) is separable, i.e. capable of being separated or divided from
the entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged,
either individually or together with a related contract,
identifiable asset or liability, regardless of whether the entity
intends to do so; or
(b) arises from contractual or other legal rights, regardless of
whether those rights are transferable or separable from the
entity or from other rights and obligations.
intangible asset
Anidentifiablenon-monetary asset
without physical substance.
mutual entity
An entity, other than an investor-owned entity,
that provides dividends, lower costs or other economic benefits
directly to itsowners, members or participants. For
example, a mutual insurance company, a credit union and a
Page 67/765
----- PAGE 68 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
co-operative entity are all mutual entities.
non-controlling interest
The equity in a subsidiary not attributable,
directly or indirectly, to a parent.
owners
For the purposes of this Ind AS, owners is used
broadly to include holders ofequity interestsof
investor-owned entities and owners or members of, or participants
in,mutual entities.
Appendix B
Application guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
B1.-B4. [Refer Appendix 1]
Identifying a business combination (application of paragraph 3)
B5. This Ind AS defines a business combination as a transaction or other event in which an acquirer obtains control of
one or more businesses. An acquirer might obtain control of an acquiree in a variety of ways, for example:
(a)
by transferring cash, cash equivalents or other assets (including net assets that constitute a business);
(b)
by incurring liabilities;
(c)
by issuing equity interests;
(d)
by providing more than one type of consideration; or
(e)
without transferring consideration, including by contract alone (see paragraph 43).
B6. A business combination may be structured in a variety of ways for legal, taxation or other reasons, which include but
are not limited to:
(a)
one or more businesses become subsidiaries of an acquirer or the net assets of one or more businesses are legally
merged into the acquirer;
(b)
one combining entity transfers its net assets, or its owners transfer their equity interests, to another combining entity or
its owners;
(c)
all of the combining entities transfer their net assets, or the owners of those entities transfer their equity interests, to a
newly formed entity (sometimes referred to as a roll-up or put-together transaction); or
(d)
a group of former owners of one of the combining entities obtains control of the combined entity.
Definition of a business (application of paragraph 3)
B7. A business consists of inputs and processes applied to those inputs that have the ability to create outputs. Although
businesses usually have outputs, outputs are not required for an integrated set to qualify as a business. The three
elements of a business are defined as follows:
(a)
Input : Any economic resource that creates, or has the ability to create, outputs when one or more processes are applied
to it. Examples include non-current assets (including intangible assets or rights to use non-current assets), intellectual
property, the ability to obtain access to necessary materials or rights and employees.
(b)
Process : Any system, standard, protocol, convention or rule that when applied to an input or inputs, creates or has the
ability to create outputs. Examples include strategic management processes, operational processes and resource
management processes. These processes typically are documented, but an organised workforce having the necessary
Page 68/765
----- PAGE 69 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
skills and experience following rules and conventions may provide the necessary processes that are capable of being
applied to inputs to create outputs. (Accounting, billing, payroll and other administrative systems typically are not
processes used to create outputs.)
(c)
Output : The result of inputs and processes applied to those inputs that provide or have the ability to provide a return in
the form of dividends, lower costs or other economic benefits directly to investors or other owners, members or
participants.
B8. To be capable of being conducted and managed for the purposes defined, an integrated set of activities and assets
requires two essential elements-inputs and processes applied to those inputs, which together are or will be used to
create outputs. However, a business need not include all of the inputs or processes that the seller used in operating that
business if market participants are capable of acquiring the business and continuing to produce outputs, for example, by
integrating the business with their own inputs and processes.
B9. The nature of the elements of a business varies by industry and by the structure of an entity's operations (activities),
including the entity's stage of development. Established businesses often have many different types of inputs, processes
and outputs, whereas new businesses often have few inputs and processes and sometimes only a single output
(product). Nearly all businesses also have liabilities, but a business need not have liabilities.
B10. An integrated set of activities and assets in the development stage might not have outputs. If not, the acquirer
should consider other factors to determine whether the set is a business. Those factors include, but are not limited to,
whether the set:
(a)
has begun planned principal activities;
(b)
has employees, intellectual property and other inputs and processes that could be applied to those inputs;
(c)
is pursuing a plan to produce outputs; and
(d)
will be able to obtain access to customers that will purchase the outputs.
Not all of those factors need to be present for a particular integrated set of activities and assets in the development
stage to qualify as a business.
B11. Determining whether a particular set of assets and activities is a business should be based on whether the
integrated set is capable of being conducted and managed as a business by a market participant. Thus, in evaluating
whether a particular set is a business, it is not relevant whether a seller operated the set as a business or whether the
acquirer intends to operate the set as a business.
B12. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, a particular set of assets and activities in which goodwill is present shall
be presumed to be a business. However, a business need not have goodwill.
Identifying the acquirer (application of paragraphs 6 and 7)
B13. The guidance in Ind AS 110, Consolidated Financial Statements, shall be used to identify the acquirer-the entity
that obtains control of the acquiree. If a business combination has occurred but applying the guidance in Ind AS 110
does not clearly indicate which of the combining entities is the acquirer, the factors in paragraphs B14-B18 shall be
considered in making that determination.
B14. In a business combination effected primarily by transferring cash or other assets or by incurring liabilities, the
acquirer is usually the entity that transfers the cash or other assets or incurs the liabilities.
B15. In a business combination effected primarily by exchanging equity interests, the acquirer is usually the entity that
issues its equity interests. However, in some business combinations, commonly called 'reverse acquisitions', the issuing
entity is the acquiree. Paragraphs B19-B27 provide guidance on accounting for reverse acquisitions. Other pertinent
facts and circumstances shall also be considered in identifying the acquirer in a business combination effected by
exchanging equity interests, including:
(a)
the relative voting rights in the combined entity after the business combination - The acquirer is usually the combining
entity whose owners as a group retain or receive the largest portion of the voting rights in the combined entity. In
determining which group of owners retains or receives the largest portion of the voting rights, an entity shall consider the
Page 69/765
----- PAGE 70 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
existence of any unusual or special voting arrangements and options, warrants or convertible securities.
(b)
the existence of a large minority voting interest in the combined entity if no other owner or organised group of owners
has a significant voting interest - The acquirer is usually the combining entity whose single owner or organised group of
owners holds the largest minority voting interest in the combined entity.
(c)
the composition of the governing body of the combined entity - The acquirer is usually the combining entity whose
owners have the ability to elect or appoint or to remove a majority of the members of the governing body of the
combined entity.
(d)
the composition of the senior management of the combined entity - The acquirer is usually the combining entity whose
(former) management dominates the management of the combined entity.
(e)
the terms of the exchange of equity interests - The acquirer is usually the combining entity that pays a premium over the
pre-combination fair value of the equity interests of the other combining entity or entities.
B16. The acquirer is usually the combining entity whose relative size (measured in, for example, assets, revenues or
profit) is significantly greater than that of the other combining entity or entities.
B17. In a business combination involving more than two entities, determining the acquirer shall include a consideration
of, among other things, which of the combining entities initiated the combination, as well as the relative size of the
combining entities.
B18. A new entity formed to effect a business combination is not necessarily the acquirer. If a new entity is formed to
issue equity interests to effect a business combination, one of the combining entities that existed before the business
combination shall be identified as the acquirer by applying the guidance in paragraphs B13-B17. In contrast, a new
entity that transfers cash or other assets or incurs liabilities as consideration may be the acquirer.
Reverse acquisitions
B19. A reverse acquisition occurs when the entity that issues securities (the legal acquirer) is identified as the acquiree
for accounting purposes on the basis of the guidance in paragraphs B13-B18. The entity whose equity interests are
acquired (the legal acquiree) must be the acquirer for accounting purposes for the transaction to be considered a
reverse acquisition. For example, reverse acquisitions sometimes occur when a private operating entity wants to
become a public entity but does not want to register its equity shares. To accomplish that, the private entity will arrange
for a public entity to acquire its equity interests in exchange for the equity interests of the public entity. In this example,
the public entity is the legal acquirer because it issued its equity interests, and the private entity is the legal acquiree
because its equity interests were acquired. However, application of the guidance in paragraphs B13-B18 results in
identifying:
(a)
the public entity as the acquiree for accounting purposes (the accounting acquiree); and
(b)
the private entity as the acquirer for accounting purposes (the accounting acquirer).
The accounting acquiree must meet the definition of a business for the transaction to be accounted for as a reverse
acquisition, and all of the recognition and measurement principles in this Ind AS, including the requirement to recognise
goodwill, apply.
Measuring the consideration transferred
B20. In a reverse acquisition, the accounting acquirer usually issues no consideration for the acquiree. Instead, the
accounting acquiree usually issues its equity shares to the owners of the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, the
acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred by the accounting acquirer for its interest in the accounting
acquiree is based on the number of equity interests the legal subsidiary would have had to issue to give the owners of
the legal parent the same percentage equity interest in the combined entity that results from the reverse acquisition. The
fair value of the number of equity interests calculated in that way can be used as the fair value of consideration
transferred in exchange for the acquiree.
Preparation and presentation of consolidated financial statements
B21. Consolidated financial statements prepared following a reverse acquisition are issued under the name of the legal
Page 70/765
----- PAGE 71 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
parent (accounting acquiree) but described in the notes as a continuation of the financial statements of the legal
subsidiary (accounting acquirer), with one adjustment, which is to adjust retroactively the accounting acquirer's legal
capital to reflect the legal capital of the accounting acquiree. That adjustment is required to reflect the capital of the legal
parent (the accounting acquiree). Comparative information presented in those consolidated financial statements also is
retroactively adjusted to reflect the legal capital of the legal parent (accounting acquiree).
B22. Because the consolidated financial statements represent the continuation of the financial statements of the legal
subsidiary except for its capital structure, the consolidated financial statements reflect:
(a)
the assets and liabilities of the legal subsidiary (the accounting acquirer) recognized and measured at their
pre-combination carrying amounts.
(b)
the assets and liabilities of the legal parent (the accounting acquiree) recognized and measured in accordance with this
Ind AS.
(c)
the retained earnings and other equity balances of the legal subsidiary (accounting acquirer) before the business
combination.
(d)
the amount recognized as issued equity interests in the consolidated financial statements determined by adding the
issued equity interest of the legal subsidiary (the accounting acquirer) outstanding immediately before the business
combination to the fair value of the legal parent (accounting acquiree). However, the equity structure (i.e. the number
and type of equity interests issued) reflects the equity structure of the legal parent (the accounting acquiree), including
the equity interests the legal parent issued to effect the combination. Accordingly, the equity structure of the legal
subsidiary (the accounting acquirer) is restated using the exchange ratio established in the acquisition agreement to
reflect the number of shares of the legal parent (the accounting acquiree) issued in the reverse acquisition.
(e)
the non-controlling interest's proportionate share of the legal subsidiary's (accounting acquirer's) precombination
carrying amounts of retained earnings and other equity interests as discussed in paragraphs B23 and B24.
Non-controlling interest
B23. In a reverse acquisition, some of the owners of the legal acquiree (the accounting acquirer) might not exchange
their equity interests for equity interests of the legal parent (the accounting acquiree). Those owners are treated as a
non-controlling interest in the consolidated financial statements after the reverse acquisition. That is because the owners
of the legal acquiree that do not exchange their equity interests for equity interests of the legal acquirer have an interest
in only the results and net assets of the legal acquiree-not in the results and net assets of the combined entity.
Conversely, even though the legal acquirer is the acquiree for accounting purposes, the owners of the legal acquirer
have an interest in the results and net assets of the combined entity.
B24. The assets and liabilities of the legal acquiree are measured and recognized in the consolidated financial
statements at their pre-combination carrying amounts (see paragraph B22(a)). Therefore, in a reverse acquisition the
non-controlling interest reflects the non-controlling shareholders' proportionate interest in the pre-combination carrying
amounts of the legal acquiree's net assets even if the non-controlling interests in other acquisitions are measured at
their fair value at the acquisition date.
Earnings per share
B25. As noted in paragraph B22(d), the equity structure in the consolidated financial statements following a reverse
acquisition reflects the equity structure of the legal acquirer (the accounting acquiree), including the equity interests
issued by the legal acquirer to effect the business combination.
B26. In calculating the weighted average number of [ordinary shares]
[In Indian context, the term 'ordinary shares' is equivalent to 'equity shares'.]
outstanding (the denominator of the earnings per share calculation) during the period in which the reverse acquisition
occurs:
(a)
the number of ordinary shares outstanding from the beginning of that period to the acquisition date shall be computed on
the basis of the weighted average number of ordinary shares of the legal acquiree (accounting acquirer) outstanding
Page 71/765
----- PAGE 72 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
during the period multiplied by the exchange ratio established in the merger agreement; and
(b)
the number of ordinary shares outstanding from the acquisition date to the end of that period shall be the actual number
of ordinary shares of the legal acquirer (the accounting acquiree) outstanding during that period.
B27. The basic earnings per share for each comparative period before the acquisition date presented in the
consolidated financial statements following a reverse acquisition shall be calculated by dividing:
(a)
the profit or loss of the legal acquiree attributable to ordinary shareholders in each of those periods by
(b)
the legal acquiree's historical weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding multiplied by the exchange ratio
established in the acquisition agreement.
Recognising particular assets acquired and liabilities assumed (application of paragraphs 10-13)
[***]
[Omitted 'Operating leases' by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
B28. The acquirer shall recognise no assets or liabilities related to an operating lease in which the acquiree is the lessee
except as required by paragraphs B29 and B30.
B29. The acquirer shall determine whether the terms of each operating lease in which the acquiree is the lessee are
favourable or unfavourable. The acquirer shall recognise an intangible asset if the terms of an operating lease are
favourable relative to market terms and a liability if the terms are unfavourable relative to market terms. Paragraph B42
provides guidance on measuring the acquisition-date fair value of assets subject to operating leases in which the
acquiree is the lessor.
B30. An identifiable intangible asset may be associated with an operating lease, which may be evidenced by market
participants' willingness to pay a price for the lease even if it is at market terms. For example, a lease of gates at an
airport or of retail space in a prime shopping area might provide entry into a market or other future economic benefits
that qualify as identifiable intangible assets, for example, as a customer relationship. In that situation, the acquirer shall
recognise the associated identifiable intangible asset(s) in accordance with paragraph B31.
Intangible assets
B31. The acquirer shall recognise, separately from goodwill, the identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business
combination. An intangible asset is identifiable if it meets either the separability criterion or the contractual-legal criterion.
B32. An intangible asset that meets the contractual-legal criterion is identifiable even if the asset is not transferable or
separable from the acquiree or from other rights and obligations. For example:
[***]
[Omitted '(a) an acquiree leases a manufacturing facility under an operating lease that has terms that are favourable
relative to market terms. The lease terms explicitly prohibit transfer of the lease (through either sale or sublease). The
amount by which the lease terms are favourable compared with the terms of current market transactions for the same or
similar items is an intangible asset that meets the contractual-legal criterion for recognition separately from goodwill,
even though the acquirer cannot sell or otherwise transfer the lease contract.' by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated
30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b)
an acquiree owns and operates a nuclear power plant. The licence to operate that power plant is an intangible asset that
meets the contractual-legal criterion for recognition separately from goodwill, even if the acquirer cannot sell or transfer it
separately from the acquired power plant. An acquirer may recognise the fair value of the operating licence and the fair
value of the power plant as a single asset for financial reporting purposes if the useful lives of those assets are similar.
(c)
an acquiree owns a technology patent. It has licensed that patent to others for their exclusive use outside the domestic
market, receiving a specified percentage of future foreign revenue in exchange. Both the technology patent and the
related licence agreement meet the contractual-legal criterion for recognition separately from goodwill even if selling or
exchanging the patent and the related licence agreement separately from one another would not be practical.
B33. The separability criterion means that an acquired intangible asset is capable of being separated or divided from the
acquiree and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged, either individually or together with a related contract,
identifiable asset or liability. An intangible asset that the acquirer would be able to sell, license or otherwise exchange for
Page 72/765
----- PAGE 73 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
something else of value meets the separability criterion even if the acquirer does not intend to sell, license or otherwise
exchange it. An acquired intangible asset meets the separability criterion if there is evidence of exchange transactions
for that type of asset or an asset of a similar type, even if those transactions are infrequent and regardless of whether
the acquirer is involved in them. For example, customer and subscriber lists are frequently licensed and thus meet the
separability criterion. Even if an acquiree believes its customer lists have characteristics different from other customer
lists, the fact that customer lists are frequently licensed generally means that the acquired customer list meets the
separability criterion. However, a customer list acquired in a business combination would not meet the separability
criterion if the terms of confidentiality or other agreements prohibit an entity from selling, leasing or otherwise
exchanging information about its customers.
B34. An intangible asset that is not individually separable from the acquiree or combined entity meets the separability
criterion if it is separable in combination with a related contract, identifiable asset or liability. For example:
(a)
market participants exchange deposit liabilities and related depositor relationship intangible assets in observable
exchange transactions. Therefore, the acquirer should recognise the depositor relationship intangible asset separately
from goodwill.
(b)
an acquiree owns a registered trademark and documented but unpatented technical expertise used to manufacture the
trademarked product. To transfer ownership of a trademark, the owner is also required to transfer everything else
necessary for the new owner to produce a product or service indistinguishable from that produced by the former owner.
Because the unpatented technical expertise must be separated from the acquiree or combined entity and sold if the
related trademark is sold, it meets the separability criterion.
Reacquired rights
B35. As part of a business combination, an acquirer may reacquire a right that it had previously granted to the acquiree
to use one or more of the acquirer's recognized or unrecognized assets. Examples of such rights include a right to use
the acquirer's trade name under a franchise agreement or a right to use the acquirer's technology under a technology
licensing agreement. A reacquired right is an identifiable intangible asset that the acquirer recognises separately from
goodwill. Paragraph 29 provides guidance on measuring a reacquired right and paragraph 55 provides guidance on the
subsequent accounting for a reacquired right.
B36. If the terms of the contract giving rise to a reacquired right are favourable or unfavourable relative to the terms of
current market transactions for the same or similar items, the acquirer shall recognise a settlement gain or loss.
Paragraph B52 provides guidance for measuring that settlement gain or loss.
Assembled workforce and other items that are not identifiable
B37. The acquirer subsumes into goodwill the value of an acquired intangible asset that is not identifiable as of the
acquisition date. For example, an acquirer may attribute value to the existence of an assembled workforce, which is an
existing collection of employees that permits the acquirer to continue to operate an acquired business from the
acquisition date. An assembled workforce does not represent the intellectual capital of the skilled workforce-the (often
specialised) knowledge and experience that employees of an acquiree bring to their jobs. Because the assembled
workforce is not an identifiable asset to be recognized separately from goodwill, any value attributed to it is subsumed
into goodwill.
B38. The acquirer also subsumes into goodwill any value attributed to items that do not qualify as assets at the
acquisition date. For example, the acquirer might attribute value to potential contracts the acquiree is negotiating with
prospective new customers at the acquisition date. Because those potential contracts are not themselves assets at the
acquisition date, the acquirer does not recognise them separately from goodwill. The acquirer should not subsequently
reclassify the value of those contracts from goodwill for events that occur after the acquisition date. However, the
acquirer should assess the facts and circumstances surrounding events occurring shortly after the acquisition to
determine whether a separately recognisable intangible asset existed at the acquisition date.
B39. After initial recognition, an acquirer accounts for intangible assets acquired in a business combination in
accordance with the provisions of Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets. However, as described in paragraph 3 of Ind AS 38, the
accounting for some acquired intangible assets after initial recognition is prescribed by other Ind ASs.
B40. The identifiability criteria determine whether an intangible asset is recognized separately from goodwill. However,
the criteria neither provide guidance for measuring the fair value of an intangible asset nor restrict the assumptions used
Page 73/765
----- PAGE 74 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
in measuring the fair value of an intangible asset. For example, the acquirer would take into account the assumptions
that market participants would use when pricing the intangible asset, such as expectations of future contract renewals, in
measuring fair value. It is not necessary for the renewals themselves to meet the identifiability criteria. (However, see
paragraph 29, which establishes an exception to the fair value measurement principle for reacquired rights recognized in
a business combination.) Paragraphs 36 and 37 of Ind AS 38 provide guidance for determining whether intangible
assets should be combined into a single unit of account with other intangible or tangible assets.
Measuring the fair value of particular identifiable assets and a non-controlling interest in an acquiree (application of
paragraphs 18 and 19)
Assets with uncertain cash flows (valuation allowances)
B41. The acquirer shall not recognise a separate valuation allowance as of the acquisition date for assets acquired in a
business combination that are measured at their acquisition-date fair values because the effects of uncertainty about
future cash flows are included in the fair value measure. For example, because this Ind AS requires the acquirer to
measure acquired receivables, including loans, at their acquisition-date fair values in accounting for a business
combination, the acquirer does not recognise a separate valuation allowance for the contractual cash flows that are
deemed to be un-collectible at that date or a loss allowance for expected credit losses.
Assets subject to operating leases in which the acquiree is the lessor
[B42 In measuring the acquisition-date fair value of an asset such as a building or a patent that is subject to an operating
lease in which the acquiree is the lessor, the acquirer shall take into account the terms of the lease. The acquirer does
not recognise a separate asset or liability if the terms of an operating lease are either favourable or unfavourable when
compared with market terms.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Assets that the acquirer intends not to use or to use in a way that is different from the way other market participants
would use them
B43. To protect its competitive position, or for other reasons, the acquirer may intend not to use an acquired
non-financial asset actively, or it may not intend to use the asset according to its highest and best use. For example, that
might be the case for an acquired research and development intangible asset that the acquirer plans to use defensively
by preventing others from using it. Nevertheless, the acquirer shall measure the fair value of the non-financial asset
assuming its highest and best use by market participants in accordance with the appropriate valuation premise, both
initially and when measuring fair value less costs of disposal for subsequent impairment testing.
Non-controlling interest in an acquiree
B44. This Ind AS allows the acquirer to measure a non-controlling interest in the acquiree at its fair value at the
acquisition date. Sometimes an acquirer will be able to measure the acquisition-date fair value of a non-controlling
interest on the basis of a quoted price in an active market for the equity shares (i.e. those not held by the acquirer). In
other situations, however, a quoted price in an active market for the equity shares will not be available. In those
situations, the acquirer would measure the fair value of the non-controlling interest using other valuation techniques.
B45. The fair values of the acquirer's interest in the acquiree and the non-controlling interest on a per-share basis might
differ. The main difference is likely to be the inclusion of a control premium in the per-share fair value of the acquirer's
interest in the acquiree or, conversely, the inclusion of a discount for lack of control (also referred to as a non-controlling
interest discount) in the per-share fair value of the non-controlling interest if market participants would take into account
such a premium or discount when pricing the non-controlling interest.
Measuring goodwill or a gain from a bargain purchase
Measuring the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer's interest in the acquiree using valuation techniques (application
of paragraph 33)
B46. In a business combination achieved without the transfer of consideration, the acquirer must substitute the
acquisition-date fair value of its interest in the acquiree for the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred
to measure goodwill or a gain on a bargain purchase (see paragraphs 32-34 and 36A).
Special considerations in applying the acquisition method to combinations of mutual entities (application of paragraph
33)
B47. When two mutual entities combine, the fair value of the equity or member interests in the acquiree (or the fair value
of the acquiree) may be more reliably measurable than the fair value of the member interests transferred by the
acquirer. In that situation, paragraph 33 requires the acquirer to determine the amount of goodwill by using the
Page 74/765
----- PAGE 75 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
acquisition-date fair value of the acquiree's equity interests instead of the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer's
equity interests transferred as consideration. In addition, the acquirer in a combination of mutual entities shall recognise
the acquiree's net assets as a direct addition to capital or equity in its balance sheet, not as an addition to retained
earnings, which is consistent with the way in which other types of entities apply the acquisition method.
B48. Although they are similar in many ways to other businesses, mutual entities have distinct characteristics that arise
primarily because their members are both customers and owners. Members of mutual entities generally expect to
receive benefits for their membership, often in the form of reduced fees charged for goods and services or patronage
dividends. The portion of patronage dividends allocated to each member is often based on the amount of business the
member did with the mutual entity during the year.
B49. A fair value measurement of a mutual entity should include the assumptions that market participants would make
about future member benefits as well as any other relevant assumptions market participants would make about the
mutual entity. For example, a present value technique may be used to measure the fair value of a mutual entity. The
cash flows used as inputs to the model should be based on the expected cash flows of the mutual entity, which are likely
to reflect reductions for member benefits, such as reduced fees charged for goods and services.
Determining what is part of the business combination transaction (application of paragraphs 51 and 52)
B50. The acquirer should consider the following factors, which are neither mutually exclusive nor individually conclusive,
to determine whether a transaction is part of the exchange for the acquiree or whether the transaction is separate from
the business combination:
(a)
the reasons for the transaction - Understanding the reasons why the parties to the combination (the acquirer and the
acquiree and their owners, directors and managers-and their agents) entered into a particular transaction or
arrangement may provide insight into whether it is part of the consideration transferred and the assets acquired or
liabilities assumed. For example, if a transaction is arranged primarily for the benefit of the acquirer or the combined
entity rather than primarily for the benefit of the acquiree or its former owners before the combination, that portion of the
transaction price paid (and any related assets or liabilities) is less likely to be part of the exchange for the acquiree.
Accordingly, the acquirer would account for that portion separately from the business combination.
(b)
who initiated the transaction - Understanding who initiated the transaction may also provide insight into whether it is part
of the exchange for the acquiree. For example, a transaction or other event that is initiated by the acquirer may be
entered into for the purpose of providing future economic benefits to the acquirer or combined entity with little or no
benefit received by the acquiree or its former owners before the combination. On the other hand, a transaction or
arrangement initiated by the acquiree or its former owners is less likely to be for the benefit of the acquirer or the
combined entity and more likely to be part of the business combination transaction.
(c)
the timing of the transaction - The timing of the transaction may also provide insight into whether it is part of the
exchange for the acquiree. For example, a transaction between the acquirer and the acquiree that takes place during
the negotiations of the terms of a business combination may have been entered into in contemplation of the business
combination to provide future economic benefits to the acquirer or the combined entity. If so, the acquiree or its former
owners before the business combination are likely to receive little or no benefit from the transaction except for benefits
they receive as part of the combined entity.
Effective settlement of a pre-existing relationship between the acquirer and acquiree in a business combination
(application of paragraph 52(a))
B51. The acquirer and acquiree may have a relationship that existed before they contemplated the business
combination, referred to here as a 'pre-existing relationship'. A pre-existing relationship between the acquirer and
acquiree may be contractual (for example, vendor and customer or licensor and licensee) or non-contractual (for
example, plaintiff and defendant).
B52. If the business combination in effect settles a pre-existing relationship, the acquirer recognises a gain or loss,
measured as follows:
(a)
for a pre-existing non-contractual relationship (such as a lawsuit), fair value.
(b)
Page 75/765
----- PAGE 76 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
for a pre-existing contractual relationship, the lesser of (i) and (ii):
(i)
the amount by which the contract is favourable or unfavourable from the perspective of the acquirer when compared
with terms for current market transactions for the same or similar items. (An unfavourable contract is a contract that is
unfavourable in terms of current market terms. It is not necessarily an onerous contract in which the unavoidable costs
of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.)
(ii)
the amount of any stated settlement provisions in the contract available to the counter-party to whom the contract is
unfavourable.
If (ii) is less than (i), the difference is included as part of the business combination accounting.
The amount of gain or loss recognized may depend in part on whether the acquirer had previously recognized a related
asset or liability, and the reported gain or loss therefore may differ from the amount calculated by applying the above
requirements.
B53. A pre-existing relationship may be a contract that the acquirer recognises as a reacquired right. If the contract
includes terms that are favourable or unfavourable when compared with pricing for current market transactions for the
same or similar items, the acquirer recognises, separately from the business combination, a gain or loss for the effective
settlement of the contract, measured in accordance with paragraph B52.
Arrangements for contingent payments to employees or selling shareholders (application of paragraph 52(b))
B54. Whether arrangements for contingent payments to employees or selling shareholders are contingent consideration
in the business combination or are separate transactions depends on the nature of the arrangements. Understanding
the reasons why the acquisition agreement includes a provision for contingent payments, who initiated the arrangement
and when the parties entered into the arrangement may be helpful in assessing the nature of the arrangement.
B55. If it is not clear whether an arrangement for payments to employees or selling shareholders is part of the exchange
for the acquiree or is a transaction separate from the business combination, the acquirer should consider the following
indicators:
(a)
Continuing employment - The terms of continuing employment by the selling shareholders who become key employees
may be an indicator of the substance of a contingent consideration arrangement. The relevant terms of continuing
employment may be included in an employment agreement, acquisition agreement or some other document. A
contingent consideration arrangement in which the payments are automatically forfeited if employment terminates is
remuneration for post-combination services. Arrangements in which the contingent payments are not affected by
employment termination may indicate that the contingent payments are additional consideration rather than
remuneration.
(b)
Duration of continuing employment - If the period of required employment coincides with or is longer than the contingent
payment period, that fact may indicate that the contingent payments are, in substance, remuneration.
(c)
Level of remuneration - Situations in which employee remuneration other than the contingent payments is at a
reasonable level in comparison with that of other key employees in the combined entity may indicate that the contingent
payments are additional consideration rather than remuneration.
(d)
Incremental payments to employees - If selling shareholders who do not become employees receive lower contingent
payments on a per-share basis than the selling shareholders who become employees of the combined entity, that fact
may indicate that the incremental amount of contingent payments to the selling shareholders who become employees is
remuneration.
(e)
Number of shares owned - The relative number of shares owned by the selling shareholders who remain as key
employees may be an indicator of the substance of the contingent consideration arrangement. For example, if the selling
shareholders who owned substantially all of the shares in the acquiree continue as key employees, that fact may
indicate that the arrangement is, in substance, a profit-sharing arrangement intended to provide remuneration for
post-combination services. Alternatively, if selling shareholders who continue as key employees owned only a small
Page 76/765
----- PAGE 77 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
number of shares of the acquiree and all selling shareholders receive the same amount of contingent consideration on a
per-share basis, that fact may indicate that the contingent payments are additional consideration. The pre-acquisition
ownership interests held by parties related to selling shareholders who continue as key employees, such as family
members, should also be considered.
(f)
Linkage to the valuation - If the initial consideration transferred at the acquisition date is based on the low end of a range
established in the valuation of the acquiree and the contingent formula relates to that valuation approach, that fact may
suggest that the contingent payments are additional consideration. Alternatively, if the contingent payment formula is
consistent with prior profit-sharing arrangements, that fact may suggest that the substance of the arrangement is to
provide remuneration.
(g)
Formula for determining consideration - The formula used to determine the contingent payment may be helpful in
assessing the substance of the arrangement. For example, if a contingent payment is determined on the basis of a
multiple of earnings, that might suggest that the obligation is contingent consideration in the business combination and
that the formula is intended to establish or verify the fair value of the acquiree. In contrast, a contingent payment that is a
specified percentage of earnings might suggest that the obligation to employees is a profit-sharing arrangement to
remunerate employees for services rendered.
(h)
Other agreements and issues - The terms of other arrangements with selling shareholders (such as agreements not to
compete, executory contracts, consulting contracts and property lease agreements) and the income tax treatment of
contingent payments may indicate that contingent payments are attributable to something other than consideration for
the acquiree. For example, in connection with the acquisition, the acquirer might enter into a property lease arrangement
with a significant selling shareholder. If the lease payments specified in the lease contract are significantly below market,
some or all of the contingent payments to the lessor (the selling shareholder) required by a separate arrangement for
contingent payments might be, in substance, payments for the use of the leased property that the acquirer should
recognise separately in its post-combination financial statements. In contrast, if the lease contract specifies lease
payments that are consistent with market terms for the leased property, the arrangement for contingent payments to the
selling shareholder may be contingent consideration in the business combination.
Acquirer share-based payment awards exchanged for awards held by the acquiree's employees (application of
paragraph 52(b))
B56. An acquirer may exchange its [share-based payment awards]
[In paragraphs B56-B62 the term 'share-based payment awards' refers to vested or unvested share-based payment
transactions.]
(replacement awards) for awards held by employees of the acquiree. Exchanges of share options or other share-based
payment awards in conjunction with a business combination are accounted for as modifications of share-based payment
awards in accordance with Ind AS 102, Share-based Payment. If the acquirer replaces the acquiree awards, either all or
a portion of the market-based measure of the acquirer's replacement awards shall be included in measuring the
consideration transferred in the business combination. Paragraphs B57-B62 provide guidance on how to allocate the
market-based measure.
However, in situations in which acquiree awards would expire as a consequence of a business combination and if the
acquirer replaces those awards when it is not obliged to do so, all of the market-based measure of the replacement
awards shall be recognized as remuneration cost in the post-combination financial statements in accordance with Ind
AS 102. That is to say, none of the market-based measure of those awards shall be included in measuring the
consideration transferred in the business combination. The acquirer is obliged to replace the acquiree awards if the
acquiree or its employees have the ability to enforce replacement. For example, for the purposes of applying this
guidance, the acquirer is obliged to replace the acquiree's awards if replacement is required by:
(a)
the terms of the acquisition agreement;
(b)
the terms of the acquiree's awards; or
(c)
Page 77/765
----- PAGE 78 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
applicable laws or regulations.
B57. To determine the portion of a replacement award that is part of the consideration transferred for the acquiree and
the portion that is remuneration for post-combination service, the acquirer shall measure both the replacement awards
granted by the acquirer and the acquiree awards as of the acquisition date in accordance with Ind AS 102. The portion
of the market-based measure of the replacement award that is part of the consideration transferred in exchange for the
acquiree equals the portion of the acquiree award that is attributable to pre-combination service.
B58. The portion of the replacement award attributable to pre-combination service is the market-based measure of the
acquiree award multiplied by the ratio of the portion of the vesting period completed to the greater of the total vesting
period or the original vesting period of the acquiree award. The vesting period is the period during which all the specified
vesting conditions are to be satisfied. Vesting conditions are defined in Ind AS 102.
B59. The portion of a non-vested replacement award attributable to post-combination service, and therefore recognized
as remuneration cost in the post-combination financial statements, equals the total market-based measure of the
replacement award less the amount attributed to pre-combination service. Therefore, the acquirer attributes any excess
of the market-based measure of the replacement award over the market-based measure of the acquiree award to
post-combination service and recognises that excess as remuneration cost in the post-combination financial statements.
The acquirer shall attribute a portion of a replacement award to post-combination service if it requires post-combination
service, regardless of whether employees had rendered all of the service required for their acquiree awards to vest
before the acquisition date.
B60. The portion of a non-vested replacement award attributable to pre-combination service, as well as the portion
attributable to post-combination service, shall reflect the best available estimate of the number of replacement awards
expected to vest. For example, if the market-based measure of the portion of a replacement award attributed to
pre-combination service is Rs 100 and the acquirer expects that only 95 per cent of the award will vest, the amount
included in consideration transferred in the business combination is Rs 95. Changes in the estimated number of
replacement awards expected to vest are reflected in remuneration cost for the periods in which the changes or
forfeitures occur not as adjustments to the consideration transferred in the business combination. Similarly, the effects of
other events, such as modifications or the ultimate outcome of awards with performance conditions, that occur after the
acquisition date are accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 102 in determining remuneration cost for the period in
which an event occurs.
B61. The same requirements for determining the portions of a replacement award attributable to pre-combination and
post-combination service apply regardless of whether a replacement award is classified as a liability or as an equity
instrument in accordance with the provisions of Ind AS 102. All changes in the market-based measure of awards
classified as liabilities after the acquisition date and the related income tax effects are recognized in the acquirer's
post-combination financial statements in the period(s) in which the changes occur.
B62. The income tax effects of replacement awards of share-based payments shall be recognized in accordance with
the provisions of Ind AS 12, Income Taxes.
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions of the acquiree
B62A. The acquiree may have outstanding share-based payment transactions that the acquirer does not exchange for
its share-based payment transactions. If vested, those acquiree share-based payment transactions are part of the
non-controlling interest in the acquiree and are measured at their market-based measure. If unvested, they are
measured at their market-based measure as if the acquisition date were the grant date in accordance with paragraphs
19 and 30.
B62B. The market-based measure of unvested share-based payment transactions is allocated to the non-controlling
interest on the basis of the ratio of the portion of the vesting period completed to the greater of the total vesting period
and the original vesting period of the share-based payment transaction. The balance is allocated to post-combination
service.
Other Ind ASs that provide guidance on subsequent measurement and accounting (application of paragraph 54)
B63. Examples of other Ind ASs that provide guidance on subsequently measuring and accounting for assets acquired
and liabilities assumed or incurred in a business combination include:
(a)
Ind AS 38 prescribes the accounting for identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination. The acquirer
measures goodwill at the amount recognized at the acquisition date less any accumulated impairment losses. Ind AS
Page 78/765
----- PAGE 79 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
36, Impairment of Assets, prescribes the accounting for impairment losses.
(b)
Ind AS 104, Insurance Contracts, provides guidance on the subsequent accounting for an insurance contract acquired in
a business combination.
(c)
Ind AS 12 prescribes the subsequent accounting for deferred tax assets (including unrecognized deferred tax assets)
and liabilities acquired in a business combination.
(d)
Ind AS 102 provides guidance on subsequent measurement and accounting for the portion of replacement share-based
payment awards issued by an acquirer that is attributable to employees' future services.
(e)
Ind AS110 provides guidance on accounting for changes in a parent's ownership interest in a subsidiary after control is
obtained.
Disclosures (application of paragraphs 59 and 61)
B64. To meet the objective in paragraph 59, the acquirer shall disclose the following information for each business
combination that occurs during the reporting period:
(a)
the name and a description of the acquiree.
(b)
the acquisition date.
(c)
the percentage of voting equity interests acquired.
(d)
the primary reasons for the business combination and a description of how the acquirer obtained control of the acquiree.
(e)
a qualitative description of the factors that make up the goodwill recognized, such as expected synergies from
combining operations of the acquiree and the acquirer, intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition or
other factors.
(f)
the acquisition-date fair value of the total consideration transferred and the acquisition-date fair value of each major
class of consideration, such as:
(i)
cash;
(ii)
other tangible or intangible assets, including a business or subsidiary of the acquirer;
(iii)
liabilities incurred, for example, a liability for contingent consideration; and
(iv)
equity interests of the acquirer, including the number of instruments or interests issued or issuable and the method of
measuring the fair value of those instruments or interests.
(g)
for contingent consideration arrangements and indemnification assets:
(i)
the amount recognized as of the acquisition date;
(ii)
a description of the arrangement and the basis for determining the amount of the payment; and
(iii)
an estimate of the range of outcomes (undiscounted) or, if a range cannot be estimated, that fact and the reasons why a
range cannot be estimated. If the maximum amount of the payment is unlimited, the acquirer shall disclose that fact.
(h)
for acquired receivables:
Page 79/765
----- PAGE 80 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(i)
the fair value of the receivables;
(ii)
the gross contractual amounts receivable; and
(iii)
the best estimate at the acquisition date of the contractual cash flows not expected to be collected.
The disclosures shall be provided by major class of receivable, such as loans, direct finance leases and any other class
of receivables.
(i)
the amounts recognized as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
(j)
for each contingent liability recognized in accordance with paragraph 23, the information required in paragraph 85 of Ind
AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. If a contingent liability is not recognized because its fair
value cannot be measured reliably, the acquirer shall disclose:
(i)
the information required by paragraph 86 of Ind AS 37; and
(ii)
the reasons why the liability cannot be measured reliably.
(k)
the total amount of goodwill that is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
(l)
for transactions that are recognized separately from the acquisition of assets and assumption of liabilities in the business
combination in accordance with paragraph 51:
(i)
a description of each transaction;
(ii)
how the acquirer accounted for each transaction;
(iii)
the amounts recognized for each transaction and the line item in the financial statements in which each amount is
recognized; and
(iv)
if the transaction is the effective settlement of a pre-existing relationship, the method used to determine the settlement
amount.
(m)
the disclosure of separately recognized transactions required by (l) shall include the amount of acquisition-related costs
and, separately, the amount of those costs recognized as an expense and the line item or items in the statement of profit
and loss in which those expenses are recognized. The amount of any issue costs not recognized as an expense and
how they were recognized shall also be disclosed.
(n)
in a bargain purchase (see paragraphs 34-36A):
(i)
the amount of any gain recognized in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 34;
(ii)
the amount of any gain directly recognized in equity in accordance with paragraph 36A; and
(iii)
a description of the reasons why the transaction resulted in a gain in case of (i) above.
(o)
for each business combination in which the acquirer holds less than 100 per cent of the equity interests in the acquiree
at the acquisition date:
(i)
the amount of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree recognized at the acquisition date and the measurement basis
Page 80/765
----- PAGE 81 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
for that amount; and
(ii)
for each non-controlling interest in an acquiree measured at fair value, the valuation technique(s) and significant inputs
used to measure that value.
(p)
in a business combination achieved in stages:
(i)
the acquisition-date fair value of the equity interest in the acquiree held by the acquirer immediately before the
acquisition date; and
(ii)
the amount of any gain or loss recognized as a result of remeasuring to fair value the equity interest in the acquiree held
by the acquirer before the business combination (see paragraph 42) and the line item in the statement of profit and loss
in which that gain or loss is recognized.
(q)
the following information:
(i)
the amounts of revenue and profit or loss of the acquiree since the acquisition date included in the consolidated
statement of profit and loss for the reporting period; and
(ii)
the revenue and profit or loss of the combined entity for the current reporting period as though the acquisition date for all
business combinations that occurred during the year had been as of the beginning of the annual reporting period.
If disclosure of any of the information required by this subparagraph is impracticable, the acquirer shall disclose that fact
and explain why the disclosure is impracticable. This Ind AS uses the term 'impracticable' with the same meaning as in
Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
B65. For individually immaterial business combinations occurring during the reporting period that are material
collectively, the acquirer shall disclose in aggregate the information required by paragraph B64(e)-(q).
B66. If the acquisition date of a business combination is after the end of the reporting period but before the financial
statements are approved for issue, the acquirer shall disclose the information required by paragraph B64. unless the
initial accounting for the business combination is incomplete at the time the financial statements are approved for issue.
In that situation, the acquirer shall describe which disclosures could not be made and the reasons why they cannot be
made.
B67. To meet the objective in paragraph 61, the acquirer shall disclose the following information for each material
business combination or in the aggregate for individually immaterial business combinations that are material collectively:
(a)
if the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete (see paragraph 45) for particular assets, liabilities,
non-controlling interests or items of consideration and the amounts recognized in the financial statements for the
business combination thus have been determined only provisionally:
(i)
the reasons why the initial accounting for the business combination is incomplete;
(ii)
the assets, liabilities, equity interests or items of consideration for which the initial accounting is incomplete; and
(iii)
the nature and amount of any measurement period adjustments recognized during the reporting period in accordance
with paragraph 49.
(b)
for each reporting period after the acquisition date until the entity collects, sells or otherwise loses the right to a
contingent consideration asset, or until the entity settles a contingent consideration liability or the liability is canceled or
expires:
(i)
any changes in the recognized amounts, including any differences arising upon settlement;
(ii)
Page 81/765
----- PAGE 82 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
any changes in the range of outcomes (undiscounted) and the reasons for those changes; and
(iii)
the valuation techniques and key model inputs used to measure contingent consideration.
(c)
for contingent liabilities recognized in a business combination, the acquirer shall disclose the information required by
paragraphs 84 and 85 of Ind AS 37 for each class of provision.
(d)
a reconciliation of the carrying amount of goodwill at the beginning and end of the reporting period showing separately:
(i)
the gross amount and accumulated impairment losses at the beginning of the reporting period.
(ii)
additional goodwill recognized during the reporting period, except goodwill included in a disposal group that, on
acquisition, meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale in accordance with Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets Held
for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
(iii)
adjustments resulting from the subsequent recognition of deferred tax assets during the reporting period in accordance
with paragraph 67.
(iv)
goodwill included in a disposal group classified as held for sale in accordance with Ind AS 105 and goodwill
derecognized during the reporting period without having previously been included in a disposal group classified as held
for sale.
(v)
impairment losses recognized during the reporting period in accordance with Ind AS 36. (Ind AS 36. requires disclosure
of information about the recoverable amount and impairment of goodwill in addition to this requirement.)
(vi)
net exchange rate differences arising during the reporting period in accordance with Ind AS 21, The Effects of Changes
in Foreign Exchange Rates.
(vii)
any other changes in the carrying amount during the reporting period.
(viii)
the gross amount and accumulated impairment losses at the end of the reporting period.
(e)
the amount and an explanation of any gain or loss recognized in the current reporting period that both:
(i)
relates to the identifiable assets acquired or liabilities assumed in a business combination that was effected in the
current or previous reporting period; and
(ii)
is of such a size, nature or incidence that disclosure is relevant to understanding the combined entity's financial
statements.
Appendix C
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Business combinations of entities under common control
Scope
1. This appendix deals with accounting for business combinations of entities or businesses under common control.
Definitions
2. The following terms are used in this Appendix with the meaning specified:
Transferor means an entity or business which is combined into another entity as a result of a business combination.
Transferee means an entity in which the transferor entity is combined.
Reserve means the portion of earnings, receipts or other surplus of an entity (whether capital or revenue) appropriated
by the management for a general or a specific purpose other than provision for depreciation.
Common control business combination means a business combination involving entities or businesses in which all the
Page 82/765
----- PAGE 83 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
combining entities or businesses are ultimately controlled by the same party or parties both before and after the
business combination, and that control is not transitory.
Common control business combinations
3. Common control business combinations will include transactions, such as transfer of subsidiaries or businesses,
between entities within a group.
4. The extent of non-controlling interests in each of the combining entities before and after the business combination is
not relevant to determining whether the combination involves entities under common control. This is because a
partially-owned subsidiary is nevertheless under the control of the parent entity.
5. The fact that one of the combining entities is a subsidiary that has been excluded from the consolidated financial
statements of the group in accordance with Ind AS 27 is not relevant to determining whether a combination involves
entities under common control.
6. An entity can be controlled by an individual, or by a group of individuals acting together under a contractual
arrangement, and that individual or group of individuals may not be subject to the financial reporting requirements of Ind
ASs. Therefore, it is not necessary for combining entities to be included as part of the same consolidated financial
statements for a business combination to be regarded as one having entities under common control.
7. A group of individuals are regarded as controlling an entity when, as a result of contractual arrangements, they
collectively have the power to govern its financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from its activities, and
that ultimate collective power is not transitory.
Method of accounting for common control business combinations
8. Business combinations involving entities or businesses under common control shall be accounted for using the
pooling of interests method.
9. The pooling of interest method is considered to involve the following:
(i)
The assets and liabilities of the combining entities are reflected at their carrying amounts.
(ii)
No adjustments are made to reflect fair values, or recognise any new assets or liabilities. The only adjustments that are
made are to harmonise accounting policies.
(iii)
The financial information in the financial statements in respect of prior periods should be restated as if the business
combination had occurred from the beginning of the preceding period in the financial statements, irrespective of the
actual date of the combination. However, if business combination had occurred after that date, the prior period
information shall be restated only from that date.
10. The consideration for the business combination may consist of securities, cash or other assets. Securities shall be
recorded at nominal value. In determining the value of the consideration, assets other than cash shall be considered at
their fair values.
11. The balance of the retained earnings appearing in the financial statements of the transferor is aggregated with the
corresponding balance appearing in the financial statements of the transferee. Alternatively, it is transferred to General
Reserve, if any.
12. The identity of the reserves shall be preserved and shall appear in the financial statements of the transferee in the
same form in which they appeared in the financial statements of the transferor. Thus, for example, the General Reserve
of the transferor entity becomes the General Reserve of the transferee, the Capital Reserve of the transferor becomes
the Capital Reserve of the transferee and the Revaluation Reserve of the transferor becomes the Revaluation Reserve
of the transferee. As a result of preserving the identity, reserves which are available for distribution as dividend before
the business combination would also be available for distribution as dividend after the business combination. The
difference, if any, between the amount recorded as share capital issued plus any additional consideration in the form of
cash or other assets and the amount of share capital of the transferor shall be transferred to capital reserve and should
be presented separately from other capital reserves with disclosure of its nature and purpose in the notes.
Disclosure
13. The following disclosures shall be made in the first financial statements following the business combination:
(a)
names and general nature of business of the combining entities;
Page 83/765
----- PAGE 84 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
the date on which the transferor obtains control of the transferee;
(c)
description and number of shares issued, together with the percentage of each entity's equity shares exchanged to
effect the business combination; and
(d)
the amount of any difference between the consideration and the value of net identifiable assets acquired, and the
treatment thereof.
Business combination after the balance sheet date
14. When a business combination is effected after the balance sheet but before the approval of the financial statements
for issue by either party to the business combination, disclosure is made in accordance with Ind AS 10 Events after the
Reporting Period, but the business combination is not incorporated in the financial statements. In certain circumstances,
the business combination may also provide additional information affecting the financial statements themselves, for
instance, by allowing the going concern assumption to be maintained.
Appendix D
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
This appendix lists the appendices which are part of other Indian Accounting Standards and makes reference to Ind AS
103, Business Combinations.
1. Appendix A, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, contained in Ind AS 10, Events After the Reporting Period
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 103 and the corresponding International
Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 3, Business Combinations, issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board.
Comparison with IFRS 3, Business Combinations
1. IFRS 3 excludes from its scope business combinations of entities under common control. Ind AS 103 (Appendix C)
gives the guidance in this regard. Consequently, paragraph 2 has been modified and paragraph 2B. has been added in
Ind AS 103. Further, paragraphs B1-B4 of IFRS 3 have been deleted in Ind AS 103. In order to maintain consistency
with paragraph numbers of IFRS 3, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 103.
2. The transitional provisions given in IFRS 3 have not been given in Ind AS 103, since all transitional provisions related
to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in Ind AS101, First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting
Standards, corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, will deal with
the same.
3. IFRS 3 requires bargain purchase gain arising on business combination to be recognized in profit or loss. Ind AS 103
requires the same to be recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity as capital reserve,
unless there is no clear evidence for the underlying reason for classification of the business combination as a bargain
purchase, in which case, it shall be recognized directly in equity as capital reserve. This has some consequential
changes such as change in wording of paragraphs 34, 36 and 48, additional disclosure in paragraph B64(n) and addition
of new paragraph 36A. Cross-reference to the new paragraph 36A. has been added in paragraphs B46, B64(n).
4. Different terminology is used, as used in existing laws e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of
financial position', 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'. The words
'approved the financial statements for issue' have been used instead of 'authorised the financial statements for issue' in
the context of financial statements considered for the purpose of events after the reporting period.
5. [ Paragraphs 64-64J and 64L of IFRS 3 related to effective date have not been included in Ind AS 103 as these are
not relevant in Indian context. Paragraph 64N has not been included since it refers to amendments due to issuance of
IFRS 17, Insurance Contracts, for which corresponding Ind AS is under formulation. However, in order to maintain
consistency with paragraph numbers of IFRS 3, these paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 103.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
6. [ The following paragraph numbers appear as 'Deleted' in IFRS 3. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of Ind AS 103, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 103:
Page 84/765
----- PAGE 85 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
Paragraph B28- B30
(b)
Paragraph B32(a)]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 104
[Insurance Contracts]
[This Indian Accounting Standard shall come into effect for insurance companies from the date to be separately
announced.]
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) is to specify the financial reporting for insurance contracts
by any entity that issues such contracts (described in this Ind AS as an insurer). In particular, this Ind AS requires:
(a)
limited improvements to accounting by insurers for insurance contracts.
(b)
disclosure that identifies and explains the amounts in an insurer's financial statements arising from insurance contracts
and helps users of those financial statements understand the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows from
insurance contracts.
Scope
2. An entity shall apply this Ind AS to:
(a)
insurance contracts (including reinsurance contracts) that it issues and reinsurance contracts that it holds.
(b)
financial instruments that it issues with a discretionary participation feature (see paragraph 35). Ind AS 107, Financial
Instruments: Disclosures, requires disclosure about financial instruments, including financial instruments that contain
such features.
3. This Ind AS does not address other aspects of accounting by insurers, such as accounting for financial assets held by
insurers and financial liabilities issued by insurers (see Ind AS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, Ind AS 107 and
Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments).
4. An entity shall not apply this Ind AS to:
(a)
[ product warranties issued directly by a manufacturer, dealer or retailer (see Ind AS 115 , Revenue from Contracts with
Customers and Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b)
employers' assets and liabilities under employee benefit plans (see Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits, and Ind AS 102,
Share-based Payment) and retirement benefit obligations reported by defined benefit retirement plans.
(c)
[ contractual rights or contractual obligations that are contingent on the future use of, or right to use, a non-financial item
(for example, some licence fees, royalties, variable lease payments and similar items), as well as a lessee's residual
value guarantee embedded in a lease (see Ind AS 116, Leases, Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers,
and Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(d)
financial guarantee contracts unless the issuer has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as
insurance contracts and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts, in which case the issuer may elect to
apply either Ind AS 32, Ind AS 107 and Ind AS 109 or this Ind AS to such financial guarantee contracts. The issuer may
make that election contract by contract, but the election for each contract is irrevocable.
(e)
contingent consideration payable or receivable in a business combination (see Ind AS 103, Business Combinations).
Page 85/765
----- PAGE 86 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(f)
direct insurance contracts that the entity holds (i.e. direct insurance contracts in which the entity is the policyholder).
However, a cedant shall apply this Standard to reinsurance contracts that it holds.
5. For ease of reference, this Ind AS describes any entity that issues an insurance contract as an insurer, whether or not
the issuer is regarded as an insurer for legal or supervisory purposes.
6. A reinsurance contract is a type of insurance contract. Accordingly, all references in this Ind AS to insurance contracts
also apply to reinsurance contracts.
Embedded derivatives
7. Ind AS 109 requires an entity to separate some embedded derivatives from their host contract, measure them at fair
value and include changes in their fair value in profit or loss. Ind AS 109 applies to derivatives embedded in an
insurance contract unless the embedded derivative is itself an insurance contract.
8. As an exception to the requirements in Ind AS 109, an insurer need not separate, and measure at fair value, a
policyholder's option to surrender an insurance contract for a fixed amount (or for an amount based on a fixed amount
and an interest rate), even if the exercise price differs from the carrying amount of the host insurance liability. However,
the requirements in Ind AS 109 do apply to a put option or cash surrender option embedded in an insurance contract if
the surrender value varies in response to the change in a financial variable (such as an equity or commodity price or
index), or a non-financial variable that is not specific to a party to the contract. Furthermore, those requirements also
apply if the holder's ability to exercise a put option or cash surrender option is triggered by a change in such a variable
(for example, a put option that can be exercised if a stock market index reaches a specified level).
9. Paragraph 8 applies equally to options to surrender a financial instrument containing a discretionary participation
feature.
Unbundling of deposit components
10. Some insurance contracts contain both an insurance component and a deposit component. In some cases, an
insurer is required or permitted to unbundle those components:
(a)
unbundling is required if both the following conditions are met:
(i)
the insurer can measure the deposit component (including any embedded surrender options) separately (i.e. without
considering the insurance component).
(ii)
the insurer's accounting policies do not otherwise require it to recognise all obligations and rights arising from the
deposit component.
(b)
unbundling is permitted, but not required, if the insurer can measure the deposit component separately as in (a)(i) but its
accounting policies require it to recognise all obligations and rights arising from the deposit component, regardless of the
basis used to measure those rights and obligations.
(c)
unbundling is prohibited if an insurer cannot measure the deposit component separately as in (a)(i).
11. The following is an example of a case when an insurer's accounting policies do not require it to recognise all
obligations arising from a deposit component. A cedant receives compensation for losses from a reinsurer, but the
contract obliges the cedant to repay the compensation in future years. That obligation arises from a deposit component.
If the cedant's accounting policies would otherwise permit it to recognise the compensation as income without
recognising the resulting obligation, unbundling is required.
12. To unbundle a contract, an insurer shall:
(a)
apply this Ind AS to the insurance component.
(b)
apply Ind AS 109 to the deposit component.
Recognition and measurement
Temporary exemption from some other Ind ASs
13. Paragraphs 10-12 of Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, specify criteria for
Page 86/765
----- PAGE 87 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
an entity to use in developing an accounting policy if no Ind AS applies specifically to an item. However, this Ind AS
exempts an insurer from applying those criteria to its accounting policies for:
(a)
insurance contracts that it issues (including related acquisition costs and related intangible assets, such as those
described in paragraphs 31 and 32); and
(b)
reinsurance contracts that it holds.
14. Nevertheless, this Ind AS does not exempt an insurer from some implications of the criteria in paragraphs 10-12. of
Ind AS 8. Specifically, an insurer:
(a)
shall not recognise as a liability any provisions for possible future claims, if those claims arise under insurance contracts
that are not in existence at the end of the reporting period (such as catastrophe provisions and equalisation provisions).
(b)
shall carry out the liability adequacy test described in paragraphs 15-19.
(c)
shall remove an insurance liability (or a part of an insurance liability) from its balance sheet when, and only when, it is
extinguished-i.e. when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged or canceled or expires.
(d)
shall not offset:
(i)
reinsurance assets against the related insurance liabilities; or
(ii)
income or expense from reinsurance contracts against the expense or income from the related insurance contracts.
(e)
shall consider whether its reinsurance assets are impaired (see paragraph 20).
Liability adequacy test
15. An insurer shall assess at the end of each reporting period whether its recognized insurance liabilities are adequate,
using current estimates of future cash flows under its insurance contracts. If that assessment shows that the carrying
amount of its insurance liabilities (less related deferred acquisition costs and related intangible assets, such as those
discussed in paragraphs 31 and 32) is inadequate in the light of the estimated future cash flows, the entire deficiency
shall be recognized in profit or loss.
16. If an insurer applies a liability adequacy test that meets specified minimum requirements, this Ind AS imposes no
further requirements. The minimum requirements are the following:
(a)
The test considers current estimates of all contractual cash flows, and of related cash flows such as claims handling
costs, as well as cash flows resulting from embedded options and guarantees.
(b)
If the test shows that the liability is inadequate, the entire deficiency is recognized in profit or loss.
17. If an insurer's accounting policies do not require a liability adequacy test that meets the minimum requirements of
paragraph 16, the insurer shall:
(a)
determine the carrying amount of the [relevant insurance liabilities]
[The relevant insurance liabilities are those insurance liabilities (and related deferred acquisition costs and related
intangible assets) for which the insurer's accounting policies do not require a liability adequacy test that meets the
minimum requirements of paragraph 16.]
less the carrying amount of:
(i)
any related deferred acquisition costs; and
(ii)
any related intangible assets, such as those acquired in a business combination or portfolio transfer (see paragraphs 31
and 32). However, related reinsurance assets are not considered because an insurer accounts for them separately (see
Page 87/765
----- PAGE 88 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
paragraph 20).
(b)
determine whether the amount described in (a) is less than the carrying amount that would be required if the relevant
insurance liabilities were within the scope of Ind AS 37. If it is less, the insurer shall recognise the entire difference in
profit or loss and decrease the carrying amount of the related deferred acquisition costs or related intangible assets or
increase the carrying amount of the relevant insurance liabilities.
18. If an insurer's liability adequacy test meets the minimum requirements of paragraph 16, the test is applied at the
level of aggregation specified in that test. If its liability adequacy test does not meet those minimum requirements, the
comparison described in paragraph 17 shall be made at the level of a portfolio of contracts that are subject to broadly
similar risks and managed together as a single portfolio.
19. The amount described in paragraph 17(b) (i.e. the result of applying Ind AS 37) shall reflect future investment
margins (see paragraphs 27-29) if, and only if, the amount described in paragraph 17(a) also reflects those margins.
Impairment of reinsurance assets
20. If a cedant's reinsurance asset is impaired, the cedant shall reduce its carrying amount accordingly and recognise
that impairment loss in profit or loss. A reinsurance asset is impaired if, and only if:
(a)
there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the
cedant may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract; and
(b)
that event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the cedant will receive from the reinsurer.
Changes in accounting policies
21. Paragraphs 22-30 apply both to changes made by an insurer that already applies Ind ASs and to changes made by
an insurer adopting Ind ASs for the first time.
22. An insurer may change its accounting policies for insurance contracts if, and only if, the change makes the financial
statements more relevant to the economic decision-making needs of users and no less reliable, or more reliable and no
less relevant to those needs. An insurer shall judge relevance and reliability by the criteria in Ind AS 8.
23. To justify changing its accounting policies for insurance contracts, an insurer shall show that the change brings its
financial statements closer to meeting the criteria in Ind AS 8, but the change need not achieve full compliance with
those criteria. The following specific issues are discussed below:
(a)
current interest rates (paragraph 24);
(b)
continuation of existing practices (paragraph 25);
(c)
prudence (paragraph 26);
(d)
future investment margins (paragraphs 27-29); and
(e)
shadow accounting (paragraph 30).
Current market interest rates
24. An insurer is permitted, but not required, to change its accounting policies so that it remeasures designated
[insurance liabilities]
[In this paragraph, insurance liabilities include related deferred acquisition costs and related intangible assets, such as
those discussed in paragraphs 31 and 32.]
to reflect current market interest rates and recognises changes in those liabilities in profit or loss. At that time, it may
also introduce accounting policies that require other current estimates and assumptions for the designated liabilities. The
election in this paragraph permits an insurer to change its accounting policies for designated liabilities, without applying
those policies consistently to all similar liabilities as Ind AS 8 would otherwise require. If an insurer designates liabilities
for this election, it shall continue to apply current market interest rates (and, if applicable, the other current estimates and
assumptions) consistently in all periods to all these liabilities until they are extinguished.
Continuation of existing practices
Page 88/765
----- PAGE 89 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
25. An insurer may continue the following practices, but the introduction of any of them does not satisfy paragraph 22:
(a)
measuring insurance liabilities on an undiscounted basis.
(b)
measuring contractual rights to future investment management fees at an amount that exceeds their fair value as
implied by a comparison with current fees charged by other market participants for similar services. It is likely that the
fair value at inception of those contractual rights equals the origination costs paid, unless future investment management
fees and related costs are out of line with market comparables.
(c)
using non-uniform accounting policies for the insurance contracts (and related deferred acquisition costs and related
intangible assets, if any) of subsidiaries, except as permitted by paragraph 24. If those accounting policies are not
uniform, an insurer may change them if the change does not make the accounting policies more diverse and also
satisfies the other requirements in this Ind AS.
Prudence
26. An insurer need not change its accounting policies for insurance contracts to eliminate excessive prudence.
However, if an insurer already measures its insurance contracts with sufficient prudence, it shall not introduce additional
prudence.
Future investment margins
27. An insurer need not change its accounting policies for insurance contracts to eliminate future investment margins.
However, there is a rebuttable presumption that an insurer's financial statements will become less relevant and reliable if
it introduces an accounting policy that reflects future investment margins in the measurement of insurance contracts,
unless those margins affect the contractual payments. Two examples of accounting policies that reflect those margins
are:
(a)
using a discount rate that reflects the estimated return on the insurer's assets; or
(b)
projecting the returns on those assets at an estimated rate of return, discounting those projected returns at a different
rate and including the result in the measurement of the liability.
28. An insurer may overcome the rebuttable presumption described in paragraph 27 if, and only if, the other components
of a change in accounting policies increase the relevance and reliability of its financial statements sufficiently to
outweigh the decrease in relevance and reliability caused by the inclusion of future investment margins. For example,
suppose that an insurer's existing accounting policies for insurance contracts involve excessively prudent assumptions
set at inception and a discount rate prescribed by a regulator without direct reference to market conditions, and ignore
some embedded options and guarantees. The insurer might make its financial statements more relevant and no less
reliable by switching to a comprehensive investor-oriented basis of accounting that is widely used and involves:
(a)
current estimates and assumptions;
(b)
a reasonable (but not excessively prudent) adjustment to reflect risk and uncertainty;
(c)
measurements that reflect both the intrinsic value and time value of embedded options and guarantees; and
(d)
a current market discount rate, even if that discount rate reflects the estimated return on the insurer's assets.
29. In some measurement approaches, the discount rate is used to determine the present value of a future profit margin.
That profit margin is then attributed to different periods using a formula. In those approaches, the discount rate affects
the measurement of the liability only indirectly. In particular, the use of a less appropriate discount rate has a limited or
no effect on the measurement of the liability at inception. However, in other approaches, the discount rate determines
the measurement of the liability directly. In the latter case, because the introduction of an asset-based discount rate has
a more significant effect, it is highly unlikely that an insurer could overcome the rebuttable presumption described in
paragraph 27.
Shadow accounting
Page 89/765
----- PAGE 90 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
30. In some accounting models, realised gains or losses on an insurer's assets have a direct effect on the measurement
of some or all of (a) its insurance liabilities, (b) related deferred acquisition costs and (c) related intangible assets, such
as those described in paragraphs 31 and 32. An insurer is permitted, but not required, to change its accounting policies
so that a recognized but unrealised gain or loss on an asset affects those measurements in the same way that a
realised gain or loss does. The related adjustment to the insurance liability (or deferred acquisition costs or intangible
assets) shall be recognized in other comprehensive income if, and only if, the unrealised gains or losses are recognized
in other comprehensive income. This practice is sometimes described as 'shadow accounting'.
Insurance contracts acquired in a business combination or portfolio transfer
31. To comply with Ind AS 103, an insurer shall, at the acquisition date, measure at fair value the insurance liabilities
assumed and insurance assets acquired in a business combination. However, an insurer is permitted, but not required,
to use an expanded presentation that splits the fair value of acquired insurance contracts into two components:
(a)
a liability measured in accordance with the insurer's accounting policies for insurance contracts that it issues; and
(b)
an intangible asset, representing the difference between (i) the fair value of the contractual insurance rights acquired
and insurance obligations assumed and (ii) the amount described in (a). The subsequent measurement of this asset
shall be consistent with the measurement of the related insurance liability.
32. An insurer acquiring a portfolio of insurance contracts may use the expanded presentation described in paragraph
31.
33. The intangible assets described in paragraphs 31 and 32 are excluded from the scope of Ind AS 38 and Ind AS 36,
Impairment of Assets. However, Ind AS 38 and Ind AS 36 apply to customer lists and customer relationships reflecting
the expectation of future contracts that are not part of the contractual insurance rights and contractual insurance
obligations that existed at the date of a business combination or portfolio transfer.
Discretionary participation features
Discretionary participation features in insurance contracts
34. Some insurance contracts contain a discretionary participation feature as well as a guaranteed element. The issuer
of such a contract:
(a)
may, but need not, recognise the guaranteed element separately from the discretionary participation feature. If the
issuer does not recognise them separately, it shall classify the whole contract as a liability. If the issuer classifies them
separately, it shall classify the guaranteed element as a liability.
(b)
shall, if it recognises the discretionary participation feature separately from the guaranteed element, classify that feature
as either a liability or a separate component of equity. This Ind AS does not specify how the issuer determines whether
that feature is a liability or equity. The issuer may split that feature into liability and equity components and shall use a
consistent accounting policy for that split. The issuer shall not classify that feature as an intermediate category that is
neither liability nor equity.
(c)
may recognise all premiums received as revenue without separating any portion that relates to the equity component.
The resulting changes in the guaranteed element and in the portion of the discretionary participation feature classified as
a liability shall be recognized in profit or loss. If part or all of the discretionary participation feature is classified in equity,
a portion of profit or loss may be attributable to that feature (in the same way that a portion may be attributable to
non-controlling interests). The issuer shall recognise the portion of profit or loss attributable to any equity component of
a discretionary participation feature as an allocation of profit or loss, not as expense or income (see Ind AS 1,
Presentation of Financial Statements).
(d)
shall, if the contract contains an embedded derivative within the scope of Ind AS 109, apply Ind AS 109, to that
embedded derivative.
(e)
shall, in all respects not described in paragraphs 14-20 and 34(a)-(d), continue its existing accounting policies for such
contracts, unless it changes those accounting policies in a way that complies with paragraphs 21-30.
Page 90/765
----- PAGE 91 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Discretionary participation features in financial instruments
35. The requirements in paragraph 34 also apply to a financial instrument that contains a discretionary participation
feature. In addition:
(a)
if the issuer classifies the entire discretionary participation feature as a liability, it shall apply the liability adequacy test in
paragraphs 15-19 to the whole contract (i.e. both the guaranteed element and the discretionary participation feature).
The issuer need not determine the amount that would result from applying Ind AS 109 to the guaranteed element.
(b)
if the issuer classifies part or all of that feature as a separate component of equity, the liability recognized for the whole
contract shall not be less than the amount that would result from applying Ind AS 109 to the guaranteed element. That
amount shall include the intrinsic value of an option to surrender the contract, but need not include its time value if
paragraph 9 exempts that option from measurement at fair value. The issuer need not disclose the amount that would
result from applying Ind AS 109 to the guaranteed element, nor need it present that amount separately. Furthermore, the
issuer need not determine that amount if the total liability recognized is clearly higher.
(c)
although these contracts are financial instruments, the issuer may continue to recognise the premiums for those
contracts as revenue and recognise as an expense the resulting increase in the carrying amount of the liability.
(d)
although these contracts are financial instruments, an issuer applying paragraph 20(b) of Ind AS 107 to contracts with a
discretionary participation feature shall disclose the total interest expense recognized in profit or loss, but need not
calculate such interest expense using the effective interest method.
Disclosure
Explanation of recognized amounts
36. An insurer shall disclose information that identifies and explains the amounts in its financial statements arising from
insurance contracts.
37. To comply with paragraph 36, an insurer shall disclose:
(a)
its accounting policies for insurance contracts and related assets, liabilities, income and expense.
(b)
the recognized assets, liabilities, income and expense (and, if it presents its statement of cash flows using the direct
method, cash flows) arising from insurance contracts. Furthermore, if the insurer is a cedant, it shall disclose:
(i)
gains and losses recognized in profit or loss on buying reinsurance; and
(ii)
if the cedant defers and amortises gains and losses arising on buying reinsurance, the amortisation for the period and
the amounts remaining unamortised at the beginning and end of the period.
(c)
the process used to determine the assumptions that have the greatest effect on the measurement of the recognized
amounts described in (b). When practicable, an insurer shall also give quantified disclosure of those assumptions.
(d)
the effect of changes in assumptions used to measure insurance assets and insurance liabilities, showing separately the
effect of each change that has a material effect on the financial statements.
(e)
reconciliations of changes in insurance liabilities, reinsurance assets and, if any, related deferred acquisition costs.
Nature and extent of risks arising from insurance contracts
38. An insurer shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements to evaluate the nature and extent
of risks arising from insurance contracts.
39. To comply with paragraph 38, an insurer shall disclose:
(a)
its objectives, policies and processes for managing risks arising from insurance contracts and the methods used to
manage those risks.
Page 91/765
----- PAGE 92 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(c)
information about insurance risk (both before and after risk mitigation by reinsurance), including information about:
(i)
sensitivity to insurance risk (see paragraph 39A).
(ii)
concentrations of insurance risk, including a description of how management determines concentrations and a
description of the shared characteristic that identifies each concentration (e.g. type of insured event, geographical area,
or currency).
(iii)
actual claims compared with previous estimates (i.e. claims development). The disclosure about claims development
shall go back to the period when the earliest material claim arose for which there is still uncertainty about the amount
and timing of the claims payments, but need not go back more than ten years. An insurer need not disclose this
information for claims for which uncertainty about the amount and timing of claims payments is typically resolved within
one year.
(d)
information about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk that paragraphs 31-42 of Ind AS 107 would require if the
insurance contracts were within the scope of Ind AS 107. However:
(i)
an insurer need not provide the maturity analysis required by paragraph 39(a) and (b) of Ind AS 107 if it discloses
information about the estimated timing of the net cash outflows resulting from recognized insurance liabilities instead.
This may take the form of an analysis, by estimated timing, of the amounts recognized in the balance sheet.
(ii)
if an insurer uses an alternative method to manage sensitivity to market conditions, such as an embedded value
analysis, it may use that sensitivity analysis to meet the requirement in paragraph 40(a) of Ind AS 107. Such an insurer
shall also provide the disclosures required by paragraph 41 of Ind AS 107.
(e)
information about exposures to market risk arising from embedded derivatives contained in a host insurance contract if
the insurer is not required to, and does not, measure the embedded derivatives at fair value.
39A. To comply with paragraph 39(c)(i), an insurer shall disclose either (a) or (b) as follows:
(a)
a sensitivity analysis that shows how profit or loss and equity would have been affected if changes in the relevant risk
variable that were reasonably possible at the end of the reporting period had occurred; the methods and assumptions
used in preparing the sensitivity analysis; and any changes from the previous period in the methods and assumptions
used. However, if an insurer uses an alternative method to manage sensitivity to market conditions, such as an
embedded value analysis, it may meet this requirement by disclosing that alternative sensitivity analysis and the
disclosures required by paragraph 41 of Ind AS 107.
(b)
qualitative information about sensitivity, and information about those terms and conditions of insurance contracts that
have a material effect on the amount, timing and uncertainty of the insurer's future cash flows.
[Effective Date
40. *
41. *
41A.
*
41B.
*
41C.
*
41D.
Page 92/765
----- PAGE 93 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
*
41E.
*
41F.
*
41G.
As a consequence of issuance of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, paragraphs 4(a) and (c), B7(b),
B18(h) and B21 are amended. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 115.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[41H Omitted *
41. I Ind AS 116 amended paragraph 4. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies Ind AS 116.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an integral
part of the Ind AS.
Cedant
Thepolicyholderunder areinsurancecontract.
deposit component
A contractual component that is not accounted
for as a derivative under Ind AS 109 and would be within the
scope of Ind AS 109 if it were a separate instrument.
direct insurance contract
Aninsurance contractthat is not areinsurance contract.
discretionary participation feature
A contractual right to receive, as a supplement
toguaranteed benefits, additional benefits:
(a) that are likely
to be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits;
(b) whose amount or
timing is contractually at the discretion of the issuer; and
(c) that are
contractually based on:
(i) the performance
of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of contract;
(ii) realised and/or
unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of assets held
by the issuer; or
(iii) the profit or
loss of the company, fund or other entity that issues the
contract.
fair value
Fair valueis the price that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date. (See Ind AS 113.)
financial guarantee contract
A contract that requires the issuer to make
specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs
because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in
accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt
Page 93/765
----- PAGE 94 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
instrument.
financial risk
The risk of a possible future change in one or
more of a specified interest rate, financial instrument price,
commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates,
credit rating or credit index or other variable, provided in the
case of a non-financial variable that the variable is not
specific to a party to the contract.
guaranteed benefits
Payments or other benefits to which a particularpolicyholderor investor has an unconditional right that
is not subject to the contractual discretion of the issuer.
guaranteed element
An obligation to payguaranteed benefits,
included in a contract that contains adiscretionary
participation feature.
insurance asset
Aninsurer'snet contractual rights under
aninsurance contract.
insurance contract
A contract under which one party (theinsurer)
accepts significantinsurance riskfrom another party (thepolicyholder) by agreeing to compensate the policyholder
if a specified uncertain future event (theinsured event)
adversely affects the policyholder. (See Appendix B for guidance
on this definition.)
insurance liability
Aninsurer'snet contractual obligations
under aninsurance contract.
insurance risk
Risk, other thanfinancial risk,
transferred from the holder of a contract to the issuer.
insured event
An uncertain future event that is covered by aninsurance contractand createsinsurance risk.
insurer
The party that has an obligation under aninsurance contractto compensate apolicyholderif
aninsured eventoccurs.
liability adequacy test
An assessment of whether the carrying amount of
aninsurance liabilityneeds to be increased (or the
carrying amount of related deferred acquisition costs or related
intangible assets decreased), based on a review of future cash
flows.
policyholder
A party that has a right to compensation under
aninsurance contractif aninsured eventoccurs.
reinsurance assets
Acedant'snet contractual rights under areinsurance contract.
reinsurance contract
Aninsurance contractissued by one
insurer (thereinsurer) to compensate another insurer (thecedant) for losses on one or more contracts issued by the
cedant.
reinsurer
Page 94/765
----- PAGE 95 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
The party that has an obligation under areinsurance contractto compensate acedantif aninsured eventoccurs.
unbundle
Account for the components of a contract as if
they were separate contracts.
Appendix B
Definition of an insurance contract
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
B1. This appendix gives guidance on the definition of an insurance contract in Appendix A. It addresses the following
issues:
(a)
the term 'uncertain future event' (paragraphs B2-B4);
(b)
payments in kind (paragraphs B5-B7);
(c)
insurance risk and other risks (paragraphs B8-B17);
(d)
examples of insurance contracts (paragraphs B18-B21);
(e)
significant insurance risk (paragraphs B22-B28); and
(f)
changes in the level of insurance risk (paragraphs B29 and B30).
Uncertain future event
B2. Uncertainty (or risk) is the essence of an insurance contract. Accordingly, at least one of the following is uncertain at
the inception of an insurance contract:
(a)
whether an insured event will occur;
(b)
when it will occur; or
(c)
how much the insurer will need to pay if it occurs.
B3. In some insurance contracts, the insured event is the discovery of a loss during the term of the contract, even if the
loss arises from an event that occurred before the inception of the contract. In other insurance contracts, the insured
event is an event that occurs during the term of the contract, even if the resulting loss is discovered after the end of the
contract term.
B4. Some insurance contracts cover events that have already occurred, but whose financial effect is still uncertain. An
example is a reinsurance contract that covers the direct insurer against adverse development of claims already reported
by policyholders. In such contracts, the insured event is the discovery of the ultimate cost of those claims.
Payments in kind
B5. Some insurance contracts require or permit payments to be made in kind. An example is when the insurer replaces
a stolen article directly, instead of reimbursing the policyholder. Another example is when an insurer uses its own
hospitals and medical staff to provide medical services covered by the contracts.
B6. Some fixed-fee service contracts in which the level of service depends on an uncertain event meet the definition of
an insurance contract in this Ind AS but are not regulated as insurance contracts in some countries. One example is a
maintenance contract in which the service provider agrees to repair specified equipment after a malfunction. The fixed
service fee is based on the expected number of malfunctions, but it is uncertain whether a particular machine will break
down. The malfunction of the equipment adversely affects its owner and the contract compensates the owner (in kind,
rather than cash). Another example is a contract for car breakdown services in which the provider agrees, for a fixed
annual fee, to provide roadside assistance or tow the car to a nearby garage. The latter contract could meet the
definition of an insurance contract even if the provider does not agree to carry out repairs or replace parts.
B7. Applying this Standard to the contracts described in paragraph B6 is likely to be no more burdensome than applying
the Ind ASs that would be applicable if such contracts were outside the scope of this Ind AS:
Page 95/765
----- PAGE 96 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
There are unlikely to be material liabilities for malfunctions and breakdowns that have already occurred.
(b)
[ If Ind AS 115 applied, the service provider would recognise revenue when (or as) it transfers services to the customer (
subject to other specified criteria). That approach is also acceptable under this Ind AS, which permits the service
provider (i) to continue its existing accounting policies for these contracts unless they involve practices prohibited by
paragraph 14 and (ii) to improve its accounting policies if so permitted by paragraphs 22-30.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(c)
The service provider considers whether the cost of meeting its contractual obligation to provide services exceeds the
revenue received in advance. To do this, it applies the liability adequacy test described in paragraphs 15-19 of this Ind
AS. If this Accounting Standard did not apply to these contracts, the service provider would apply Ind AS 37 to
determine whether the contracts are onerous.
(d)
For these contracts, the disclosure requirements in this Ind AS are unlikely to add significantly to disclosures required by
other Ind ASs.
Distinction between insurance risk and other risks
B8. The definition of an insurance contract refers to insurance risk, which this Ind AS defines as risk, other than financial
risk, transferred from the holder of a contract to the issuer. A contract that exposes the issuer to financial risk without
significant insurance risk is not an insurance contract.
B9. The definition of financial risk in Appendix A includes a list of financial and non-financial variables. That list includes
non-financial variables that are not specific to a party to the contract, such as an index of earthquake losses in a
particular region or an index of temperatures in a particular city. It excludes non-financial variables that are specific to a
party to the contract, such as the occurrence or non-occurrence of a fire that damages or destroys an asset of that party.
Furthermore, the risk of changes in the fair value of a non-financial asset is not a financial risk if the fair value reflects
not only changes in market prices for such assets (a financial variable) but also the condition of a specific non-financial
asset held by a party to a contract (a non-financial variable). For example, if a guarantee of the residual value of a
specific car exposes the guarantor to the risk of changes in the car's physical condition, that risk is insurance risk, not
financial risk.
B10. Some contracts expose the issuer to financial risk, in addition to significant insurance risk. For example, many life
insurance contracts both guarantee a minimum rate of return to policyholders (creating financial risk) and promise death
benefits that at some times significantly exceed the policyholder's account balance (creating insurance risk in the form of
mortality risk). Such contracts are insurance contracts.
B11. Under some contracts, an insured event triggers the payment of an amount linked to a price index. Such contracts
are insurance contracts, provided the payment that is contingent on the insured event can be significant. For example, a
life-contingent annuity linked to a cost-of-living index transfers insurance risk because payment is triggered by an
uncertain event-the survival of the annuitant. The link to the price index is an embedded derivative, but it also transfers
insurance risk. If the resulting transfer of insurance risk is significant, the embedded derivative meets the definition of an
insurance contract, in which case it need not be separated and measured at fair value (see paragraph 7 of this Ind AS).
B12. The definition of insurance risk refers to risk that the insurer accepts from the policyholder. In other words,
insurance risk is a pre-existing risk transferred from the policyholder to the insurer. Thus, a new risk created by the
contract is not insurance risk.
B13. The definition of an insurance contract refers to an adverse effect on the policyholder. The definition does not limit
the payment by the insurer to an amount equal to the financial impact of the adverse event. For example, the definition
does not exclude 'new-for-old' coverage that pays the policyholder sufficient to permit replacement of a damaged old
asset by a new asset. Similarly, the definition does not limit payment under a term life insurance contract to the financial
loss suffered by the deceased's dependants, nor does it preclude the payment of predetermined amounts to quantify the
loss caused by death or an accident.
B14. Some contracts require a payment if a specified uncertain event occurs, but do not require an adverse effect on the
policyholder as a precondition for payment. Such a contract is not an insurance contract even if the holder uses the
contract to mitigate an underlying risk exposure. For example, if the holder uses a derivative to hedge an underlying
Page 96/765
----- PAGE 97 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
non-financial variable that is correlated with cash flows from an asset of the entity, the derivative is not an insurance
contract because payment is not conditional on whether the holder is adversely affected by a reduction in the cash flows
from the asset. Conversely, the definition of an insurance contract refers to an uncertain event for which an adverse
effect on the policyholder is a contractual precondition for payment. This contractual precondition does not require the
insurer to investigate whether the event actually caused an adverse effect, but permits the insurer to deny payment if it
is not satisfied that the event caused an adverse effect.
B15. Lapse or persistency risk (i.e. the risk that the counter-party will cancel the contract earlier or later than the issuer
had expected in pricing the contract) is not insurance risk because the payment to the counter-party is not contingent on
an uncertain future event that adversely affects the counter-party. Similarly, expense risk (i.e. the risk of unexpected
increases in the administrative costs associated with the servicing of a contract, rather than in costs associated with
insured events) is not insurance risk because an unexpected increase in expenses does not adversely affect the
counter-party.
B16. Therefore, a contract that exposes the issuer to lapse risk, persistency risk or expense risk is not an insurance
contract unless it also exposes the issuer to insurance risk. However, if the issuer of that contract mitigates that risk by
using a second contract to transfer part of that risk to another party, the second contract exposes that other party to
insurance risk.
B17. An insurer can accept significant insurance risk from the policyholder only if the insurer is an entity separate from
the policyholder. In the case of a mutual insurer, the mutual accepts risk from each policyholder and pools that risk.
Although policyholders bear that pooled risk collectively in their capacity as owners, the mutual has still accepted the risk
that is the essence of an insurance contract.
Examples of insurance contracts
B18. The following are examples of contracts that are insurance contracts, if the transfer of insurance risk is significant:
(a)
insurance against theft or damage to property.
(b)
insurance against product liability, professional liability, civil liability or legal expenses.
(c)
life insurance and prepaid funeral plans (although death is certain, it is uncertain when death will occur or, for some
types of life insurance, whether death will occur within the period covered by the insurance).
(d)
life-contingent annuities and pensions (i.e. contracts that provide compensation for the uncertain future event-the
survival of the annuitant or pensioner-to assist the annuitant or pensioner in maintaining a given standard of living, which
would otherwise be adversely affected by his or her survival).
(e)
disability and medical cover.
(f)
surety bonds, fidelity bonds, performance bonds and bid bonds (i.e. contracts that provide compensation if another party
fails to perform a contractual obligation, for example an obligation to construct a building).
(g)
credit insurance that provides for specified payments to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a
specified debtor fails to make payment when due under the original or modified terms of a debt instrument. These
contracts could have various legal forms, such as that of a guarantee, some types of letter of credit, a credit derivative
default contract or an insurance contract. However, although these contracts meet the definition of an insurance
contract, they also meet the definition of a financial guarantee contract in Ind AS 109 and are within the scope of Ind AS
107 and Ind AS 109, not this Ind AS (see paragraph 4(d)). Nevertheless, if an issuer of financial guarantee contracts has
previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting applicable
to insurance contracts, the issuer may elect to apply either Ind AS 107. and Ind AS 109 or this Ind AS to such financial
guarantee contracts.
(h)
[ product warranties. Product warranties issued by another party for goods sold by a manufacturer, dealer or retailer are
within the scope of this Ind AS. However, product warranties issued directly by a manufacturer, dealer or retailer are
Page 97/765
----- PAGE 98 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
outside its scope, because they are within the scope of Ind AS 115 and Ind AS 37.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(i)
title insurance (i.e. insurance against the discovery of defects in title to land that were not apparent when the insurance
contract was written). In this case, the insured event is the discovery of a defect in the title, not the defect itself.
(j)
travel assistance (i.e. compensation in cash or in kind to policyholders for losses suffered while they are travelling).
Paragraphs B6 and B7 discuss some contracts of this kind.
(k)
catastrophe bonds that provide for reduced payments of principal, interest or both if a specified event adversely affects
the issuer of the bond (unless the specified event does not create significant insurance risk, for example if the event is a
change in an interest rate or foreign exchange rate).
(l)
insurance swaps and other contracts that require a payment based on changes in climatic, geological or other physical
variables that are specific to a party to the contract.
(m)
reinsurance contracts.
B19. The following are examples of items that are not insurance contracts:
(a)
investment contracts that have the legal form of an insurance contract but do not expose the insurer to significant
insurance risk, for example life insurance contracts in which the insurer bears no significant mortality risk (such contracts
are non-insurance financial instruments or service contracts, see paragraphs B20 and B21).
(b)
contracts that have the legal form of insurance, but pass all significant insurance risk back to the policyholder through
non-cancellable and enforceable mechanisms that adjust future payments by the policyholder as a direct result of
insured losses, for example some financial reinsurance contracts or some group contracts (such contracts are normally
non-insurance financial instruments or service contracts, see paragraphs B20 and B21).
(c)
self-insurance, in other words retaining a risk that could have been covered by insurance (there is no insurance contract
because there is no agreement with another party).
(d)
contracts (such as gambling contracts) that require a payment if a specified uncertain future event occurs, but do not
require, as a contractual precondition for payment, that the event adversely affects the policyholder. However, this does
not preclude the specification of a predetermined payout to quantify the loss caused by a specified event such as death
or an accident (see also paragraph B13).
(e)
derivatives that expose one party to financial risk but not insurance risk, because they require that party to make
payment based solely on changes in one or more of a specified interest rate, financial instrument price, commodity
price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating or credit index or other variable, provided in the case
of a non-financial variable that the variable is not specific to a party to the contract (see Ind AS 109).
(f)
a credit-related guarantee (or letter of credit, credit derivative default contract or credit insurance contract) that requires
payments even if the holder has not incurred a loss on the failure of the debtor to make payments when due (see Ind AS
109).
(g)
contracts that require a payment based on a climatic, geological or other physical variable that is not specific to a party
to the contract (commonly described as weather derivatives).
(h)
catastrophe bonds that provide for reduced payments of principal, interest or both, based on a climatic, geological or
other physical variable that is not specific to a party to the contract.
B20. If the contracts described in paragraph B19 create financial assets or financial liabilities, they are within the scope
Page 98/765
----- PAGE 99 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
of Ind AS 109. Among other things, this means that the parties to the contract use what is sometimes called deposit
accounting, which involves the following:
(a)
one party recognises the consideration received as a financial liability, rather than as revenue.
(b)
the other party recognises the consideration paid as a financial asset, rather than as an expense.
[B21. If the contracts described in paragraph B19 do not create financial assets or financial liabilities, Ind AS 115
applies. Under Ind AS 115, revenue is recognised when (or as) an entity satisfies a performance obligation by
transferring a promised good or service to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity
expects to be entitled.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
* Refer Appendix 1
Significant insurance risk
B22. A contract is an insurance contract only if it transfers significant insurance risk. Paragraphs B8-B21 discuss
insurance risk. The following paragraphs discuss the assessment of whether insurance risk is significant.
B23. Insurance risk is significant if, and only if, an insured event could cause an insurer to pay significant additional
benefits in any scenario, excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance (i.e. have no discernible effect on the
economics of the transaction). If significant additional benefits would be payable in scenarios that have commercial
substance, the condition in the previous sentence may be met even if the insured event is extremely unlikely or even if
the expected (i.e. probability-weighted) present value of contingent cash flows is a small proportion of the expected
present value of all the remaining contractual cash flows.
B24. The additional benefits described in paragraph B23 refer to amounts that exceed those that would be payable if no
insured event occurred (excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance). Those additional amounts include claims
handling and claims assessment costs, but exclude:
(a)
the loss of the ability to charge the policyholder for future services. For example, in an investment linked life insurance
contract, the death of the policyholder means that the insurer can no longer perform investment management services
and collect a fee for doing so. However, this economic loss for the insurer does not reflect insurance risk, just as a
mutual fund manager does not take on insurance risk in relation to the possible death of the client. Therefore, the
potential loss of future investment management fees is not relevant in assessing how much insurance risk is transferred
by a contract.
(b)
waiver on death of charges that would be made on cancellation or surrender. Because the contract brought those
charges into existence, the waiver of these charges does not compensate the policyholder for a pre-existing risk. Hence,
they are not relevant in assessing how much insurance risk is transferred by a contract.
(c)
a payment conditional on an event that does not cause a significant loss to the holder of the contract. For example,
consider a contract that requires the issuer to pay one million rupees if an asset suffers physical damage causing an
insignificant economic loss of one rupee to the holder. In this contract, the holder transfers to the insurer the insignificant
risk of losing one rupee. At the same time, the contract creates non-insurance risk that the issuer will need to pay
999,999 rupees if the specified event occurs. Because the issuer does not accept significant insurance risk from the
holder, this contract is not an insurance contract.
(d)
possible reinsurance recoveries. The insurer accounts for these separately.
B25. [An insurer shall assess the significance of insurance risk contract by contract, rather than by reference to
materiality to the financial statements.]
[For this purpose, contracts entered into simultaneously with a single counter-party (or contracts that are otherwise
interdependent) form a single contract.]
Thus, insurance risk may be significant even if there is a minimal probability of material losses for a whole book of
contracts. This contract-by-contract assessment makes it easier to classify a contract as an insurance contract.
However, if a relatively homogeneous book of small contracts is known to consist of contracts that all transfer insurance
Page 99/765
----- PAGE 100 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
risk, an insurer need not examine each contract within that book to identify a few non-derivative contracts that transfer
insignificant insurance risk.
B26. It follows from paragraphs B23-B25 that if a contract pays a death benefit exceeding the amount payable on
survival, the contract is an insurance contract unless the additional death benefit is insignificant (judged by reference to
the contract rather than to an entire book of contracts). As noted in paragraph B24(b), the waiver on death of
cancellation or surrender charges is not included in this assessment if this waiver does not compensate the policyholder
for a pre-existing risk. Similarly, an annuity contract that pays out regular sums for the rest of a policyholder's life is an
insurance contract, unless the aggregate life-contingent payments are insignificant.
B27. Paragraph B23 refers to additional benefits. These additional benefits could include a requirement to pay benefits
earlier if the insured event occurs earlier and the payment is not adjusted for the time value of money. An example is
whole life insurance for a fixed amount (in other words, insurance that provides a fixed death benefit whenever the
policyholder dies, with no expiry date for the cover). It is certain that the policyholder will die, but the date of death is
uncertain. The insurer will suffer a loss on those individual contracts for which policyholders die early, even if there is no
overall loss on the whole book of contracts.
B28. If an insurance contract is unbundled into a deposit component and an insurance component, the significance of
insurance risk transfer is assessed by reference to the insurance component. The significance of insurance risk
transferred by an embedded derivative is assessed by reference to the embedded derivative.
Changes in the level of insurance risk
B29. Some contracts do not transfer any insurance risk to the issuer at inception, although they do transfer insurance
risk at a later time. For example, consider a contract that provides a specified investment return and includes an option
for the policyholder to use the proceeds of the investment on maturity to buy a life contingent annuity at the current
annuity rates charged by the insurer to other new annuitants when the policyholder exercises the option. The contract
transfers no insurance risk to the issuer until the option is exercised, because the insurer remains free to price the
annuity on a basis that reflects the insurance risk transferred to the insurer at that time. However, if the contract
specifies the annuity rates (or a basis for setting the annuity rates), the contract transfers insurance risk to the issuer at
inception.
B30. A contract that qualifies as an insurance contract remains an insurance contract until all rights and obligations are
extinguished or expire.
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the differences between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 104 and the corresponding International Financial
Reporting Standard (IFRS) 4, Insurance Contracts, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts
1. Different terminology is used, to make it consistent with existing laws e.g., term 'balance sheet' is used instead of
'Statement of financial position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive
income'.
2. The transitional provisions given in IFRS 4 have not been given in Ind AS 104, since all transitional provisions related
to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in Ind AS 101, First-time Adoption of Indian
Accounting Standards corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
3. Paragraph 39(b) has been deleted in IFRS 4 by IASB. However, paragraph number has been retained in Ind AS 104
to maintain consistency with IFRS 4.
4. [ Paragraphs 40-41F and 41H related to effective date have not been included in Ind AS 104 as these are not relevant
in Indian context. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IFRS 4, these paragraph
numbers are retained in Ind AS 104.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 105
Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) is to specify the accounting for assets held for sale, and the
Page 100/765
----- PAGE 101 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
presentation and disclosure of discontinued operations. In particular, this Ind AS requires:
(a)
assets that meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale to be measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair
value less costs to sell, and depreciation on such assets to cease; and
(b)
assets that meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale to be presented separately in the balance sheet and the
results of discontinued operations to be presented separately in the statement of profit and loss.
Scope
2. The classification and presentation requirements of this Ind AS apply to all recognized [non-current assets]
[For assets classified according to a liquidity presentation, non-current assets are assets that include amounts expected
to be recovered more than twelve months after the reporting period. Paragraph 3 applies to the classification of such
assets.]
and to all disposal groups of an entity. The measurement requirements of this Ind AS apply to all recognized non-current
assets and disposal groups (as set out in paragraph 4), except for those assets listed in paragraph 5 which shall
continue to be measured in accordance with the Standard noted.
3. Assets classified as non-current in accordance with Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, shall not be
reclassified as current assets until they meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale in accordance with this Ind AS.
Assets of a class that an entity would normally regard as non-current that are acquired exclusively with a view to resale
shall not be classified as current unless they meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale in accordance with this Ind
AS.
4. Sometimes an entity disposes of a group of assets, possibly with some directly associated liabilities, together in a
single transaction. [Such a disposal group may be a group of cash-generating units, a single cash generating unit, or
part of a cash-generating unit.]
[However, once the cash flows from an asset or group of assets are expected to arise principally from sale rather than
continuing use, they become less dependent on cash flows arising from other assets, and a disposal group that was part
of a cash-generating unit becomes a separate cash generating unit.]
The group may include any assets and any liabilities of the entity, including current assets, current liabilities and assets
excluded by paragraph 5 from the measurement requirements of this Ind AS. If a non-current asset within the scope of
the measurement requirements of this Ind AS is part of a disposal group, the measurement requirements of this Ind AS
apply to the group as a whole, so that the group is measured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs
to sell. The requirements for measuring the individual assets and liabilities within the disposal group are set out in
paragraphs 18, 19 and 23.
5. The measurement provisions of this [Ind AS]
[Other than paragraphs 18 and 19, which require the assets in question to be measured in accordance with other
applicable Accounting Standards.]
do not apply to the following assets, which are covered by the Ind ASs listed, either as individual assets or as part of a
disposal group:
(a)
deferred tax assets (Ind AS 12, Income Taxes).
(b)
assets arising from employee benefits (Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits).
(c)
financial assets within the scope of Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments.
(d)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(e)
non-current assets that are measured at fair value less costs to sell in accordance with Ind AS 41, Agriculture.
(f)
contractual rights under insurance contracts as defined in Ind AS 104, Insurance Contracts.
5A.
The classification, presentation and measurement requirements in this Ind AS applicable to a non-current asset (or
Page 101/765
----- PAGE 102 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
disposal group) that is classified as held for sale apply also to a non-current asset (or disposal group) that is classified
as held for distribution to owners acting in their capacity as owners (held for distribution to owners).
5B.
This Ind AS specifies the disclosures required in respect of non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for
sale or discontinued operations. Disclosures in other Ind ASs do not apply to such assets (or disposal groups) unless
those Ind ASs require:
(a)
specific disclosures in respect of non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale or discontinued
operations; or
(b)
disclosures about measurement of assets and liabilities within a disposal group that are not within the scope of the
measurement requirement of Ind AS 105 and such disclosures are not already provided in the other notes to the
financial statements.
Additional disclosures about non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale or discontinued
operations may be necessary to comply with the general requirements of Ind AS 1, in particular paragraphs 15 and 125
of that Standard.
Classification of non-current assets (or disposal groups) as held for sale or as held for distribution to owners
6. An entity shall classify a non-current asset (or disposal group) as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered
principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
7. For this to be the case, the asset (or disposal group) must be available for immediate sale in its present condition
subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets (or disposal groups) and its sale must be
highly probable. Thus, an asset (or disposal group) cannot be classified as a non-current asset (or disposal group) held
for sale, if the entity intends to sell it in a distant future.
8. For the sale to be highly probable, the appropriate level of management must be committed to a plan to sell the asset
(or disposal group), and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan must have been initiated. Further,
the asset (or disposal group) must be actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair
value. In addition, the sale should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the
date of classification, except as permitted by paragraph 9, and actions required to complete the plan should indicate that
it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn. The probability of
shareholders' approval (if required in the jurisdiction) should be considered as part of the assessment of whether the
sale is highly probable.
8A.
An entity that is committed to a sale plan involving loss of control of a subsidiary shall classify all the assets and
liabilities of that subsidiary as held for sale when the criteria set out in paragraphs 6-8 are met, regardless of whether the
entity will retain a non-controlling interest in its former subsidiary after the sale.
9. Events or circumstances may extend the period to complete the sale beyond one year. An extension of the period
required to complete a sale does not preclude an asset (or disposal group) from being classified as held for sale if the
delay is caused by events or circumstances beyond the entity's control and there is sufficient evidence that the entity
remains committed to its plan to sell the asset (or disposal group). This will be the case when the criteria in Appendix B
are met.
10. Sale transactions include exchanges of non-current assets for other non-current assets when the exchange has
commercial substance in accordance with Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment.
11. When an entity acquires a non-current asset (or disposal group) exclusively with a view to its subsequent disposal, it
shall classify the non-current asset (or disposal group) as held for sale at the acquisition date only if the one-year
requirement in paragraph 8 is met (except as permitted by paragraph 9) and it is highly probable that any other criteria in
paragraphs 7 and 8 that are not met at that date will be met within a short period following the acquisition (usually within
three months).
12. If the criteria in paragraphs 7 and 8 are met after the reporting period, an entity shall not classify a non-current asset
(or disposal group) as held for sale in those financial statements when issued. However, when those criteria are met
after the reporting period but before the approval of the financial statements for issue, the entity shall disclose the
information specified in paragraph 41(a), (b) and (d) in the notes.
Page 102/765
----- PAGE 103 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
12A.
A non-current asset (or disposal group) is classified as held for distribution to owners when the entity is committed to
distribute the asset (or disposal group) to the owners. For this to be the case, the assets must be available for immediate
distribution in their present condition and the distribution must be highly probable. For the distribution to be highly
probable, actions to complete the distribution must have been initiated and should be expected to be completed within
one year from the date of classification. Actions required to complete the distribution should indicate that it is unlikely
that significant changes to the distribution will be made or that the distribution will be withdrawn. The probability of
shareholders' approval (if required in the jurisdiction) should be considered as part of the assessment of whether the
distribution is highly probable.
Non-current assets that are to be abandoned
13. An entity shall not classify as held for sale a non-current asset (or disposal group) that is to be abandoned. This is
because its carrying amount will be recovered principally through continuing use. However, if the disposal group to be
abandoned meets the criteria in paragraph 32(a)-(c), the entity shall present the results and cash flows of the disposal
group as discontinued operations in accordance with paragraphs 33 and 34 at the date on which it ceases to be used.
Non-current assets (or disposal groups) to be abandoned include noncurrent assets (or disposal groups) that are to be
used to the end of their economic life and non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are to be closed rather than sold.
14. An entity shall not account for a non-current asset that has been temporarily taken out of use as if it had been
abandoned.
Measurement of non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale
Measurement of a non-current asset (or disposal group)
15. An entity shall measure a non-current asset (or disposal group) classified as held for sale at the lower of its carrying
amount and fair value less costs to sell.
15A.
An entity shall measure a non-current asset (or disposal group) classified as held for distribution to owners at the lower
of its carrying amount and fair value less [costs to distribute]
[Costs to distribute are the incremental costs directly attributable to the distribution, excluding finance costs and income
tax expense.]
.
16. If a newly acquired asset (or disposal group) meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale (see paragraph 11),
applying paragraph 15 will result in the asset (or disposal group) being measured on initial recognition at the lower of its
carrying amount had it not been so classified (for example, cost) and fair value less costs to sell. Hence, if the asset (or
disposal group) is acquired as part of a business combination, it shall be measured at fair value less costs to sell.
17. When the sale is expected to occur beyond one year, the entity shall measure the costs to sell at their present value.
Any increase in the present value of the costs to sell that arises from the passage of time shall be presented in profit or
loss as a financing cost.
18. Immediately before the initial classification of the asset (or disposal group) as held for sale, the carrying amounts of
the asset (or all the assets and liabilities in the group) shall be measured in accordance with applicable Ind ASs.
19. On subsequent re-measurement of a disposal group, the carrying amounts of any assets and liabilities that are not
within the scope of the measurement requirements of this Ind AS, but are included in a disposal group classified as held
for sale, shall be remeasured in accordance with applicable Ind ASs before the fair value less costs to sell of the
disposal group is remeasured.
Recognition of impairment losses and reversals
20. An entity shall recognise an impairment loss for any initial or subsequent write-down of the asset (or disposal group)
to fair value less costs to sell, to the extent that it has not been recognized in accordance with paragraph 19.
21. An entity shall recognise a gain for any subsequent increase in fair value less costs to sell of an asset, but not in
excess of the cumulative impairment loss that has been recognized either in accordance with this Ind AS or previously in
accordance with Ind AS 36, Impairment of Assets.
22. An entity shall recognise a gain for any subsequent increase in fair value less costs to sell of a disposal group:
(a)
to the extent that it has not been recognized in accordance with paragraph 19; but
(b)
Page 103/765
----- PAGE 104 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
not in excess of the cumulative impairment loss that has been recognized, either in accordance with this Ind AS or
previously in accordance with Ind AS 36, on the non-current assets that are within the scope of the measurement
requirements of this Ind AS.
23. The impairment loss (or any subsequent gain) recognized for a disposal group shall reduce (or increase) the
carrying amount of the non-current assets in the group that are within the scope of the measurement requirements of
this Ind AS, in the order of allocation set out in paragraphs 104(a) and (b) and 122 of Ind AS 36.
24. A gain or loss not previously recognized by the date of the sale of a non-current asset (or disposal group) shall be
recognized at the date of derecognition. Requirements relating to derecognition are set out in:
(a)
paragraphs 67-72 of Ind AS 16 for property, plant and equipment, and
(b)
paragraphs 112-117 of Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets, for intangible assets.
25. An entity shall not depreciate (or amortise) a non-current asset while it is classified as held for sale or while it is part
of a disposal group classified as held for sale. Interest and other expenses attributable to the liabilities of a disposal
group classified as held for sale shall continue to be recognized.
[Changes to a plan of sale or to a plan of distribution to owners
26. If an entity has classified an asset (or disposal group) as held for sale or as held for distribution to owners, but the
criteria in paragraphs 7-9 (for held for sale) or in paragraph 12A (for held for distribution to owners) are no longer met,
the entity shall cease to classify the asset (or disposal group) as held for sale or held for distribution to owners
(respectively). In such cases an entity shall follow the guidance in paragraphs 27-29 to account for this change except
when paragraph 26A applies.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
26A.
[ If an entity reclassifies an asset (or disposal group) directly from being held for sale to being held for distribution to
owners, or directly from being held for distribution to owners to being held for sale, then the change in classification is
considered a continuation of the original plan of disposal. The entity:
(a)
shall not follow the guidance in paragraphs 27-29 to account for this change. The entity shall apply the classification,
presentation and measurement requirements in this Ind AS that are applicable to the new method of disposal.
(b)
shall measure the non-current asset (or disposal group) by following the requirements in paragraph 15 (if reclassified as
held for sale) or 15A (if reclassified as held for distribution to owners) and recognise any reduction or increase in the fair
value less costs to sell/costs to distribute of the non-current asset (or disposal group) by following the requirements in
paragraphs 20-25.
(c)
shall not change the date of classification in accordance with paragraphs 8 and 12A. This does not preclude an
extension of the period required to complete a sale or a distribution to owners if the conditions in paragraph 9 are met.]
27. [ The entity shall measure a non-current asset (or disposal group) that ceases to be classified as held for sale or as
held for distribution to owners (or ceases to be included in a disposal group classified as held for sale or as held for
distribution to owners) at the lower of:
(a)
its carrying amount before the asset (or disposal group) was classified as held for sale or as held for distribution to
owners, adjusted for any depreciation, amortisation or revaluations that would have been recognized had the asset (or
disposal group) not been classified as held for sale or as held for distribution to owners, and
(b)
its recoverable amount at the date of the subsequent decision not to sell or distribute5.
5. If the non-current asset is part of a cash-generating unit, its recoverable amount is the carrying amount that would
have been recognized after the allocation of any impairment loss arising on that cash-generating unit in accordance with
Ind AS 36.
28. The entity shall include any required adjustment to the carrying amount of a non-current asset that ceases to be
classified as held for sale or as held for distribution to owners in profit or loss6 from continuing operations in the period in
Page 104/765
----- PAGE 105 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
which the criteria in paragraphs 7-9 or 12A, respectively, are no longer met. Financial statements for the periods since
classification as held for sale or as held for distribution to owners shall be amended accordingly if the disposal group or
non-current asset that ceases to be classified as held for sale or as held for distribution to owners is a subsidiary, joint
operation, joint venture, associate, or a portion of an interest in a joint venture or an associate. The entity shall present
that adjustment in the same caption in the statement of profit and loss used to present a gain or loss, if any, recognized
in accordance with paragraph 37.
6. Unless the asset is property, plant and equipment or an intangible asset that had been revalued in accordance with
Ind AS 16 or Ind AS 38 before classification as held for sale, in which case the adjustment shall be treated as a
revaluation increase or decrease.
29. If an entity removes an individual asset or liability from a disposal group classified as held for sale, the remaining
assets and liabilities of the disposal group to be sold shall continue to be measured as a group only if the group meets
the criteria in paragraphs 7-9. If an entity removes an individual asset or liability from a disposal group classified as held
for distribution to owners, the remaining assets and liabilities of the disposal group to be distributed shall continue to be
measured as a group only if the group meets the criteria in paragraph 12A. Otherwise, the remaining non-current assets
of the group that individually meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale (or as held for distribution to owners) shall
be measured individually at the lower of their carrying amounts and fair values less costs to sell (or costs to distribute) at
that date. Any non-current assets that do not meet the criteria for held for sale shall cease to be classified as held for
sale in accordance with paragraph 26. Any non-current assets that do not meet the criteria for held for distribution to
owners shall cease to be classified as held for distribution to owners in accordance with paragraph 26.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Presentation and disclosure
30. An entity shall present and disclose information that enables users of the financial statements to evaluate the
financial effects of discontinued operations and disposals of non-current assets (or disposal groups).
Presenting discontinued operations
31. A component of an entity comprises operations and cash flows that can be clearly distinguished, operationally and
for financial reporting purposes, from the rest of the entity. In other words, a component of an entity will have been a
cash-generating unit or a group of cash-generating units while being held for use.
32. A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for
sale, and
(a)
represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations,
(b)
is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or
(c)
is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
33. An entity shall disclose:
(a)
a single amount in the statement of profit and loss comprising the total of:
(i)
the post-tax profit or loss of discontinued operations and
(ii)
the post-tax gain or loss recognized on the measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on the disposal of the assets
or disposal group(s) constituting the discontinued operation.
(b)
an analysis of the single amount in (a) into:
(i)
the revenue, expenses and pre-tax profit or loss of discontinued operations;
(ii)
the related income tax expense as required by paragraph 81(h) of Ind AS 12; and
(iii)
the gain or loss recognized on the measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on the disposal of the assets or
Page 105/765
----- PAGE 106 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
disposal group(s) constituting the discontinued operation.
(iv)
the related income tax expense as required by paragraph 81(h) of Ind AS 12.
The analysis may be presented in the notes or in the statement of profit and loss. If it is presented in the statement of
profit and loss it shall be presented in a section identified as relating to discontinued operations, i.e. separately from
continuing operations. The analysis is not required for disposal groups that are newly acquired subsidiaries that meet
the criteria to be classified as held for sale on acquisition (see paragraph 11).
(c)
the net cash flows attributable to the operating, investing and financing activities of discontinued operations. These
disclosures may be presented either in the notes or in the financial statements. These disclosures are not required for
disposal groups that are newly acquired subsidiaries that meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale on acquisition
(see paragraph 11).
(d)
the amount of income from continuing operations and from discontinued operations attributable to owners of the parent.
These disclosures may be presented either in the notes or in the statement of profit and loss.
33A. [Refer Appendix 1]
34. An entity shall re-present the disclosures in paragraph 33 for prior periods presented in the financial statements so
that the disclosures relate to all operations that have been discontinued by the end of the reporting period for the latest
period presented.
35. Adjustments in the current period to amounts previously presented in discontinued operations that are directly
related to the disposal of a discontinued operation in a prior period shall be classified separately in discontinued
operations. The nature and amount of such adjustments shall be disclosed. Examples of circumstances in which these
adjustments may arise include the following:
(a)
the resolution of uncertainties that arise from the terms of the disposal transaction, such as the resolution of purchase
price adjustments and indemnification issues with the purchaser.
(b)
the resolution of uncertainties that arise from and are directly related to the operations of the component before its
disposal, such as environmental and product warranty obligations retained by the seller.
(c)
the settlement of employee benefit plan obligations, provided that the settlement is directly related to the disposal
transaction.
36. If an entity ceases to classify a component of an entity as held for sale, the results of operations of the component
previously presented in discontinued operations in accordance with paragraphs 33-35 shall be reclassified and included
in income from continuing operations for all periods presented. The amounts for prior periods shall be described as
having been re-presented.
36A. An entity that is committed to a sale plan involving loss of control of a subsidiary shall disclose the information
required in paragraphs 33-36 when the subsidiary is a disposal group that meets the definition of a discontinued
operation in accordance with paragraph 32.
Gains or losses relating to continuing operations
37. Any gain or loss on the re-measurement of a non-current asset (or disposal group) classified as held for sale that
does not meet the definition of a discontinued operation shall be included in profit or loss from continuing operations.
Presentation of a non-current asset or disposal group classified as held for sale
38. An entity shall present a non-current asset classified as held for sale and the assets of a disposal group classified as
held for sale separately from other assets in the balance sheet. The liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for
sale shall be presented separately from other liabilities in the balance sheet. Those assets and liabilities shall not be
offset and presented as a single amount. The major classes of assets and liabilities classified as held for sale shall be
separately disclosed either in the balance sheet or in the notes, except as permitted by paragraph 39. An entity shall
present separately any cumulative income or expense recognized in other comprehensive income relating to a
non-current asset (or disposal group) classified as held for sale.
39. If the disposal group is a newly acquired subsidiary that meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale on
Page 106/765
----- PAGE 107 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
acquisition (see paragraph 11), disclosure of the major classes of assets and liabilities is not required.
40. An entity shall not reclassify or re-present amounts presented for non-current assets or for the assets and liabilities
of disposal groups classified as held for sale in the balance sheets for prior periods to reflect the classification in the
balance sheet for the latest period presented.
Additional disclosures
41. An entity shall disclose the following information in the notes in the period in which a non-current asset (or disposal
group) has been either classified as held for sale or sold:
(a)
a description of the non-current asset (or disposal group);
(b)
a description of the facts and circumstances of the sale, or leading to the expected disposal, and the expected manner
and timing of that disposal;
(c)
the gain or loss recognized in accordance with paragraphs 20-22 and, if not separately presented in the statement of
profit and loss, the caption in the statement of profit and loss that includes that gain or loss;
(d)
if applicable, the reportable segment in which the non-current asset (or disposal group) is presented in accordance with
Ind AS 108, Operating Segments.
42. If either paragraph 26 or paragraph 29 applies, an entity shall disclose, in the period of the decision to change the
plan to sell the non-current asset (or disposal group), a description of the facts and circumstances leading to the
decision and the effect of the decision on the results of operations for the period and any prior periods presented.
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an
integral part of the Ind AS.
cash-generating unit
The smallest identifiable group of assets that
generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash
inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
component of an entity
Operations and cash flows that can be clearly
distinguished, operationally and for financial reporting
purposes, from the rest of the entity.
costs to sell
The incremental costs directly attributable to
the disposal of an asset (ordisposal group), excluding
finance costs and income tax expense.
current asset
An entity shall classify an asset as current
when:
(a) it expects to
realise the asset, or intends to sell or consume it, in its
normal operating cycle;
(b) it holds the
asset primarily for the purpose of trading;
(c) it expects to
realise the asset within twelve months after the reporting
period; or
(d) the asset is
cash or a cash equivalent (as defined in Ind AS 7) unless the
asset is restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a
Page 107/765
----- PAGE 108 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period.
discontinued operation
Acomponent of an entitythat either has
been disposed of or is classified as held for sale and:
(a) represents a
separate major line of business or geographical area of
operations,
(b) is part of a
single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of
business or geographical area of operations or
(c) is a subsidiary
acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
disposal group
A group of assets to be disposed of, by sale or
otherwise, together as a group in a single transaction, and
liabilities directly associated with those assets that will be
transferred in the transaction. The group includes goodwill
acquired in a business combination if the group is acash-generating unitto which goodwill has been allocated
in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs 80-87 of Ind AS
36,Impairment of Assets, or if it is an operation within
such a cash-generating unit.
fair value
Fair valueis the price that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date. (See Ind AS 113.)
firm purchase commitment
An agreement with an unrelated party, binding on
both parties and usually legally enforceable, that (a) specifies
all significant terms, including the price and timing of the
transactions, and (b) includes a disincentive for non-performance
that is sufficiently large to make performancehighly
probable.
highly probable
Significantly more likely thanprobable.
non-current asset
An asset that does not meet the definition of acurrent asset.
probable
More likely than not.
recoverable amount
The higher of an asset'sfair valuelesscosts to selland itsvalue in use.
value in use
The present value of estimated future cash flows
expected to arise from the continuing use of an asset and from
its disposal at the end of its useful life.
Appendix B
Application supplement
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Extension of the period required to complete a sale
B1. As noted in paragraph 9, an extension of the period required to complete a sale does not preclude an asset (or
disposal group) from being classified as held for sale if the delay is caused by events or circumstances beyond the
Page 108/765
----- PAGE 109 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
entity's control and there is sufficient evidence that the entity remains committed to its plan to sell the asset (or disposal
group). An exception to the one-year requirement in paragraph 8 shall therefore apply in the following situations in which
such events or circumstances arise:
(a)
at the date an entity commits itself to a plan to sell a non-current asset (or disposal group) it reasonably expects that
others (not a buyer) will impose conditions on the transfer of the asset (or disposal group) that will extend the period
required to complete the sale, and:
(i)
actions necessary to respond to those conditions cannot be initiated until after a firm purchase commitment is obtained,
and
(ii)
a firm purchase commitment is highly probable within one year.
(b)
an entity obtains a firm purchase commitment and, as a result, a buyer or others unexpectedly impose conditions on the
transfer of a non-current asset (or disposal group) previously classified as held for sale that will extend the period
required to complete the sale, and:
(i)
timely actions necessary to respond to the conditions have been taken, and
(ii)
a favourable resolution of the delaying factors is expected.
(c)
during the initial one-year period, circumstances arise that were previously considered unlikely and, as a result, a
non-current asset (or disposal group) previously classified as held for sale is not sold by the end of that period, and:
(i)
during the initial one-year period the entity took action necessary to respond to the change in circumstances,
(ii)
the non-current asset (or disposal group) is being actively marketed at a price that is reasonable, given the change in
circumstances, and
(iii)
the criteria in paragraphs 7 and 8 are met.
Appendix C
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Appendix A, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, contained in Ind AS 10, Events after the Reporting Period.
Appendix 1
Note: This appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 105 and the corresponding International
Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 5, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
1. The transitional provisions given in IFRS 5 have not been given in Ind AS 105, since all transitional provisions related
to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in Ind AS 101, First-time Adoption of Indian
Accounting Standards, corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
2. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'. Words 'approval of
the financial statements for issue' have been used instead of 'authorisation of the financial statements for issue' in the
context of financial statements considered for the purpose of events after the reporting period.
3. Requirements regarding presentation of discontinued operations in the separate income statement, where separate
income statement is presented under paragraph 33A of IFRS 5 have been deleted. This change is consequential to the
removal of option regarding two statement approach in Ind AS 1. Ind AS 1 requires that the components of profit or loss
and components of other comprehensive income shall be presented as a part of the statement of profit and loss.
Page 109/765
----- PAGE 110 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
However, paragraph number 33A has been retained in Ind AS 105 to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of
IFRS 5.
4. Paragraph 5(d) of IFRS 5 deals with non-current assets that are accounted for in accordance with the fair value model
in IAS 40, Investment Property. Since Ind AS 40 prohibits the use of fair value model, this paragraph is deleted in Ind AS
105.
Paragraph 7 prescribes the conditions for classification of a non-current asset (or disposal group) as held for sale. A
clarification has been added in Paragraph 7 that the non-current asset (or disposal group) cannot be classified as held
for sale, if the entity intends to sell it in a distant future.
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 106
Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) is to specify the financial reporting for the exploration for
and evaluation of mineral resources.
2. In particular, the Ind AS requires:
(a)
limited improvements to existing accounting practices for exploration and evaluation expenditures.
(b)
entities that recognise exploration and evaluation assets to assess such assets for impairment in accordance with this
Ind AS and measure any impairment in accordance with Ind AS 36, Impairment of Assets.
(c)
disclosures that identify and explain the amounts in the entity's financial statements arising from the exploration for and
evaluation of mineral resources and help users of those financial statements understand the amount, timing and
certainty of future cash flows from any exploration and evaluation assets recognized.
Scope
3. An entity shall apply this Ind AS to exploration and evaluation expenditures that it incurs.
4. This Ind AS does not address other aspects of accounting by entities engaged in the exploration for and evaluation of
mineral resources.
5. An entity shall not apply this Ind AS to expenditures incurred:
(a)
before the exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources, such as expenditures incurred before the entity has
obtained the legal rights to explore a specific area.
(b)
after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource are demonstrable.
Recognition of Exploration and Evaluation Assets
Temporary exemption from Ind AS 8 paragraphs 11 and 12
6. When developing its accounting policies, an entity recognising exploration and evaluation assets shall apply
paragraph 10 of Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
7. Paragraphs 11 and 12 of Ind AS 8 specify sources of authoritative requirements and guidance that management is
required to consider in developing an accounting policy for an item if no Accounting Standard applies specifically to that
item. Subject to paragraphs 9 and 10 below, this Accounting Standard exempts an entity from applying those
paragraphs to its accounting policies for the recognition and measurement of exploration and evaluation assets.
Measurement of Exploration and Evaluation Assets
Measurement at recognition
8. Exploration and evaluation assets shall be measured at cost.
Elements of cost of exploration and evaluation assets
9. An entity shall determine an accounting policy specifying which expenditures are recognized as exploration and
evaluation assets and apply the policy consistently. In making this determination, an entity considers the degree to
which the expenditure can be associated with finding specific mineral resources. The following are examples of
expenditures that might be included in the initial measurement of exploration and evaluation assets (the list is not
Page 110/765
----- PAGE 111 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
exhaustive):
(a)
acquisition of rights to explore;
(b)
topographical, geological, geochemical and geophysical studies;
(c)
exploratory drilling;
(d)
trenching;
(e)
sampling; and
(f)
activities in relation to evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource.
10. Expenditures related to the development of mineral resources shall not be recognized as exploration and evaluation
assets. The Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements in accordance with Indian
Accounting Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets,
provide guidance on the recognition of assets arising from development.
11. In accordance with Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, an entity recognises any
obligations for removal and restoration that are incurred during a particular period as a consequence of having
undertaken the exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources.
Measurement after recognition
12. After recognition, an entity shall apply either the cost model or the revaluation model to the exploration and
evaluation assets. If the revaluation model is applied (either the model in Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment, or
the model in Ind AS 38) it shall be consistent with the classification of the assets (see paragraph 15).
Changes in accounting policies
13. An entity may change its accounting policies for exploration and evaluation expenditures if the change makes the
financial statements more relevant to the economic decision-making needs of users and no less reliable, or more
reliable and no less relevant to those needs. An entity shall judge relevance and reliability using the criteria in Ind AS 8.
14. To justify changing its accounting policies for exploration and evaluation expenditures, an entity shall demonstrate
that the change brings its financial statements closer to meeting the criteria in Ind AS 8, but the change need not
achieve full compliance with those criteria.
Presentation
Classification of exploration and evaluation assets
15. An entity shall classify exploration and evaluation assets as tangible or intangible according to the nature of the
assets acquired and apply the classification consistently.
16. Some exploration and evaluation assets are treated as intangible (e.g. drilling rights), whereas others are tangible
(e.g. vehicles and drilling rigs). To the extent that a tangible asset is consumed in developing an intangible asset, the
amount reflecting that consumption is part of the cost of the intangible asset. However, using a tangible asset to develop
an intangible asset does not change a tangible asset into an intangible asset.
Reclassification of exploration and evaluation assets
17. An exploration and evaluation asset shall no longer be classified as such when the technical feasibility and
commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource are demonstrable. Exploration and evaluation assets shall be
assessed for impairment, and any impairment loss recognized, before reclassification.
Impairment
Recognition and measurement
18. Exploration and evaluation assets shall be assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the
carrying amount of an exploration and evaluation asset may exceed its recoverable amount. When facts and
circumstances suggest that the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, an entity shall measure, present and
disclose any resulting impairment loss in accordance with Ind AS 36, except as provided by paragraph 21 below.
19. For the purposes of exploration and evaluation assets only, paragraph 20 of this Accounting Standard shall be
applied rather than paragraphs 8-17 of Ind AS 36 when identifying an exploration and evaluation asset that may be
Page 111/765
----- PAGE 112 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
impaired. Paragraph 20 uses the term 'assets' but applies equally to separate exploration and evaluation assets or a
cash-generating unit.
20. One or more of the following facts and circumstances indicate that an entity should test exploration and evaluation
assets for impairment (the list is not exhaustive):
(a)
the period for which the entity has the right to explore in the specific area has expired during the period or will expire in
the near future, and is not expected to be renewed.
(b)
substantive expenditure on further exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources in the specific area is neither
budgeted nor planned.
(c)
exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources in the specific area have not led to the discovery of commercially
viable quantities of mineral resources and the entity has decided to discontinue such activities in the specific area.
(d)
sufficient data exist to indicate that, although a development in the specific area is likely to proceed, the carrying amount
of the exploration and evaluation asset is unlikely to be recovered in full from successful development or by sale.
In any such case, or similar cases, the entity shall perform an impairment test in accordance with Ind AS 36. Any
impairment loss is recognized as an expense in accordance with Ind AS 36.
Specifying the level at which exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment
21. An entity shall determine an accounting policy for allocating exploration and evaluation assets to cash generating
units or groups of cash-generating units for the purpose of assessing such assets for impairment. Each cash-generating
unit or group of units to which an exploration and evaluation asset is allocated shall not be larger than an operating
segment determined in accordance with Ind AS 108,
Operating Segments.
22. The level identified by the entity for the purposes of testing exploration and evaluation assets for impairment may
comprise one or more cash-generating units.
Disclosure
23. An entity shall disclose information that identifies and explains the amounts recognized in its financial statements
arising from the exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources.
24. To comply with paragraph 23, an entity shall disclose:
(a)
its accounting policies for exploration and evaluation expenditures including the recognition of exploration and evaluation
assets.
(b)
the amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expense and operating and investing cash flows arising from the
exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources.
25. An entity shall treat exploration and evaluation assets as a separate class of assets and make the disclosures
required by either Ind AS 16 or Ind AS 38 consistent with how the assets are classified.
Appendix A
Defined Terms
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
exploration and evaluation assets
Exploration and evaluation expendituresrecognized as assets in accordance with the entity's accounting
policy.
exploration and evaluation expenditures
Expenditures incurred by an entity in connection
with theexploration for and evaluation of mineral resourcesbefore the technical feasibility and commercial viability of
extracting a mineral resource are demonstrable.
exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources
The search for mineral resources, including
minerals, oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative resources
Page 112/765
----- PAGE 113 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
after the entity has obtained legal rights to explore in a
specific area, as well as the determination of the technical
feasibility and commercial viability of extracting the mineral
resource.
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 106 and the corresponding International
Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 6, Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources, issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IFRS 6, Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources
1. The transitional provisions given in IFRS 6 have not been given in Ind AS 106, since all transitional provisions related
to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in Ind AS 101, First-time Adoption of Indian
Accounting Standards, corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 107
Financial Instruments: Disclosures
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) is to require entities to provide disclosures in their financial
statements that enable users to evaluate:
(a)
the significance of financial instruments for the entity's financial position and performance; and
(b)
the nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments to which the entity is exposed during the period and at
the end of the reporting period, and how the entity manages those risks.
2. The principles in this Ind AS complement the principles for recognising, measuring and presenting financial assets
and financial liabilities in Ind AS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, and Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments.
Scope
3. This Ind AS shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments, except:
(a)
those interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that are accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 110,
Consolidated Financial Statements, Ind AS 27, Separate Financial Statements or Ind AS 28, Investments in Associates
and Joint Ventures. However, in some cases, Ind AS 110, Ind AS 27 or Ind AS 28 require or permit an entity to account
for an interest in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture using Ind AS 109; in those cases, entities shall apply the
requirements of this Ind AS and, for those measured at fair value, the requirements of Ind AS 113 Fair Value
Measurement. Entities shall also apply this Ind AS to all derivatives linked to interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint
ventures unless the derivative meets the definition of an equity instrument in Ind AS 32.
(b)
employers' rights and obligations arising from employee benefit plans, to which Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits, applies.
(c)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(d)
insurance contracts as defined in Ind AS 104, Insurance Contracts. However, this Ind AS applies to derivatives that are
embedded in insurance contracts if Ind AS 109 requires the entity to account for them separately. Moreover, an issuer
shall apply this Ind AS to financial guarantee contracts if the issuer applies Ind AS 109 in recognising and measuring the
contracts, but shall apply Ind AS 104 if the issuer elects, in accordance with paragraph 4(d) of Ind AS 104, to apply Ind
AS 104 in recognising and measuring them.
(e)
financial instruments, contracts and obligations under share-based payment transactions to which Ind AS 102,
Share-based Payment, applies, except that this Ind AS applies to contracts within the scope of Ind AS 109.
(f)
Page 113/765
----- PAGE 114 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
instruments that are required to be classified as equity instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 16B or
paragraphs 16C and 16D of Ind AS 32.
4. This Ind AS applies to recognized and unrecognized financial instruments. Recognised financial instruments include
financial assets and financial liabilities that are within the scope of Ind AS 109. Unrecognized financial instruments
include some financial instruments that, although outside the scope of Ind AS 109, are within the scope of this Ind AS.
5. This Ind AS applies to contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that are within the scope of Ind AS 109.
5A. [ The credit risk disclosure requirements in paragraphs 35A to 35N apply to those rights that Ind AS 115, Revenue
from Contracts with Customers specifies are accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 109 for the purposes of
recognising impairment gains or losses. Any reference to financial assets or financial instruments in these paragraphs
shall include those rights unless otherwise specified.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Classes of financial instruments and level of disclosure
6. When this Ind AS requires disclosures by class of financial instrument, an entity shall group financial instruments into
classes that are appropriate to the nature of the information disclosed and that take into account the characteristics of
those financial instruments. An entity shall provide sufficient information to permit reconciliation to the line items
presented in the balance sheet.
Significance of financial instruments for financial position and performance
7. An entity shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements to evaluate the significance of
financial instruments for its financial position and performance.
Balance sheet
Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities
8. The carrying amounts of each of the following categories, as specified in Ind AS 109, shall be disclosed either in the
balance sheet or in the notes:
(a)
financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, showing separately (i) those designated as such upon
initial recognition or subsequently in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1 of Ind AS 109 and (ii) those mandatorily measured
at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with Ind AS 109.
(b)
-(d) [Refer Appendix 1]
(e)
financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, showing separately (i) those designated as such upon initial
recognition or subsequently in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1 of Ind AS 109 and (ii) those that meet the definition of
held for trading in Ind AS 109.
(f)
financial assets measured at amortised cost.
(g)
financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(h)
financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, showing separately (i) financial assets that
are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of Ind AS 109;
and (ii) investments in equity instruments designated as such upon initial recognition in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5
of Ind AS 109.
Financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
9. If the entity has designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss a financial asset (or group of financial
assets) that would otherwise be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income or amortised cost, it shall
disclose:
(a)
the maximum exposure to credit risk (see paragraph 36(a)) of the financial asset (or group of financial assets) at the end
of the reporting period.
(b)
the amount by which any related credit derivatives or similar instruments mitigate that maximum exposure to credit risk
Page 114/765
----- PAGE 115 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
[see paragraph 36(b)].
(c)
the amount of change, during the period and cumulatively, in the fair value of the financial asset (or group of financial
assets) that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of the financial asset determined either:
(i)
as the amount of change in its fair value that is not attributable to changes in market conditions that give rise to market
risk; or
(ii)
using an alternative method the entity believes more faithfully represents the amount of change in its fair value that is
attributable to changes in the credit risk of the asset.
Changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk include changes in an observed (benchmark) interest rate,
commodity price, foreign exchange rate or index of prices or rates.
(d)
the amount of the change in the fair value of any related credit derivatives or similar instruments that has occurred
during the period and cumulatively since the financial asset was designated.
10. If the entity has designated a financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph
4.2.2 of Ind AS 109 and is required to present the effects of changes in that liability's credit risk in other comprehensive
income (see paragraph 5.7.7 of Ind AS 109), it shall disclose:
(a)
the amount of change, cumulatively, in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to changes in the credit
risk of that liability (see paragraphs B5.7.13-B5.7.20 of Ind AS 109 for guidance on determining the effects of changes in
a liability's credit risk).
(b)
the difference between the financial liability's carrying amount and the amount the entity would be contractually required
to pay at maturity to the holder of the obligation.
(c)
any transfers of the cumulative gain or loss within equity during the period including the reason for such transfers.
(d)
if a liability is derecognized during the period, the amount (if any) presented in other comprehensive income that was
realised at derecognition.
10A.
If an entity has designated a financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 4.2.2 of
Ind AS 109 and is required to present all changes in the fair value of that liability (including the effects of changes in the
credit risk of the liability) in profit or loss (see paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8 of Ind AS 109), it shall disclose:
(a)
the amount of change, during the period and cumulatively, in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to
changes in the credit risk of that liability (see paragraphs B5.7.13-B5.7.20 of Ind AS 109 for guidance on determining the
effects of changes in a liability's credit risk); and
(b)
the difference between the financial liability's carrying amount and the amount the entity would be contractually required
to pay at maturity to the holder of the obligation.
11. The entity shall also disclose:
(a)
a detailed description of the methods used to comply with the requirements in paragraphs 9(c), 10(a) and 10A(a) and
paragraph 5.7.7(a) of Ind AS 109, including an explanation of why the method is appropriate.
(b)
if the entity believes that the disclosure it has given, either in the balance sheet or in the notes, to comply with the
requirements in paragraph 9(c), 10(a) or 10A(a) or paragraph 5.7.7(a) of Ind AS 109 does not faithfully represent the
change in the fair value of the financial asset or financial liability attributable to changes in its credit risk, the reasons for
reaching this conclusion and the factors it believes are relevant.
(c)
Page 115/765
----- PAGE 116 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
a detailed description of the methodology or methodologies used to determine whether presenting the effects of
changes in a liability's credit risk in other comprehensive income would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in
profit or loss (see paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8 of Ind AS 109). If an entity is required to present the effects of changes in
a liability's credit risk in profit or loss (see paragraph 5.7.8 of Ind AS 109), the disclosure must include a detailed
description of the economic relationship described in paragraph B5.7.6 of Ind AS 109.
Investments in equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensive income
11A.
If an entity has designated investments in equity instruments to be measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income, as permitted by paragraph 5.7.5 of Ind AS 109, it shall disclose:
(a)
which investments in equity instruments have been designated to be measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income.
(b)
the reasons for using this presentation alternative.
(c)
the fair value of each such investment at the end of the reporting period.
(d)
dividends recognized during the period, showing separately those related to investments derecognized during the
reporting period and those related to investments held at the end of the reporting period.
(e)
any transfers of the cumulative gain or loss within equity during the period including the reason for such transfers.
11B.
If an entity derecognized investments in equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
during the reporting period, it shall disclose:
(a)
the reasons for disposing of the investments.
(b)
the fair value of the investments at the date of derecognition.
(c)
the cumulative gain or loss on disposal.
Reclassification
12. [Refer Appendix 1]
12A.
12B.
An entity shall disclose if, in the current or previous reporting periods, it has reclassified any financial assets in
accordance with paragraph 4.4.1 of Ind AS 109. For each such event, an entity shall disclose:
(a)
the date of reclassification.
(b)
a detailed explanation of the change in business model and a qualitative description of its effect on the entity's financial
statements.
(c)
the amount reclassified into and out of each category.
12C.
For each reporting period following reclassification until derecognition, an entity shall disclose for assets reclassified out
of the fair value through profit or loss category so that they are measured at amortised cost or fair value through other
comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.4.1 of Ind AS 109:
(a)
the effective interest rate determined on the date of reclassification; and
(b)
the interest revenue recognized.
Page 116/765
----- PAGE 117 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
12D.
If, since its last annual reporting date, an entity has reclassified financial assets out of the fair value through other
comprehensive income category so that they are measured at amortised cost or out of the fair value through profit or
loss category so that they are measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income it shall
disclose:
(a)
the fair value of the financial assets at the end of the reporting period; and
(b)
the fair value gain or loss that would have been recognized in profit or loss or other comprehensive income during the
reporting period if the financial assets had not been reclassified.
13. [Refer Appendix 1]
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
13A. The disclosures in paragraphs 13B-13E supplement the other disclosure requirements of this Ind AS and are
required for all recognized financial instruments that are set off in accordance with paragraph 42 of Ind AS 32. These
disclosures also apply to recognized financial instruments that are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement
or similar agreement, irrespective of whether they are set off in accordance with paragraph 42 of Ind AS 32.
13B.
An entity shall disclose information to enable users of its financial statements to evaluate the effect or potential effect of
netting arrangements on the entity's financial position. This includes the effect or potential effect of rights of set-off
associated with the entity's recognized financial assets and recognized financial liabilities that are within the scope of
paragraph 13A.
13C.
To meet the objective in paragraph 13B, an entity shall disclose, at the end of the reporting period, the following
quantitative information separately for recognized financial assets and recognized financial liabilities that are within the
scope of paragraph 13A:
(a)
the gross amounts of those recognized financial assets and recognized financial liabilities;
(b)
the amounts that are set-off in accordance with the criteria in paragraph 42 of Ind AS 32 when determining the net
amounts presented in the statement of financial position;
(c)
the net amounts presented in the balance sheet;
(d)
the amounts subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement that are not otherwise included
in paragraph 13C(b), including:
(i)
amounts related to recognized financial instruments that do not meet some or all of the offsetting criteria in paragraph 42
of Ind AS 32; and
(ii)
amounts related to financial collateral (including cash collateral); and
(e)
the net amount after deducting the amounts in (d) from the amounts in (c) above.
The information required by this paragraph shall be presented in a tabular format, separately for financial assets and
financial liabilities, unless another format is more appropriate.
13D.
The total amount disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C(d) for an instrument shall be limited to the amount in
paragraph 13C(c) for that instrument.
13E.
An entity shall include a description in the disclosures of the rights of set-off associated with the entity's recognized
financial assets and recognized financial liabilities subject to enforceable master netting arrangements and similar
agreements that are disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C(d), including the nature of those rights.
Page 117/765
----- PAGE 118 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
13F.
If the information required by paragraphs 13B-13E is disclosed in more than one note to the financial statements, an
entity shall cross-refer between those notes.
Collateral
14. An entity shall disclose:
(a)
the carrying amount of financial assets it has pledged as collateral for liabilities or contingent liabilities, including
amounts that have been reclassified in accordance with paragraph 3.2.23(a) of Ind AS 109; and
(b)
the terms and conditions relating to its pledge.
15. When an entity holds collateral (of financial or non-financial assets) and is permitted to sell or repledge the collateral
in the absence of default by the owner of the collateral, it shall disclose:
(a)
the fair value of the collateral held;
(b)
the fair value of any such collateral sold or repledged, and whether the entity has an obligation to return it; and
(c)
the terms and conditions associated with its use of the collateral.
Allowance account for credit losses
16. [Refer Appendix 1]
16A.
The carrying amount of financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with
paragraph 4.1.2A of Ind AS 109 is not reduced by a loss allowance and an entity shall not present the loss allowance
separately in the balance sheet as a reduction of the carrying amount of the financial asset. However, an entity shall
disclose the loss allowance in the notes to the financial statements.
Compound financial instruments with multiple embedded derivatives
17. If an entity has issued an instrument that contains both a liability and an equity component (see paragraph 28 of Ind
AS 32) and the instrument has multiple embedded derivatives whose values are interdependent (such as a callable
convertible debt instrument), it shall disclose the existence of those features.
Defaults and breaches
18. For loans payable recognized at the end of the reporting period, an entity shall disclose:
(a)
details of any defaults during the period of principal, interest, sinking fund, or redemption terms of those loans payable;
(b)
the carrying amount of the loans payable in default at the end of the reporting period; and
(c)
whether the default was remedied, or the terms of the loans payable were renegotiated, before the financial statements
were approved for issue.
19. If, during the period, there were breaches of loan agreement terms other than those described in paragraph 18, an
entity shall disclose the same information as required by paragraph 18 if those breaches permitted the lender to demand
accelerated repayment (unless the breaches were remedied, or the terms of the loan were renegotiated, on or before
the end of the reporting period).
Statement of profit and loss
Items of income, expense, gains or losses
20. An entity shall disclose the following items of income, expense, gains or losses either in the statement of profit and
loss or in the notes:
(a)
net gains or net losses on:
(i)
financial assets or financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, showing separately those on financial
assets or financial liabilities designated as such upon initial recognition or subsequently in accordance with paragraph
Page 118/765
----- PAGE 119 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
6.7.1 of Ind AS 109, and those on financial assets or financial liabilities that are mandatorily measured at fair value
through profit or loss in accordance with Ind AS 109 (e.g. financial liabilities that meet the definition of held for trading in
Ind AS 109). For financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss, an entity shall show separately the
amount of gain or loss recognized in other comprehensive income and the amount recognized in profit or loss.
(ii)
-(iv) [Refer Appendix 1]
(v)
financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(vi)
financial assets measured at amortised cost.
(vii)
investments in equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with
paragraph 5.7.5 of Ind AS 109.
(viii)
financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of Ind
AS 109, showing separately the amount of gain or loss recognized in other comprehensive income during the period and
the amount reclassified upon derecognition from accumulated other comprehensive income to profit or loss for the
period.
(b)
total interest revenue and total interest expense (calculated using the effective interest method) for financial assets that
are measured at amortised cost or that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance
with paragraph 4.1.2A of Ind AS 109 (showing these amounts separately); or financial liabilities that are not measured at
fair value through profit or loss.
(c)
fee income and expense (other than amounts included in determining the effective interest rate) arising from:
(i)
financial assets and financial liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss; and
(ii)
trust and other fiduciary activities that result in the holding or investing of assets on behalf of individuals, trusts,
retirement benefit plans, and other institutions.
(d)
-(e) [Refer Appendix 1]
20A.
An entity shall disclose an analysis of the gain or loss recognized in the statement of profit and loss arising from the
derecognition of financial assets measured at amortised cost, showing separately gains and losses arising from
derecognition of those financial assets. This disclosure shall include the reasons for derecognising those financial
assets.
Other disclosures
Accounting policies
21. [ In accordance with paragraph 117 of Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, an entity discloses its
significant accounting policies, comprising the measurement basis (or bases) used in preparing the financial statements
and the other accounting policies used that are relevant to an understanding of the financial statements.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Hedge accounting
21A. An entity shall apply the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 21B-24F for those risk exposures that an entity
hedges and for which it elects to apply hedge accounting. Hedge accounting disclosures shall provide information about:
(a)
an entity's risk management strategy and how it is applied to manage risk;
(b)
how the entity's hedging activities may affect the amount, timing and uncertainty of its future cash flows; and
(c)
Page 119/765
----- PAGE 120 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the effect that hedge accounting has had on the entity's balance sheet, statement of profit and loss and statement of
changes in equity.
21B.
An entity shall present the required disclosures in a single note or separate section in its financial statements. However,
an entity need not duplicate information that is already presented elsewhere, provided that the information is
incorporated by cross-reference from the financial statements to some other statement, such as a management
commentary or risk report, that is available to users of the financial statements on the same terms as the financial
statements and at the same time. Without the information incorporated by cross-reference, the financial statements are
incomplete.
21C.
When paragraphs 22A-24F require the entity to separate by risk category the information disclosed, the entity shall
determine each risk category on the basis of the risk exposures an entity decides to hedge and for which hedge
accounting is applied. An entity shall determine risk categories consistently for all hedge accounting disclosures.
21D.
To meet the objectives in paragraph 21A, an entity shall (except as otherwise specified below) determine how much
detail to disclose, how much emphasis to place on different aspects of the disclosure requirements, the appropriate level
of aggregation or disaggregation, and whether users of financial statements need additional explanations to evaluate the
quantitative information disclosed. However, an entity shall use the same level of aggregation or disaggregation it uses
for disclosure requirements of related information in this Ind AS and Ind AS 113, Fair Value Measurement.
The risk management strategy
22. [Refer Appendix 1]
22A.
An entity shall explain its risk management strategy for each risk category of risk exposures that it decides to hedge and
for which hedge accounting is applied. This explanation should enable users of financial statements to evaluate (for
example):
(a)
how each risk arises.
(b)
how the entity manages each risk; this includes whether the entity hedges an item in its entirety for all risks or hedges a
risk component (or components) of an item and why.
(c)
the extent of risk exposures that the entity manages.
22B.
To meet the requirements in paragraph 22A, the information should include (but is not limited to) a description of:
(a)
the hedging instruments that are used (and how they are used) to hedge risk exposures;
(b)
how the entity determines the economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument for the
purpose of assessing hedge effectiveness; and
(c)
how the entity establishes the hedge ratio and what the sources of hedge ineffectiveness are.
22C.
When an entity designates a specific risk component as a hedged item (see paragraph 6.3.7 of Ind AS 109) it shall
provide, in addition to the disclosures required by paragraphs 22A and 22B, qualitative or quantitative information about:
(a)
how the entity determined the risk component that is designated as the hedged item (including a description of the
nature of the relationship between the risk component and the item as a whole); and
(b)
how the risk component relates to the item in its entirety (for example, the designated risk component historically
covered on average 80 per cent of the changes in fair value of the item as a whole).
The amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows
Page 120/765
----- PAGE 121 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
23. [Refer Appendix 1]
23A. Unless exempted by paragraph 23C, an entity shall disclose by risk category quantitative information to allow users
of its financial statements to evaluate the terms and conditions of hedging instruments and how they affect the amount,
timing and uncertainty of future cash flows of the entity.
23B. To meet the requirement in paragraph 23A, an entity shall provide a breakdown that discloses:
(a)
a profile of the timing of the nominal amount of the hedging instrument; and
(b)
if applicable, the average price or rate (for example strike or forward prices etc.) of the hedging instrument.
23C.
In situations in which an entity frequently resets (i.e. discontinues and restarts) hedging relationships because both the
hedging instrument and the hedged item frequently change (i.e. the entity uses a dynamic process in which both the
exposure and the hedging instruments used to manage that exposure do not remain the same for long-such as in the
example in paragraph B6.5.24(b) of Ind AS 109) the entity:
(a)
is exempt from providing the disclosures required by paragraphs 23A and 23B.
(b)
shall disclose:
(i)
information about what the ultimate risk management strategy is in relation to those hedging relationships;
(ii)
a description of how it reflects its risk management strategy by using hedge accounting and designating those particular
hedging relationships; and
(iii)
an indication of how frequently the hedging relationships are discontinued and restarted as part of the entity's process in
relation to those hedging relationships.
23D.
An entity shall disclose by risk category a description of the sources of hedge ineffectiveness that are expected to affect
the hedging relationship during its term.
23E.
If other sources of hedge ineffectiveness emerge in a hedging relationship, an entity shall disclose those sources by risk
category and explain the resulting hedge ineffectiveness.
23F.
For cash flow hedges, an entity shall disclose a description of any forecast transaction for which hedge accounting had
been used in the previous period, but which is no longer expected to occur.
The effects of hedge accounting on financial position and performance
24. [Refer Appendix 1]
24A.
An entity shall disclose, in a tabular format, the following amounts related to items designated as hedging instruments
separately by risk category for each type of hedge (fair value hedge, cash flow hedge or hedge of a net investment in a
foreign operation):
(a)
the carrying amount of the hedging instruments (financial assets separately from financial liabilities);
(b)
the line item in the balance sheet that includes the hedging instrument;
(c)
the change in fair value of the hedging instrument used as the basis for recognising hedge ineffectiveness for the period;
and
(d)
the nominal amounts (including quantities such as tonnes or cubic metres) of the hedging instruments.
24B.
Page 121/765
----- PAGE 122 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
An entity shall disclose, in a tabular format, the following amounts related to hedged items separately by risk category
for the types of hedges as follows:
(a)
for fair value hedges:
(i)
the carrying amount of the hedged item recognized in the balance sheet (presenting assets separately from liabilities);
(ii)
the accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments on the hedged item included in the carrying amount of the
hedged item recognized in the balance sheet (presenting assets separately from liabilities);
(iii)
the line item in the balance sheet that includes the hedged item;
(iv)
the change in value of the hedged item used as the basis for recognising hedge ineffectiveness for the period; and
(v)
the accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments remaining in the balance sheet for any hedged items that have
ceased to be adjusted for hedging gains and losses in accordance with paragraph 6.5.10 of Ind AS 109.
(b)
for cash flow hedges and hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation:
(i)
the change in value of the hedged item used as the basis for recognising hedge ineffectiveness for the period (i.e. for
cash flow hedges the change in value used to determine the recognized hedge ineffectiveness in accordance with
paragraph 6.5.11(c) of Ind AS 109);
(ii)
the balances in the cash flow hedge reserve and the foreign currency translation reserve for continuing hedges that are
accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 6.5.11 and 6.5.13(a) of Ind AS 109; and
(iii)
the balances remaining in the cash flow hedge reserve and the foreign currency translation reserve from any hedging
relationships for which hedge accounting is no longer applied.
24C.
An entity shall disclose, in a tabular format, the following amounts separately by risk category for the types of hedges as
follows:
(a)
for fair value hedges:
(i)
hedge ineffectiveness-i.e. the difference between the hedging gains or losses of the hedging instrument and the hedged
item-recognized in profit or loss (or other comprehensive income for hedges of an equity instrument for which an entity
has elected to present changes in fair value in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of Ind
AS 109); and
(ii)
the line item in the statement of profit and loss that includes the recognized hedge ineffectiveness.
(b)
for cash flow hedges and hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation:
(i)
hedging gains or losses of the reporting period that were recognized in other comprehensive income;
(ii)
hedge ineffectiveness recognized in profit or loss;
(iii)
the line item in the statement of profit and loss that includes the recognized hedge ineffectiveness;
(iv)
the amount reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve or the foreign currency translation reserve into profit or loss as
a reclassification adjustment (see Ind AS 1) (differentiating between amounts for which hedge accounting had previously
Page 122/765
----- PAGE 123 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
been used, but for which the hedged future cash flows are no longer expected to occur, and amounts that have been
transferred because the hedged item has affected profit or loss);
(v)
the line item in the statement of profit and loss that includes the reclassification adjustment (see Ind AS 1); and
(vi)
for hedges of net positions, the hedging gains or losses recognized in a separate line item in the statement of profit and
loss (see paragraph 6.6.4 of Ind AS 109).
24D.
When the volume of hedging relationships to which the exemption in paragraph 23C applies is unrepresentative of
normal volumes during the period (i.e. the volume at the reporting date does not reflect the volumes during the period)
an entity shall disclose that fact and the reason it believes the volumes are unrepresentative.
24E.
An entity shall provide a reconciliation of each component of equity and an analysis of other comprehensive income in
accordance with Ind AS 1 that, taken together:
(a)
differentiates, at a minimum, between the amounts that relate to the disclosures in paragraph 24C(b)(i) and (b)(iv) as
well as the amounts accounted for in accordance with paragraph 6.5.11(d)(i) and (d)(iii) of Ind AS 109;
(b)
differentiates between the amounts associated with the time value of options that hedge transaction related hedged
items and the amounts associated with the time value of options that hedge time-period related hedged items when an
entity accounts for the time value of an option in accordance with paragraph 6.5.15 of Ind AS 109; and
(c)
differentiates between the amounts associated with forward elements of forward contracts and the foreign currency
basis spreads of financial instruments that hedge transaction related hedged items, and the amounts associated with
forward elements of forward contracts and the foreign currency basis spreads of financial instruments that hedge
time-period related hedged items when an entity accounts for those amounts in accordance with paragraph 6.5.16 of Ind
AS 109.
24F.
An entity shall disclose the information required in paragraph 24E separately by risk category. This disaggregation by
risk may be provided in the notes to the financial statements.
Option to designate a credit exposure as measured at fair value through profit or loss
24G.
If an entity designated a financial instrument, or a proportion of it, as measured at fair value through profit or loss
because it uses a credit derivative to manage the credit risk of that financial instrument it shall disclose:
(a)
for credit derivatives that have been used to manage the credit risk of financial instruments designated as measured at
fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1 of Ind AS 109, a reconciliation of each of the nominal
amount and the fair value at the beginning and at the end of the period;
(b)
the gain or loss recognized in profit or loss on designation of a financial instrument, or a proportion of it, as measured at
fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1 of Ind AS 109; and
(c)
on discontinuation of measuring a financial instrument, or a proportion of it, at fair value through profit or loss, that
financial instrument's fair value that has become the new carrying amount in accordance with paragraph 6.7.4(b) of Ind
AS 109 and the related nominal or principal amount (except for providing comparative information in accordance with
Ind AS 1, an entity does not need to continue this disclosure in subsequent periods).
Fair value
25. Except as set out in paragraph 29, for each class of financial assets and financial liabilities (see paragraph 6), an
entity shall disclose the fair value of that class of assets and liabilities in a way that permits it to be compared with its
carrying amount.
26. In disclosing fair values, an entity shall group financial assets and financial liabilities into classes, but shall offset
Page 123/765
----- PAGE 124 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
them only to the extent that their carrying amounts are offset in the balance sheet.
27. [Refer Appendix 1]
27B.
28. In some cases, an entity does not recognise a gain or loss on initial recognition of a financial asset or financial
liability because the fair value is neither evidenced by a quoted price in an active market for an identical asset or liability
(i.e. a Level 1 input) nor based on a valuation technique that uses only data from observable markets (see paragraph
B5.1.2A of Ind AS 109). In such cases, the entity shall disclose by class of financial asset or financial liability:
(a)
its accounting policy for recognising in profit or loss the difference between the fair value at initial recognition and the
transaction price to reflect a change in factors (including time) that market participants would take into account when
pricing the asset or liability (see paragraph B5.1.2A(b) of Ind AS 109).
(b)
the aggregate difference yet to be recognized in profit or loss at the beginning and end of the period and a reconciliation
of changes in the balance of this difference.
(c)
why the entity concluded that the transaction price was not the best evidence of fair value, including a description of the
evidence that supports the fair value.
29. Disclosures of fair value are not required:
(a)
when the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value, for example, for financial instruments such as
short-term trade receivables and payables;
(b)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(c)
[ for a contract containing a discretionary participation feature (as described in Ind AS 104) if the fair value of that feature
cannot be measured reliably; or
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(d)
for lease liabilities]
30. In the case described in paragraph 29(c), an entity shall disclose information to help users of the financial
statements make their own judgements about the extent of possible differences between the carrying amount of those
contracts and their fair value, including:
(a)
the fact that fair value information has not been disclosed for these instruments because their fair value cannot be
measured reliably;
(b)
a description of the financial instruments, their carrying amount, and an explanation of why fair value cannot be
measured reliably;
(c)
information about the market for the instruments;
(d)
information about whether and how the entity intends to dispose of the financial instruments; and
(e)
if financial instruments whose fair value previously could not be reliably measured are derecognized, that fact, their
carrying amount at the time of derecognition, and the amount of gain or loss recognized.
Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments
31. An entity shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements to evaluate the nature and extent of
risks arising from financial instruments to which the entity is exposed at the end of the reporting period.
32. The disclosures required by paragraphs 33-42 focus on the risks that arise from financial instruments and how they
have been managed. These risks typically include, but are not limited to, credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
32A.
Page 124/765
----- PAGE 125 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Providing qualitative disclosures in the context of quantitative disclosures enables users to link related disclosures and
hence form an overall picture of the nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments. The interaction
between qualitative and quantitative disclosures contributes to disclosure of information in a way that better enables
users to evaluate an entity's exposure to risks.
Qualitative disclosures
33. For each type of risk arising from financial instruments, an entity shall disclose:
(a)
the exposures to risk and how they arise;
(b)
its objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk and the methods used to measure the risk; and
(c)
any changes in (a) or (b) from the previous period.
Quantitative disclosures
34. For each type of risk arising from financial instruments, an entity shall disclose:
(a)
summary quantitative data about its exposure to that risk at the end of the reporting period. This disclosure shall be
based on the information provided internally to key management personnel of the entity (as defined in Ind AS 24,
Related Party Disclosures), for example the entity's board of directors or chief executive officer.
(b)
the disclosures required by paragraphs 36-42, to the extent not provided in accordance with (a).
(c)
concentrations of risk if not apparent from the disclosures made in accordance with (a) and (b).
35. If the quantitative data disclosed as at the end of the reporting period are unrepresentative of an entity's exposure to
risk during the period, an entity shall provide further information that is representative.
Credit risk
Scope and objectives
35A.
An entity shall apply the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 35F-35N to financial instruments to which the
impairment requirements in Ind AS 109 are applied. However:
(a)
for trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables, paragraph 35J applies to those trade receivables, contract
assets or lease receivables on which lifetime expected credit losses are recognized in accordance with paragraph 5.5.15
of Ind AS 109, if those financial assets are modified while more than 30 days past due; and
(b)
paragraph 35K(b) does not apply to lease receivables.
35B.
The credit risk disclosures made in accordance with paragraphs 35F-35N shall enable users of financial statements to
understand the effect of credit risk on the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows. To achieve this objective,
credit risk disclosures shall provide:
(a)
information about an entity's credit risk management practices and how they relate to the recognition and measurement
of expected credit losses, including the methods, assumptions and information used to measure expected credit losses;
(b)
quantitative and qualitative information that allows users of financial statements to evaluate the amounts in the financial
statements arising from expected credit losses, including changes in the amount of expected credit losses and the
reasons for those changes; and
(c)
information about an entity's credit risk exposure (i.e. the credit risk inherent in an entity's financial assets and
commitments to extend credit) including significant credit risk concentrations.
35C.
An entity need not duplicate information that is already presented elsewhere, provided that the information is
Page 125/765
----- PAGE 126 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
incorporated by cross-reference from the financial statements to other statements, such as a management commentary
or risk report that is available to users of the financial statements on the same terms as the financial statements and at
the same time. Without the information incorporated by cross-reference, the financial statements are incomplete.
35D.
To meet the objectives in paragraph 35B, an entity shall (except as otherwise specified) consider how much detail to
disclose, how much emphasis to place on different aspects of the disclosure requirements, the appropriate level of
aggregation or disaggregation, and whether users of financial statements need additional explanations to evaluate the
quantitative information disclosed.
35E.
If the disclosures provided in accordance with paragraphs 35F-35N are insufficient to meet the objectives in paragraph
35B, an entity shall disclose additional information that is necessary to meet those objectives.
The credit risk management practices.
35F.
An entity shall explain its credit risk management practices and how they relate to the recognition and measurement of
expected credit losses. To meet this objective an entity shall disclose information that enables users of financial
statements to understand and evaluate:
(a)
how an entity determined whether the credit risk of financial instruments has increased significantly since initial
recognition, including, if and how:
(i)
financial instruments are considered to have low credit risk in accordance with paragraph 5.5.10 of Ind AS 109, including
the classes of financial instruments to which it applies; and
(ii)
the presumption in paragraph 5.5.11 of Ind AS 109, that there have been significant increases in credit risk since initial
recognition when financial assets are more than 30 days past due, has been rebutted;
(b)
an entity's definitions of default, including the reasons for selecting those definitions;
(c)
how the instruments were grouped if expected credit losses were measured on a collective basis;
(d)
how an entity determined that financial assets are credit-impaired financial assets;
(e)
an entity's write-off policy, including the indicators that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery and information
about the policy for financial assets that are written-off but are still subject to enforcement activity; and
(f)
how the requirements in paragraph 5.5.12 of Ind AS 109 for the modification of contractual cash flows of financial assets
have been applied, including how an entity:
(i)
determines whether the credit risk on a financial asset that has been modified while the loss allowance was measured at
an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses, has improved to the extent that the loss allowance reverts to being
measured at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses in accordance with paragraph 5.5.5 of Ind AS 109;
and
(ii)
monitors the extent to which the loss allowance on financial assets meeting the criteria in (i) is subsequently remeasured
at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses in accordance with paragraph 5.5.3 of Ind AS 109.
35G.
An entity shall explain the inputs, assumptions and estimation techniques used to apply the requirements in Section 5.5
of Ind AS 109. For this purpose an entity shall disclose:
(a)
the basis of inputs and assumptions and the estimation techniques used to:
(i)
Page 126/765
----- PAGE 127 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
measure the 12-month and lifetime expected credit losses;
(ii)
determine whether the credit risk of financial instruments have increased significantly since initial recognition; and
(iii)
determine whether a financial asset is a credit-impaired financial asset.
(b)
how forward-looking information has been incorporated into the determination of expected credit losses, including the
use of macroeconomic information; and
(c)
changes in the estimation techniques or significant assumptions made during the reporting period and the reasons for
those changes.
Quantitative and qualitative information about amounts arising from expected credit losses
35H.
To explain the changes in the loss allowance and the reasons for those changes, an entity shall provide, by class of
financial instrument, a reconciliation from the opening balance to the closing balance of the loss allowance, in a table,
showing separately the changes during the period for:
(a)
the loss allowance measured at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses;
(b)
the loss allowance measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses for:
(i)
financial instruments for which credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition but that are not
credit-impaired financial assets;
(ii)
financial assets that are credit-impaired at the reporting date (but that are not purchased or originated credit-impaired);
and
(iii)
trade receivables, contract assets or lease receivables for which the loss allowances are measured in accordance with
paragraph 5.5.15 of Ind AS 109.
(c)
financial assets that are purchased or originated credit-impaired. In addition to the reconciliation, an entity shall disclose
the total amount of undiscounted expected credit losses at initial recognition on financial assets initially recognized
during the reporting period.
35I.
To enable users of financial statements to understand the changes in the loss allowance disclosed in accordance with
paragraph 35H, an entity shall provide an explanation of how significant changes in the gross carrying amount of
financial instruments during the period contributed to changes in the loss allowance. The information shall be provided
separately for financial instruments that represent the loss allowance as listed in paragraph 35H(a)-(c) and shall include
relevant qualitative and quantitative information. Examples of changes in the gross carrying amount of financial
instruments that contributed to the changes in the loss allowance may include:
(a)
changes because of financial instruments originated or acquired during the reporting period;
(b)
the modification of contractual cash flows on financial assets that do not result in a derecognition of those financial
assets in accordance with Ind AS 109;
(c)
changes because of financial instruments that were derecognized (including those that were written-off) during the
reporting period; and
(d)
changes arising from whether the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month or lifetime expected
credit losses.
Page 127/765
----- PAGE 128 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
35J.
To enable users of financial statements to understand the nature and effect of modifications of contractual cash flows on
financial assets that have not resulted in derecognition and the effect of such modifications on the measurement of
expected credit losses, an entity shall disclose:
(a)
the amortised cost before the modification and the net modification gain or loss recognized for financial assets for which
the contractual cash flows have been modified during the reporting period while they had a loss allowance measured at
an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses; and
(b)
the gross carrying amount at the end of the reporting period of financial assets that have been modified since initial
recognition at a time when the loss allowance was measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses and
for which the loss allowance has changed during the reporting period to an amount equal to 12-month expected credit
losses.
35K.
To enable users of financial statements to understand the effect of collateral and other credit enhancements on the
amounts arising from expected credit losses, an entity shall disclose by class of financial instrument:
(a)
the amount that best represents its maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period without taking
account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements (e.g. netting agreements that do not qualify for offset in
accordance with Ind AS 32).
(b)
a narrative description of collateral held as security and other credit enhancements, including:
(i)
a description of the nature and quality of the collateral held;
(ii)
an explanation of any significant changes in the quality of that collateral or credit enhancements as a result of
deterioration or changes in the collateral policies of the entity during the reporting period; and
(iii)
information about financial instruments for which an entity has not recognized a loss allowance because of the collateral.
(c)
quantitative information about the collateral held as security and other credit enhancements (for example, quantification
of the extent to which collateral and other credit enhancements mitigate credit risk) for financial assets that are
credit-impaired at the reporting date.
35L.
An entity shall disclose the contractual amount outstanding on financial assets that were written off during the reporting
period and are still subject to enforcement activity.
Credit risk exposure
35M.
To enable users of financial statements to assess an entity's credit risk exposure and understand its significant credit
risk concentrations, an entity shall disclose, by credit risk rating grades, the gross carrying amount of financial assets
and the exposure to credit risk on loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts. This information shall be
provided separately for financial instruments:
(a)
for which the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses;
(b)
for which the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses and that are:
(i)
financial instruments for which credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition but that are not
credit-impaired financial assets;
(ii)
financial assets that are credit-impaired at the reporting date (but that are not purchased or originated credit-impaired);
Page 128/765
----- PAGE 129 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
and
(iii)
trade receivables, contract assets or lease receivables for which the loss allowances are measured in accordance with
paragraph 5.5.15 of Ind AS 109.
(c)
that are purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets.
35N.
For trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables to which an entity applies paragraph 5.5.15 of Ind AS 109,
the information provided in accordance with paragraph 35M may be based on a provision matrix (see paragraph B5.5.35
of Ind AS 109).
36. For all financial instruments within the scope of this Ind AS, but to which the impairment requirements in Ind AS 109
are not applied, an entity shall disclose by class of financial instrument:
(a)
the amount that best represents its maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period without taking
account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements (e.g. netting agreements that do not qualify for offset in
accordance with Ind AS 32); this disclosure is not required for financial instruments whose carrying amount best
represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
(b)
a description of collateral held as security and other credit enhancements, and their financial effect (e.g. quantification of
the extent to which collateral and other credit enhancements mitigate credit risk) in respect of the amount that best
represents the maximum exposure to credit risk (whether disclosed in accordance with (a) or represented by the
carrying amount of a financial instrument).
(c)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(d)
[Refer Appendix 1]
Financial assets that are either past due or impaired
[Refer Appendix 1].
Collateral and other credit enhancements obtained
38. When an entity obtains financial or non-financial assets during the period by taking possession of collateral it holds
as security or calling on other credit enhancements (e.g. guarantees), and such assets meet the recognition criteria in
other Ind AS, an entity shall disclose for such assets held at the reporting date:
(a)
the nature and carrying amount of the assets; and
(b)
when the assets are not readily convertible into cash, its policies for disposing of such assets or for using them in its
operations.
Liquidity risk
39. An entity shall disclose:
(a)
a maturity analysis for non-derivative financial liabilities (including issued financial guarantee contracts) that shows the
remaining contractual maturities.
(b)
a maturity analysis for derivative financial liabilities. The maturity analysis shall include the remaining contractual
maturities for those derivative financial liabilities for which contractual maturities are essential for an understanding of
the timing of the cash flows (see paragraph B11B).
(c)
a description of how it manages the liquidity risk inherent in (a) and (b).
Market risk
Sensitivity analysis
40. Unless an entity complies with paragraph 41, it shall disclose:
Page 129/765
----- PAGE 130 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
a sensitivity analysis for each type of market risk to which the entity is exposed at the end of the reporting period,
showing how profit or loss and equity would have been affected by changes in the relevant risk variable that were
reasonably possible at that date;
(b)
the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis; and
(c)
changes from the previous period in the methods and assumptions used, and the reasons for such changes.
41. If an entity prepares a sensitivity analysis, such as value-at-risk, that reflects inter-dependencies between risk
variables (e.g. interest rates and exchange rates) and uses it to manage financial risks, it may use that sensitivity
analysis in place of the analysis specified in paragraph 40. The entity shall also disclose:
(a)
an explanation of the method used in preparing such a sensitivity analysis, and of the main parameters and assumptions
underlying the data provided; and
(b)
an explanation of the objective of the method used and of limitations that may result in the information not fully reflecting
the fair value of the assets and liabilities involved.
Other market risk disclosures
42. When the sensitivity analyses disclosed in accordance with paragraph 40 or 41 are unrepresentative of a risk
inherent in a financial instrument (for example because the year-end exposure does not reflect the exposure during the
year), the entity shall disclose that fact and the reason it believes the sensitivity analyses are unrepresentative.
Transfers of financial assets
42A. The disclosure requirements in paragraphs 42B-42H relating to transfers of financial assets supplement the other
disclosure requirements of this Ind AS. An entity shall present the disclosures required by paragraphs 42B-42H in a
single note in its financial statements. An entity shall provide the required disclosures for all transferred financial assets
that are not derecognized and for any continuing involvement in a transferred asset, existing at the reporting date,
irrespective of when the related transfer transaction occurred. For the purposes of applying the disclosure requirements
in those paragraphs, an entity transfers all or a part of a financial asset (the transferred financial asset) if, and only if, it
either:
(a)
transfers the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of that financial asset; or
(b)
retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of that financial asset, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay
the cash flows to one or more recipients in an arrangement.
42B.
An entity shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements:
(a)
to understand the relationship between transferred financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety and the
associated liabilities; and
(b)
to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, the entity's continuing involvement in derecognized financial assets.
42C.
For the purposes of applying the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 42E-42H, an entity has continuing involvement
in a transferred financial asset if, as part of the transfer, the entity retains any of the contractual rights or obligations
inherent in the transferred financial asset or obtains any new contractual rights or obligations relating to the transferred
financial asset. For the purposes of applying the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 42E-42H, the following do not
constitute continuing involvement:
(a)
normal representations and warranties relating to fraudulent transfer and concepts of reasonableness, good faith and
fair dealings that could invalidate a transfer as a result of legal action;
(b)
Page 130/765
----- PAGE 131 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
forward, option and other contracts to reacquire the transferred financial asset for which the contract price (or exercise
price) is the fair value of the transferred financial asset; or
(c)
an arrangement whereby an entity retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of a financial asset but
assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more entities and the conditions in paragraph
3.2.5(a)-(c) of Ind AS 109 are met.
Transferred financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety
42D.
An entity may have transferred financial assets in such a way that part or all of the transferred financial assets do not
qualify for derecognition. To meet the objectives set out in paragraph 42B(a), the entity shall disclose at each reporting
date for each class of transferred financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety:
(a)
the nature of the transferred assets.
(b)
the nature of the risks and rewards of ownership to which the entity is exposed.
(c)
a description of the nature of the relationship between the transferred assets and the associated liabilities, including
restrictions arising from the transfer on the reporting entity's use of the transferred assets.
(d)
when the counter-party (counter-parties) to the associated liabilities has (have) recourse only to the transferred assets, a
schedule that sets out the fair value of the transferred assets, the fair value of the associated liabilities and the net
position (the difference between the fair value of the transferred assets and the associated liabilities).
(e)
when the entity continues to recognise all of the transferred assets, the carrying amounts of the transferred assets and
the associated liabilities.
(f)
when the entity continues to recognise the assets to the extent of its continuing involvement (see paragraphs 3.2.6(c)(ii)
and 3.2.16 of Ind AS 109), the total carrying amount of the original assets before the transfer, the carrying amount of the
assets that the entity continues to recognise, and the carrying amount of the associated liabilities.
Transferred financial assets that are derecognized in their entirety
42E.
To meet the objectives set out in paragraph 42B(b), when an entity derecognizes transferred financial assets in their
entirety (see paragraph 3.2.6(a) and (c)(i) of Ind AS 109) but has continuing involvement in them, the entity shall
disclose, as a minimum, for each type of continuing involvement at each reporting date:
(a)
the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities that are recognized in the entity's balance sheet and represent the
entity's continuing involvement in the derecognized financial assets, and the line items in which the carrying amount of
those assets and liabilities are recognized.
(b)
the fair value of the assets and liabilities that represent the entity's continuing involvement in the derecognized financial
assets.
(c)
the amount that best represents the entity's maximum exposure to loss from its continuing involvement in the
derecognized financial assets, and information showing how the maximum exposure to loss is determined.
(d)
the undiscounted cash outflows that would or may be required to repurchase derecognized financial assets (e.g. the
strike price in an option agreement) or other amounts payable to the transferee in respect of the transferred assets. If
the cash outflow is variable then the amount disclosed should be based on the conditions that exist at each reporting
date.
(e)
a maturity analysis of the undiscounted cash outflows that would or may be required to repurchase the derecognized
Page 131/765
----- PAGE 132 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
financial assets or other amounts payable to the transferee in respect of the transferred assets, showing the remaining
contractual maturities of the entity's continuing involvement.
(f)
qualitative information that explains and supports the quantitative disclosures required in (a)-(e).
42F.
An entity may aggregate the information required by paragraph 42E in respect of a particular asset if the entity has more
than one type of continuing involvement in that derecognized financial asset, and report it under one type of continuing
involvement.
42G.
In addition, an entity shall disclose for each type of continuing involvement:
(a)
the gain or loss recognized at the date of transfer of the assets.
(b)
income and expenses recognized, both in the reporting period and cumulatively, from the entity's continuing involvement
in the derecognized financial assets (e.g. fair value changes in derivative instruments).
(c)
if the total amount of proceeds from transfer activity (that qualifies for derecognition) in a reporting period is not evenly
distributed throughout the reporting period (e.g. if a substantial proportion of the total amount of transfer activity takes
place in the closing days of a reporting period):
(i)
when the greatest transfer activity took place within that reporting period (e.g. the last five days before the end of the
reporting period),
(ii)
the amount (e.g. related gains or losses) recognized from transfer activity in that part of the reporting period, and
(iii)
the total amount of proceeds from transfer activity in that part of the reporting period.
An entity shall provide this information for each period for which a statement of profit and loss is presented.
Supplementary information
42H.
An entity shall disclose any additional information that it considers necessary to meet the disclosure objectives in
paragraph 42B.
[42 I-42S Omitted *
Effective date and transition
43.
-44BB Omitted*
44CC.
Ind AS 116 amended paragraphs 29 and B11D. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 116.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
* Refer Appendix 1
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an integral
part of the Ind AS.
credit risk
The risk that one party to a financial
instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party by
failing to discharge an obligation.
credit risk rating grades
credit riskRating of credit risk based
on the risk of a default occurringrating gradeson the
financial instrument.
Page 132/765
----- PAGE 133 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
currency risk
The risk that the fair value or future cash
flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes
in foreign exchange rates.
interest rate risk
The risk that the fair value or future cash
flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes
in market interest rates.
liquidity risk
The risk that an entity will encounter
difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial
liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another
financial asset.
loans payable
Loans payable are financial liabilities, other
than short-term trade payables on normal credit terms.
market risk
The risk that the fair value or future cash
flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes
in market prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk:currency risk, interest rate riskandother price risk.
other price risk
The risk that the fair value or future cash
flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes
in market prices (other than those arising frominterest rate
riskorcurrency
risk), whether those changes are caused by factors specific
to the individual financial instrument or its issuer or by
factors affecting all similar financial instruments traded in the
market.
The following terms are defined in paragraph 11 of Ind AS 32, Appendix A of Ind AS 109 or Appendix A of Ind AS 113.
and are used in this Ind AS with the meaning specified in Ind AS 32, Ind AS 109 and Ind AS 113.
• amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability
• contract asset
• credit-impaired financial assets
• derecognition
• derivative
• dividends
• effective interest method
• equity instrument
• expected credit losses
• fair value
• financial asset
• financial guarantee contract
• financial instrument
• financial liability
• financial liability at fair value through profit or loss
• forecast transaction
• gross carrying amount
• hedging instrument
• held for trading
• impairment gains or losses
Page 133/765
----- PAGE 134 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
• loss allowance
• purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets
• reclassification date
• regular way purchase or sale
Appendix B
Application guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Classes of financial instruments and level of disclosure (paragraph 6)
B1. Paragraph 6 requires an entity to group financial instruments into classes that are appropriate to the nature of the
information disclosed and that take into account the characteristics of those financial instruments. The classes described
in paragraph 6 are determined by the entity and are, thus, distinct from the categories of financial instruments specified
in Ind AS 109 (which determine how financial instruments are measured and where changes in fair value are
recognized).
B2. In determining classes of financial instrument, an entity shall, at a minimum:
(a)
distinguish instruments measured at amortised cost from those measured at fair value.
(b)
treat as a separate class or classes those financial instruments outside the scope of this Ind AS.
B3. An entity decides, in the light of its circumstances, how much detail it provides to satisfy the requirements of this Ind
AS, how much emphasis it places on different aspects of the requirements and how it aggregates information to display
the overall picture without combining information with different characteristics. It is necessary to strike a balance
between overburdening financial statements with excessive detail that may not assist users of financial statements and
obscuring important information as a result of too much aggregation. For example, an entity shall not obscure important
information by including it among a large amount of insignificant detail. Similarly, an entity shall not disclose information
that is so aggregated that it obscures important differences between individual transactions or associated risks.
B4. [Refer Appendix 1]
Other disclosure - accounting policies (paragraph 21)
[B5. Paragraph 21 requires disclosure of the measurement basis (or bases) used in preparing the financial statements
and the other accounting policies used that are relevant to an understanding of the financial statements. For financial
instruments, such disclosure may include:]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(a)
for financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss:
(i)
the nature of the financial liabilities the entity has designated as at fair value through profit or loss;
(i)
the nature of the financial assets the entity has designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss; and
(ii)
how the entity has satisfied the criteria in paragraph 4.1.5 of Ind AS 109 for such designation.
(ii)
the criteria for so designating such financial liabilities on initial recognition; and
(iii)
how the entity has satisfied the conditions in paragraph 4.2.2 of Ind AS 109 for such designation.
(aa)
for financial assets designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss:
(b)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(c)
whether regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are accounted for at trade date or at settlement date (see
paragraph 3.1.2 of Ind AS 109).
(d)
Page 134/765
----- PAGE 135 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
[Refer Appendix 1]
(e)
how net gains or net losses on each category of financial instrument are determined [see paragraph 20(a)], for example,
whether the net gains or net losses on items at fair value through profit or loss include interest or dividend income.
(f)
-(g) [Refer Appendix 1]
[Paragraph 122 of Ind AS 1 also requires entities to disclose, along with its significant accounting policies or other notes,
the judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that management has made in the process of applying the
entity's accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial
statements.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments (paragraphs 31-42)
B6. The disclosures required by paragraphs 31-42 shall be either given in the financial statements or incorporated by
cross-reference from the financial statements to some other statement, such as a management commentary or risk
report, that is available to users of the financial statements on the same terms as the financial statements and at the
same time. Without the information incorporated by cross-reference, the financial statements are incomplete.
Quantitative disclosures (paragraph 34)
B7. Paragraph 34(a) requires disclosures of summary quantitative data about an entity's exposure to risks based on the
information provided internally to key management personnel of the entity. When an entity uses several methods to
manage a risk exposure, the entity shall disclose information using the method or methods that provide the most
relevant and reliable information. Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, discusses
relevance and reliability.
B8. Paragraph 34(c) requires disclosures about concentrations of risk. Concentrations of risk arise from financial
instruments that have similar characteristics and are affected similarly by changes in economic or other conditions. The
identification of concentrations of risk requires judgement taking into account the circumstances of the entity. Disclosure
of concentrations of risk shall include:
(a)
a description of how management determines concentrations;
(b)
a description of the shared characteristic that identifies each concentration (eg. counter-party, geographical area,
currency or market); and
(c)
the amount of the risk exposure associated with all financial instruments sharing that characteristic.
Credit risk management practices (paragraphs 35F-35G)
B8A. Paragraph 35F(b) requires the disclosure of information about how an entity has defined default for different
financial instruments and the reasons for selecting those definitions. In accordance with paragraph 5.5.9 of Ind AS 109,
the determination of whether lifetime expected credit losses should be recognized is based on the increase in the risk of
a default occurring since initial recognition. Information about an entity's definitions of default that will assist users of
financial statements in understanding how an entity has applied the expected credit loss requirements in Ind AS 109
may include:
(a)
the qualitative and quantitative factors considered in defining default;
(b)
whether different definitions have been applied to different types of financial instruments; and
(c)
assumptions about the cure rate (i.e. the number of financial assets that return to a performing status) after a default
occurred on the financial asset.
B8B. To assist users of financial statements in evaluating an entity's restructuring and modification policies, paragraph
35F(f)(i) requires the disclosure of information about how an entity monitors the extent to which the loss allowance on
financial assets previously disclosed in accordance with paragraph 35F(f)(i) are subsequently measured at an amount
equal to lifetime expected credit losses in accordance with paragraph 5.5.3 of Ind AS 109. Quantitative information that
Page 135/765
----- PAGE 136 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
will assist users in understanding the subsequent increase in credit risk of modified financial assets may include
information about modified financial assets meeting the criteria in paragraph 35F(f)(i) for which the loss allowance has
reverted to being measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses (i.e. a deterioration rate).
B8C. Paragraph 35G(a) requires the disclosure of information about the basis of inputs and assumptions and the
estimation techniques used to apply the impairment requirements in Ind AS 109. An entity's assumptions and inputs
used to measure expected credit losses or determine the extent of increases in credit risk since initial recognition may
include information obtained from internal historical information or rating reports and assumptions about the expected
life of financial instruments and the timing of the sale of collateral.
Changes in the loss allowance (paragraph 35H)
B8D. In accordance with paragraph 35H, an entity is required to explain the reasons for the changes in the loss
allowance during the period. In addition to the reconciliation from the opening balance to the closing balance of the loss
allowance, it may be necessary to provide a narrative explanation of the changes. This narrative explanation may
include an analysis of the reasons for changes in the loss allowance during the period, including:
(a)
the portfolio composition;
(b)
the volume of financial instruments purchased or originated; and
(c)
the severity of the expected credit losses
B8E. For loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts the loss allowance is recognized as a provision. An entity
should disclose information about the changes in the loss allowance for financial assets separately from those for loan
commitments and financial guarantee contracts. However, if a financial instrument includes both a loan (i.e. financial
asset) and an undrawn commitment (i.e. loan commitment) component and the entity cannot separately identify the
expected credit losses on the loan commitment component from those on the financial asset component, the expected
credit losses on the loan commitment should be recognized together with the loss allowance for the financial asset. To
the extent that the combined expected credit losses exceed the gross carrying amount of the financial asset, the
expected credit losses should be recognized as a provision.
Collateral (paragraph 35K)
B8F. Paragraph 35K requires the disclosure of information that will enable users of financial statements to understand
the effect of collateral and other credit enhancements on the amount of expected credit losses. An entity is neither
required to disclose information about the fair value of collateral and other credit enhancements nor is it required to
quantify the exact value of the collateral that was included in the calculation of expected credit losses (i.e. the loss given
default).
B8G. A narrative description of collateral and its effect on amounts of expected credit losses might include information
about:
(a)
the main types of collateral held as security and other credit enhancements (examples of the latter being guarantees,
credit derivatives and netting agreements that do not qualify for offset in accordance with Ind AS 32);
(b)
the volume of collateral held and other credit enhancements and its significance in terms of the loss allowance;
(c)
the policies and processes for valuing and managing collateral and other credit enhancements;
(d)
the main types of counter-parties to collateral and other credit enhancements and their creditworthiness; and
(e)
information about risk concentrations within the collateral and other credit enhancements.
Credit risk exposure (paragraphs 35M-35N)
B8H. Paragraph 35M requires the disclosure of information about an entity's credit risk exposure and significant
concentrations of credit risk at the reporting date. A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counter-parties
are located in a geographical region or are engaged in similar activities and have similar economic characteristics that
would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other
Page 136/765
----- PAGE 137 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
conditions. An entity should provide information that enables users of financial statements to understand whether there
are groups or portfolios of financial instruments with particular features that could affect a large portion of that group of
financial instruments such as concentration to particular risks. This could include, for example, loan-to-value groupings,
geographical, industry or issuer type concentrations.
B8I. The number of credit risk rating grades used to disclose the information in accordance with paragraph 35M shall be
consistent with the number that the entity reports to key management personnel for credit risk management purposes. If
past due information is the only borrower-specific information available and an entity uses past due information to
assess whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition in accordance with paragraph 5.5.10 of Ind
AS 109, an entity shall provide an analysis by past due status for those financial assets.
B8J. When an entity has measured expected credit losses on a collective basis, the entity may not be able to allocate
the gross carrying amount of individual financial assets or the exposure to credit risk on loan commitments and financial
guarantee contracts to the credit risk rating grades for which lifetime expected credit losses are recognized. In that case,
an entity should apply the requirement in paragraph 35M to those financial instruments that can be directly allocated to a
credit risk rating grade and disclose separately the gross carrying amount of financial instruments for which lifetime
expected credit losses have been measured on a collective basis.
Maximum credit risk exposure [paragraph 36(a)]
B9. Paragraphs 35K(a) and 36(a) require disclosure of the amount that best represents the entity's maximum exposure
to credit risk. For a financial asset, this is typically the gross carrying amount, net of:
(a)
any amounts offset in accordance with Ind AS 32; and
(b)
any loss allowance recognized in accordance with Ind AS 109.
B10. Activities that give rise to credit risk and the associated maximum exposure to credit risk include, but are not limited
to:
(a)
granting loans to customers and placing deposits with other entities. In these cases, the maximum exposure to credit
risk is the carrying amount of the related financial assets.
(b)
entering into derivative contracts, e.g. foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and credit derivatives. When the
resulting asset is measured at fair value, the maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period will
equal the carrying amount.
(c)
granting financial guarantees. In this case, the maximum exposure to credit risk is the maximum amount the entity could
have to pay if the guarantee is called on, which may be significantly greater than the amount recognized as a liability.
(d)
making a loan commitment that is irrevocable over the life of the facility or is revocable only in response to a material
adverse change. If the issuer cannot settle the loan commitment net in cash or another financial instrument, the
maximum credit exposure is the full amount of the commitment. This is because it is uncertain whether the amount of
any undrawn portion may be drawn upon in the future. This may be significantly greater than the amount recognized as
a liability.
Quantitative liquidity risk disclosures (paragraphs 34(a) and 39(a) and (b))
B10A. In accordance with paragraph 34(a) an entity discloses summary quantitative data about its exposure to liquidity
risk on the basis of the information provided internally to key management personnel. An entity shall explain how those
data are determined. If the outflows of cash (or another financial asset) included in those data could either:
(a)
occur significantly earlier than indicated in the data, or
(b)
be for significantly different amounts from those indicated in the data (e.g. for a derivative that is included in the data on
a net settlement basis but for which the counter-party has the option to require gross settlement), the entity shall state
that fact and provide quantitative information that enables users of its financial statements to evaluate the extent of this
risk unless that information is included in the contractual maturity analyses required by paragraph 39(a) or (b).
Page 137/765
----- PAGE 138 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B11. In preparing the maturity analyses required by paragraph 39(a) and (b), an entity uses its judgement to determine
an appropriate number of time bands. For example, an entity might determine that the following time bands are
appropriate:
(a)
not later than one month;
(b)
later than one month and not later than three months;
(c)
later than three months and not later than one year; and
(d)
later than one year and not later than five years.
B11A. In complying with paragraph 39(a) and (b), an entity shall not separate an embedded derivative from a hybrid
(combined) financial instrument. For such an instrument, an entity shall apply paragraph 39(a).
B11B. Paragraph 39(b) requires an entity to disclose a quantitative maturity analysis for derivative financial liabilities that
shows remaining contractual maturities if the contractual maturities are essential for an understanding of the timing of
the cash flows. For example, this would be the case for:
(a)
an interest rate swap with a remaining maturity of five years in a cash flow hedge of a variable rate financial asset or
liability.
(b)
all loan commitments.
B11C. Paragraph 39(a) and (b) requires an entity to disclose maturity analyses for financial liabilities that show the
remaining contractual maturities for some financial liabilities. In this disclosure:
(a)
when a counter-party has a choice of when an amount is paid, the liability is allocated to the earliest period in which the
entity can be required to pay. For example, financial liabilities that an entity can be required to repay on demand (e.g.
demand deposits) are included in the earliest time band.
(b)
when an entity is committed to make amounts available in instalments, each instalment is allocated to the earliest period
in which the entity can be required to pay. For example, an undrawn loan commitment is included in the time band
containing the earliest date it can be drawn down.
(c)
for issued financial guarantee contracts the maximum amount of the guarantee is allocated to the earliest period in
which the guarantee could be called.
B11D. The contractual amounts disclosed in the maturity analyses as required by paragraph 39(a) and (b) are the
contractual undiscounted cash flows, for example:
(a)
[ gross lease liabilities (before deducting finance charges);]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b)
prices specified in forward agreements to purchase financial assets for cash;
(c)
net amounts for pay-floating/receive-fixed interest rate swaps for which net cash flows are exchanged;
(d)
contractual amounts to be exchanged in a derivative financial instrument (e.g. a currency swap) for which gross cash
flows are exchanged; and
(e)
gross loan commitments.
Such undiscounted cash flows differ from the amount included in the balance sheet because the amount in balance
sheet is based on discounted cash flows. When the amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed is determined by
reference to the conditions existing at the end of the reporting period. For example, when the amount payable varies
Page 138/765
----- PAGE 139 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
with changes in an index, the amount disclosed may be based on the level of the index at the end of the period.
B11E. Paragraph 39(c) requires an entity to describe how it manages the liquidity risk inherent in the items disclosed in
the quantitative disclosures required in paragraph 39(a) and (b). An entity shall disclose a maturity analysis of financial
assets it holds for managing liquidity risk (e.g. financial assets that are readily saleable or expected to generate cash
inflows to meet cash outflows on financial liabilities), if that information is necessary to enable users of its financial
statements to evaluate the nature and extent of liquidity risk.
B11F. Other factors that an entity might consider in providing the disclosure required in paragraph 39(c) include, but are
not limited to, whether the entity:
(a)
has committed borrowing facilities (e.g. commercial paper facilities) or other lines of credit (e.g. stand-by credit facilities)
that it can access to meet liquidity needs;
(b)
holds deposits at central banks to meet liquidity needs;
(c)
has very diverse funding sources;
(d)
has significant concentrations of liquidity risk in either its assets or its funding sources;
(e)
has internal control processes and contingency plans for managing liquidity risk;
(f)
has instruments that include accelerated repayment terms (e.g. on the downgrade of the entity's credit rating);
(g)
has instruments that could require the posting of collateral (e.g. margin calls for derivatives);
(h)
has instruments that allow the entity to choose whether it settles its financial liabilities by delivering cash (or another
financial asset) or by delivering its own shares; or
(i)
has instruments that are subject to master netting agreements.
B12.-B16. [Refer Appendix 1]
Market risk - sensitivity analysis (paragraphs 40 and 41)
B17. Paragraph 40(a) requires a sensitivity analysis for each type of market risk to which the entity is exposed. In
accordance with paragraph B3, an entity decides how it aggregates information to display the overall picture without
combining information with different characteristics about exposures to risks from significantly different economic
environments. For example:
(a)
an entity that trades financial instruments might disclose this information separately for financial instruments held for
trading and those not held for trading.
(b)
an entity would not aggregate its exposure to market risks from areas of hyperinflation with its exposure to the same
market risks from areas of very low inflation.
If an entity has exposure to only one type of market risk in only one economic environment, it would not show
disaggregated information.
B18. Paragraph 40(a) requires the sensitivity analysis to show the effect on profit or loss and equity of reasonably
possible changes in the relevant risk variable (e.g. prevailing market interest rates, currency rates, equity prices or
commodity prices). For this purpose:
(a)
entities are not required to determine what the profit or loss for the period would have been if relevant risk variables had
been different. Instead, entities disclose the effect on profit or loss and equity at the end of the reporting period
assuming that a reasonably possible change in the relevant risk variable had occurred at the end of the reporting period
and had been applied to the risk exposures in existence at that date. For example, if an entity has a floating rate liability
at the end of the year, the entity would disclose the effect on profit or loss (i.e. interest expense) for the current year if
Page 139/765
----- PAGE 140 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
interest rates had varied by reasonably possible amounts.
(b)
entities are not required to disclose the effect on profit or loss and equity for each change within a range of reasonably
possible changes of the relevant risk variable. Disclosure of the effects of the changes at the limits of the reasonably
possible range would be sufficient.
B19. In determining what a reasonably possible change in the relevant risk variable is, an entity should consider:
(a)
the economic environments in which it operates. A reasonably possible change should not include remote or 'worst
case' scenarios or 'stress tests'. Moreover, if the rate of change in the underlying risk variable is stable, the entity need
not alter the chosen reasonably possible change in the risk variable. For example, assume that interest rates are 5 per
cent and an entity determines that a fluctuation in interest rates of ±50 basis points is reasonably possible. It would
disclose the effect on profit or loss and equity if interest rates were to change to 4.5 per cent or 5.5 per cent. In the next
period, interest rates have increased to 5.5 per cent. The entity continues to believe that interest rates may fluctuate by
±50 basis points (i.e. that the rate of change in interest rates is stable). The entity would disclose the effect on profit or
loss and equity if interest rates were to change to 5 per cent or 6 per cent. The entity would not be required to revise its
assessment that interest rates might reasonably fluctuate by ±50 basis points, unless there is evidence that interest
rates have become significantly more volatile.
(b)
the time frame over which it is making the assessment. The sensitivity analysis shall show the effects of changes that
are considered to be reasonably possible over the period until the entity will next present these disclosures, which is
usually its next annual reporting period.
B20. Paragraph 41 permits an entity to use a sensitivity analysis that reflects inter-dependencies between risk variables,
such as a value-at-risk methodology, if it uses this analysis to manage its exposure to financial risks. This applies even if
such a methodology measures only the potential for loss and does not measure the potential for gain. Such an entity
might comply with paragraph 41(a) by disclosing the type of value-at-risk model used (e.g. whether the model relies on
Monte Carlo simulations), an explanation about how the model works and the main assumptions (e.g. the holding period
and confidence level). Entities might also disclose the historical observation period and weightings applied to
observations within that period, an explanation of how options are dealt with in the calculations, and which volatilities
and correlations (or, alternatively, Monte Carlo probability distribution simulations) are used.
B21. An entity shall provide sensitivity analyses for the whole of its business, but may provide different types of
sensitivity analysis for different classes of financial instruments.
Interest rate risk
B22. Interest rate risk arises on interest-bearing financial instruments recognized in the balance sheet (e.g. debt
instruments acquired or issued) and on some financial instruments not recognized in the balance sheet (e.g. some loan
commitments).
Currency risk
B23. Currency risk (or foreign exchange risk) arises on financial instruments that are denominated in a foreign currency,
i.e. in a currency other than the functional currency in which they are measured. For the purpose of this Ind AS, currency
risk does not arise from financial instruments that are non-monetary items or from financial instruments denominated in
the functional currency.
B24. A sensitivity analysis is disclosed for each currency to which an entity has significant exposure.
Other price risk
B25. Other price risk arises on financial instruments because of changes in, for example, commodity prices or equity
prices. To comply with paragraph 40, an entity might disclose the effect of a decrease in a specified stock market index,
commodity price, or other risk variable. For example, if an entity gives residual value guarantees that are financial
instruments, the entity discloses an increase or decrease in the value of the assets to which the guarantee applies.
B26. Two examples of financial instruments that give rise to equity price risk are (a) a holding of equities in another
entity and (b) an investment in a trust that in turn holds investments in equity instruments. Other examples include
forward contracts and options to buy or sell specified quantities of an equity instrument and swaps that are indexed to
equity prices. The fair values of such financial instruments are affected by changes in the market price of the underlying
equity instruments.
Page 140/765
----- PAGE 141 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B27. In accordance with paragraph 40(a), the sensitivity of profit or loss (that arises, for example, from instruments
measured at fair value through profit or loss) is disclosed separately from the sensitivity of other comprehensive income
(that arises, for example, from investments in equity instruments whose changes in fair value are presented in other
comprehensive income).
B28. Financial instruments that an entity classifies as equity instruments are not remeasured. Neither profit or loss nor
equity will be affected by the equity price risk of those instruments. Accordingly, no sensitivity analysis is required.
Derecognition (paragraphs 42C-42H)
Continuing involvement (paragraph 42C)
B29. The assessment of continuing involvement in a transferred financial asset for the purposes of the disclosure
requirements in paragraphs 42E-42H is made at the level of the reporting entity. For example, if a subsidiary transfers to
an unrelated third party a financial asset in which the parent of the subsidiary has continuing involvement, the subsidiary
does not include the parent's involvement in the assessment of whether it has continuing involvement in the transferred
asset in its separate or individual financial statements (i.e. when the subsidiary is the reporting entity). However, a
parent would include its continuing involvement (or that of another member of the group) in a financial asset transferred
by its subsidiary in determining whether it has continuing involvement in the transferred asset in its consolidated
financial statements (i.e. when the reporting entity is the group).
[B30. An entity does not have a continuing involvement in a transferred financial asset if, as part of the transfer, it neither
retains any of the contractual rights or obligations inherent in the transferred financial asset nor acquires any new
contractual rights or obligations relating to the transferred financial asset. An entity does not have continuing
involvement in a transferred financial asset if it has neither an interest in the future performance of the transferred
financial asset nor a responsibility under any circumstances to make payments in respect of the transferred financial
asset in the future. The term 'payment' in this context does not include cash flows of the transferred financial asset that
an entity collects and is required to remit to the transferee.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[B30A. When an entity transfers a financial asset, the entity may retain the right to service that financial asset for a fee
that is included in, for example, a servicing contract. The entity assesses the servicing contract in accordance with the
guidance in paragraphs 42C and B30 to decide whether the entity has continuing involvement as a result of the
servicing contract for the purposes of the disclosure requirements. For example, a servicer will have continuing
involvement in the transferred financial asset for the purposes of the disclosure requirements if the servicing fee is
dependent on the amount or timing of the cash flows collected from the transferred financial asset. Similarly, a servicer
has continuing involvement for the purposes of the disclosure requirements if a fixed fee would not be paid in full
because of non-performance of the transferred financial asset. In these examples, the servicer has an interest in the
future performance of the transferred financial asset. This assessment is independent of whether the fee to be received
is expected to compensate the entity adequately for performing the servicing.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
B31. Continuing involvement in a transferred financial asset may result from contractual provisions in the transfer
agreement or in a separate agreement with the transferee or a third party entered into in connection with the transfer.
Transferred financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety (paragraph 42D)
B32. Paragraph 42D requires disclosures when part or all of the transferred financial assets do not qualify for
derecognition. Those disclosures are required at each reporting date at which the entity continues to recognise the
transferred financial assets, regardless of when the transfers occurred.
Types of continuing involvement (paragraphs 42E-42H)
B33. Paragraphs 42E-42H require qualitative and quantitative disclosures for each type of continuing involvement in
derecognized financial assets. An entity shall aggregate its continuing involvement into types that are representative of
the entity's exposure to risks. For example, an entity may aggregate its continuing involvement by type of financial
instrument (e.g. guarantees or call options) or by type of transfer (e.g. factoring of receivables, securitisations and
securities lending).
Maturity analysis for undiscounted cash outflows to repurchase transferred assets [paragraph 42E(e)]
B34. Paragraph 42E(e) requires an entity to disclose a maturity analysis of the undiscounted cash outflows to
repurchase derecognized financial assets or other amounts payable to the transferee in respect of the derecognized
financial assets, showing the remaining contractual maturities of the entity's continuing involvement. This analysis
Page 141/765
----- PAGE 142 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
distinguishes cash flows that are required to be paid (e.g. forward contracts), cash flows that the entity may be required
to pay (e.g. written put options) and cash flows that the entity might choose to pay (e.g. purchased call options).
B35. An entity shall use its judgement to determine an appropriate number of time bands in preparing the maturity
analysis required by paragraph 42E(e). For example, an entity might determine that the following maturity time bands
are appropriate:
(a)
not later than one month;
(b)
later than one month and not later than three months;
(c)
later than three months and not later than six months;
(d)
later than six months and not later than one year;
(e)
later than one year and not later than three years;
(f)
later than three years and not later than five years; and
(g)
more than five years.
B36. If there is a range of possible maturities, the cash flows are included on the basis of the earliest date on which the
entity can be required or is permitted to pay.
Qualitative information [paragraph 42E(f)]
B37. The qualitative information required by paragraph 42E(f) includes a description of the derecognized financial assets
and the nature and purpose of the continuing involvement retained after transferring those assets. It also includes a
description of the risks to which an entity is exposed, including:
(a)
a description of how the entity manages the risk inherent in its continuing involvement in the derecognized financial
assets.
(b)
whether the entity is required to bear losses before other parties, and the ranking and amounts of losses borne by
parties whose interests rank lower than the entity's interest in the asset (i.e. its continuing involvement in the asset).
(c)
a description of any triggers associated with obligations to provide financial support or to repurchase a transferred
financial asset.
Gain or loss on derecognition [paragraph 42G(a)]
B38. Paragraph 42G(a) requires an entity to disclose the gain or loss on derecognition relating to financial assets in
which the entity has continuing involvement. The entity shall disclose if a gain or loss on derecognition arose because
the fair values of the components of the previously recognized asset (i.e. the interest in the asset derecognized and the
interest retained by the entity) were different from the fair value of the previously recognized asset as a whole. In that
situation, the entity shall also disclose whether the fair value measurements included significant inputs that were not
based on observable market data, as described in paragraph 27A.
Supplementary information (paragraph 42H)
B39. The disclosures required in paragraphs 42D-42G may not be sufficient to meet the disclosure objectives in
paragraph 42B. If this is the case, the entity shall disclose whatever additional information is necessary to meet the
disclosure objectives. The entity shall decide, in the light of its circumstances, how much additional information it needs
to provide to satisfy the information needs of users and how much emphasis it places on different aspects of the
additional information. It is necessary to strike a balance between burdening financial statements with excessive detail
that may not assist users of financial statements and obscuring information as a result of too much aggregation.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
(paragraphs 13A-13F).
Scope (paragraph 13A)
Page 142/765
----- PAGE 143 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B40. The disclosures in paragraphs 13B-13E are required for all recognized financial instruments that are set off in
accordance with paragraph 42 of Ind AS 32. In addition, financial instruments are within the scope of the disclosure
requirements in paragraphs 13B-13E if they are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar
agreement that covers similar financial instruments and transactions, irrespective of whether the financial instruments
are set-off in accordance with paragraph 42 of Ind AS 32.
B41. The similar agreements referred to in paragraphs 13A and B40 include derivative clearing agreements, global
master repurchase agreements, global master securities lending agreements, and any related rights to financial
collateral. The similar financial instruments and transactions referred to in paragraph B40 include derivatives, sale and
repurchase agreements, reverse sale and repurchase agreements, securities borrowing, and securities lending
agreements. Examples of financial instruments that are not within the scope of paragraph 13A are loans and customer
deposits at the same institution (unless they are set-off in the balance sheet), and financial instruments that are subject
only to a collateral agreement.
Disclosure of quantitative information for recognized financial assets and recognized financial liabilities within the scope
of paragraph 13A (paragraph 13C)
B42. Financial instruments disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C may be subject to different measurement
requirements (for example, a payable related to a repurchase agreement may be measured at amortised cost, while a
derivative will be measured at fair value). An entity shall include instruments at their recognized amounts and describe
any resulting measurement differences in the related disclosures.
Disclosure of the gross amounts of recognized financial assets and recognized financial liabilities within the scope of
paragraph 13A [paragraph 13C(a)]
B43. The amounts required by paragraph 13C(a) relate to recognized financial instruments that are set-off in
accordance with paragraph 42 of Ind AS 32. The amounts required by paragraph 13C(a) also relate to recognized
financial instruments that are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement irrespective of
whether they meet the offsetting criteria. However, the disclosures required by paragraph 13C(a) do not relate to any
amounts recognized as a result of collateral agreements that do not meet the offsetting criteria in paragraph 42 of Ind
AS 32. Instead, such amounts are required to be disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C(d).
Disclosure of the amounts that are set-off in accordance with the criteria in paragraph 42 of Ind AS 32 [paragraph
13C(b)]
B44. Paragraph 13C(b) requires that entities disclose the amounts set-off in accordance with paragraph 42 of Ind AS 32
when determining the net amounts presented in the balance sheet. The amounts of both the recognized financial assets
and the recognized financial liabilities that are subject to set-off under the same arrangement will be disclosed in both
the financial asset and financial liability disclosures. However, the amounts disclosed (in, for example, a table) are
limited to the amounts that are subject to set-off. For example, an entity may have a recognized derivative asset and a
recognized derivative liability that meet the offsetting criteria in paragraph 42 of Ind AS 32. If the gross amount of the
derivative asset is larger than the gross amount of the derivative liability, the financial asset disclosure table will include
the entire amount of the derivative asset (in accordance with paragraph 13C(a)) and the entire amount of the derivative
liability (in accordance with paragraph 13C(b)). However, while the financial liability disclosure table will include the
entire amount of the derivative liability (in accordance with paragraph 13C(a)), it will only include the amount of the
derivative asset (in accordance with paragraph 13C(b)) that is equal to the amount of the derivative liability.
Disclosure of the net amounts presented in the balance sheet (paragraph 13C(c))
B45. If an entity has instruments that meet the scope of these disclosures (as specified in paragraph 13A), but that do
not meet the offsetting criteria in paragraph 42 of Ind AS 32, the amounts required to be disclosed by paragraph 13C(c)
would equal the amounts required to be disclosed by paragraph 13C(a).
B46. The amounts required to be disclosed by paragraph 13C(c) must be reconciled to the individual line item amounts
presented in the balance sheet. For example, if an entity determines that the aggregation or disaggregation of individual
financial statement line item amounts provides more relevant information, it must reconcile the aggregated or
disaggregated amounts disclosed in paragraph 13C(c) back to the individual line item amounts presented in the balance
sheet.
Disclosure of the amounts subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement that are not
otherwise included in paragraph 13C(b) (paragraph 13C(d))
B47. Paragraph 13C(d) requires that entities disclose amounts that are subject to an enforceable master netting
Page 143/765
----- PAGE 144 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
arrangement or similar agreement that are not otherwise included in paragraph 13C(b). Paragraph 13C(d)(i) refers to
amounts related to recognized financial instruments that do not meet some or all of the offsetting criteria in paragraph 42
of Ind AS 32 (for example, current rights of set-off that do not meet the criterion in paragraph 42(b) of Ind AS 32, or
conditional rights of set-off that are enforceable and exercisable only in the event of default, or only in the event of
insolvency or bankruptcy of any of the counter-parties).
B48. Paragraph 13C(d)(ii) refers to amounts related to financial collateral, including cash collateral, both received and
pledged. An entity shall disclose the fair value of those financial instruments that have been pledged or received as
collateral. The amounts disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C(d)(ii) should relate to the actual collateral received
or pledged and not to any resulting payables or receivables recognized to return or receive back such collateral.
Limits on the amounts disclosed in paragraph 13C(d) (paragraph 13D)
B49. When disclosing amounts in accordance with paragraph 13C(d), an entity must take into account the effects of
over-collateralisation by financial instrument. To do so, the entity must first deduct the amounts disclosed in accordance
with paragraph 13C(d)(i) from the amount disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C(c). The entity shall then limit the
amounts disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C(d)(ii) to the remaining amount in paragraph 13C(c) for the related
financial instrument. However, if rights to collateral can be enforced across financial instruments, such rights can be
included in the disclosure provided in accordance with paragraph 13D.
Description of the rights of set-off subject to enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements
(paragraph 13E)
B50. An entity shall describe the types of rights of set-off and similar arrangements disclosed in accordance with
paragraph 13C(d), including the nature of those rights. For example, an entity shall describe its conditional rights. For
instruments subject to rights of set-off that are not contingent on a future event but that do not meet the remaining
criteria in paragraph 42 of Ind AS 32, the entity shall describe the reason(s) why the criteria are not met. For any
financial collateral received or pledged, the entity shall describe the terms of the collateral agreement (for example,
when the collateral is restricted).
Disclosure by type of financial instrument or by counter-party
B51. The quantitative disclosures required by paragraph 13C(a)-(e) may be grouped by type of financial instrument or
transaction (for example, derivatives, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements or securities borrowing and
securities lending agreements).
B52. Alternatively, an entity may group the quantitative disclosures required by paragraph 13C(a)-(c) by type of financial
instrument, and the quantitative disclosures required by paragraph 13C(c)-(e) by counter-party. If an entity provides the
required information by counter-party, the entity is not required to identify the counter-parties by name. However,
designation of counter-parties (Counter-party A, Counter-party B, Counter-party C, etc.) shall remain consistent from
year to year for the years presented to maintain comparability. Qualitative disclosures shall be considered so that further
information can be given about the types of counter-parties. When disclosure of the amounts in paragraph 13C(c)-(e) is
provided by counter-party, amounts that are individually significant in terms of total counter-party amounts shall be
separately disclosed and the remaining individually insignificant counter-party amounts shall be aggregated into one line
item.
Other
B53. The specific disclosures required by paragraphs 13C-13E are minimum requirements. To meet the objective in
paragraph 13B an entity may need to supplement them with additional (qualitative) disclosures, depending on the terms
of the enforceable master netting arrangements and related agreements, including the nature of the rights of set-off, and
their effect or potential effect on the entity's financial position.
Appendix C
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
This appendix lists the appendices which are part of other Indian Accounting Standards and makes reference to Ind AS
107, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
1. Appendix A, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, contained in Ind AS 10, Events After the Reporting Period
2. [ Appendix D, Service Concession Arrangements, contained in Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix 1
Page 144/765
----- PAGE 145 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 107 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IFRS) 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board.
Comparison with IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures
1. The transitional provisions given in IAS 107 have not been given in Ind AS 107, since all transitional provisions related
to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in Ind AS 101, First-time Adoption of Indian
Accounting Standards corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
2. Different terminology is used, as used in existing laws e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of
financial position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'. Words
'approved for issue' have been used instead of 'authorised for issue' in the context of financial statements considered for
the purpose of events after the reporting period.
3. Requirements regarding disclosure of description of gains and losses presented in the separate income statement,
where separate income statement is presented, have been deleted. This change is consequential to the removal of
option regarding two statement approach in Ind AS 1 as compared to IAS 1. Ind AS 1 requires that the components of
profit or loss and components of other comprehensive income shall be presented as a part of the statement of profit and
loss.
4. The following paragraph numbers appear as 'Deleted' in IFRS 7. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of Ind 107, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 107 :
(i)
paragraph 3(c)
(ii)
paragraph 8(b)-(d)
(iii)
paragraph 12-12A
(iv)
paragraph 13
(v)
paragraph 16
(vi)
paragraph 20(a)(ii)-(iv) and 20(d)-(e)
(vii)
paragraph 22
(viii)
paragraph 23
(ix)
paragraph 24
(x)
paragraph 27-27B
(xi)
paragraph 29(b)
(xii)
paragraph 36(c)-(d)
(xiii)
paragraph 37
(xiv)
paragraph B4 of Appendix B
(xv)
paragraph B5 (b), (d), (f) & (g)
(xvi)
paragraphs B12-B16 of Appendix B
Page 145/765
----- PAGE 146 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
5. [ Paragraphs 42I-42S of IFRS 7 have not been included in Ind AS 107 as these paragraphs relate to Initial application
of IFRS 9 which are not relevant in Indian context. Paragraphs 43-44BB related to effective date and transition given in
IFRS 7 have not been given in Ind AS 107 since it is not relevant in Indian context. However, in order to maintain
consistency with paragraph numbers of IFRS 7, these paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 107.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 108
Operating Segments
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Core principle
1. An entity shall disclose information to enable users of its financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial
effects of the business activities in which it engages and the economic environments in which it operates.
Scope
2. This Accounting Standard shall apply to companies to which Indian Accounting Standards (Ind ASs) notified under the
Companies Act apply.
[Refer Appendix 1]
3. If an entity that is not required to apply this Ind AS chooses to disclose information about segments that does not
comply with this Ind AS, it shall not describe the information as segment information.
4. If a financial report contains both the consolidated financial statements of a parent that is within the scope of this Ind
AS as well as the parent's separate financial statements, segment information is required only in the consolidated
financial statements.
Operating segments
5. An operating segment is a component of an entity:
(a)
that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses (including revenues and
expenses relating to transactions with other components of the same entity),
(b)
whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity's chief operating decision maker to make decisions about
resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and
(c)
for which discrete financial information is available.
An operating segment may engage in business activities for which it has yet to earn revenues, for example, start-up
operations may be operating segments before earning revenues.
6. Not every part of an entity is necessarily an operating segment or part of an operating segment. For example, a
corporate headquarters or some functional departments may not earn revenues or may earn revenues that are only
incidental to the activities of the entity and would not be operating segments. For the purposes of this Ind AS, an entity's
post-employment benefit plans are not operating segments.
7. The term 'chief operating decision maker' identifies a function, not necessarily a manager with a specific title. That
function is to allocate resources to and assess the performance of the operating segments of an entity. Often the chief
operating decision maker of an entity is its chief executive officer or chief operating officer but, for example, it may be a
group of executive directors or others.
8. For many entities, the three characteristics of operating segments described in paragraph 5 clearly identify its
operating segments. However, an entity may produce reports in which its business activities are presented in a variety of
ways. If the chief operating decision maker uses more than one set of segment information, other factors may identify a
single set of components as constituting an entity's operating segments, including the nature of the business activities of
each component, the existence of managers responsible for them, and information presented to the board of directors.
9. Generally, an operating segment has a segment manager who is directly accountable to and maintains regular
contact with the chief operating decision maker to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, or plans for
the segment. The term 'segment manager' identifies a function, not necessarily a manager with a specific title. The chief
operating decision maker also may be the segment manager for some operating segments. A single manager may be
the segment manager for more than one operating segment. If the characteristics in paragraph 5 apply to more than one
Page 146/765
----- PAGE 147 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
set of components of an organisation but there is only one set for which segment managers are held responsible, that
set of components constitutes the operating segments.
10. The characteristics in paragraph 5 may apply to two or more overlapping sets of components for which managers
are held responsible. That structure is sometimes referred to as a matrix form of organisation. For example, in some
entities, some managers are responsible for different product and service lines worldwide, whereas other managers are
responsible for specific geographical areas. The chief operating decision maker regularly reviews the operating results
of both sets of components, and financial information is available for both. In that situation, the entity shall determine
which set of components constitutes the operating segments by reference to the core principle.
Reportable segments
11. An entity shall report separately information about each operating segment that:
(a)
has been identified in accordance with paragraphs 5-10 or results from aggregating two or more of those segments in
accordance with paragraph 12, and
(b)
exceeds the quantitative thresholds in paragraph 13.
Paragraphs 14-19 specify other situations in which separate information about an operating segment shall be reported.
Aggregation criteria
12. Operating segments often exhibit similar long-term financial performance if they have similar economic
characteristics. For example, similar long-term average gross margins for two operating segments would be expected if
their economic characteristics were similar. Two or more operating segments may be aggregated into a single operating
segment if aggregation is consistent with the core principle of this Ind AS, the segments have similar economic
characteristics, and the segments are similar in each of the following respects:
(a)
the nature of the products and services;
(b)
the nature of the production processes;
(c)
the type or class of customer for their products and services;
(d)
the methods used to distribute their products or provide their services; and
(e)
if applicable, the nature of the regulatory environment, for example, banking, insurance or public utilities.
Quantitative thresholds
13. An entity shall report separately information about an operating segment that meets any of the following quantitative
thresholds:
(a)
Its reported revenue, including both sales to external customers and inter-segment sales or transfers, is 10 per cent or
more of the combined revenue, internal and external, of all operating segments.
(b)
The absolute amount of its reported profit or loss is 10 per cent or more of the greater, in absolute amount, of (i) the
combined reported profit of all operating segments that did not report a loss and (ii) the combined reported loss of all
operating segments that reported a loss.
(c)
Its assets are 10 per cent or more of the combined assets of all operating segments.
Operating segments that do not meet any of the quantitative thresholds may be considered reportable, and separately
disclosed, if management believes that information about the segment would be useful to users of the financial
statements.
14. An entity may combine information about operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds with
information about other operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds to produce a reportable
segment only if the operating segments have similar economic characteristics and share a majority of the aggregation
criteria listed in paragraph 12.
Page 147/765
----- PAGE 148 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
15. If the total external revenue reported by operating segments constitutes less than 75 per cent of the entity's revenue,
additional operating segments shall be identified as reportable segments (even if they do not meet the criteria in
paragraph 13) until at least 75 per cent of the entity's revenue is included in reportable segments.
16. Information about other business activities and operating segments that are not reportable shall be combined and
disclosed in an 'all other segments' category separately from other reconciling items in the reconciliations required by
paragraph 28. The sources of the revenue included in the 'all other segments' category shall be described.
17. If management judges that an operating segment identified as a reportable segment in the immediately preceding
period is of continuing significance, information about that segment shall continue to be reported separately in the
current period even if it no longer meets the criteria for reportability in paragraph 13.
18. If an operating segment is identified as a reportable segment in the current period in accordance with the
quantitative thresholds, segment data for a prior period presented for comparative purposes shall be restated to reflect
the newly reportable segment as a separate segment, even if that segment did not satisfy the criteria for reportability in
paragraph 13 in the prior period, unless the necessary information is not available and the cost to develop it would be
excessive.
19. There may be a practical limit to the number of reportable segments that an entity separately discloses beyond
which segment information may become too detailed. Although no precise limit has been determined, as the number of
segments that are reportable in accordance with paragraphs 13-18 increases above ten, the entity should consider
whether a practical limit has been reached.
Disclosure
20. An entity shall disclose information to enable users of its financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial
effects of the business activities in which it engages and the economic environments in which it operates.
21. To give effect to the principle in paragraph 20, an entity shall disclose the following for each period for which a
statement of profit and loss is presented:
(a)
general information as described in paragraph 22;
(b)
information about reported segment profit or loss, including specified revenues and expenses included in reported
segment profit or loss, segment assets, segment liabilities and the basis of measurement, as described in paragraphs
23-27; and
(c)
reconciliations of the totals of segment revenues, reported segment profit or loss, segment assets, segment liabilities
and other material segment items to corresponding entity amounts as described in paragraph 28.
Reconciliations of the amounts in the balance sheet for reportable segments to the amounts in the entity's balance sheet
are required for each date at which a balance sheet is presented. Information for prior periods shall be restated as
described in paragraphs 29 and 30.
General information
22. An entity shall disclose the following general information:
(a)
factors used to identify the entity's reportable segments, including the basis of organisation (for example, whether
management has chosen to organise the entity around differences in products and services, geographical areas,
regulatory environments, or a combination of factors and whether operating segments have been aggregated) ;
(aa)
the judgements made by management in applying the aggregation criteria in paragraph 12. This includes a brief
description of the operating segments that have been aggregated in this way and the economic indicators that have
been assessed in determining that the aggregated operating segments share similar economic characteristics; and
(b)
types of products and services from which each reportable segment derives its revenues.
Information about profit or loss, assets and liabilities
23. An entity shall report a measure of profit or loss for each reportable segment. An entity shall report a measure of
total assets and liabilities for each reportable segment if such amounts are regularly provided to the chief operating
decision maker. An entity shall also disclose the following about each reportable segment if the specified amounts are
Page 148/765
----- PAGE 149 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
included in the measure of segment profit or loss reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, or are otherwise
regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker, even if not included in that measure of segment profit or loss:
(a)
revenues from external customers;
(b)
revenues from transactions with other operating segments of the same entity;
(c)
interest revenue;
(d)
interest expense;
(e)
depreciation and amortisation;
(f)
material items of income and expense disclosed in accordance with paragraph 97 of Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial
Statements;
(g)
the entity's interest in the profit or loss of associates and joint ventures accounted for by the equity method;
(h)
income tax expense or income; and
(i)
material non-cash items other than depreciation and amortisation.
An entity shall report interest revenue separately from interest expense for each reportable segment unless a majority of
the segment's revenues are from interest and the chief operating decision maker relies primarily on net interest revenue
to assess the performance of the segment and make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment. In that
situation, an entity may report that segment's interest revenue net of its interest expense and disclose that it has done
so.
24. An entity shall disclose the following about each reportable segment if the specified amounts are included in the
measure of segment assets reviewed by the chief operating decision maker or are otherwise regularly provided to the
chief operating decision maker, even if not included in the measure of segment assets:
(a)
the amount of investment in associates and joint ventures accounted for by the equity method, and
(b)
the amounts of additions to [non-current assets]
[For assets classified according to a liquidity presentation, non-current assets are assets that include amounts expected
to be recovered more than twelve months after the reporting period.]
other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets, net defined benefit assets (see Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits) and
rights arising under insurance contracts.
Measurement
25. The amount of each segment item reported shall be the measure reported to the chief operating decision maker for
the purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segment and assessing its performance.
Adjustments and eliminations made in preparing an entity's financial statements and allocations of revenues, expenses,
and gains or losses shall be included in determining reported segment profit or loss only if they are included in the
measure of the segment's profit or loss that is used by the chief operating decision maker. Similarly, only those assets
and liabilities that are included in the measures of the segment's assets and segment's liabilities that are used by the
chief operating decision maker shall be reported for that segment. If amounts are allocated to reported segment profit or
loss, assets or liabilities, those amounts shall be allocated on a reasonable basis.
26. If the chief operating decision maker uses only one measure of an operating segment's profit or loss, the segment's
assets or the segment's liabilities in assessing segment performance and deciding how to allocate resources, segment
profit or loss, assets and liabilities shall be reported at those measures. If the chief operating decision maker uses more
than one measure of an operating segment's profit or loss, the segment's assets or the segment's liabilities, the reported
measures shall be those that management believes are determined in accordance with the measurement principles
Page 149/765
----- PAGE 150 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
most consistent with those used in measuring the corresponding amounts in the entity's financial statements.
27. An entity shall provide an explanation of the measurements of segment profit or loss, segment assets and segment
liabilities for each reportable segment. At a minimum, an entity shall disclose the following:
(a)
the basis of accounting for any transactions between reportable segments.
(b)
the nature of any differences between the measurements of the reportable segments' profits or losses and the entity's
profit or loss before income tax expense or income and discontinued operations (if not apparent from the reconciliations
described in paragraph 28). Those differences could include accounting policies and policies for allocation of centrally
incurred costs that are necessary for an understanding of the reported segment information.
(c)
the nature of any differences between the measurements of the reportable segments' assets and the entity's assets (if
not apparent from the reconciliations described in paragraph 28). Those differences could include accounting policies
and policies for allocation of jointly used assets that are necessary for an understanding of the reported segment
information.
(d)
the nature of any differences between the measurements of the reportable segments' liabilities and the entity's liabilities
(if not apparent from the reconciliations described in paragraph 28). Those differences could include accounting policies
and policies for allocation of jointly utilised liabilities that are necessary for an understanding of the reported segment
information.
(e)
the nature of any changes from prior periods in the measurement methods used to determine reported segment profit or
loss and the effect, if any, of those changes on the measure of segment profit or loss.
(f)
the nature and effect of any asymmetrical allocations to reportable segments. For example, an entity might allocate
depreciation expense to a segment without allocating the related depreciable assets to that segment.
Reconciliations
28. An entity shall provide reconciliations of all of the following:
(a)
the total of the reportable segments' revenues to the entity's revenue.
(b)
the total of the reportable segments' measures of profit or loss to the entity's profit or loss before tax expense (tax
income) and discontinued operations. However, if an entity allocates to reportable segments items such as tax expense
(tax income), the entity may reconcile the total of the segments' measures of profit or loss to the entity's profit or loss
after those items.
(c)
the total of the reportable segments' assets to the entity's assets if the segment assets are reported in accordance with
paragraph 23.
(d)
the total of the reportable segments' liabilities to the entity's liabilities if segment liabilities are reported in accordance
with paragraph 23.
(e)
the total of the reportable segments' amounts for every other material item of information disclosed to the corresponding
amount for the entity.
All material reconciling items shall be separately identified and described. For example, the amount of each material
adjustment needed to reconcile reportable segment profit or loss to the entity's profit or loss arising from different
accounting policies shall be separately identified and described.
Restatement of previously reported information
29. If an entity changes the structure of its internal organisation in a manner that causes the composition of its reportable
segments to change, the corresponding information for earlier periods, including interim periods, shall be restated unless
the information is not available and the cost to develop it would be excessive. The determination of whether the
Page 150/765
----- PAGE 151 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
information is not available and the cost to develop it would be excessive shall be made for each individual item of
disclosure. Following a change in the composition of its reportable segments, an entity shall disclose whether it has
restated the corresponding items of segment information for earlier periods.
30. If an entity has changed the structure of its internal organisation in a manner that causes the composition of its
reportable segments to change and if segment information for earlier periods, including interim periods, is not restated to
reflect the change, the entity shall disclose in the year in which the change occurs segment information for the current
period on both the old basis and the new basis of segmentation, unless the necessary information is not available and
the cost to develop it would be excessive.
Entity-wide disclosures
31. Paragraphs 32-34 apply to all entities subject to this Ind AS including those entities that have a single reportable
segment. Some entities' business activities are not organised on the basis of differences in related products and
services or differences in geographical areas of operations. Such an entity's reportable segments may report revenues
from a broad range of essentially different products and services, or more than one of its reportable segments may
provide essentially the same products and services. Similarly, an entity's reportable segments may hold assets in
different geographical areas and report revenues from customers in different geographical areas, or more than one of its
reportable segments may operate in the same geographical area. Information required by paragraphs 32-34 shall be
provided only if it is not provided as part of the reportable segment information required by this Ind AS.
Information about products and services
32. An entity shall report the revenues from external customers for each product and service, or each group of similar
products and services, unless the necessary information is not available and the cost to develop it would be excessive,
in which case that fact shall be disclosed. The amounts of revenues reported shall be based on the financial information
used to produce the entity's financial statements.
Information about geographical areas
33. An entity shall report the following geographical information, unless the necessary information is not available and
the cost to develop it would be excessive:
(a)
revenues from external customers (i) attributed to the entity's country of domicile and (ii) attributed to all foreign
countries in total from which the entity derives revenues. If revenues from external customers attributed to an individual
foreign country are material, those revenues shall be disclosed separately. An entity shall disclose the basis for
attributing revenues from external customers to individual countries.
(b)
[non-current assets]
[For assets classified according to a liquidity presentation, non-current assets are assets that include amounts expected
to be recovered more than twelve months after the reporting period.]
other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets, post-employment benefit assets, and rights arising under insurance
contracts (i) located in the entity's country of domicile and (ii) located in all foreign countries in total in which the entity
holds assets. If assets in an individual foreign country are material, those assets shall be disclosed separately.
The amounts reported shall be based on the financial information that is used to produce the entity's financial
statements. If the necessary information is not available and the cost to develop it would be excessive, that fact shall be
disclosed. An entity may provide, in addition to the information required by this paragraph, subtotals of geographical
information about groups of countries.
Information about major customers
34. An entity shall provide information about the extent of its reliance on its major customers. If revenues from
transactions with a single external customer amount to 10 per cent or more of an entity's revenues, the entity shall
disclose that fact, the total amount of revenues from each such customer, and the identity of the segment or segments
reporting the revenues. The entity need not disclose the identity of a major customer or the amount of revenues that
each segment reports from that customer. For the purposes of this Ind AS, a group of entities known to a reporting entity
to be under common control shall be considered a single customer. However, judgement is required to assess whether
a government (including government agencies and similar bodies whether local, national or international) and entities
known to the reporting entity to be under the control of that government are considered a single customer. In assessing
this, the reporting entity shall consider the extent of economic integration between those entities.
Page 151/765
----- PAGE 152 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Appendix A
Defined term
This Appendix is an integral
part of the Ind AS.
operating segment
An operating segment is a component of an
entity:
(a) that engages in business activities from
which it may earn revenues and incur expenses (including revenues
and expenses relating to transactions with other components of
the same entity),
(b) whose operating results are regularly
reviewed by the entity's chief operating decision maker to make
decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and
assess its performance, and
(c) for which discrete financial information is
available.
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 108 and the corresponding International
Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 8, Operating Segments, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IFRS 8, Operating Segments
1. The transitional provisions given in IFRS 108 has not been given in Ind AS 108, since all transitional provisions
related to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate, have been included in Ind AS 101, First-time Adoption of Indian
Accounting Standards, corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
2. Different terminology is used, as used in existing laws e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of
financial position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'.
3. Paragraph 2 of IFRS 8 requires that the standard shall apply to :
(a)
the separate or individual financial statements of an entity:
(i)
whose debt or equity instruments are traded in a public market (a domestic or foreign stock exchange or an
over-the-counter market, including local and regional markets), or
(ii)
that files, or is in the process of filing, its financial statements with a securities commission or other regulatory
organisation for the purpose of issuing any class of instruments in a public market; and
(b)
the consolidated financial statements of a group with a parent:
(i)
whose debt or equity instruments are traded in a public market (a domestic or foreign stock exchange or an
over-the-counter market, including local and regional markets), or
(ii)
that files, or is in the process of filing, the consolidated financial statements with a securities commission or other
regulatory organisation for the purpose of issuing any class of instruments in a public market.
The above have been deleted in the Ind AS as the applicability or exemptions to the Indian Accounting Standards is
governed by the Companies Act and the Rules made thereunder. However, the paragraph number has been retained in
Ind AS 108 to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IFRS 8.
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 109
Financial Instruments
(The Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Page 152/765
----- PAGE 153 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Chapter 1
Objective
1.
1. The objective of this Standard is to establish principles for the financial reporting of financial assets and financial
liabilities that will present relevant and useful information to users of financial statements for their assessment of the
amounts, timing and uncertainty of an entity's future cash flows.
Chapter 2
Scope
2.
1. This Standard shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments except:
(a)
those interests in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures that are accounted for in accordance with Ind AS110
Consolidated Financial Statements, Ind AS 27 Separate Financial Statements or Ind AS 28 Investments in Associates
and Joint Ventures. However, in some cases, Ind AS110, Ind AS 27 or Ind AS 28 require or permit an entity to account
for an interest in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture in accordance with some or all of the requirements of this
Standard. Entities shall also apply this Standard to derivatives on an interest in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture
unless the derivative meets the definition of an equity instrument of the entity in Ind AS 32 Financial Instruments:
Presentation.
(b)
[ rights and obligations under leases to which Ind AS 116, Leases applies. However:
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(i)
finance lease receivables (i.e. net investments in finance leases) and operating lease receivables recognised by a lessor
are subject to the derecognition and impairment requirements of this Standard;
(ii)
lease liabilities recognised by a lessee are subject to the derecognition requirements in paragraph 3.3.1 of this Standard;
and
(iii)
derivatives that are embedded in leases are subject to the embedded derivatives requirements of this Standard.]
(c)
employers' rights and obligations under employee benefit plans, to which Ind AS 19 Employee Benefits applies.
(d)
financial instruments issued by the entity that meet the definition of an equity instrument in Ind AS 32 (including options
and warrants) or that are required to be classified as an equity instrument in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 16B
or paragraphs 16C and 16D of Ind AS 32. However, the holder of such equity instruments shall apply this Standard to
those instruments, unless they meet the exception in (a).
(e)
rights and obligations arising under (i) an insurance contract as defined in Ind AS 104 Insurance Contracts, other than
an issuer's rights and obligations arising under an insurance contract that meets the definition of a financial guarantee
contract, or (ii) a contract that is within the scope of Ind AS104 because it contains a discretionary participation feature.
However, this Standard applies to a derivative that is embedded in a contract within the scope of Ind AS104 if the
derivative is not itself a contract within the scope of Ind AS104. Moreover, if an issuer of financial guarantee contracts
has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting that is
applicable to insurance contracts, the issuer may elect to apply either this Standard or Ind AS104 to such financial
guarantee contracts (see paragraphs B2.5-B2.6). The issuer may make that election contract by contract, but the
election for each contract is irrevocable.
(f)
any forward contract between an acquirer and a selling shareholder to buy or sell an acquiree that will result in a
business combination within the scope of Ind AS103 Business Combinations at a future acquisition date. The term of the
forward contract should not exceed a reasonable period normally necessary to obtain any required approvals and to
complete the transaction.
Page 153/765
----- PAGE 154 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(g)
loan commitments other than those loan commitments described in paragraph 2.3. However, an issuer of loan
commitments shall apply the impairment requirements of this Standard to loan commitments that are not otherwise
within the scope of this Standard. Also, all loan commitments are subject to the derecognition requirements of this
Standard.
(h)
financial instruments, contracts and obligations under share-based payment transactions to which Ind AS102
Share-based Payment applies, except for contracts within the scope of paragraphs 2.4-2.7 of this Standard to which this
Standard applies.
(i)
rights to payments to reimburse the entity for expenditure that it is required to make to settle a liability that it recognises
as a provision in accordance with Ind AS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, or for which, in an
earlier period, it recognized a provision in accordance with Ind AS 37.
(j)
[ rights and obligations within the scope of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, that are financial
instruments, except for those that Ind AS 115 specifies are accounted for in accordance with this Standard.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
2. [2 The impairment requirements of this Standard shall be applied to those rights that Ind AS 115 specifies are
accounted for in accordance with this Standard for the purposes of recognising impairment gains or losses.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
2.3
The following loan commitments are within the scope of this Standard:
(a)
loan commitments that the entity designates as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (see paragraph
4.2.2). An entity that has a past practice of selling the assets resulting from its loan commitments shortly after origination
shall apply this Standard to all its loan commitments in the same class.
(b)
loan commitments that can be settled net in cash or by delivering or issuing another financial instrument. These loan
commitments are derivatives. A loan commitment is not regarded as settled net merely because the loan is paid out in
instalments (for example, a mortgage construction loan that is paid out in instalments in line with the progress of
construction).
(c)
commitments to provide a loan at a below-market interest rate (see paragraph 4.2.1(d)).
2.4
This Standard shall be applied to those contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or
another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, as if the contracts were financial instruments, with
the exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a
non-financial item in accordance with the entity's expected purchase, sale or usage requirements. However, this
Standard shall be applied to those contracts that an entity designates as measured at fair value through profit or loss in
accordance with paragraph 2.5.
2.5
A contract to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or another financial instrument, or by
exchanging financial instruments, as if the contract was a financial instrument, may be irrevocably designated as
measured at fair value through profit or loss even if it was entered into for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a
non-financial item in accordance with the entity's expected purchase, sale or usage requirements. This designation is
available only at inception of the contract and only if it eliminates or significantly reduces a recognition inconsistency
(sometimes referred to as an 'accounting mismatch') that would otherwise arise from not recognising that contract
because it is excluded from the scope of this Standard (see paragraph 2.4).
2.6
There are various ways in which a contract to buy or sell a non-financial item can be settled net in cash or another
financial instrument or by exchanging financial instruments. These include:
Page 154/765
----- PAGE 155 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
when the terms of the contract permit either party to settle it net in cash or another financial instrument or by exchanging
financial instruments;
(b)
when the ability to settle net in cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, is not
explicit in the terms of the contract, but the entity has a practice of settling similar contracts net in cash or another
financial instrument or by exchanging financial instruments (whether with the counter-party, by entering into offsetting
contracts or by selling the contract before its exercise or lapse);
(c)
when, for similar contracts, the entity has a practice of taking delivery of the underlying and selling it within a short period
after delivery for the purpose of generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in price or dealer's margin; and
(d)
when the non-financial item that is the subject of the contract is readily convertible to cash. A contract to which (b) or (c)
applies is not entered into for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial item in accordance with the
entity's expected purchase, sale or usage requirements and, accordingly, is within the scope of this Standard. Other
contracts to which paragraph 2.4 applies are evaluated to determine whether they were entered into and continue to be
held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial item in accordance with the entity's expected
purchase, sale or usage requirements and, accordingly, whether they are within the scope of this Standard.
2.7
A written option to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or another financial instrument, or by
exchanging financial instruments, in accordance with paragraph 2.6(a) or 2.6(d) is within the scope of this Standard.
Such a contract cannot be entered into for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial item in accordance
with the entity's expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
Chapter 3
Recognition and derecognition
3.
1. Initial recognition
3.1.1
An entity shall recognise a financial asset or a financial liability in its balance sheet when, and only when, the entity
becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument (see paragraphs B3.1.1 and B3.1.2). When an entity first
recognises a financial asset, it shall classify it in accordance with paragraphs 4.1.1-4.1.5 and measure it in accordance
with paragraphs 5.1.1-5.1.3. When an entity first recognises a financial liability, it shall classify it in accordance with
paragraphs 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 and measure it in accordance with paragraph 5.1.1.
Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets
3.1.2
A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets shall be recognized and derecognized, as applicable, using trade date
accounting or settlement date accounting (see paragraphs B3.1.3-B3.1.6).
3.2
Derecognition of financial assets
3.2.1
In consolidated financial statements, paragraphs 3.2.2-3.2.9, B3.1.1, B3.1.2 and B3.2.1-B3.2.17 are applied at a
consolidated level. Hence, an entity first consolidates all subsidiaries in accordance with Ind AS110 and then applies
those paragraphs to the resulting group.
3.2.2
Before evaluating whether, and to what extent, derecognition is appropriate under paragraphs 3.2.3-3.2.9, an entity
determines whether those paragraphs should be applied to a part of a financial asset (or a part of a group of similar
financial assets) or a financial asset (or a group of similar financial assets) in its entirety, as follows.
(a)
Paragraphs 3.2.3-3.2.9 are applied to a part of a financial asset (or a part of a group of similar financial assets) if, and
only if, the part being considered for derecognition meets one of the following three conditions.
(i)
Page 155/765
----- PAGE 156 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
The part comprises only specifically identified cash flows from a financial asset (or a group of similar financial assets).
For example, when an entity enters into an interest rate strip whereby the counter-party obtains the right to the interest
cash flows, but not the principal cash flows from a debt instrument, paragraphs 3.2.3-3.2.9 are applied to the interest
cash flows.
(ii)
The part comprises only a fully proportionate (pro rata) share of the cash flows from a financial asset (or a group of
similar financial assets). For example, when an entity enters into an arrangement whereby the counter-party obtains the
rights to a 90 per cent share of all cash flows of a debt instrument, paragraphs 3.2.3-3.2.9 are applied to 90 per cent of
those cash flows. If there is more than one counter-party, each counter-party is not required to have a proportionate
share of the cash flows provided that the transferring entity has a fully proportionate share.
(iii)
The part comprises only a fully proportionate (pro rata) share of specifically identified cash flows from a financial asset
(or a group of similar financial assets). For example, when an entity enters into an arrangement whereby the
counter-party obtains the rights to a 90 per cent share of interest cash flows from a financial asset, paragraphs
3.2.3-3.2.9 are applied to 90 per cent of those interest cash flows. If there is more than one counter-party, each
counter-party is not required to have a proportionate share of the specifically identified cash flows provided that the
transferring entity has a fully proportionate share.
(b)
In all other cases, paragraphs 3.2.3-3.2.9 are applied to the financial asset in its entirety (or to the group of similar
financial assets in their entirety). For example, when an entity transfers (i) the rights to the first or the last 90 per cent of
cash collections from a financial asset (or a group of financial assets), or (ii) the rights to 90 per cent of the cash flows
from a group of receivables, but provides a guarantee to compensate the buyer for any credit losses up to 8 per cent of
the principal amount of the receivables, paragraphs 3.2.3-3.2.9 are applied to the financial asset (or a group of similar
financial assets) in its entirety.
In paragraphs 3.2.3-3.2.12, the term 'financial asset' refers to either a part of a financial asset (or a part of a group of
similar financial assets) as identified in (a) above or, otherwise, a financial asset (or a group of similar financial assets) in
its entirety.
3.2.3
An entity shall derecognise a financial asset when, and only when:
(a)
the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or
(b)
it transfers the financial asset as set out in paragraphs 3.2.4 and 3.2.5 and the transfer qualifies for derecognition in
accordance with paragraph 3.2.6.
(See paragraph 3.1.2 for regular way sales of financial assets.)
3.2.4
An entity transfers a financial asset if, and only if, it either:
(a)
transfers the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset, or
(b)
retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay
the cash flows to one or more recipients in an arrangement that meets the conditions in paragraph 3.2.5.
3.2.5
When an entity retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of a financial asset (the 'original asset'), but
assumes a contractual obligation to pay those cash flows to one or more entities (the 'eventual recipients'), the entity
treats the transaction as a transfer of a financial asset if, and only if, all of the following three conditions are met.
(a)
The entity has no obligation to pay amounts to the eventual recipients unless it collects equivalent amounts from the
original asset. Short-term advances by the entity with the right of full recovery of the amount lent plus accrued interest at
market rates do not violate this condition.
(b)
Page 156/765
----- PAGE 157 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
The entity is prohibited by the terms of the transfer contract from selling or pledging the original asset other than as
security to the eventual recipients for the obligation to pay them cash flows.
(c)
The entity has an obligation to remit any cash flows it collects on behalf of the eventual recipients without material delay.
In addition, the entity is not entitled to reinvest such cash flows, except for investments in cash or cash equivalents (as
defined in Ind AS 7 Statement of Cash Flows) during the short settlement period from the collection date to the date of
required remittance to the eventual recipients, and interest earned on such investments is passed to the eventual
recipients.
3.2.6
When an entity transfers a financial asset (see paragraph 3.2.4), it shall evaluate the extent to which it retains the risks
and rewards of ownership of the financial asset. In this case:
(a)
if the entity transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, the entity shall
derecognise the financial asset and recognise separately as assets or liabilities any rights and obligations created or
retained in the transfer.
(b)
if the entity retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, the entity shall continue to
recognise the financial asset.
(c)
if the entity neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, the
entity shall determine whether it has retained control of the financial asset. In this case:
(i)
if the entity has not retained control, it shall derecognise the financial asset and recognise separately as assets or
liabilities any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer.
(ii)
if the entity has retained control, it shall continue to recognise the financial asset to the extent of its continuing
involvement in the financial asset (see paragraph 3.2.16).
3.2.7
The transfer of risks and rewards (see paragraph 3.2.6) is evaluated by comparing the entity's exposure, before and
after the transfer, with the variability in the amounts and timing of the net cash flows of the transferred asset. An entity
has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a financial asset if its exposure to the variability in the
present value of the future net cash flows from the financial asset does not change significantly as a result of the transfer
(e.g. because the entity has sold a financial asset subject to an agreement to buy it back at a fixed price or the sale price
plus a lender's return). An entity has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a financial asset if
its exposure to such variability is no longer significant in relation to the total variability in the present value of the future
net cash flows associated with the financial asset (e.g. because the entity has sold a financial asset subject only to an
option to buy it back at its fair value at the time of repurchase or has transferred a fully proportionate share of the cash
flows from a larger financial asset in an arrangement, such as a loan sub-participation, that meets the conditions in
paragraph 3.2.5).
3.2.8
Often it will be obvious whether the entity has transferred or retained substantially all risks and rewards of ownership
and there will be no need to perform any computations. In other cases, it will be necessary to compute and compare the
entity's exposure to the variability in the present value of the future net cash flows before and after the transfer. The
computation and comparison are made using as the discount rate an appropriate current market interest rate. All
reasonably possible variability in net cash flows is considered, with greater weight being given to those outcomes that
are more likely to occur.
3.2.9
Whether the entity has retained control (see paragraph 3.2.6(c)) of the transferred asset depends on the transferee's
ability to sell the asset. If the transferee has the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party
and is able to exercise that ability unilaterally and without needing to impose additional restrictions on the transfer, the
entity has not retained control. In all other cases, the entity has retained control.
Page 157/765
----- PAGE 158 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Transfers that qualify for derecognition
3.2.10
If an entity transfers a financial asset in a transfer that qualifies for derecognition in its entirety and retains the right to
service the financial asset for a fee, it shall recognise either a servicing asset or a servicing liability for that servicing
contract. If the fee to be received is not expected to compensate the entity adequately for performing the servicing, a
servicing liability for the servicing obligation shall be recognized at its fair value. If the fee to be received is expected to
be more than adequate compensation for the servicing, a servicing asset shall be recognized for the servicing right at an
amount determined on the basis of an allocation of the carrying amount of the larger financial asset in accordance with
paragraph 3.2.13.
3.2.11
If, as a result of a transfer, a financial asset is derecognized in its entirety but the transfer results in the entity obtaining a
new financial asset or assuming a new financial liability, or a servicing liability, the entity shall recognise the new
financial asset, financial liability or servicing liability at fair value.
3.2.12
On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between:
(a)
the carrying amount (measured at the date of derecognition) and
(b)
the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed)
shall be recognized in profit or loss.
3.2.13
If the transferred asset is part of a larger financial asset (e.g. when an entity transfers interest cash flows that are part of
a debt instrument, see paragraph 3.2.2(a)) and the part transferred qualifies for derecognition in its entirety, the previous
carrying amount of the larger financial asset shall be allocated between the part that continues to be recognized and the
part that is derecognized, on the basis of the relative fair values of those parts on the date of the transfer. For this
purpose, a retained servicing asset shall be treated as a part that continues to be recognized. The difference between:
(a)
the carrying amount (measured at the date of derecognition) allocated to the part derecognized and
(b)
the consideration received for the part derecognized (including any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed)
shall be recognized in profit or loss.
3.2.14
When an entity allocates the previous carrying amount of a larger financial asset between the part that continues to be
recognized and the part that is derecognized, the fair value of the part that continues to be recognized needs to be
measured. When the entity has a history of selling parts similar to the part that continues to be recognized or other
market transactions exist for such parts, recent prices of actual transactions provide the best estimate of its fair value.
When there are no price quotes or recent market transactions to support the fair value of the part that continues to be
recognized, the best estimate of the fair value is the difference between the fair value of the larger financial asset as a
whole and the consideration received from the transferee for the part that is derecognized.
Transfers that do not qualify for derecognition
3.2.15
If a transfer does not result in derecognition because the entity has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership of the transferred asset, the entity shall continue to recognise the transferred asset in its entirety and shall
recognise a financial liability for the consideration received. In subsequent periods, the entity shall recognise any income
on the transferred asset and any expense incurred on the financial liability.
Continuing involvement in transferred assets
3.2.16
If an entity neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred asset, and
retains control of the transferred asset, the entity continues to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of its
continuing involvement. The extent of the entity's continuing involvement in the transferred asset is the extent to which it
is exposed to changes in the value of the transferred asset. For example:
Page 158/765
----- PAGE 159 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
When the entity's continuing involvement takes the form of guaranteeing the transferred asset, the extent of the entity's
continuing involvement is the lower of (i) the amount of the asset and (ii) the maximum amount of the consideration
received that the entity could be required to repay ('the guarantee amount').
(b)
When the entity's continuing involvement takes the form of a written or purchased option (or both) on the transferred
asset, the extent of the entity's continuing involvement is the amount of the transferred asset that the entity may
repurchase. However, in the case of a written put option on an asset that is measured at fair value, the extent of the
entity's continuing involvement is limited to the lower of the fair value of the transferred asset and the option exercise
price (see paragraph B3.2.13).
(c)
When the entity's continuing involvement takes the form of a cash-settled option or similar provision on the transferred
asset, the extent of the entity's continuing involvement is measured in the same way as that which results from non-cash
settled options as set out in (b) above.
3.2.17
When an entity continues to recognise an asset to the extent of its continuing involvement, the entity also recognises an
associated liability. Despite the other measurement requirements in this Standard, the transferred asset and the
associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the entity has retained. The
associated liability is measured in such a way that the net carrying amount of the transferred asset and the associated
liability is:
(a)
the amortised cost of the rights and obligations retained by the entity, if the transferred asset is measured at amortised
cost, or
(b)
equal to the fair value of the rights and obligations retained by the entity when measured on a stand-alone basis, if the
transferred asset is measured at fair value.
3.2.18
The entity shall continue to recognise any income arising on the transferred asset to the extent of its continuing
involvement and shall recognise any expense incurred on the associated liability.
3.2.19
For the purpose of subsequent measurement, recognized changes in the fair value of the transferred asset and the
associated liability are accounted for consistently with each other in accordance with paragraph 5.7.1, and shall not be
offset.
3.2.20
If an entity's continuing involvement is in only a part of a financial asset (e.g. when an entity retains an option to
repurchase part of a transferred asset, or retains a residual interest that does not result in the retention of substantially
all the risks and rewards of ownership and the entity retains control), the entity allocates the previous carrying amount of
the financial asset between the part it continues to recognise under continuing involvement, and the part it no longer
recognises on the basis of the relative fair values of those parts on the date of the transfer. For this purpose, the
requirements of paragraph 3.2.14 apply. The difference between:
(a)
the carrying amount (measured at the date of derecognition) allocated to the part that is no longer recognized and
(b)
the consideration received for the part no longer recognized shall be recognized in profit or loss.
3.2.21
If the transferred asset is measured at amortised cost, the option in this Standard to designate a financial liability as at
fair value through profit or loss is not applicable to the associated liability.
All transfers
3.2.22
If a transferred asset continues to be recognized, the asset and the associated liability shall not be offset. Similarly, the
entity shall not offset any income arising from the transferred asset with any expense incurred on the associated liability
Page 159/765
----- PAGE 160 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(see paragraph 42 of Ind AS 32).
3.2.23
If a transferor provides non-cash collateral (such as debt or equity instruments) to the transferee, the accounting for the
collateral by the transferor and the transferee depends on whether the transferee has the right to sell or repledge the
collateral and on whether the transferor has defaulted. The transferor and transferee shall account for the collateral as
follows:
(a)
If the transferee has the right by contract or custom to sell or repledge the collateral, then the transferor shall reclassify
that asset in its balance sheet (e.g. as a loaned asset, pledged equity instruments or repurchase receivable) separately
from other assets.
(b)
If the transferee sells collateral pledged to it, it shall recognise the proceeds from the sale and a liability measured at fair
value for its obligation to return the collateral.
(c)
If the transferor defaults under the terms of the contract and is no longer entitled to redeem the collateral, it shall
derecognise the collateral, and the transferee shall recognise the collateral as its asset initially measured at fair value or,
if it has already sold the collateral, derecognise its obligation to return the collateral.
(d)
Except as provided in (c), the transferor shall continue to carry the collateral as its asset, and the transferee shall not
recognise the collateral as an asset.
3.3
Derecognition of financial liabilities
3.3.1
An entity shall remove a financial liability (or a part of a financial liability) from its balance sheet when, and only when, it
is extinguished-i.e. when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged or canceled or expires.
3.3.2
An exchange between an existing borrower and lender of debt instruments with substantially different terms shall be
accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
Similarly, a substantial modification of the terms of an existing financial liability or a part of it (whether or not attributable
to the financial difficulty of the debtor) shall be accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and
the recognition of a new financial liability.
3.3.3
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability (or part of a financial liability) extinguished or
transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed,
shall be recognized in profit or loss.
3.3.4
If an entity repurchases a part of a financial liability, the entity shall allocate the previous carrying amount of the financial
liability between the part that continues to be recognized and the part that is derecognized based on the relative fair
values of those parts on the date of the repurchase. The difference between (a) the carrying amount allocated to the part
derecognized and (b) the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, for the
part derecognized shall be recognized in profit or loss.
Chapter 4
Classification
4.
1. Classification of financial assets
4.1.1
Unless paragraph 4.1.5 applies, an entity shall classify financial assets as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair
value through other comprehensive income or fair value through profit or loss on the basis of both:
(a)
the entity's business model for managing the financial assets and
(b)
Page 160/765
----- PAGE 161 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
4.1.2
A financial asset shall be measured at amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met:
(a)
the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect
contractual cash flows and
(b)
the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Paragraphs B4.1.1-B4.1.26 provide guidance on how to apply these conditions.
4.1.2
A A financial asset shall be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if both of the following
conditions are met:
(a)
the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows
and selling financial assets and
(b)
the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Paragraphs B4.1.1-B4.1.26 provide guidance on how to apply these conditions.
4.1.3
For the purpose of applying paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b):
(a)
principal is the fair value of the financial asset at initial recognition. Paragraph B4.1.7B provides additional guidance on
the meaning of principal.
(b)
interest consists of consideration for the time value of money, for the credit risk associated with the principal amount
outstanding during a particular period of time and for other basic lending risks and costs, as well as a profit margin.
Paragraphs B4.1.7A and B4.1.9A-B4.1.9E provide additional guidance on the meaning of interest, including the meaning
of the time value of money.
4.1.4
A financial asset shall be measured at fair value through profit or loss unless it is measured at amortised cost in
accordance with paragraph 4.1.2 or at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph
4.1.2A. However an entity may make an irrevocable election at initial recognition for particular investments in equity
instruments that would otherwise be measured at fair value through profit or loss to present subsequent changes in fair
value in other comprehensive income (see paragraphs 5.7.5-5.7.6).
Option to designate a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss
4.1.5
Despite paragraphs 4.1.1-4.1.4, an entity may, at initial recognition, irrevocably designate a financial asset as measured
at fair value through profit or loss if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition
inconsistency (sometimes referred to as an 'accounting mismatch') that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or
liabilities or recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases (see paragraphs B4.1.29-B4.1.32).
4.2
Classification of financial liabilities
4.2.1
An entity shall classify all financial liabilities as subsequently measured at amortised cost, except for:
(a)
financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Such liabilities, including derivatives that are liabilities, shall be
subsequently measured at fair value.
(b)
financial liabilities that arise when a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition or when the continuing
Page 161/765
----- PAGE 162 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
involvement approach applies. Paragraphs 3.2.15 and 3.2.17 apply to the measurement of such financial liabilities.
(c)
financial guarantee contracts. After initial recognition, an issuer of such a contract shall [unless paragraph 4.2.1(a) or (b)
applies] subsequently measure it at the higher of:
(i)
the amount of the loss allowance determined in accordance with Section 5.5 and
(ii)
[ the amount initially recognised (see paragraph 5.1.1) less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income
recognised in accordance with the principles of Ind AS 115.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(d)
commitments to provide a loan at a below-market interest rate. An issuer of such a commitment shall [unless paragraph
4.2.1(a) applies] subsequently measure it at the higher of:
(i)
the amount of the loss allowance determined in accordance with Section 5.5 and
(ii)
[ the amount initially recognised (see paragraph 5.1.1) less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income
recognised in accordance with the principles of Ind AS 115.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(e)
contingent consideration recognized by an acquirer in a business combination to which Ind AS103 applies. Such
contingent consideration shall subsequently be measured at fair value with changes recognized in profit or loss.
Option to designate a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss
4.2.2
An entity may, at initial recognition, irrevocably designate a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or
loss when permitted by paragraph 4.3.5, or when doing so results in more relevant information, because either:
(a)
it eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency (sometimes referred to as 'an
accounting mismatch') that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or recognising the gains and
losses on them on different bases (see paragraphs B4.1.29-B4.1.32); or
(b)
a group of financial liabilities or financial assets and financial liabilities is managed and its performance is evaluated on a
fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the
group is provided internally on that basis to the entity's key management personnel (as defined in Ind AS 24 Related
Party Disclosures), for example, the entity's board of directors and chief executive officer (see paragraphs
B4.1.33-B4.1.36).
4.3
Embedded derivatives
4.3.1
An embedded derivative is a component of a hybrid contract that also includes a non-derivative host-with the effect that
some of the cash flows of the combined instrument vary in a way similar to a stand-alone derivative. An embedded
derivative causes some or all of the cash flows that otherwise would be required by the contract to be modified
according to a specified interest rate, financial instrument price, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices
or rates, credit rating or credit index, or other variable, provided in the case of a non-financial variable that the variable is
not specific to a party to the contract. A derivative that is attached to a financial instrument but is contractually
transferable independently of that instrument, or has a different counter-party, is not an embedded derivative, but a
separate financial instrument.
Hybrid contracts with financial asset hosts
4.3.2
If a hybrid contract contains a host that is an asset within the scope of this Standard, an entity shall apply the
requirements in paragraphs 4.1.1-4.1.5 to the entire hybrid contract.
Page 162/765
----- PAGE 163 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Other hybrid contracts
4.3.3
If a hybrid contract contains a host that is not an asset within the scope of this Standard, an embedded derivative shall
be separated from the host and accounted for as a derivative under this Standard if, and only if:
(a)
the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to the economic
characteristics and risks of the host (see paragraphs B4.3.5 and B4.3.8);
(b)
a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a derivative; and
(c)
the hybrid contract is not measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss (i.e. a derivative
that is embedded in a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss is not separated).
4.3.4
If an embedded derivative is separated, the host contract shall be accounted for in accordance with the appropriate
Standards. This Standard does not address whether an embedded derivative shall be presented separately in the
balance sheet.
4.3.5
Despite paragraphs 4.3.3 and 4.3.4, if a contract contains one or more embedded derivatives and the host is not an
asset within the scope of this Standard, an entity may designate the entire hybrid contract as at fair value through profit
or loss unless:
(a)
the embedded derivative(s) do(es) not significantly modify the cash flows that otherwise would be required by the
contract; or
(b)
it is clear with little or no analysis when a similar hybrid instrument is first considered that separation of the embedded
derivative(s) is prohibited, such as a prepayment option embedded in a loan that permits the holder to prepay the loan
for approximately its amortised cost.
4.3.6
If an entity is required by this Standard to separate an embedded derivative from its host, but is unable to measure the
embedded derivative separately either at acquisition or at the end of a subsequent financial reporting period, it shall
designate the entire hybrid contract as at fair value through profit or loss.
4.3.7
If an entity is unable to measure reliably the fair value of an embedded derivative on the basis of its terms and
conditions, the fair value of the embedded derivative is the difference between the fair value of the hybrid contract and
the fair value of the host. If the entity is unable to measure the fair value of the embedded derivative using this method,
paragraph 4.3.6 applies and the hybrid contract is designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
4.4
Reclassification
4.4.1
When, and only when, an entity changes its business model for managing financial assets it shall reclassify all affected
financial assets in accordance with paragraphs 4.1.1-4.1.4. see paragraphs 5.6.1-5.6.7, B4.4.1-B4.4.3 and
B5.6.1-B5.6.2 for additional guidance on reclassifying financial assets.
4.4.2
An entity shall not reclassify any financial liability.
4.4.3
The following changes in circumstances are not re-classifications for the purposes of paragraphs 4.4.1-4.4.2:
(a)
an item that was previously a designated and effective hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge or net investment hedge
no longer qualifies as such;
(b)
an item becomes a designated and effective hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge or net investment hedge; and
Page 163/765
----- PAGE 164 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(c)
changes in measurement in accordance with Section 6.7.
Chapter 5
Measurement
5.
1. Initial measurement
5. [1.1. Except for trade receivables within the scope of paragraph 5.1.3, at initial recognition, an entity shall measure a
financial asset or financial liability at its fair value plus or minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at
fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial
asset or financial liability.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
5.1.1
A However, if the fair value of the financial asset or financial liability at initial recognition differs from the transaction
price, an entity shall apply paragraph B5.1.2A.
5.1.2
When an entity uses settlement date accounting for an asset that is subsequently measured at amortised cost, the asset
is recognized initially at its fair value on the trade date (see paragraphs B3.1.3-B3.1.6).
5. [1.3 Despite the requirement in paragraph 5.1.1, at initial recognition, an entity shall measure trade receivables at
their transaction price (as defined in Ind AS 115) if the trade receivables do not contain a significant financing
component in accordance with Ind AS 115 (or when the entity applies the practical expedient in accordance with
paragraph 63 of Ind AS 115).]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
5.2
Subsequent measurement of financial assets
5.2.1
After initial recognition, an entity shall measure a financial asset in accordance with paragraphs 4.1.1-4.1.5 at:
(a)
amortised cost;
(b)
fair value through other comprehensive income; or
(c)
fair value through profit or loss.
5.2.2
An entity shall apply the impairment requirements in Section 5.5 to financial assets that are measured at amortised cost
in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2 and to financial assets that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A.
5.2.3
An entity shall apply the hedge accounting requirements in paragraphs 6.5.8-6.5.14 to a financial asset that is
designated as a hedged item.
5.3
Subsequent measurement of financial liabilities
5.3.1
After initial recognition, an entity shall measure a financial liability in accordance with paragraphs 4.2.1-4.2.2.
5.3.2
An entity shall apply the hedge accounting requirements in paragraphs 6.5.8-6.5.14 to a financial liability that is
designated as a hedged item.
5.4
Amortised cost measurement
Financial assets
Effective interest method
5.4.1
Page 164/765
----- PAGE 165 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Interest revenue shall be calculated by using the effective interest method (see Appendix A and paragraphs
B5.4.1-B5.4.7). This shall be calculated by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of a financial
asset except for:
(a)
purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets. For those financial assets, the entity shall apply the
credit-adjusted effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset from initial recognition.
(b)
financial assets that are not purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets but subsequently have become
credit-impaired financial assets. For those financial assets, the entity shall apply the effective interest rate to the
amortised cost of the financial asset in subsequent reporting periods.
5.4.2
An entity that, in a reporting period, calculates interest revenue by applying the effective interest method to the
amortised cost of a financial asset in accordance with paragraph 5.4.1(b), shall, in subsequent reporting periods,
calculate the interest revenue by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount if the credit risk on the
financial instrument improves so that the financial asset is no longer credit-impaired and the improvement can be related
objectively to an event occurring after the requirements in paragraph 5.4.1(b) were applied (such as an improvement in
the borrower's credit rating).
Modification of contractual cash flows
5.4.3
When the contractual cash flows of a financial asset are renegotiated or otherwise modified and the renegotiation or
modification does not result in the derecognition of that financial asset in accordance with this Standard, an entity shall
recalculate the gross carrying amount of the financial asset and shall recognise a modification gain or loss in profit or
loss. The gross carrying amount of the financial asset shall be recalculated as the present value of the renegotiated or
modified contractual cash flows that are discounted at the financial asset's original effective interest rate (or
credit-adjusted effective interest rate for purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets) or, when applicable,
the revised effective interest rate calculated in accordance with paragraph 6.5.10. Any costs or fees incurred adjust the
carrying amount of the modified financial asset and are amortised over the remaining term of the modified financial
asset.
Write-off
5.4.4
An entity shall directly reduce the gross carrying amount of a financial asset when the entity has no reasonable
expectations of recovering a financial asset in its entirety or a portion thereof. A write-off constitutes a derecognition
event [see paragraph B3.2.16(r)].
5.5
Impairment
Recognition of expected credit losses
General approach
5. [5.1 An entity shall recognise a loss allowance for expected credit losses on a financial asset that is measured in
accordance with paragraphs 4.1.2 or 4.1.2A, a lease receivable, a contract asset or a loan commitment and a financial
guarantee contract to which the impairment requirements apply in accordance with paragraphs 2.1(g), 4.2.1(c) or
4.2.1(d).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
5.5.2
An entity shall apply the impairment requirements for the recognition and measurement of a loss allowance for financial
assets that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A.
However, the loss allowance shall be recognized in other comprehensive income and shall not reduce the carrying
amount of the financial asset in the balance sheet.
5.5.3
Subject to paragraphs 5.5.13-5.5.16, at each reporting date, an entity shall measure the loss allowance for a financial
instrument at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses if the credit risk on that financial instrument has
increased significantly since initial recognition.
Page 165/765
----- PAGE 166 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
5.5.4
The objective of the impairment requirements is to recognise lifetime expected credit losses for all financial instruments
for which there have been significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition - whether assessed on an individual
or collective basis - considering all reasonable and supportable information, including that which is forward-looking.
5.5.5
Subject to paragraphs 5.5.13-5.5.16, if, at the reporting date, the credit risk on a financial instrument has not increased
significantly since initial recognition, an entity shall measure the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount
equal to 12-month expected credit losses.
5.5.6
For loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts, the date that the entity becomes a party to the irrevocable
commitment shall be considered to be the date of initial recognition for the purposes of applying the impairment
requirements.
5.5.7
If an entity has measured the loss allowance for a financial instrument at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit
losses in the previous reporting period, but determines at the current reporting date that paragraph 5.5.3 is no longer
met, the entity shall measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses at the current
reporting date.
5.5.8
An entity shall recognise in profit or loss, as an impairment gain or loss, the amount of expected credit losses (or
reversal) that is required to adjust the loss allowance at the reporting date to the amount that is required to be
recognized in accordance with this Standard.
Determining significant increases in credit risk
5.5.9
At each reporting date, an entity shall assess whether the credit risk on a financial instrument has increased significantly
since initial recognition. When making the assessment, an entity shall use the change in the risk of a default occurring
over the expected life of the financial instrument instead of the change in the amount of expected credit losses. To make
that assessment, an entity shall compare the risk of a default occurring on the financial instrument as at the reporting
date with the risk of a default occurring on the financial instrument as at the date of initial recognition and consider
reasonable and supportable information, that is available without undue cost or effort, that is indicative of significant
increases in credit risk since initial recognition.
5.5.10
An entity may assume that the credit risk on a financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition
if the financial instrument is determined to have low credit risk at the reporting date (see paragraphs B5.5.22-B5.5.24).
5.5.11
If reasonable and supportable forward-looking information is available without undue cost or effort, an entity cannot rely
solely on past due information when determining whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition.
However, when information that is more forward-looking than past due status (either on an individual or a collective
basis) is not available without undue cost or effort, an entity may use past due information to determine whether there
have been significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition. Regardless of the way in which an entity assesses
significant increases in credit risk, there is a rebuttable presumption that the credit risk on a financial asset has
increased significantly since initial recognition when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. An entity
can rebut this presumption if the entity has reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost
or effort, that demonstrates that the credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition even though the
contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. When an entity determines that there have been significant
increases in credit risk before contractual payments are more than 30 days past due, the rebuttable presumption does
not apply.
Modified financial assets
5.5.12
If the contractual cash flows on a financial asset have been renegotiated or modified and the financial asset was not
derecognized, an entity shall assess whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk of the financial
instrument in accordance with paragraph 5.5.3 by comparing:
Page 166/765
----- PAGE 167 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
the risk of a default occurring at the reporting date (based on the modified contractual terms); and
(b)
the risk of a default occurring at initial recognition (based on the original, unmodified contractual terms).
Purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets
5.5.13
Despite paragraphs 5.5.3 and 5.5.5, at the reporting date, an entity shall only recognise the cumulative changes in
lifetime expected credit losses since initial recognition as a loss allowance for purchased or originated credit-impaired
financial assets.
5.5.14
At each reporting date, an entity shall recognise in profit or loss the amount of the change in lifetime expected credit
losses as an impairment gain or loss. An entity shall recognise favourable changes in lifetime expected credit losses as
an impairment gain, even if the lifetime expected credit losses are less than the amount of expected credit losses that
were included in the estimated cash flows on initial recognition.
Simplified approach for trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables
5. [5.15. Despite paragraphs 5.5.3 and 5.5.5, an entity shall always measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to
lifetime expected credit losses for:
(a)
trade receivables or contract asset that result from transactions that are within the scope of Ind AS 115, and that:
(i)
do not contain a significant financing component in accordance with Ind AS 115 (or when the entity applies the practical
expedient in accordance with paragraph 63 of Ind AS 115); or
(ii)
contain a significant financing component in accordance with Ind AS 115, if the entity chooses as its accounting policy to
measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. That accounting policy shall be
applied to all such trade receivables or contract assets but may be applied separately to trade receivables and contract
assets.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b) [ lease receivables that result from transactions that are within the scope of Ind AS 116, if the entity chooses as its
accounting policy to measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. That accounting
policy shall be applied to all lease receivables but may be applied separately to finance and operating lease
receivables.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
5.5.16
An entity may select its accounting policy for trade receivables, lease receivables and contract assets independently of
each other.
Measurement of expected credit losses
5.5.17
An entity shall measure expected credit losses of a financial instrument in a way that reflects:
(a)
an unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible outcomes;
(b)
the time value of money; and
(c)
reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort at the reporting date about past
events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions.
5.5.18
When measuring expected credit losses, an entity need not necessarily identify every possible scenario. However, it
shall consider the risk or probability that a credit loss occurs by reflecting the possibility that a credit loss occurs and the
possibility that no credit loss occurs, even if the possibility of a credit loss occurring is very low.
5.5.19
Page 167/765
----- PAGE 168 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
The maximum period to consider when measuring expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period (including
extension options) over which the entity is exposed to credit risk and not a longer period, even if that longer period is
consistent with business practice.
5.5.20
However, some financial instruments include both a loan and an undrawn commitment component and the entity's
contractual ability to demand repayment and cancel the undrawn commitment does not limit the entity's exposure to
credit losses to the contractual notice period. For such financial instruments, and only those financial instruments, the
entity shall measure expected credit losses over the period that the entity is exposed to credit risk and expected credit
losses would not be mitigated by credit risk management actions, even if that period extends beyond the maximum
contractual period.
5.6
Reclassification of financial assets
5.6.1
If an entity reclassifies financial assets in accordance with paragraph 4.4.1, it shall apply the reclassification
prospectively from the reclassification date. The entity shall not restate any previously recognized gains, losses
(including impairment gains or losses) or interest. Paragraphs 5.6.2-5.6.7 set out the requirements for reclassifications.
5.6.2
If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the amortised cost measurement category and into the fair value through
profit or loss measurement category, its fair value is measured at the reclassification date. Any gain or loss arising from
a difference between the previous amortised cost of the financial asset and fair value is recognized in profit or loss.
5.6.3
If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss measurement category and into the
amortised cost measurement category, its fair value at the reclassification date becomes its new gross carrying amount.
(See paragraph B5.6.2 for guidance on determining an effective interest rate and a loss allowance at the reclassification
date.)
5.6.4
If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the amortised cost measurement category and into the fair value through
other comprehensive income measurement category, its fair value is measured at the reclassification date. Any gain or
loss arising from a difference between the previous amortised cost of the financial asset and fair value is recognized in
other comprehensive income. The effective interest rate and the measurement of expected credit losses are not
adjusted as a result of the reclassification. (See paragraph B5.6.1.)
5.6.5
If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement
category and into the amortised cost measurement category, the financial asset is reclassified at its fair value at the
reclassification date. However, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income is
removed from equity and adjusted against the fair value of the financial asset at the reclassification date. As a result, the
financial asset is measured at the reclassification date as if it had always been measured at amortised cost. This
adjustment affects other comprehensive income but does not affect profit or loss and therefore is not a reclassification
adjustment (see Ind AS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements). The effective interest rate and the measurement of
expected credit losses are not adjusted as a result of the reclassification. (See paragraph B5.6.1.)
5.6.6
If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss measurement category and into the fair
value through other comprehensive income measurement category, the financial asset continues to be measured at fair
value. (See paragraph B5.6.2 for guidance on determining an effective interest rate and a loss allowance at the
reclassification date.)
5.6.7
If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement
category and into the fair value through profit or loss measurement category, the financial asset continues to be
measured at fair value. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income is reclassified
from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see Ind AS 1) at the reclassification date.
5.7
Page 168/765
----- PAGE 169 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Gains and losses
5.7.1
A gain or loss on a financial asset or financial liability that is measured at fair value shall be recognized in profit or loss
unless:
(a)
it is part of a hedging relationship (see paragraphs 6.5.8-6.5.14);
(b)
it is an investment in an equity instrument and the entity has elected to present gains and losses on that investment in
other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5;
(c)
it is a financial liability designated as at fair value through profit or loss and the entity is required to present the effects of
changes in the liability's credit risk in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.7; or
(d)
it is a financial asset measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A
and the entity is required to recognise some changes in fair value in other comprehensive income in accordance with
paragraph 5.7.10.
5.7.1
A Dividends are recognized in profit or loss only when:
(a)
the entity's right to receive payment of the dividend is established;
(b)
it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the entity; and
(c)
the amount of the dividend can be measured reliably.
5.7.2
A gain or loss on a financial asset that is measured at amortised cost and is not part of a hedging relationship (see
paragraphs 6.5.8-6.5.14) shall be recognized in profit or loss when the financial asset is derecognized, reclassified in
accordance with paragraph 5.6.2, through the amortisation process or in order to recognise impairment gains or losses.
An entity shall apply paragraphs 5.6.2 and 5.6.4 if it reclassifies financial assets out of the amortised cost measurement
category. A gain or loss on a financial liability that is measured at amortised cost and is not part of a hedging relationship
(see paragraphs 6.5.8-6.5.14) shall be recognized in profit or loss when the financial liability is derecognized and
through the amortisation process. (See paragraph B5.7.2 for guidance on foreign exchange gains or losses.)
5.7.3
A gain or loss on financial assets or financial liabilities that are hedged items in a hedging relationship shall be
recognized in accordance with paragraphs 6.5.8-6.5.14.
5.7.4
If an entity recognises financial assets using settlement date accounting (see paragraphs 3.1.2, B3.1.3 and B3.1.6), any
change in the fair value of the asset to be received during the period between the trade date and the settlement date is
not recognized for assets measured at amortised cost. For assets measured at fair value, however, the change in fair
value shall be recognized in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income, as appropriate in accordance with
paragraph 5.7.1. The trade date shall be considered the date of initial recognition for the purposes of applying the
impairment requirements.
Investments in equity instruments
5.7.5
At initial recognition, an entity may make an irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive income subsequent
changes in the fair value of an investment in an equity instrument within the scope of this Standard that is neither held
for trading nor contingent consideration recognized by an acquirer in a business combination to which Ind AS103
applies. (See paragraph B5.7.3 for guidance on foreign exchange gains or losses.)
5.7.6
If an entity makes the election in paragraph 5.7.5, it shall recognise in profit or loss dividends from that investment in
accordance with paragraph 5.7.1A.
Page 169/765
----- PAGE 170 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss
5.7.7
An entity shall present a gain or loss on a financial liability that is designated as at fair value through profit or loss in
accordance with paragraph 4.2.2 or paragraph 4.3.5 as follows:
(a)
The amount of change in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of that
liability shall be presented in other comprehensive income (see paragraphs B5.7.13-B5.7.20), and
(b)
the remaining amount of change in the fair value of the liability shall be presented in profit or loss unless the treatment of
the effects of changes in the liability's credit risk described in (a) would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in
profit or loss (in which case paragraph 5.7.8 applies). Paragraphs B5.7.5-B5.7.7 and B5.7.10-B5.7.12 provide guidance
on determining whether an accounting mismatch would be created or enlarged.
5.7.8
If the requirements in paragraph 5.7.7 would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss, an entity shall
present all gains or losses on that liability (including the effects of changes in the credit risk of that liability) in profit or
loss.
5.7.9
Despite the requirements in paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8, an entity shall present in profit or loss all gains and losses on
loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts that are designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
Assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
5.7.10
A gain or loss on a financial asset measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with
paragraph 4.1.2A shall be recognized in other comprehensive income, except for impairment gains or losses (see
Section 5.5) and foreign exchange gains and losses (see paragraphs B5.7.2-B5.7.2A), until the financial asset is
derecognized or reclassified. When the financial asset is derecognized the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized
in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see Ind AS
1). If the financial asset is reclassified out of the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement category,
the entity shall account for the cumulative gain or loss that was previously recognized in other comprehensive income in
accordance with paragraphs 5.6.5 and 5.6.7. Interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognized in
profit or loss.
5.7.11
As described in paragraph 5.7.10, if a financial asset is measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in
accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A, the amounts that are recognized in profit or loss are the same as the amounts that
would have been recognized in profit or loss if the financial asset had been measured at amortised cost.
Chapter 6
Hedge accounting
6.
1. Objective and scope of hedge accounting
6.1.1
The objective of hedge accounting is to represent, in the financial statements, the effect of an entity's risk management
activities that use financial instruments to manage exposures arising from particular risks that could affect profit or loss
(or other comprehensive income, in the case of investments in equity instruments for which an entity has elected to
present changes in fair value in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5). This approach aims
to convey the context of hedging instruments for which hedge accounting is applied in order to allow insight into their
purpose and effect.
6.1.2
An entity may choose to designate a hedging relationship between a hedging instrument and a hedged item in
accordance with paragraphs 6.2.1-6.3.7 and B6.2.1-B6.3.25. For hedging relationships that meet the qualifying criteria,
an entity shall account for the gain or loss on the hedging instrument and the hedged item in accordance with
paragraphs 6.5.1-6.5.14 and B6.5.1-B6.5.28. When the hedged item is a group of items, an entity shall comply with the
additional requirements in paragraphs 6.6.1-6.6.6 and B6.6.1-B6.6.16.
Page 170/765
----- PAGE 171 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
6.1.3
[Refer Appendix 1].
6.2
Hedging instruments
Qualifying instruments
6.2.1
A derivative measured at fair value through profit or loss may be designated as a hedging instrument, except for some
written options (see paragraph B6.2.4).
6.2.2
A non-derivative financial asset or a non-derivative financial liability measured at fair value through profit or loss may be
designated as a hedging instrument unless it is a financial liability designated as at fair value through profit or loss for
which the amount of its change in fair value that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability is presented in
other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.7. For a hedge of foreign currency risk, the foreign
currency risk component of a non-derivative financial asset or a non-derivative financial liability may be designated as a
hedging instrument provided that it is not an investment in an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to
present changes in fair value in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5.
6.2.3
For hedge accounting purposes, only contracts with a party external to the reporting entity (i.e. external to the group or
individual entity that is being reported on) can be designated as hedging instruments.
Designation of hedging instruments
6.2.4
A qualifying instrument must be designated in its entirety as a hedging instrument. The only exceptions permitted are:
(a)
separating the intrinsic value and time value of an option contract and designating as the hedging instrument only the
change in intrinsic value of an option and not the change in its time value (see paragraphs 6.5.15 and B6.5.29-B6.5.33);
(b)
separating the forward element and the spot element of a forward contract and designating as the hedging instrument
only the change in the value of the spot element of a forward contract and not the forward element; similarly, the foreign
currency basis spread may be separated and excluded from the designation of a financial instrument as the hedging
instrument (see paragraphs 6.5.16 and B6.5.34-B6.5.39); and
(c)
a proportion of the entire hedging instrument, such as 50 per cent of the nominal amount, may be designated as the
hedging instrument in a hedging relationship. However, a hedging instrument may not be designated for a part of its
change in fair value that results from only a portion of the time period during which the hedging instrument remains
outstanding.
6.2.5
An entity may view in combination, and jointly designate as the hedging instrument, any combination of the following
(including those circumstances in which the risk or risks arising from some hedging instruments offset those arising from
others):
(a)
derivatives or a proportion of them; and
(b)
non-derivatives or a proportion of them.
6.2.6
However, a derivative instrument that combines a written option and a purchased option (for example, an interest rate
collar) does not qualify as a hedging instrument if it is, in effect, a net written option at the date of designation (unless it
qualifies in accordance with paragraph B6.2.4). Similarly, two or more instruments (or proportions of them) may be
jointly designated as the hedging instrument only if, in combination, they are not, in effect, a net written option at the
date of designation (unless it qualifies in accordance with paragraph B6.2.4).
6.3
Hedged items
Page 171/765
----- PAGE 172 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Qualifying items
6.3.1
A hedged item can be a recognized asset or liability, an unrecognized firm commitment, a forecast transaction or a net
investment in a foreign operation. The hedged item can be:
(a)
a single item; or
(b)
a group of items (subject to paragraphs 6.6.1-6.6.6 and B6.6.1-B6.6.16).
A hedged item can also be a component of such an item or group of items (see paragraphs 6.3.7 and B6.3.7-B6.3.25).
6.3.2
The hedged item must be reliably measurable.
6.3.3
If a hedged item is a forecast transaction (or a component thereof), that transaction must be highly probable.
6.3.4
An aggregated exposure that is a combination of an exposure that could qualify as a hedged item in accordance with
paragraph 6.3.1 and a derivative may be designated as a hedged item (see paragraphs B6.3.3-B6.3.4). This includes a
forecast transaction of an aggregated exposure (i.e. uncommitted but anticipated future transactions that would give rise
to an exposure and a derivative) if that aggregated exposure is highly probable and, once it has occurred and is
therefore no longer forecast, is eligible as a hedged item.
6.3.5
For hedge accounting purposes, only assets, liabilities, firm commitments or highly probable forecast transactions with a
party external to the reporting entity can be designated as hedged items. Hedge accounting can be applied to
transactions between entities in the same group only in the individual or separate financial statements of those entities
and not in the consolidated financial statements of the group, except for the consolidated financial statements of an
investment entity, as defined in Ind AS110, where transactions between an investment entity and its subsidiaries
measured at fair value through profit or loss will not be eliminated in the consolidated financial statements.
6.3.6
However, as an exception to paragraph 6.3.5, the foreign currency risk of an intragroup monetary item (for example, a
payable/receivable between two subsidiaries) may qualify as a hedged item in the consolidated financial statements if it
results in an exposure to foreign exchange rate gains or losses that are not fully eliminated on consolidation in
accordance with Ind AS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. In accordance with Ind AS 21, foreign
exchange rate gains and losses on intragroup monetary items are not fully eliminated on consolidation when the
intragroup monetary item is transacted between two group entities that have different functional currencies. In addition,
the foreign currency risk of a highly probable forecast intragroup transaction may qualify as a hedged item in
consolidated financial statements provided that the transaction is denominated in a currency other than the functional
currency of the entity entering into that transaction and the foreign currency risk will affect consolidated profit or loss.
Designation of hedged items
6.3.7
An entity may designate an item in its entirety or a component of an item as the hedged item in a hedging relationship.
An entire item comprises all changes in the cash flows or fair value of an item. A component comprises less than the
entire fair value change or cash flow variability of an item. In that case, an entity may designate only the following types
of components (including combinations) as hedged items:
(a)
only changes in the cash flows or fair value of an item attributable to a specific risk or risks (risk component), provided
that, based on an assessment within the context of the particular market structure, the risk component is separately
identifiable and reliably measurable (see paragraphs B6.3.8-B6.3.15). Risk components include a designation of only
changes in the cash flows or the fair value of a hedged item above or below a specified price or other variable (a
one-sided risk).
(b)
one or more selected contractual cash flows.
(c)
Page 172/765
----- PAGE 173 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
components of a nominal amount, i.e. a specified part of the amount of an item (see paragraphs B6.3.16-B6.3.20).
6.4
Qualifying criteria for hedge accounting
6.4.1
A hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting only if all of the following criteria are met:
(a)
the hedging relationship consists only of eligible hedging instruments and eligible hedged items.
(b)
at the inception of the hedging relationship there is formal designation and documentation of the hedging relationship
and the entity's risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. That documentation shall include
identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will
assess whether the hedging relationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements (including its analysis of the
sources of hedge ineffectiveness and how it determines the hedge ratio).
(c)
the hedging relationship meets all of the following hedge effectiveness requirements:
(i)
there is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument (see paragraphs B6.4.4-B6.4.6);
(ii)
the effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes that result from that economic relationship (see paragraphs
B6.4.7-B6.4.8); and
(iii)
the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the
entity actually hedges and the quantity of the hedging instrument that the entity actually uses to hedge that quantity of
hedged item. However, that designation shall not reflect an imbalance between the weightings of the hedged item and
the hedging instrument that would create hedge ineffectiveness (irrespective of whether recognized or not) that could
result in an accounting outcome that would be inconsistent with the purpose of hedge accounting (see paragraphs
B6.4.9-B6.4.11).
6.5
Accounting for qualifying hedging relationships
6.5.1
An entity applies hedge accounting to hedging relationships that meet the qualifying criteria in paragraph 6.4.1 (which
include the entity's decision to designate the hedging relationship).
6.5.2
There are three types of hedging relationships:
(a)
fair value hedge: a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized
firm commitment, or a component of any such item, that is attributable to a particular risk and could affect profit or loss.
(b)
cash flow hedge: a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated
with all, or a component of, a recognized asset or liability (such as all or some future interest payments on variable-rate
debt) or a highly probable forecast transaction, and could affect profit or loss.
(c)
hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation as defined in Ind AS 21.
6.5.3
If the hedged item is an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to present changes in fair value in other
comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5, the hedged exposure referred to in paragraph 6.5.2(a) must
be one that could affect other comprehensive income. In that case, and only in that case, the recognized hedge
ineffectiveness is presented in other comprehensive income.
6.5.4
A hedge of the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment may be accounted for as a fair value hedge or a cash flow
hedge.
Page 173/765
----- PAGE 174 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
6.5.5
If a hedging relationship ceases to meet the hedge effectiveness requirement relating to the hedge ratio (see paragraph
6.4.1(c)(iii)) but the risk management objective for that designated hedging relationship remains the same, an entity shall
adjust the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship so that it meets the qualifying criteria again (this is referred to in this
Standard as 'rebalancing'-see paragraphs B6.5.7-B6.5.21).
6.5.6
An entity shall discontinue hedge accounting prospectively only when the hedging relationship (or a part of a hedging
relationship) ceases to meet the qualifying criteria (after taking into account any rebalancing of the hedging relationship,
if applicable). This includes instances when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised. For this
purpose, the replacement or rollover of a hedging instrument into another hedging instrument is not an expiration or
termination if such a replacement or rollover is part of, and consistent with, the entity's documented risk management
objective. Additionally, for this purpose there is not an expiration or termination of the hedging instrument if:
(a)
as a consequence of laws or regulations or the introduction of laws or regulations, the parties to the hedging instrument
agree that one or more clearing counter-parties replace their original counter-party to become the new counter-party to
each of the parties. For this purpose, a clearing counter-party is a central counter-party (sometimes called a 'clearing
organisation' or 'clearing agency') or an entity or entities, for example, a clearing member of a clearing organisation or a
client of a clearing member of a clearing organisation, that are acting as a counter-party in order to effect clearing by a
central counter-party. However, when the parties to the hedging instrument replace their original counter-parties with
different counter-parties the requirement in this subparagraph is met only if each of those parties effects clearing with
the same central counter-party.
(b)
other changes, if any, to the hedging instrument are limited to those that are necessary to effect such a replacement of
the counter-party. Such changes are limited to those that are consistent with the terms that would be expected if the
hedging instrument were originally cleared with the clearing counter-party. These changes include changes in the
collateral requirements, rights to offset receivables and payables balances, and charges levied.
Discontinuing hedge accounting can either affect a hedging relationship in its entirety or only a part of it (in which case
hedge accounting continues for the remainder of the hedging relationship).
6.5.7
An entity shall apply:
(a)
paragraph 6.5.10 when it discontinues hedge accounting for a fair value hedge for which the hedged item is (or is a
component of) a financial instrument measured at amortised cost; and
(b)
paragraph 6.5.12 when it discontinues hedge accounting for cash flow hedges.
Fair value hedges
6.5.8
As long as a fair value hedge meets the qualifying criteria in paragraph 6.4.1, the hedging relationship shall be
accounted for as follows:
(a)
the gain or loss on the hedging instrument shall be recognized in profit or loss (or other comprehensive income, if the
hedging instrument hedges an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to present changes in fair value in other
comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5).
(b)
the hedging gain or loss on the hedged item shall adjust the carrying amount of the hedged item if applicable) and be
recognized in profit or loss. If the hedged item is a financial asset (or a component thereof) that is measured at fair value
through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A, the hedging gain or loss on the hedged item
shall be recognized in profit or loss. However, if the hedged item is an equity instrument for which an entity has elected
to present changes in fair value in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5, those amounts
shall remain in other comprehensive income. When a hedged item is an unrecognized firm commitment (or a component
thereof), the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedged item subsequent to its designation is recognized as an
Page 174/765
----- PAGE 175 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
asset or a liability with a corresponding gain or loss recognized in profit or loss.
6.5.9
When a hedged item in a fair value hedge is a firm commitment (or a component thereof) to acquire an asset or assume
a liability, the initial carrying amount of the asset or the liability that results from the entity meeting the firm commitment
is adjusted to include the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedged item that was recognized in the balance
sheet.
6.5.10
Any adjustment arising from paragraph 6.5.8(b) shall be amortised to profit or loss if the hedged item is a financial
instrument (or a component thereof) measured at amortised cost. Amortisation may begin as soon as an adjustment
exists and shall begin no later than when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for hedging gains and losses. The
amortisation is based on a recalculated effective interest rate at the date that amortisation begins. In the case of a
financial asset (or a component thereof) that is a hedged item and that is measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A, amortisation applies in the same manner but to the
amount that represents the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in accordance with paragraph 6.5.8(b) instead
of by adjusting the carrying amount.
Cash flow hedges
6.5.11
As long as a cash flow hedge meets the qualifying criteria in paragraph 6.4.1, the hedging relationship shall be
accounted for as follows:
(a)
the separate component of equity associated with the hedged item (cash flow hedge reserve) is adjusted to the lower of
the following (in absolute amounts):
(i)
the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument from inception of the hedge; and
(ii)
the cumulative change in fair value (present value) of the hedged item (i.e. the present value of the cumulative change in
the hedged expected future cash flows) from inception of the hedge.
(b)
the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge (i.e. the portion that
is offset by the change in the cash flow hedge reserve calculated in accordance with (a)) shall be recognized in other
comprehensive income.
(c)
any remaining gain or loss on the hedging instrument [or any gain or loss required to balance the change in the cash
flow hedge reserve calculated in accordance with (a)] is hedge ineffectiveness that shall be recognized in profit or loss.
(d)
the amount that has been accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve in accordance with (a) shall be accounted for as
follows:
(i)
if a hedged forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability,
or a hedged forecast transaction for a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability becomes a firm commitment for
which fair value hedge accounting is applied, the entity shall remove that amount from the cash flow hedge reserve and
include it directly in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the asset or the liability. This is not a reclassification
adjustment (see Ind AS 1) and hence it does not affect other comprehensive income.
(ii)
for cash flow hedges other than those covered by (i), that amount shall be reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve
to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see Ind AS 1) in the same period or periods during which the hedged
expected future cash flows affect profit or loss (for example, in the periods that interest income or interest expense is
recognized or when a forecast sale occurs).
(iii)
however, if that amount is a loss and an entity expects that all or a portion of that loss will not be recovered in one or
more future periods, it shall immediately reclassify the amount that is not expected to be recovered into profit or loss as
Page 175/765
----- PAGE 176 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
a reclassification adjustment (see Ind AS 1).
6.5.12
When an entity discontinues hedge accounting for a cash flow hedge (see paragraphs 6.5.6 and 6.5.7(b)) it shall
account for the amount that has been accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve in accordance with paragraph
6.5.11(a) as follows:
(a)
if the hedged future cash flows are still expected to occur, that amount shall remain in the cash flow hedge reserve until
the future cash flows occur or until paragraph 6.5.11(d)(iii) applies. When the future cash flows occur, paragraph
6.5.11(d) applies.
(b)
if the hedged future cash flows are no longer expected to occur, that amount shall be immediately reclassified from the
cash flow hedge reserve to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see Ind AS 1). A hedged future cash flow that
is no longer highly probable to occur may still be expected to occur.
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation
6.5.13
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including a hedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of
the net investment (see Ind AS 21), shall be accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges:
(a)
the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge shall be recognized
in other comprehensive income (see paragraph 6.5.11); and
(b)
the ineffective portion shall be recognized in profit or loss.
6.5.14
The cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge that has been
accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve shall be reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a
reclassification adjustment (see Ind AS 1) in accordance with paragraphs 48-49 of Ind AS 21 on the disposal or partial
disposal of the foreign operation.
Accounting for the time value of options
6.5.15
When an entity separates the intrinsic value and time value of an option contract and designates as the hedging
instrument only the change in intrinsic value of the option (see paragraph 6.2.4(a)), it shall account for the time value of
the option as follows (see paragraphs B6.5.29-B6.5.33):
(a)
an entity shall distinguish the time value of options by the type of hedged item that the option hedges (see paragraph
B6.5.29):
(i)
a transaction related hedged item; or
(ii)
a time-period related hedged item.
(b)
the change in fair value of the time value of an option that hedges a transaction related hedged item shall be recognized
in other comprehensive income to the extent that it relates to the hedged item and shall be accumulated in a separate
component of equity. The cumulative change in fair value arising from the time value of the option that has been
accumulated in a separate component of equity (the 'amount') shall be accounted for as follows:
(i)
if the hedged item subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, or a firm
commitment for a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability for which fair value hedge accounting is applied, the
entity shall remove the amount from the separate component of equity and include it directly in the initial cost or other
carrying amount of the asset or the liability. This is not a reclassification adjustment (see Ind AS 1) and hence does not
affect other comprehensive income.
(ii)
Page 176/765
----- PAGE 177 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
for hedging relationships other than those covered by (i), the amount shall be reclassified from the separate component
of equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see Ind AS 1) in the same period or periods during which the
hedged expected future cash flows affect profit or loss (for example, when a forecast sale occurs).
(iii)
however, if all or a portion of that amount is not expected to be recovered in one or more future periods, the amount that
is not expected to be recovered shall be immediately reclassified into profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see
Ind AS 1).
(c)
the change in fair value of the time value of an option that hedges a time-period related hedged item shall be recognized
in other comprehensive income to the extent that it relates to the hedged item and shall be accumulated in a separate
component of equity. The time value at the date of designation of the option as a hedging instrument, to the extent that it
relates to the hedged item, shall be amortised on a systematic and rational basis over the period during which the hedge
adjustment for the option's intrinsic value could affect profit or loss (or other comprehensive income, if the hedged item is
an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to present changes in fair value in other comprehensive income in
accordance with paragraph 5.7.5). Hence, in each reporting period, the amortisation amount shall be reclassified from
the separate component of equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see Ind AS 1). However, if hedge
accounting is discontinued for the hedging relationship that includes the change in intrinsic value of the option as the
hedging instrument, the net amount (i.e. including cumulative amortisation) that has been accumulated in the separate
component of equity shall be immediately reclassified into profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see Ind AS 1).
Accounting for the forward element of forward contracts and foreign currency basis spreads of financial instruments
6.5.16
When an entity separates the forward element and the spot element of a forward contract and designates as the
hedging instrument only the change in the value of the spot element of the forward contract, or when an entity separates
the foreign currency basis spread from a financial instrument and excludes it from the designation of that financial
instrument as the hedging instrument (see paragraph 6.2.4(b)), the entity may apply paragraph 6.5.15 to the forward
element of the forward contract or to the foreign currency basis spread in the same manner as it is applied to the time
value of an option. In that case, the entity shall apply the application guidance in paragraphs B6.5.34-B6.5.39.
6.6
Hedges of a group of items
Eligibility of a group of items as the hedged item
6.6.1
A group of items (including a group of items that constitute a net position; see paragraphs B6.6.1-B6.6.8) is an eligible
hedged item only if:
(a)
it consists of items (including components of items) that are, individually, eligible hedged items;
(b)
the items in the group are managed together on a group basis for risk management purposes; and
(c)
in the case of a cash flow hedge of a group of items whose variabilities in cash flows are not expected to be
approximately proportional to the overall variability in cash flows of the group so that offsetting risk positions arise:
(i)
it is a hedge of foreign currency risk; and
(ii)
the designation of that net position specifies the reporting period in which the forecast transactions are expected to
affect profit or loss, as well as their nature and volume (see paragraphs B6.6.7-B6.6.8).
Designation of a component of a nominal amount
6.6.2
A component that is a proportion of an eligible group of items is an eligible hedged item provided that designation is
consistent with the entity's risk management objective.
6.6.3
A layer component of an overall group of items (for example, a bottom layer) is eligible for hedge accounting only if:
Page 177/765
----- PAGE 178 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
it is separately identifiable and reliably measurable;
(b)
the risk management objective is to hedge a layer component;
(c)
the items in the overall group from which the layer is identified are exposed to the same hedged risk (so that the
measurement of the hedged layer is not significantly affected by which particular items from the overall group form part
of the hedged layer);
(d)
for a hedge of existing items (for example, an unrecognized firm commitment or a recognized asset) an entity can
identify and track the overall group of items from which the hedged layer is defined (so that the entity is able to comply
with the requirements for the accounting for qualifying hedging relationships); and
(e)
any items in the group that contain prepayment options meet the requirements for components of a nominal amount
(see paragraph B6.3.20).
Presentation
6.6.4
For a hedge of a group of items with offsetting risk positions (i.e. in a hedge of a net position) whose hedged risk affects
different line items in the statement of profit and loss, any hedging gains or losses in that statement shall be presented in
a separate line from those affected by the hedged items. Hence, in that statement the amount in the line item that
relates to the hedged item itself (for example, revenue or cost of sales) remains unaffected.
6.6.5
For assets and liabilities that are hedged together as a group in a fair value hedge, the gain or loss in the balance sheet
on the individual assets and liabilities shall be recognized as an adjustment of the carrying amount of the respective
individual items comprising the group in accordance with paragraph 6.5.8(b).
Nil net positions
6.6.6
When the hedged item is a group that is a nil net position (i.e. the hedged items among themselves fully offset the risk
that is managed on a group basis), an entity is permitted to designate it in a hedging relationship that does not include a
hedging instrument, provided that:
(a)
the hedge is part of a rolling net risk hedging strategy, whereby the entity routinely hedges new positions of the same
type as time moves on (for example, when transactions move into the time horizon for which the entity hedges);
(b)
the hedged net position changes in size over the life of the rolling net risk hedging strategy and the entity uses eligible
hedging instruments to hedge the net risk (i.e. when the net position is not nil);
(c)
hedge accounting is normally applied to such net positions when the net position is not nil and it is hedged with eligible
hedging instruments; and
(d)
not applying hedge accounting to the nil net position would give rise to inconsistent accounting outcomes, because the
accounting would not recognise the offsetting risk positions that would otherwise be recognized in a hedge of a net
position.
6.7
Option to designate a credit exposure as measured at fair value through profit or loss
Eligibility of credit exposures for designation at fair value through profit or loss
6.7.1
If an entity uses a credit derivative that is measured at fair value through profit or loss to manage the credit risk of all, or
a part of, a financial instrument (credit exposure) it may designate that financial instrument to the extent that it is so
managed (i.e. all or a proportion of it) as measured at fair value through profit or loss if:
(a)
Page 178/765
----- PAGE 179 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the name of the credit exposure (for example, the borrower, or the holder of a loan commitment) matches the reference
entity of the credit derivative ('name matching'); and
(b)
the seniority of the financial instrument matches that of the instruments that can be delivered in accordance with the
credit derivative.
An entity may make this designation irrespective of whether the financial instrument that is managed for credit risk is
within the scope of this Standard (for example, an entity may designate loan commitments that are outside the scope of
this Standard). The entity may designate that financial instrument at, or subsequent to, initial recognition, or while it is
unrecognized. The entity shall document the designation concurrently.
Accounting for credit exposures designated at fair value through profit or loss
6.7.2
If a financial instrument is designated in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1 as measured at fair value through profit or loss
after its initial recognition, or was previously not recognized, the difference at the time of designation between the
carrying amount, if any, and the fair value shall immediately be recognized in profit or loss. For financial assets
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A, the cumulative gain
or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income shall immediately be reclassified from equity to profit or
loss as a reclassification adjustment (see Ind AS 1).
6.7.3
An entity shall discontinue measuring the financial instrument that gave rise to the credit risk, or a proportion of that
financial instrument, at fair value through profit or loss if:
(a)
the qualifying criteria in paragraph 6.7.1 are no longer met, for example:
(i)
the credit derivative or the related financial instrument that gives rise to the credit risk expires or is sold, terminated or
settled; or
(ii)
the credit risk of the financial instrument is no longer managed using credit derivatives. For example, this could occur
because of improvements in the credit quality of the borrower or the loan commitment holder or changes to capital
requirements imposed on an entity; and
(b)
the financial instrument that gives rise to the credit risk is not otherwise required to be measured at fair value through
profit or loss (i.e. the entity's business model has not changed in the meantime so that a reclassification in accordance
with paragraph 4.4.1 was required).
6.7.4
When an entity discontinues measuring the financial instrument that gives rise to the credit risk, or a proportion of that
financial instrument, at fair value through profit or loss, that financial instrument's fair value at the date of discontinuation
becomes its new carrying amount. Subsequently, the same measurement that was used before designating the financial
instrument at fair value through profit or loss shall be applied (including amortisation that results from the new carrying
amount). For example, a financial asset that had originally been classified as measured at amortised cost would revert
to that measurement and its effective interest rate would be recalculated based on its new gross carrying amount on the
date of discontinuing measurement at fair value through profit or loss.
[Chapter 7 Effective date and transition
Effective Date (Section 7.1)
7.1.1
*
7.1.2
*
7.1.3
*
7.1.4
As a consequence of issuance of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, paragraphs 2.1, 2.2, 4.2.1,
Page 179/765
----- PAGE 180 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
5.1.1, 5.5.1, 5.5.15, Appendix A and Appendix B were amended. Paragraph 5.1.3 and a definition in Appendix A are
added. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 115.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
7. [1.5 Ind AS 116 amended paragraphs 2.1, 5.5.15, B4.3.8, B5.5.34 and B5.5.46. An entity shall apply those
amendments when it applies Ind AS 116.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
7. [1.6 *
7.1.7
Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation (Amendments to Ind AS 109), added paragraphs 7.2.1-7.2.34 and
B4.1.12A and amended paragraphs B4.1.11(b) and B4.1.12(b). An entity shall apply these amendments for annual
periods beginning on or after 1 April, 2019.
7.2
[Transition]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
__________________________________________________________________________________________
7.2.1
An entity shall apply this Standard retrospectively, in accordance with Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in
Accounting Estimates and Errors, except as specified in paragraphs 7.2.4-7.2.14. This Standard shall not be applied to
items that have already been derecognised at the date of initial application.
7.2.2
*
Transition for classification and measurement (Chapters 4 and 5)
7.2.3
At the date of initial application, an entity shall assess whether a financial asset meets the condition in paragraphs
4.1.2(a) or 4.1.2A(a) on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at that date. The resulting classification shall
be applied retrospectively irrespective of the entity's business model in prior reporting periods.
7.2.4
If, at the date of initial application, it is impracticable (as defined in Ind AS 8) for an entity to assess a modified time value
of money element in accordance with paragraphs B4.1.9B-B4.1.9D on the basis of the facts and circumstances that
existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset, an entity shall assess the contractual cash flow characteristics of
that financial asset on the basis of the facts and circumstances that existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset
without taking into account the requirements related to the modification of the time value of money element in
paragraphs B4.1.9B-B4.1.9D.
7.2.5
If, at the date of initial application, it is impracticable (as defined in Ind AS 8) for an entity to assess whether the fair
value of a prepayment feature was insignificant in accordance with paragraph B4.1.12(c) on the basis of the facts and
circumstances that existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset, an entity shall assess the contractual cash flow
characteristics of that financial asset on the basis of the facts and circumstances that existed at the initial recognition of
the financial asset without taking into account the exception for prepayment features in paragraph B4.1.12.
7.2.6
*
7.2.7
*
7.2.8
At the date of initial application an entity may designate:
(a)
a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 4.1.5; or
(b)
an investment in an equity instrument as at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with
paragraph 5.7.5.
Such a designation shall be made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of initial application.
Page 180/765
----- PAGE 181 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
That classification shall be applied retrospectively.
7.2.9
At the date of initial application an entity:
(a)
shall revoke its previous designation of a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss if that financial
asset does not meet the condition in paragraph 4.1.5.
(b)
may revoke its previous designation of a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss if that financial
asset meets the condition in paragraph 4.1.5.
Such a revocation shall be made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of initial application.
That classification shall be applied retrospectively.
7.2.10
At the date of initial application, an entity:
(a)
may designate a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or loss in
accordance with paragraph 4.2.2(a).
(b)
shall revoke its previous designation of a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or loss if such
designation was made at initial recognition in accordance with the condition now in paragraph 4.2.2(a) and such
designation does not satisfy that condition at the date of initial application.
(c)
may revoke its previous designation of a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or loss if such
designation was made at initial recognition in accordance with the condition now in paragraph 4.2.2(a) and such
designation satisfies that condition at the date of initial application.
Such a designation and revocation shall be made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of
initial application. That classification shall be applied retrospectively.
7.2.11
If it is impracticable (as defined in Ind AS 8) for an entity to apply retrospectively the effective interest method, the entity
shall treat:
(a)
the fair value of the financial asset or the financial liability at the end of each comparative period presented as the gross
carrying amount of that financial asset or the amortised cost of that financial liability if the entity restates prior periods;
and
(b)
the fair value of the financial asset or the financial liability at the date of initial application as the new gross carrying
amount of that financial asset or the new amortised cost of that financial liability at the date of initial application of this
Standard.
7.2.12
*
7.2.13
*
7.2.14
At the date of initial application, an entity shall determine whether the treatment in paragraph 5.7.7 would create or
enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of
initial application. This Standard shall be applied retrospectively on the basis of that determination.
7.2.14
A *
7.2.15
*
7.2.16
*
Page 181/765
----- PAGE 182 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
7.2.17
*
7.2.18
*
7.2.19
*
7.2.20
*
7.2.21
*
7.2.22
*
7.2.23
*
7.2.24
*
7.2.25
*
7.2.26
*
7.2.27
*
7.2.28
*
Transition for Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation
7.2.29
An entity shall apply Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation (Amendments to Ind AS 109) retrospectively in
accordance with Ind AS 8, except as specified in paragraphs 7.2.30-7.2.34.
7.2.30
An entity that first applies these amendments at the same time it first applies this Standard shall apply relevant
provisions of Ind AS 101 instead of paragraphs 7.2.31-7.2.34.
7.2.31
An entity that first applies these amendments after it first applies this Standard shall apply paragraphs 7.2.32-7.2.34.
The entity shall also apply the other transition requirements in this Standard necessary for applying these amendments.
For that purpose, references to the date of initial application shall be read as referring to the beginning of the reporting
period in which an entity first applies these amendments (date of initial application of these amendments).
7.2.32
With regard to designating a financial asset or financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or loss, an entity:
(a)
shall revoke its previous designation of a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss if that
designation was previously made in accordance with the condition in paragraph 4.1.5 but that condition is no longer
satisfied as a result of the application of these amendments;
(b)
may designate a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss if that designation would not have
previously satisfied the condition in paragraph 4.1.5 but that condition is now satisfied as a result of the application of
these amendments;
(c)
shall revoke its previous designation of a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or loss if that
designation was previously made in accordance with the condition in paragraph 4.2.2(a) but that condition is no longer
satisfied as a result of the application of these amendments; and
(d)
Page 182/765
----- PAGE 183 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
may designate a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or loss if that designation would not have
previously satisfied the condition in paragraph 4.2.2(a) but that condition is now satisfied as a result of the application of
these amendments.
Such a designation and revocation shall be made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of
initial application of these amendments. That classification shall be applied retrospectively.
7.2.33
An entity is not required to restate prior periods to reflect the application of these amendments. The entity may restate
prior periods if, and only if, it is possible without the use of hindsight and the restated financial statements reflect all the
requirements in this Standard. If an entity does not restate prior periods, the entity shall recognise any difference
between the previous carrying amount and the carrying amount at the beginning of the annual reporting period that
includes the date of initial application of these amendments in the opening retained earnings (or other component of
equity, as appropriate) of the annual reporting period that includes the date of initial application of these amendments.
7.2.34
In the reporting period that includes the date of initial application of these amendments, the entity shall disclose the
following information as at that date of initial application for each class of financial assets and financial liabilities that
were affected by these amendments:
(a)
the previous measurement category and carrying amount determined immediately before applying these amendments;
(b)
the new measurement category and carrying amount determined after applying these amendments;
(c)
the carrying amount of any financial assets and financial liabilities in the Balance Sheet that were previously designated
as measured at fair value through profit or loss but are no longer so designated; and
(d)
the reasons for any designation or de-designation of financial assets or financial liabilities as measured at fair value
through profit or loss.]
* Refer Appendix 1
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an integral
part of the Standard.
12-month expected credit losses
The portion oflifetime expected credit
lossesthat represent theexpected credit lossesthat
result from default events on a financial instrument that are
possible within the 12 months after the reporting date.
amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability
The amount at which the financial asset or
financial liability is measured at initial recognition minus the
principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation
using theeffective interest methodof any difference
between that initial amount and the maturity amount and, for
financial assets, adjusted for anyloss allowance.
[contract assets
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Those rights that Ind AS 115,Revenue from Contracts with Customers, specifies are accounted for in accordance with
this Standard for the purposes of recognising and measuring impairment gains or losses.]
credit impaired financial asset
A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or
more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated
future cash flows of that financial asset have occurred. Evidence
Page 183/765
----- PAGE 184 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
that a financial asset is credit-impaired include observable data
about the following events:
(a) significant financial difficulty of the
issuer or the borrower;
(b) a breach of contract, such as a default orpast dueevent;
(c) the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic
or contractual reasons relating to the borrower's financial
difficulty,having granted to the borrower a concession(s) that
the lender(s) would not otherwise consider;
(d) it is becoming probable that the borrower
will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation;
(e) the disappearance of an active market for
that financial asset because of financial difficulties; or
(f) the purchase or origination of a financial
asset at a deep discount that reflects the incurredcredit
losses.
It may not be possible to identify a single
discrete event-instead, the combined effect of several events may
have caused financial assets to become credit impaired.
credit loss
The difference between all contractual cash
flows that are due to an entity in accordance with the contract
and all the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e.
all cash shortfalls), discounted at the originaleffective
interest rate(orcredit-adjusted effective interest rate(orpurchased or
originated credit-impaired financial assets). An entity shall
estimate cash flows by considering all contractual terms of the
financial instrument (for example, prepayment, extension, call
and similar options) through the expected life of that financial
instrument. The cash flows that are considered shall include cash
flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit
enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms. There is
a presumption that the expected life of a financial instrument
can be estimated reliably. However, in those rare cases when it
is not possible to reliably estimate the expected life of a
financial instrument, the entity shall use the remaining
contractual term of the financial instrument.
credit-adjusted effective interest rate
The rate that exactly discounts the estimated
future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the
financial asset to theamortised cost of a financial assetthat is apurchased or originated credit-impaired financial asset.
When
calculating the credit-adjusted effective interest rate, an
entity shall estimate the expected cash flows by considering all
contractual terms of the financial asset (for example,
prepayment, extension, call and similar options) andexpected
credit losses.The calculation includes all fees and points
paid or received between parties to the contract that are an
integral part of the effective interest rate (see paragraphs
B5.4.1?B5.4.3),transaction costs, and all other premiums
or discounts. There is a presumption that the cash flows and the
Page 184/765
----- PAGE 185 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
expected life of a group of similar financial instruments can be
estimated reliably. However, in those rare cases when it is not
possible to reliably estimate the cash flows or the remaining
life of a financial instrument (or group of financial
instruments), the entity shall use the contractual cash flows
over the full contractual term of the financial instrument (or
group of financial instruments).
Derecognition
The removal of a previously recognized financial
asset or financial liability from an entity's balance sheet.
Derivative
A financial instrument or other contract within
the scope of this Standard with all three of the following
characteristics.
(a) its value changes in response to the change
in a specified interest rate, financial instrument price,
commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates,
credit rating or credit index, or other variable, provided in the
case of a non-financial variable that the variable is not
specific to a party to the contract (sometimes called the
'underlying').
(b) it requires no initial net investment or an
initial net investment that is smaller than would be required for
other types of contracts that would be expected to have a similar
response to changes in market factors.
(c) it is settled at a future date.
Dividends
Distributions of profits to holders of equity
instruments in proportion to their holdings of a particular class
of capital.
effective interest method
The rate that exactly discounts estimated future
cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the
financial asset or financial liability to thegross carrying
amount of a financial assetor to theamortised cost of a
financial liability.When calculating the effective interest
rate, an entity shall estimate the expected cash flows by
considering all the contractual terms of the financial instrument
(for example, prepayment, extension, call and similar options)
but shall not consider theexpected credit losses.The
calculation includes all fees and points paid or received between
parties to the contract that are an integral part of the
effective interest rate (see paragraphs B5.4.1-B5.4.3),transaction costs,and all other premiums or discounts.
There is a presumption that the cash flows and the expected life
of a group of similar financial instruments can be estimated
reliably. However, in those rare cases when it is not possible to
reliably estimate the cash flows or the expected life of a
financial instrument (or group of financial instruments), the
entity shall use the contractual cash flows over the full
contractual term of the financial instrument (or group of
financial instruments).
Page 185/765
----- PAGE 186 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
expected credit losses
The weighted average ofcredit losseswith the respective risks of a default occurring as the weights.
financial guarantee contract
A contract that requires the issuer to make
specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs
because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in
accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt
instrument.
financial liability at fair value through profit or loss
A financial liability that meets one of the
following conditions:
(a) it meets the definition ofheld for
trading.
(b) upon initial recognition it is designated by
the entity as at fair value through profit or loss in accordance
with paragraph 4.2.2 or 4.3.5.
(c) it is designated either upon initial
recognition or subsequently as at fair value through profit or
loss in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1.
firm commitment
A binding agreement for the exchange of a
specified quantity of resources at a specified price on a
specified future date or dates.
forecast transaction
An uncommitted but anticipated future
transaction.
gross carrying amount of a financial asset
Theamortised cost of a financial asset,
before adjusting for anyloss allowance.
hedging instrument
A designated derivative or (for a hedge of the
risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates only) a
designated non-derivative financial asset or non-derivative
financial liability whose fair value or cash flows are expected
to offset changes in the fair value or cash flows of a designated
hedged item.
hedge ratio
The relationship between the quantity of the
hedging instrument and the quantity of the hedged item in terms
of their relative weighting.
held for trading
A financial asset or financial liability that:
(a) is acquired or incurred principally for the
purpose of selling or repurchasing it in the near term;
(b) on initial recognition is part of a
portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed
together and for which there is evidence of a recent actual
pattern of short-term profit-taking; or
(c) is aderivative(except for a
derivative that is a financial guarantee contract or a designated
and effective hedging instrument).
Page 186/765
----- PAGE 187 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
impairment gain or loss
Gains or losses that are recognized in profit or
loss in accordance with paragraph 5.5.8 and that arise from
applying the impairment requirements in Section 5.5.
lifetime expected credit losses
Theexpected credit lossesthat result
from all possible default events over the expected life of a
financial instrument.
loss allowance
The allowance forexpected credit losseson financial assets measured in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2,
lease receivables andcontract assets, the accumulated
impairment amount for financial assets measured in accordance
with paragraph 4.1.2A and the provision for expected credit
losses on loan commitments andfinancial guarantee contracts.
modification gain or loss
The amount arising from adjusting thegross
carrying amount of a financial assetto reflect the
renegotiated or modified contractual cash flows. The entity
recalculates the gross carrying amount of a financial asset as
the present value of the estimated future cash payments or
receipts through the expected life of there negotiated or
modified financial asset that are discounted at the financial
asset's originaleffective interest rate(or the Originalcredit-adjusted effective interest rateforpurchased
or originated credit-impaired financial assets) or, when
applicable, the revised effective interest rate calculated in
accordance with paragraph 6.5.10.When estimating the expected
cash flows of a financial asset, an entity shall consider all
contractual terms of the financial asset (for example,
prepayment, call and similar options) but shall not consider theexpected credit losses, unless the financial asset is
apurchased or originated credit-impaired financial asset,
in which case an entity shall also consider the initial expected
credit losses that were considered when calculating the originalcredit-adjusted effective interest rate.
past due
A financial asset is past due when a
counter-party has failed to make a payment when that payment was
contractually due.
purchased or originated credit-impaired financial asset
Purchased or originated financial asset(s) that
arecredit-impairedon initial recognition.
reclassification date
The first day of the first reporting period
following the change in business model that results in an entity
reclassifying financial assets.
regular way purchase or sale
A purchase or sale of a financial asset under a
contract who seterms require delivery of the asset within the
time frame established generally by regulation or convention in
the market place concerned.
transaction costs
Incremental costs that are directly attributable
to the acquisition, issue or disposal of a financial asset or
Page 187/765
----- PAGE 188 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
financial liability (see paragraph B5.4.8). An incremental cost
is one that would not have been incurred if the entity had not
acquired, issued or disposed of the financial instrument.
[The following terms are defined in paragraph 11 of Ind AS 32, Appendix A of Ind AS 107, Appendix A of Ind AS 113 or
Appendix A of Ind AS 115 and are used in this Standard with the meanings specified in Ind AS 32, Ind AS 107, Ind AS
113 or Ind AS 115:
(a)
credit risk;3
(b)
equity instrument;
(c)
fair value;
(d)
financial asset;
(e)
financial instrument;
(f)
financial liability;
(g)
transaction price.]
3. This term (as defined in Ind AS 107) is used in the requirements for presenting the effects of changes in credit risk on
liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss (see paragraph 5.7.7).
Appendix B
Application guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard.
Scope (Chapter 2)
B2.1 Some contracts require a payment based on climatic, geological or other physical variables. (Those based on
climatic variables are sometimes referred to as 'weather derivatives'.) If those contracts are not within the scope of Ind
AS 104 Insurance Contracts, they are within the scope of this Standard.
[B2.2. This Standard does not change the requirements relating to royalty agreements based on the volume of sales or
service revenues that are accounted for under Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
B2.3 Sometimes, an entity makes what it views as a 'strategic investment' in equity instruments issued by another entity,
with the intention of establishing or maintaining a long-term operating relationship with the entity in which the investment
is made. The investor or joint venturer entity uses Ind AS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures to determine
whether the equity method of accounting shall be applied to such an investment.
B2.4 This Standard applies to the financial assets and financial liabilities of insurers, other than rights and obligations
that paragraph 2.1(e) excludes because they arise under contracts within the scope of Ind AS104.
B2.5 Financial guarantee contracts may have various legal forms, such as a guarantee, some types of letter of credit, a
credit default contract or an insurance contract. Their accounting treatment does not depend on their legal form. The
following are examples of the appropriate treatment (see paragraph 2.1(e)):
(a)
Although a financial guarantee contract meets the definition of an insurance contract in Ind AS104 if the risk transferred
is significant, the issuer applies this Standard. Nevertheless, if the issuer has previously asserted explicitly that it regards
such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting that is applicable to insurance contracts, the issuer may
elect to apply either this Standard or Ind AS104 to such financial guarantee contracts. If this Standard applies,
paragraph 5.1.1 requires the issuer to recognise a financial guarantee contract initially at fair value. If the financial
guarantee contract was issued to an unrelated party in a stand-alone arm's length transaction, its fair value at inception
is likely to equal the premium received, unless there is evidence to the contrary. Subsequently, unless the financial
guarantee contract was designated at inception as at fair value through profit or loss or unless paragraphs 3.2.15-3.2.23
and B3.2.12-B3.2.17 apply (when a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition or the continuing
Page 188/765
----- PAGE 189 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
involvement approach applies), the issuer measures it at the higher of:
(i)
the amount determined in accordance with Section 5.5; and
(ii)
[ the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance
with the principles of Ind AS 115 [see paragraph 4.2.1(c)].]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b)
Some credit-related guarantees do not, as a precondition for payment, require that the holder is exposed to, and has
incurred a loss on, the failure of the debtor to make payments on the guaranteed asset when due. An example of such a
guarantee is one that requires payments in response to changes in a specified credit rating or credit index. Such
guarantees are not financial guarantee contracts as defined in this Standard, and are not insurance contracts as defined
in Ind AS104. Such guarantees are derivatives and the issuer applies this Standard to them.
(c)
[ If a financial guarantee contract was issued in connection with the sale of goods, the issuer applies Ind AS 115 in
determining when it recognises the revenue from the guarantee and from the sale of goods.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
B2.6 Assertions that an issuer regards contracts as insurance contracts are typically found throughout the issuer's
communications with customers and regulators, contracts, business documentation and financial statements.
Furthermore, insurance contracts are often subject to accounting requirements that are distinct from the requirements
for other types of transaction, such as contracts issued by banks or commercial companies. In such cases, an issuer's
financial statements typically include a statement that the issuer has used those accounting requirements.
Recognition and derecognition (Chapter 3)
Initial recognition (Section 3.1)
B3.1.1 As a consequence of the principle in paragraph 3.1.1, an entity recognises all of its contractual rights and
obligations under derivatives in its balance sheet as assets and liabilities, respectively, except for derivatives that
prevent a transfer of financial assets from being accounted for as a sale (see paragraph B3.2.14). If a transfer of a
financial asset does not qualify for derecognition, the transferee does not recognise the transferred asset as its asset
(see paragraph B3.2.15).
B3.1.2 The following are examples of applying the principle in paragraph 3.1.1:
(a)
Unconditional receivables and payables are recognized as assets or liabilities when the entity becomes a party to the
contract and, as a consequence, has a legal right to receive or a legal obligation to pay cash.
(b)
Assets to be acquired and liabilities to be incurred as a result of a firm commitment to purchase or sell goods or services
are generally not recognized until at least one of the parties has performed under the agreement. For example, an entity
that receives a firm order does not generally recognise an asset (and the entity that places the order does not recognise
a liability) at the time of the commitment but, instead, delays recognition until the ordered goods or services have been
shipped, delivered or rendered. If a firm commitment to buy or sell non-financial items is within the scope of this
Standard in accordance with paragraphs 2.4-2.7, its net fair value is recognized as an asset or a liability on the
commitment date (see paragraph B4.1.30(c)). In addition, if a previously unrecognized firm commitment is designated as
a hedged item in a fair value hedge, any change in the net fair value attributable to the hedged risk is recognized as an
asset or a liability after the inception of the hedge (see paragraphs 6.5.8(b) and 6.5.9).
(c)
A forward contract that is within the scope of this Standard (see paragraph 2.1) is recognized as an asset or a liability on
the commitment date, instead of on the date on which settlement takes place. When an entity becomes a party to a
forward contract, the fair values of the right and obligation are often equal, so that the net fair value of the forward is
zero. If the net fair value of the right and obligation is not zero, the contract is recognized as an asset or liability.
(d)
Option contracts that are within the scope of this Standard (see paragraph 2.1) are recognized as assets or liabilities
when the holder or writer becomes a party to the contract.
Page 189/765
----- PAGE 190 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(e)
Planned future transactions, no matter how likely, are not assets and liabilities because the entity has not become a
party to a contract.
Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets
B3.1.3 A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognized using either trade date accounting or settlement
date accounting as described in paragraphs B3.1.5 and B3.1.6. An entity shall apply the same method consistently for
all purchases and sales of financial assets that are classified in the same way in accordance with this Standard. For this
purpose assets that are mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss form a separate classification from
assets designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss. In addition, investments in equity instruments
accounted for using the option provided in paragraph 5.7.5 form a separate classification.
B3.1.4 A contract that requires or permits net settlement of the change in the value of the contract is not a regular way
contract. Instead, such a contract is accounted for as a derivative in the period between the trade date and the
settlement date.
B3.1.5 The trade date is the date that an entity commits itself to purchase or sell an asset. Trade date accounting refers
to (a) the recognition of an asset to be received and the liability to pay for it on the trade date, and (b) derecognition of
an asset that is sold, recognition of any gain or loss on disposal and the recognition of a receivable from the buyer for
payment on the trade date. Generally, interest does not start to accrue on the asset and corresponding liability until the
settlement date when title passes.
B3.1.6 The settlement date is the date that an asset is delivered to or by an entity. Settlement date accounting refers to
(a) the recognition of an asset on the day it is received by the entity, and (b) the derecognition of an asset and
recognition of any gain or loss on disposal on the day that it is delivered by the entity. When settlement date accounting
is applied an entity accounts for any change in the fair value of the asset to be received during the period between the
trade date and the settlement date in the same way as it accounts for the acquired asset. In other words, the change in
value is not recognized for assets measured at amortised cost; it is recognized in profit or loss for assets classified as
financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss; and it is recognized in other comprehensive income for
financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A and
for investments in equity instruments accounted for in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5.
Derecognition of financial assets (Section 3.2)
[B3.2.1 The following flow chart illustrates the evaluation of whether and to what extent a financial asset is
derecognized.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Arrangements under which an entity retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of a financial asset, but
assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients [paragraph 3.2.4(b)]
B3.2.2 The situation described in paragraph 3.2.4(b) (when an entity retains the contractual rights to receive the cash
flows of the financial asset, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients)
occurs,for example, if the entity is a trust, and issues to investors beneficial interests in the underlying financial assets
that it owns and provides servicing of those financial assets. In that case, the financial assets qualify for derecognition if
the conditions in paragraphs 3.2.5 and 3.2.6 are met.
B3.2.3 In applying paragraph 3.2.5, the entity could be, for example, the originator of the financial asset, or it could be a
group that includes a subsidiary that has acquired the financial asset and passes on cash flows to unrelated third party
investors.
Evaluation of the transfer of risks and rewards of ownership (paragraph 3.2.6)
B3.2.4 Examples of when an entity has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are:
(a)
an unconditional sale of a financial asset;
(b)
a sale of a financial asset together with an option to repurchase the financial asset at its fair value at the time of
repurchase; and
(c)
a sale of a financial asset together with a put or call option that is deeply out of the money (i.e. an option that is so far
out of the money it is highly unlikely to go into the money before expiry).
Page 190/765
----- PAGE 191 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B3.2.5 Examples of when an entity has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are:
(a)
a sale and repurchase transaction where the repurchase price is a fixed price or the sale price plus a lender's return;
(b)
a securities lending agreement;
(c)
a sale of a financial asset together with a total return swap that transfers the market risk exposure back to the entity;
(d)
a sale of a financial asset together with a deep in-the-money put or call option (i.e. an option that is so far in the money
that it is highly unlikely to go out of the money before expiry); and
(e)
a sale of short-term receivables in which the entity guarantees to compensate the transferee for credit losses that are
likely to occur.
B3.2.6 If an entity determines that as a result of the transfer, it has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership of the transferred asset, it does not recognise the transferred asset again in a future period, unless it
reacquires the transferred asset in a new transaction.
Evaluation of the transfer of control
B3.2.7 An entity has not retained control of a transferred asset if the transferee has the practical ability to sell the
transferred asset. An entity has retained control of a transferred asset if the transferee does not have the practical ability
to sell the transferred asset. A transferee has the practical ability to sell the transferred asset if it is traded in an active
market because the transferee could repurchase the transferred asset in the market if it needs to return the asset to the
entity. For example, a transferee may have the practical ability to sell a transferred asset if the transferred asset is
subject to an option that allows the entity to repurchase it, but the transferee can readily obtain the transferred asset in
the market if the option is exercised. A transferee does not have the practical ability to sell the transferred asset if the
entity retains such an option and the transferee cannot readily obtain the transferred asset in the market if the entity
exercises its option.
B3.2.8 The transferee has the practical ability to sell the transferred asset only if the transferee can sell the transferred
asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party and is able to exercise that ability unilaterally and without imposing
additional restrictions on the transfer. The critical question is what the transferee is able to do in practice, not what
contractual rights the transferee has concerning what it can do with the transferred asset or what contractual prohibitions
exist. In particular:
(a)
a contractual right to dispose of the transferred asset has little practical effect if there is no market for the transferred
asset, and
(b)
an ability to dispose of the transferred asset has little practical effect if it cannot be exercised freely. For that reason:
(i)
the transferee's ability to dispose of the transferred asset must be independent of the actions of others (i.e. it must be a
unilateral ability), and
(ii)
the transferee must be able to dispose of the transferred asset without needing to attach restrictive conditions or 'strings'
to the transfer (e.g. conditions about how a loan asset is serviced or an option giving the transferee the right to
repurchase the asset).
B3.2.9 That the transferee is unlikely to sell the transferred asset does not, of itself, mean that the transferor has
retained control of the transferred asset. However, if a put option or guarantee constrains the transferee from selling the
transferred asset, then the transferor has retained control of the transferred asset. For example, if a put option or
guarantee is sufficiently valuable it constrains the transferee from selling the transferred asset because the transferee
would, in practice, not sell the transferred asset to a third party without attaching a similar option or other restrictive
conditions. Instead, the transferee would hold the transferred asset so as to obtain payments under the guarantee or put
option. Under these circumstances the transferor has retained control of the transferred asset.
Transfers that qualify for derecognition
Page 191/765
----- PAGE 192 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B3.2.10 An entity may retain the right to a part of the interest payments on transferred assets as compensation for
servicing those assets. The part of the interest payments that the entity would give up upon termination or transfer of the
servicing contract is allocated to the servicing asset or servicing liability. The part of the interest payments that the entity
would not give up is an interest-only strip receivable. For example, if the entity would not give up any interest upon
termination or transfer of the servicing contract, the entire interest spread is an interest-only strip receivable. For the
purposes of applying paragraph 3.2.13, the fair values of the servicing asset and interest-only strip receivable are used
to allocate the carrying amount of the receivable between the part of the asset that is derecognized and the part that
continues to be recognized. If there is no servicing fee specified or the fee to be received is not expected to compensate
the entity adequately for performing the servicing, a liability for the servicing obligation is recognized at fair value.
B3.2.11 When measuring the fair values of the part that continues to be recognized and the part that is derecognized for
the purposes of applying paragraph 3.2.13, an entity applies the fair value measurement requirements in Ind AS113 Fair
Value Measurement in addition to paragraph 3.2.14.
Transfers that do not qualify for derecognition
B3.2.12 The following is an application of the principle outlined in paragraph 3.2.15. If a guarantee provided by the entity
for default losses on the transferred asset prevents a transferred asset from being derecognized because the entity has
retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset, the transferred asset continues to
be recognized in its entirety and the consideration received is recognized as a liability.
Continuing involvement in transferred assets
B3.2.13 The following are examples of how an entity measures a transferred asset and the associated liability under
paragraph 3.2.16.
All assets
(a)
[ If a guarantee provided by an entity to pay for default losses on a transferred asset prevents the transferred asset from
being derecognised to the extent of the continuing involvement, the transferred asset at the date of the transfer is
measured at the lower of (i) the carrying amount of the asset and (ii) the maximum amount of the consideration received
in the transfer that the entity could be required to repay (`the guarantee amount'). The associated liability is initially
measured at the guarantee amount plus the fair value of the guarantee (which is normally the consideration received for
the guarantee). Subsequently, the initial fair value of the guarantee is recognised in profit or loss when (or as) the
obligation is satisfied (in accordance with the principles of Ind AS 115) and the carrying value of the asset is reduced by
any loss allowance.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Assets measured at amortised cost
(b)
If a put option obligation written by an entity or call option right held by an entity prevents a transferred asset from being
derecognized and the entity measures the transferred asset at amortised cost, the associated liability is measured at its
cost (i.e. the consideration received) adjusted for the amortisation of any difference between that cost and the gross
carrying amount of the transferred asset at the expiration date of the option. For example, assume that the gross
carrying amount of the asset on the date of the transfer is Rs.98 and that the consideration received is Rs.95. The gross
carrying amount of the asset on the option exercise date will be Rs.100. The initial carrying amount of the associated
liability is Rs.95 and the difference between Rs.95 and Rs.100 is recognized in profit or loss using the effective interest
method. If the option is exercised, any difference between the carrying amount of the associated liability and the
exercise price is recognized in profit or loss.
Assets measured at fair value
(c)
If a call option right retained by an entity prevents a transferred asset from being derecognized and the entity measures
the transferred asset at fair value, the asset continues to be measured at its fair value. The associated liability is
measured at (i) the option exercise price less the time value of the option if the option is in or at the money, or (ii) the fair
value of the transferred asset less the time value of the option if the option is out of the money. The adjustment to the
measurement of the associated liability ensures that the net carrying amount of the asset and the associated liability is
the fair value of the call option right. For example, if the fair value of the underlying asset is Rs.80, the option exercise
price is Rs.95 and the time value of the option is Rs.5, the carrying amount of the associated liability is Rs.75 (Rs.80 -
Page 192/765
----- PAGE 193 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Rs.5) and the carrying amount of the transferred asset is Rs.80 (i.e. its fair value).
(d)
If a put option written by an entity prevents a transferred asset from being derecognized and the entity measures the
transferred asset at fair value, the associated liability is measured at the option exercise price plus the time value of the
option. The measurement of the asset at fair value is limited to the lower of the fair value and the option exercise price
because the entity has no right to increases in the fair value of the transferred asset above the exercise price of the
option. This ensures that the net carrying amount of the asset and the associated liability is the fair value of the put
option obligation. For example, if the fair value of the underlying asset is Rs.120, the option exercise price is Rs.100 and
the time value of the option is Rs.5, the carrying amount of the associated liability is Rs.105 (Rs.100 + Rs.5) and the
carrying amount of the asset is Rs.100 (in this case the option exercise price).
(e)
If a collar, in the form of a purchased call and written put, prevents a transferred asset from being derecognized and the
entity measures the asset at fair value, it continues to measure the asset at fair value. The associated liability is
measured at (i) the sum of the call exercise price and fair value of the put option less the time value of the call option, if
the call option is in or at the money, or (ii) the sum of the fair value of the asset and the fair value of the put option less
the time value of the call option if the call option is out of the money. The adjustment to the associated liability ensures
that the net carrying amount of the asset and the associated liability is the fair value of the options held and written by
the entity. For example, assume an entity transfers a financial asset that is measured at fair value while simultaneously
purchasing a call with an exercise price of Rs.120 and writing a put with an exercise price of Rs.80. Assume also that
the fair value of the asset is Rs.100 at the date of the transfer. The time value of the put and call are Rs.1 and Rs.5
respectively. In this case, the entity recognises an asset of Rs.100 (the fair value of the asset) and a liability of Rs.96
[(Rs.100 + Rs.1) - Rs.5]. This gives a net asset value of Rs.4, which is the fair value of the options held and written by
the entity.
All transfers
B3.2.14 To the extent that a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition, the transferor's contractual
rights or obligations related to the transfer are not accounted for separately as derivatives if recognising both the
derivative and either the transferred asset or the liability arising from the transfer would result in recognising the same
rights or obligations twice. For example, a call option retained by the transferor may prevent a transfer of financial assets
from being accounted for as a sale. In that case, the call option is not separately recognized as a derivative asset.
B3.2.15 To the extent that a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition, the transferee does not
recognise the transferred asset as its asset. The transferee derecognises the cash or other consideration paid and
recognises a receivable from the transferor. If the transferor has both a right and an obligation to reacquire control of the
entire transferred asset for a fixed amount (such as under a repurchase agreement), the transferee may measure its
receivable at amortised cost if it meets the criteria in paragraph 4.1.2.
Examples
B3.2.16 The following examples illustrate the application of the derecognition principles of this Standard.
(a)
Repurchase agreements and securities lending. If a financial asset is sold under an agreement to repurchase it at a
fixed price or at the sale price plus a lender's return or if it is loaned under an agreement to return it to the transferor, it is
not derecognized because the transferor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. If the transferee
obtains the right to sell or pledge the asset, the transferor reclassifies the asset in its statement of balance sheet, for
example, as a loaned asset or repurchase receivable.
(b)
Repurchase agreements and securities lending-assets that are substantially the same. If a financial asset is sold under
an agreement to repurchase the same or substantially the same asset at a fixed price or at the sale price plus a lender's
return or if a financial asset is borrowed or loaned under an agreement to return the same or substantially the same
asset to the transferor, it is not derecognized because the transferor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership.
(c)
Repurchase agreements and securities lending-right of substitution. If a repurchase agreement at a fixed repurchase
price or a price equal to the sale price plus a lender's return, or a similar securities lending transaction, provides the
Page 193/765
----- PAGE 194 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
transferee with a right to substitute assets that are similar and of equal fair value to the transferred asset at the
repurchase date, the asset sold or lent under a repurchase or securities lending transaction is not derecognized
because the transferor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
(d)
Repurchase right of first refusal at fair value. If an entity sells a financial asset and retains only a right of first refusal to
repurchase the transferred asset at fair value if the transferee subsequently sells it, the entity derecognises the asset
because it has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
(e)
Wash sale transaction. The repurchase of a financial asset shortly after it has been sold is sometimes referred to as a
wash sale. Such a repurchase does not preclude derecognition provided that the original transaction met the
derecognition requirements. However, if an agreement to sell a financial asset is entered into concurrently with an
agreement to repurchase the same asset at a fixed price or the sale price plus a lender's return, then the asset is not
derecognized.
(f)
Put options and call options that are deeply in the money. If a transferred financial asset can be called back by the
transferor and the call option is deeply in the money, the transfer does not qualify for derecognition because the
transferor has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. Similarly, if the financial asset can be put
back by the transferee and the put option is deeply in the money, the transfer does not qualify for derecognition because
the transferor has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
(g)
Put options and call options that are deeply out of the money. A financial assetthat is transferred subject only to a deep
out-of-the-money put option held by the transferee or a deep out-of-the-money call option held by the transferor is
derecognized. This is because the transferor has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
(h)
Readily obtainable assets subject to a call option that is neither deeply in the money nor deeply out of the money. If an
entity holds a call option on an asset that is readily obtainable in the market and the option is neither deeply in the
money nor deeply out of the money, the asset is derecognized. This is because the entity (i) has neither retained nor
transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, and (ii) has not retained control. However, if the asset is
not readily obtainable in the market, derecognition is precluded to the extent of the amount of the asset that is subject to
the call option because the entity has retained control of the asset.
(i)
A not readily obtainable asset subject to a put option written by an entity that is neither deeply in the money nor deeply
out of the money. If an entity transfers a financial asset that is not readily obtainable in the market, and writes a put
option that is not deeply out of the money, the entity neither retains nor transfers substantially all the risks and rewards
of ownership because of the written put option. The entity retains control of the asset if the put option is sufficiently
valuable to prevent the transferee from selling the asset, in which case the asset continues to be recognized to the
extent of the transferor's continuing involvement (see paragraph B3.2.9). The entity transfers control of the asset if the
put option is not sufficiently valuable to prevent the transferee from selling the asset, in which case the asset is
derecognized.
(j)
Assets subject to a fair value put or call option or a forward repurchase agreement. A transfer of a financial asset that is
subject only to a put or call option or a forward repurchase agreement that has an exercise or repurchase price equal to
the fair value of the financial asset at the time of repurchase results in derecognition because of the transfer of
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
(k)
Cash-settled call or put options. An entity evaluates the transfer of a financial asset that is subject to a put or call option
or a forward repurchase agreement that will be settled net in cash to determine whether it has retained or transferred
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. If the entity has not retained substantially all the risks and rewards
of ownership of the transferred asset, it determines whether it has retained control of the transferred asset. That the put
or the call or the forward repurchase agreement is settled net in cash does not automatically mean that the entity has
transferred control (see paragraphs B3.2.9 and (g), (h) and (i) above).
Page 194/765
----- PAGE 195 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(l)
Removal of accounts provision. A removal of accounts provision is an unconditional repurchase (call) option that gives
an entity the right to reclaim assets transferred subject to some restrictions. Provided that such an option results in the
entity neither retaining nor transferring substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, it precludes derecognition
only to the extent of the amount subject to repurchase (assuming that the transferee cannot sell the assets). For
example, if the carrying amount and proceeds from the transfer of loan assets are Rs.100,000 and any individual loan
could be called back but the aggregate amount of loans that could be repurchased could not exceed Rs.10,000,
Rs.90,000 of the loans would qualify for derecognition.
(m)
Clean-up calls. An entity, which may be a transferor, that services transferred assets may hold a cleanup call to
purchase remaining transferred assets when the amount of outstanding assets falls to a specified level at which the cost
of servicing those assets becomes burdensome in relation to the benefits of servicing. Provided that such a clean-up call
results in the entity neither retaining nor transferring substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and the
transferee cannot sell the assets, it precludes derecognition only to the extent of the amount of the assets that is subject
to the call option.
(n)
Subordinated retained interests and credit guarantees. An entity may provide the transferee with credit enhancement by
subordinating some or all of its interest retained in the transferred asset. Alternatively, an entity may provide the
transferee with credit enhancement in the form of a credit guarantee that could be unlimited or limited to a specified
amount. If the entity retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset, the asset
continues to be recognized in its entirety. If the entity retains some, but not substantially all, of the risks and rewards of
ownership and has retained control, derecognition is precluded to the extent of the amount of cash or other assets that
the entity could be required to pay.
(o)
Total return swaps. An entity may sell a financial asset to a transferee and enter into a total return swap with the
transferee, whereby all of the interest payment cash flows from the underlying asset are remitted to the entity in
exchange for a fixed payment or variable rate payment and any increases or declines in the fair value of the underlying
asset are absorbed by the entity. In such a case, derecognition of all of the asset is prohibited.
(p)
Interest rate swaps. An entity may transfer to a transferee a fixed rate financial asset and enter into an interest rate swap
with the transferee to receive a fixed interest rate and pay a variable interest rate based on a notional amount that is
equal to the principal amount of the transferred financial asset. The interest rate swap does not preclude derecognition
of the transferred asset provided the payments on the swap are not conditional on payments being made on the
transferred asset.
(q)
Amortising interest rate swaps. An entity may transfer to a transferee a fixed rate financial asset that is paid off over
time, and enter into an amortising interest rate swap with the transferee to receive a fixed interest rate and pay a
variable interest rate based on a notional amount. If the notional amount of the swap amortises so that it equals the
principal amount of the transferred financial asset outstanding at any point in time, the swap would generally result in the
entity retaining substantial prepayment risk, in which case the entity either continues to recognise all of the transferred
asset or continues to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of its continuing involvement. Conversely, if the
amortisation of the notional amount of the swap is not linked to the principal amount outstanding of the transferred asset,
such a swap would not result in the entity retaining prepayment risk on the asset. Hence, it would not preclude
derecognition of the transferred asset provided the payments on the swap are not conditional on interest payments
being made on the transferred asset and the swap does not result in the entity retaining any other significant risks and
rewards of ownership on the transferred asset.
(r)
Write-off. An entity has no reasonable expectations of recovering the contractual cash flows on a financial asset in its
entirety or a portion thereof.
B3.2.17 This paragraph illustrates the application of the continuing involvement approach when the entity's continuing
involvement is in a part of a financial asset.
Page 195/765
----- PAGE 196 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Assume an entity has a portfolio of pre-payable
loans whose coupon and effective interest rate is 10 per cent and
whose principal amount and amortised cost is Rs.10,000. It enters
into a transaction in which, in return for a payment of Rs.9,115,
the transferee obtains the right to Rs.9,000 of any collections
of principal plus interest thereon at 9.5 per cent. The entity
retains rights to Rs.1,000 of any collections of principal plus
interest thereon at 10 per cent, plus the excess spread of 0.5
per cent on the remaining Rs.9,000 of principal. Collections from
prepayments are allocated between the entity and the transferee
proportionately in the ratio of 1:9, but any defaults are
deducted from the entity's interest of Rs.1,000 until that
interest is exhausted. The fair value of the loans at the date of
the transaction is Rs.10,100 and the fair value of the excess
spread of 0.5 per cent is Rs.40.
The entity determines that it has transferred
some significant risks and rewards of ownership (for example,
significant prepayment risk) but has also retained some
significant risks and rewards of ownership (because of its
subordinated retained interest) and has retained control. It
therefore applies the continuing involvement approach.
To apply this Standard, the entity analyses the
transaction as (a) a retention of a fully proportionate retained
interest of Rs.1,000, plus (b) the subordination of that retained
interest to provide credit enhancement to the transferee for
credit losses.
The entity calculates that Rs.9,090 (90% ×
Rs.10,100) of the consideration received of Rs.9,115 represents
the consideration for a fully proportionate 90 per cent share.
The remainder of the consideration received (Rs.25) represents
consideration received for subordinating its retained interest to
provide credit enhancement to the transferee for credit losses.
In addition, the excess spread of 0.5 per cent represents
consideration received for the credit enhancement. Accordingly,
the total consideration received for the credit enhancement is
Rs.65 (Rs.25 + Rs.40).
The entity calculates the gain or loss on the
sale of the 90 per cent share of cash flows. Assuming that
separate fair values of the 90 per cent part transferred and the
10 per cent part retained are not available at the date of the
transfer, the entity allocates the carrying amount of the asset
in accordance with paragraph 3.2.14 of Ind AS109 as follows:
{|
Fair value
Percentage
Allocated carrying amount
Portion transferred
9,090
90%
9,000
Portion retained
Page 196/765
----- PAGE 197 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
1,010
10%
1,000
Total
10,100
10,000
|-
| The entity computes its gain or loss on the sale
of the 90 per cent share of the cash flows by deducting the
allocated carrying amount of the portion transferred from the
consideration received, i.e. Rs.90 (Rs.9,090 - Rs.9,000). The
carrying amount of the portion retained by the entity is
Rs.1,000.
|-
| In addition, the entity recognises the
continuing involvement that results from the subordination of its
retained interest for credit losses. Accordingly, it recognises
an asset of Rs.1,000 (the maximum amount of the cash flows it
would not receive under the subordination), and an associated
liability of Rs.1,065 (which is the maximum amount of the cash
flows it would not receive under the subordination, i.e. Rs.1,000
plus the fair value of the subordination of Rs.65).
|-
| The entity uses all of the above information to
account for the transaction as follows:
|-
|
Debit
Credit
Original asset
9,000
Asset recognized for subordination or the residual interest
1,000
Asset for the consideration received in the form of excess
spread
40
Profit or loss (gain on transfer)
90
Liability
1,065
Cash received
9,115
Total
10,155
10,155
|-
| Immediately following the transaction, the
carrying amount of the asset is Rs.2,040 comprising Rs.1,000,
representing the allocated cost of the portion retained, and
Rs.1,040, representing the entity's additional continuing
involvement from the subordination of its retained interest for
Page 197/765
----- PAGE 198 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
credit losses (which includes the excess spread of Rs.40).
|-
| In subsequent periods, the entity recognises the
consideration received for the credit enhancement (Rs.65) on a
time proportion basis, accrues interest on the recognized asset
using the effective interest method and recognises any impairment
losses on the recognized assets. As an example of the latter,
assume that in the following year there is an impairment loss on
the underlying loans of Rs.300. The entity reduces its recognized
asset by Rs.600 (Rs.300 relating to its retained interest and
Rs.300 relating to the additional continuing involvement that
arises from the subordination of its retained interest for
impairment losses), and reduces its recognized liability by
Rs.300. The net result is a charge to profit or loss for
impairment losses of Rs.300.
|}
Derecognition of financial liabilities (Section 3.3)
B3.3.1 A financial liability (or part of it) is extinguished when the debtor either:
(a)
discharges the liability (or part of it) by paying the creditor, normally with cash, other financial assets, goods or services;
or
(b)
is legally released from primary responsibility for the liability (or part of it) either by process of law or by the creditor. (If
the debtor has given a guarantee this condition may still be met.)
B3.3.2 If an issuer of a debt instrument repurchases that instrument, the debt is extinguished even if the issuer is a
market maker in that instrument or intends to resell it in the near term.
B3.3.3 Payment to a third party, including a trust (sometimes called 'in-substance defeasance'), does not, by itself,
relieve the debtor of its primary obligation to the creditor, in the absence of legal release.
B3.3.4 If a debtor pays a third party to assume an obligation and notifies its creditor that the third party has assumed its
debt obligation, the debtor does not derecognise the debt obligation unless the condition in paragraph B3.3.1(b) is met.
If the debtor pays a third party to assume an obligation and obtains a legal release from its creditor, the debtor has
extinguished the debt. However, if the debtor agrees to make payments on the debt to the third party or direct to its
original creditor, the debtor recognises a new debt obligation to the third party.
B3.3.5 Although legal release, whether judicially or by the creditor, results in derecognition of a liability, the entity may
recognise a new liability if the derecognition criteria in paragraphs 3.2.1-3.2.23 are not met for the financial assets
transferred. If those criteria are not met, the transferred assets are not derecognized, and the entity recognises a new
liability relating to the transferred assets.
B3.3.6 For the purpose of paragraph 3.3.2, the terms are substantially different if the discounted present value of the
cash flows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees received and discounted using the original
effective interest rate, is at least 10 per cent different from the discounted present value of the remaining cash flows of
the original financial liability. If an exchange of debt instruments or modification of terms is accounted for as an
extinguishment, any costs or fees incurred are recognized as part of the gain or loss on the extinguishment. If the
exchange or modification is not accounted for as an extinguishment, any costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying
amount of the liability and are amortised over the remaining term of the modified liability.
B3.3.7 In some cases, a creditor releases a debtor from its present obligation to make payments, but the debtor
assumes a guarantee obligation to pay if the party assuming primary responsibility defaults. In these circumstances the
debtor:
(a)
recognises a new financial liability based on the fair value of its obligation for the guarantee, and
(b)
recognises a gain or loss based on the difference between (i) any proceeds paid and (ii) the carrying amount of the
Page 198/765
----- PAGE 199 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
original financial liability less the fair value of the new financial liability.
Classification (Chapter 4)
Classification of financial assets (Section 4.1)
The entity's business model for managing financial assets
B4.1.1 Paragraph 4.1.1(a) requires an entity to classify financial assets on the basis of the entity's business model for
managing the financial assets, unless paragraph 4.1.5 applies. An entity assesses whether its financial assets meet the
condition in paragraph 4.1.2(a) or the condition in paragraph 4.1.2A(a) on the basis of the business model as
determined by the entity's key management personnel (as defined in Ind AS 24 Related Party Disclosures).
B4.1.2 An entity's business model is determined at a level that reflects how groups of financial assets are managed
together to achieve a particular business objective. The entity's business model does not depend on management's
intentions for an individual instrument. Accordingly, this condition is not an instrument-by-instrument approach to
classification and should be determined on a higher level of aggregation. However, a single entity may have more than
one business model for managing its financial instruments. Consequently, classification need not be determined at the
reporting entity level. For example, an entity may hold a portfolio of investments that it manages in order to collect
contractual cash flows and another portfolio of investments that it manages in order to trade to realise fair value
changes. Similarly, in some circumstances, it may be appropriate to separate a portfolio of financial assets into
sub-portfolios in order to reflect the level at which an entity manages those financial assets. For example, that may be
the case if an entity originates or purchases a portfolio of mortgage loans and manages some of the loans with an
objective of collecting contractual cash flows and manages the other loans with an objective of selling them.
B4.1.2A An entity's business model refers to how an entity manages its financial assets in order to generate cash flows.
That is, the entity's business model determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash flows,
selling financial assets or both. Consequently, this assessment is not performed on the basis of scenarios that the entity
does not reasonably expect to occur, such as so-called 'worst case' or 'stress case' scenarios. For example, if an entity
expects that it will sell a particular portfolio of financial assets only in a stress case scenario, that scenario would not
affect the entity's assessment of the business model for those assets if the entity reasonably expects that such a
scenario will not occur. If cash flows are realised in a way that is different from the entity's expectations at the date that
the entity assessed the business model (for example, if the entity sells more or fewer financial assets than it expected
when it classified the assets), that does not give rise to a prior period error in the entity's financial statements (see Ind
AS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors) nor does it change the classification of the
remaining financial assets held in that business model (i.e. those assets that the entity recognized in prior periods and
still holds) as long as the entity considered all relevant information that was available at the time that it made the
business model assessment. However, when an entity assesses the business model for newly originated or newly
purchased financial assets, it must consider information about how cash flows were realised in the past, along with all
other relevant information.
B4.1.2B An entity's business model for managing financial assets is a matter of fact and not merely an assertion. It is
typically observable through the activities that the entity undertakes to achieve the objective of the business model. An
entity will need to use judgement when it assesses its business model for managing financial assets and that
assessment is not determined by a single factor or activity. Instead, the entity must consider all relevant evidence that is
available at the date of the assessment. Such relevant evidence includes, but is not limited to:
(a)
how the performance of the business model and the financial assets held within that business model are evaluated and
reported to the entity's key management personnel;
(b)
the risks that affect the performance of the business model (and the financial assets held within that business model)
and, in particular, the way in which those risks are managed; and
(c)
how managers of the business are compensated (for example, whether the compensation is based on the fair value of
the assets managed or on the contractual cash flows collected).
A business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows
B4.1.2C Financial assets that are held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect
contractual cash flows are managed to realise cash flows by collecting contractual payments over the life of the
Page 199/765
----- PAGE 200 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
instrument. That is, the entity manages the assets held within the portfolio to collect those particular contractual cash
flows (instead of managing the overall return on the portfolio by both holding and selling assets). In determining whether
cash flows are going to be realised by collecting the financial assets' contractual cash flows, it is necessary to consider
the frequency, value and timing of sales in prior periods, the reasons for those sales and expectations about future sales
activity. However sales in themselves do not determine the business model and therefore cannot be considered in
isolation. Instead, information about past sales and expectations about future sales provide evidence related to how the
entity's stated objective for managing the financial assets is achieved and, specifically, how cash flows are realised. An
entity must consider information about past sales within the context of the reasons for those sales and the conditions
that existed at that time as compared to current conditions.
B4.1.3 Although the objective of an entity's business model may be to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual
cash flows, the entity need not hold all of those instruments until maturity. Thus an entity's business model can be to
hold financial assets to collect contractual cash flows even when sales of financial assets occur or are expected to occur
in the future.
B4.1.3A The business model may be to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows even if the entity sells financial
assets when there is an increase in the assets' credit risk. To determine whether there has been an increase in the
assets' credit risk, the entity considers reasonable and supportable information, including forward looking information.
Irrespective of their frequency and value, sales due to an increase in the assets' credit risk are not inconsistent with a
business model whose objective is to hold financial assets to collect contractual cash flows because the credit quality of
financial assets is relevant to the entity's ability to collect contractual cash flows. Credit risk management activities that
are aimed at minimising potential credit losses due to credit deterioration are integral to such a business model. Selling
a financial asset because it no longer meets the credit criteria specified in the entity's documented investment policy is
an example of a sale that has occurred due to an increase in credit risk. However, in the absence of such a policy, the
entity may demonstrate in other ways that the sale occurred due to an increase in credit risk.
B4.1.3B Sales that occur for other reasons, such as sales made to manage credit concentration risk (without an
increase in the assets' credit risk), may also be consistent with a business model whose objective is to hold financial
assets in order to collect contractual cash flows. In particular, such sales may be consistent with a business model
whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows if those sales are infrequent (even if
significant in value) or insignificant in value both individually and in aggregate (even if frequent). If more than an
infrequent number of such sales are made out of a portfolio and those sales are more than insignificant in value (either
individually or in aggregate), the entity needs to assess whether and how such sales are consistent with an objective of
collecting contractual cash flows. Whether a third party imposes the requirement to sell the financial assets, or that
activity is at the entity's discretion, is not relevant to this assessment. An increase in the frequency or value of sales in a
particular period is not necessarily inconsistent with an objective to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual
cash flows, if an entity can explain the reasons for those sales and demonstrate why those sales do not reflect a change
in the entity's business model. In addition, sales may be consistent with the objective of holding financial assets in order
to collect contractual cash flows if the sales are made close to the maturity of the financial assets and the proceeds from
the sales approximate the collection of the remaining contractual cash flows.
B4.1.4 The following are examples of when the objective of an entity's business model may be to hold financial assets to
collect the contractual cash flows. This list of examples is not exhaustive. Furthermore, the examples are not intended to
discuss all factors that may be relevant to the assessment of the entity's business model nor specify the relative
importance of the factors.
Example
Analysis
An entity holds
investments to collect their contractual cash flows. The funding
needs of the entity are predictable and the maturity of its
financial assets is matched to the entity's estimated funding
needs.
The entity performs
credit risk management activities with the objective of
minimising credit losses. In the past, sales have typically
Page 200/765
----- PAGE 201 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
occurred when the financial assets' credit risk has increased
such that the assets no longer meet the credit criteria specified
in the entity's documented investment policy. In addition,
infrequent sales have occurred as a result of unanticipated
funding needs.
Reports to key management personnel focus on the
credit quality of the financial assets and the contractual
return. The entity also monitors fair values of the financial
assets, among other information.
Although the entity considers, among other
information, the financial assets' fair values from a liquidity
perspective (i.e. the cash amount that would be realised if the
entity needs to sell assets), the entity's objective is to hold
the financial assets in order to collect the contractual cash
flows. Sales would not contradict that objective if they were in
response to an increase in the assets' credit risk, for example
if the assets no longer meet the credit criteria specified in the
entity's documented investment policy. Infrequent sales resulting
from unanticipated funding needs (e.g. in a stress case scenario)
also would not contradict that objective, even if such sales are
significant in value.
Example 2
Analysis
An entity's business
model is to purchase portfolios of financial assets, such as
loans. Those portfolios may or may not include financial assets
that are credit impaired.
If payment on the
loans is not made on a timely basis, the entity attempts to
realise the contractual cash flows through various means-for
example, by contacting the debtor by mail, telephone or other
methods. The entity's objective is to collect the contractual
cash flows and the entity does not manage any of the loans in
this portfolio with an objective of realising cash flows by
selling them.
In some cases, the entity enters into interest
rate swaps to change the interest rate on particular financial
assets in a portfolio from a floating interest rate to a fixed
interest rate.
The objective of the
entity's business model is to hold the financial assets in order
to collect the contractual cash flows.
The same analysis
would apply even if the entity does not expect to receive all of
the contractual cash flows (e.g. some of the financial assets are
credit impaired at initial recognition).
Moreover, the fact that the entity enters into
derivatives to modify the cash flows of the portfolio does not in
itself change the entity's business model.
Example 3
Analysis
Page 201/765
----- PAGE 202 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
An entity has a
business model with the objective of originating loans to
customers and subsequently selling those loans to a
securitisation vehicle.
The securitisation
vehicle issues instruments to investors.
The originating
entity controls the securitisation vehicle and thus consolidates
it.
The securitisation
vehicle collects the contractual cash flows from the loans and
passes them on to its investors.
It is assumed for the purposes of this example
that the loans continue to be recognized in the consolidated
balance sheet because they are not derecognized by the
securitisation vehicle.
The consolidated
group originated the loans with the objective of holding them to
collect the contractual cash flows.
However, the originating entity has an objective
of realising cash flows on the loan portfolio by selling the
loans to the securitisation vehicle, so for the purposes of its
separate financial statements it would not be considered to be
managing this portfolio in order to collect the contractual cash
flows.
Example 4
Analysis
A financial
institution holds financial assets to meet liquidity needs in a
'stress case' scenario (e.g., a run on the bank's deposits). The
entity does not anticipate selling these assets except in such
scenarios.
The entity monitors
the credit quality of the financial assets and its objective in
managing the financial assets is to collect the contractual cash
flows. The entity evaluates the performance of the assets on the
basis of interest revenue earned and credit losses realised.
However, the entity also monitors the fair value
of the financial assets from a liquidity perspective to ensure
that the cash amount that would be realised if the entity needed
to sell the assets in a stress case scenario would be sufficient
to meet the entity's liquidity needs. Periodically, the entity
makes sales that are insignificant in value to demonstrate
liquidity.
The objective of the
entity's business model is to hold the financial assets to
collect contractual cash flows.
The analysis would
not change even if during a previous stress case scenario the
entity had sales that were significant in value in order to meet
its liquidity needs. Similarly, recurring sales activity that is
Page 202/765
----- PAGE 203 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
insignificant in value is not inconsistent with holding financial
assets to collect contractual cash flows.
In contrast, if an
entity holds financial assets to meet its everyday liquidity
needs and meeting that objective involves frequent sales that are
significant in value, the objective of the entity's business
model is not to hold the financial assets to collect contractual
cash flows.
Similarly, if the entity is required by its
regulator to routinely sell financial assets to demonstrate that
the assets are liquid, and the value of the assets sold is
significant, the entity's business model is not to hold financial
assets to collect contractual cash flows. Whether a third party
imposes the requirement to sell the financial assets, or that
activity is at the entity's discretion, is not relevant to the
analysis.
A business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets
B4.1.4A An entity may hold financial assets in a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting
contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. In this type of business model, the entity's key management
personnel have made a decision that both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets are integral to
achieving the objective of the business model. There are various objectives that may be consistent with this type of
business model. For example, the objective of the business model may be to manage every day liquidity needs, to
maintain a particular interest yield profile or to match the duration of the financial assets to the duration of the liabilities
that those assets are funding. To achieve such an objective, the entity will both collect contractual cash flows and sell
financial assets.
B4.1.4B Compared to a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets to collect contractual cash flows, this
business model will typically involve greater frequency and value of sales. This is because selling financial assets is
integral to achieving the business model's objective instead of being only incidental to it. However, there is no threshold
for the frequency or value of sales that must occur in this business model because both collecting contractual cash flows
and selling financial assets are integral to achieving its objective.
B4.1.4C The following are examples of when the objective of the entity's business model may be achieved by both
collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. This list of examples is not exhaustive. Furthermore, the
examples are not intended to describe all the factors that may be relevant to the assessment of the entity's business
model nor specify the relative importance of the factors.
Example 5
Analysis
An entity anticipates
capital expenditure in a few years. The entity invests its excess
cash in short and long-term financial assets so that it can fund
the expenditure when the need arises. Many of the financial
assets have contractual lives that exceed the entity's
anticipated investment period.
The entity will hold
financial assets to collect the contractual cash flows and, when
an opportunity arises, it will sell financial assets to re-invest
the cash in financial assets with a higher return.
The managers responsible for the portfolio are
remunerated based on the overall return generated by the
portfolio.
The objective of the
business model is achieved by both collecting contractual cash
Page 203/765
----- PAGE 204 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
flows and selling financial assets. The entity will make
decisions on an ongoing basis about whether collecting
contractual cash flows or selling financial assets will maximise
the return on the portfolio until the need arises for the
invested cash.
In contrast, consider an entity that anticipates
a cash outflow in five years to fund capital expenditure and
invests excess cash in short-term financial assets. When the
investments mature, the entity reinvests the cash in new
short-term financial assets. The entity maintains this strategy
until the funds are needed, at which time the entity uses the
proceeds from the maturing financial assets to fund the capital
expenditure. Only sales that are insignificant in value occur
before maturity (unless there is an increase in credit risk). The
objective of this contrasting business model is to hold financial
assets to collect contractual cash flows.
Example 6
Analysis
A financial
institution holds financial assets to meet its everyday liquidity
needs. The entity seeks to minimize the costs of managing those
liquidity needs and therefore actively manages the return on the
portfolio. That return consists of collecting contractual
payments as well as gains and losses from the sale of financial
assets.
As a result, the entity holds financial assets
to collect contractual cash flows and sells financial assets to
reinvest in higher yielding financial assets or to better match
the duration of its liabilities. In the past, this strategy has
resulted in frequent sales activity and such sales have been
significant in value. This activity is expected to continue in
the future.
The objective of the business model is to
maximise the return on the portfolio to meet everyday liquidity
needs and the entity achieves that objective by both collecting
contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. In other
words, both collecting contractual cash flows and selling
financial assets are integral to achieving the business model's
objective.
Example 7
Analysis
An insurer holds financial assets in order to
fund insurance contract liabilities. The insurer uses the
proceeds from the contractual cash flows on the financial assets
to settle insurance contract liabilities as they come due. To
ensure that the contractual cash flows from the financial assets
are sufficient to settle those liabilities, the insurer
undertakes significant buying and selling activity on a regular
basis to re-balance its portfolio of assets and to meet cash flow
needs as they arise.
The objective of the business model is to fund
Page 204/765
----- PAGE 205 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the insurance contract liabilities. To achieve this objective,
the entity collects contractual cash flows as they come due and
sells financial assets to maintain the desired profile of the
asset portfolio. Thus both collecting contractual cash flows and
selling financial assets are integral to achieving the business
model's objective.
Other business models
B4.1.5 Financial assets are measured at fair value through profit or loss if they are not held within a business model
whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows or within a business model whose objective is
achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets (but see also paragraph 5.7.5). One
business model that results in measurement at fair value through profit or loss is one in which an entity manages the
financial assets with the objective of realising cash flows through the sale of the assets. The entity makes decisions
based on the assets' fair values and manages the assets to realise those fair values. In this case, the entity's objective
will typically result in active buying and selling. Even though the entity will collect contractual cash flows while it holds the
financial assets, the objective of such a business model is not achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and
selling financial assets. This is because the collection of contractual cash flows is not integral to achieving the business
model's objective; instead, it is incidental to it.
B4.1.6 A portfolio of financial assets that is managed and whose performance is evaluated on a fair value basis (as
described in paragraph 4.2.2(b)) is neither held to collect contractual cash flows nor held both to collect contractual cash
flows and to sell financial assets. The entity is primarily focused on fair value information and uses that information to
assess the assets' performance and to make decisions. In addition, a portfolio of financial assets that meets the
definition of held for trading is not held to collect contractual cash flows or held both to collect contractual cash flows and
to sell financial assets. For such portfolios, the collection of contractual cash flows is only incidental to achieving the
business model's objective. Consequently, such portfolios of financial assets must be measured at fair value through
profit or loss.
Contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding
B4.1.7 Paragraph 4.1.1(b) requires an entity to classify a financial asset on the basis of its contractual cash flow
characteristics if the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets to collect
contractual cash flows or within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows
and selling financial assets, unless paragraph 4.1.5 applies. To do so, the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b)
requires an entity to determine whether the asset's contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest
on the principal amount outstanding.
B4.1.7A Contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding
are consistent with a basic lending arrangement. In a basic lending arrangement, consideration for the time value of
money (see paragraphs B4.1.9A-B4.1.9E) and credit risk are typically the most significant elements of interest.
However, in such an arrangement, interest can also include consideration for other basic lending risks (for example,
liquidity risk) and costs (for example, administrative costs) associated with holding the financial asset for a particular
period of time. In addition, interest can include a profit margin that is consistent with a basic lending arrangement. In
extreme economic circumstances, interest can be negative if, for example, the holder of a financial asset either explicitly
or implicitly pays for the deposit of its money for a particular period of time (and that fee exceeds the consideration that
the holder receives for the time value of money, credit risk and other basic lending risks and costs). However,
contractual terms that introduce exposure to risks or volatility in the contractual cash flows that is unrelated to a basic
lending arrangement, such as exposure to changes in equity prices or commodity prices,do not give rise to contractual
cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. An originated or a
purchased financial asset can be a basic lending arrangement irrespective of whether it is a loan in its legal form.
B4.1.7B In accordance with paragraph 4.1.3(a), principal is the fair value of the financial asset at initial recognition.
However that principal amount may change over the life of the financial asset (for example, if there are repayments of
principal).
B4.1.8 An entity shall assess whether contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest on the
principal amount outstanding for the currency in which the financial asset is denominated.
B4.1.9 Leverage is a contractual cash flow characteristic of some financial assets. Leverage increases the variability of
Page 205/765
----- PAGE 206 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the contractual cash flows with the result that they do not have the economic characteristics of interest. Stand-alone
option, forward and swap contracts are examples of financial assets that include such leverage. Thus, such contracts do
not meet the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b) and cannot be subsequently measured at amortised cost or
fair value through other comprehensive income.
Consideration for the time value of money
B4.1.9A Time value of money is the element of interest that provides consideration for only the passage of time. That is,
the time value of money element does not provide consideration for other risks or costs associated with holding the
financial asset. In order to assess whether the element provides consideration for only the passage of time, an entity
applies judgement and considers relevant factors such as the currency in which the financial asset is denominated and
the period for which the interest rate is set.
B4.1.9B However, in some cases, the time value of money element may be modified (i.e. imperfect). That would be the
case, for example, if a financial asset's interest rate is periodically reset but the frequency of that reset does not match
the tenor of the interest rate (for example, the interest rate resets every month to a one-year rate) or if a financial asset's
interest rate is periodically reset to an average of particular short and long-term interest rates. In such cases, an entity
must assess the modification to determine whether the contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal
and interest on the principal amount outstanding. In some circumstances, the entity may be able to make that
determination by performing a qualitative assessment of the time value of money element whereas, in other
circumstances, it may be necessary to perform a quantitative assessment.
B4.1.9C When assessing a modified time value of money element, the objective is to determine how different the
contractual (undiscounted) cash flows could be from the (undiscounted) cash flows that would arise if the time value of
money element was not modified (the benchmark cash flows). For example, if the financial asset under assessment
contains a variable interest rate that is reset every month to a one-year interest rate, the entity would compare that
financial asset to a financial instrument with identical contractual terms and the identical credit risk except the variable
interest rate is reset monthly to a one-month interest rate. If the modified time value of money element could result in
contractual (undiscounted) cash flows that are significantly different from the (undiscounted) benchmark cash flows, the
financial asset does not meet the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b). To make this determination, the entity
must consider the effect of the modified time value of money element in each reporting period and cumulatively over the
life of the financial instrument. The reason for the interest rate being set in this way is not relevant to the analysis. If it is
clear, with little or no analysis, whether the contractual (undiscounted) cash flows on the financial asset under the
assessment could (or could not) be significantly different from the (undiscounted) benchmark cash flows, an entity need
not perform a detailed assessment.
B4.1.9D When assessing a modified time value of money element, an entity must consider factors that could affect
future contractual cash flows. For example, if an entity is assessing a bond with a five-year term and the variable interest
rate is reset every six months to a five-year rate, the entity cannot conclude that the contractual cash flows are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding simply because the interest rate curve at the time
of the assessment is such that the difference between a five year interest rate and a six-month interest rate is not
significant. Instead, the entity must also consider whether the relationship between the five-year interest rate and the
six-month interest rate could change over the life of the instrument such that the contractual (undiscounted) cash flows
over the life of the instrument could be significantly different from the (undiscounted) benchmark cash flows. However,
an entity must consider only reasonably possible scenarios instead of every possible scenario. If an entity concludes
that the contractual (undiscounted) cash flows could be significantly different from the (undiscounted) benchmark cash
flows, the financial asset does not meet the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b) and therefore cannot be
measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income.
B4.1.9E In some jurisdictions, the government or a regulatory authority sets interest rates. For example, such
government regulation of interest rates may be part of a broad macroeconomic policy or it may be introduced to
encourage entities to invest in a particular sector of the economy. In some of these cases, the objective of the time value
of money element is not to provide consideration for only the passage of time. However, despite paragraphs
B4.1.9A-B4.1.9D, a regulated interest rate shall be considered a proxy for the time value of money element for the
purpose of applying the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b) if that regulated interest rate provides
consideration that is broadly consistent with the passage of time and does not provide exposure to risks or volatility in
the contractual cash flows that are inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement.
Page 206/765
----- PAGE 207 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Contractual terms that change the timing or amount of contractual cash flows
B4.1.10 If a financial asset contains a contractual term that could change the timing or amount of contractual cash flows
(for example, if the asset can be prepaid before maturity or its term can be extended), the entity must determine whether
the contractual cash flows that could arise over the life of the instrument due to that contractual term are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. To make this determination, the entity must
assess the contractual cash flows that could arise both before, and after, the change in contractual cash flows. The
entity may also need to assess the nature of any contingent event (i.e. the trigger) that would change the timing or
amount of the contractual cash flows. While the nature of the contingent event in itself is not a determinative factor in
assessing whether the contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest, it may be an indicator. For
example, compare a financial instrument with an interest rate that is reset to a higher rate if the debtor misses a
particular number of payments to a financial instrument with an interest rate that is reset to a higher rate if a specified
equity index reaches a particular level. It is more likely in the former case that the contractual cash flows over the life of
the instrument will be solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding because of the
relationship between missed payments and an increase in credit risk. (See also paragraph B4.1.18.)
B4.1.11 The following are examples of contractual terms that result in contractual cash flows that are solely payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding:
(a)
a variable interest rate that consists of consideration for the time value of money, the credit risk associated with the
principal amount outstanding during a particular period of time (the consideration for credit risk may be determined at
initial recognition only, and so may be fixed) and other basic lending risks and costs, as well as a profit margin;
(b)
[ a contractual term that permits the issuer (ie the debtor) to prepay a debt instrument or permits the holder (ie the
creditor) to put a debt instrument back to the issuer before maturity and the prepayment amount substantially represents
unpaid amounts of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, which may include reasonable
compensation for the early termination of the contract; and]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(c)
a contractual term that permits the issuer or the holder to extend the contractual term of a debt instrument (i.e. an
extension option) and the terms of the extension option result in contractual cash flows during the extension period that
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, which may include reasonable
additional compensation for the extension of the contract.
B4.1.12 Despite paragraph B4.1.10, a financial asset that would otherwise meet the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b)
and 4.1.2A(b) but does not do so only as a result of a contractual term that permits (or requires) the issuer to prepay a
debt instrument or permits (or requires) the holder to put a debt instrument back to the issuer before maturity is eligible
to be measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income (subject to meeting the condition in
paragraph 4.1.2(a) or the condition in paragraph 4.1.2A(a)) if:
(a)
the entity acquires or originates the financial asset at a premium or discount to the contractual par amount;
(b)
[ the prepayment amount substantially represents the contractual par amount and accrued (but unpaid) contractual
interest, which may include reasonable compensation for the early termination of the contract; and]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(c)
when the entity initially recognises the financial asset, the fair value of the prepayment feature is insignificant.
[B4.1.12A For the purpose of applying paragraphs B4.1.11(b) and B4.1.12(b), irrespective of the event or circumstance
that causes the early termination of the contract, a party may pay or receive reasonable compensation for that early
termination. For example, a party may pay or receive reasonable compensation when it chooses to terminate the
contract early (or otherwise causes the early termination to occur).]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
B4.1.13 The following examples illustrate contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the
principal amount outstanding. This list of examples is not exhaustive.
Page 207/765
----- PAGE 208 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Instrument A
Instrument A is a bond with a stated maturity
date. Payments of principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding are linked to an inflation index of the currency in
which the instrument is issued. The inflation link is not
leveraged and the principal is protected.
Analysis
The contractual cash
flows are solely payments of principal and interest on the
principal amount outstanding. Linking payments of principal and
interest on the principal amount outstanding to annul ever aged
inflation index resets the time value of money to a current
level. In other words, the interest rate on the instrument
reflects 'real' interest. Thus, the interest amounts are
consideration for the time value of money on the principal amount
outstanding.
However, if the interest payments were indexed
to another variable such as the debtor's performance (e.g. the
debtor's net income) or an equity index, the contractual cash
flows are not payments of principal and interest on the principal
amount outstanding (unless the indexing to the debtor's
performance results in an adjustment that only compensates the
holder for changes in the credit risk of the instrument, such
that contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal and
interest). That is because the contractual cash flows reflect a
return that is inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement (see
paragraph B4.1.7A).
Instrument B
Instrument B is a variable interest rate
instrument with a stated maturity date that permits the borrower
to choose the market interest rate on an ongoing basis. For
example, at each interest rate reset date, the borrower can
choose to pay three-month LIBOR for a three-month term or
one-month LIBOR for a one-month term.
Analysis
The contractual cash
flows are solely payments of principal and interest on the
principal amount outstanding as long as the interest paid over
the life of the instrument reflects consideration for the time
value of money, for the credit risk associated with the
instrument and for other basic lending risks and costs, as well
as a profit margin (see paragraph B4.1.7A). The fact that the
LIBOR interest rate is reset during the life of the instrument
does not in itself disqualify the instrument.
However, if the
borrower is able to choose to pay a one-month interest rate that
is reset every three months, the interest rate is reset with a
frequency that does not match the tenor of the interest rate.
Consequently, the time value of money element is modified.
Similarly, if an instrument has a contractual interest rate that
is based on a term that can exceed the instrument's remaining
Page 208/765
----- PAGE 209 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
life (for example, if an instrument with a five-year maturity
pays a variable rate that is reset periodically but always
reflects a five-year maturity), the time value of money element
is modified. That is because the interest payable in each period
is disconnected from the interest period.
In such cases, the
entity must qualitatively or quantitatively assess the
contractual cash flows against those on an instrument that is
identical in all respects except the tenor of the interest rate
matches the interest period to determine if the cash flows are
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding. (Butseeparagraph B4.1.9E for guidance on regulated
interest rates.)
For example, in
assessing a bond with a five-year term that pays a variable rate
that is reset every six months but always reflects a five-year
maturity, an entity considers the contractual cash flow son an
instrument that resets every six months to a six-month interest
rate but is otherwise identical.
The same analysis would apply if the borrower is
able to choose between the lender's various published interest
rates (e.g. the borrower can choose between the lender's
published one month variable interest rate and the lender's
published three-month variable interest rate).
Instrument C
Instrument C is a bond with a stated maturity
date and pays a variable market interest rate. That variable
interest rate is capped.
Analysis
The contractual cash
flows of both:
(a) an instrument
that has a fixed interest rate and
(b) an instrument
that has a variable interest rate
are payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding as
long as the interest reflects consideration for the time value of
money, for the credit risk associated with the instrument during
the term of the instrument and for other basic lending risks and
costs, as well as a profit margin. (See paragraph B4.1.7A)
Consequently, an instrument that is a
combination of (a) and (b) (e.g. a bond with an interest rate
cap) can have cash flows that are solely payments of principal
and interest on the principal amount outstanding. Such a
contractual term may reduce cash flow variability by setting a
limit on a variable interest rate (e.g an interest rate cap or
floor) or increase the cash flow variability because a fixed rate
becomes variable.
Instrument D
Instrument D is a full recourse loan and is
Page 209/765
----- PAGE 210 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
secured by collateral.
Analysis
The fact that a full recourse loan is
collateralised does not in itself affect the analysis of whether
the contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal and
interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Instrument E
Instrument E is
issued by a regulated bank and has a stated maturity date. The
instrument pays a fixed interest rate and all contractual cash
flows are non-discretionary.
However, the issuer is subject to legislation
that permits or requires a national resolving authority to impose
losses on holders of particular instruments, including Instrument
E, in particular circumstances. For example, the national
resolving authority has the power to write down the par amount of
Instrument E or to convert it into a fixed number of the issuer's
ordinary shares if the national resolving authority determines
that the issuer is having severe financial difficulties, needs
additional regulatory capital or is 'failing'.
Analysis
The holder would
analyse the contractual terms of the financial instrument to
determine whether they give rise to cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding and thus are consistent with a basic lending
arrangement.
That analysis would
not consider the payments that arise only as a result of the
national resolving authority's power to impose losses on the
holders of Instrument E. That is because that power, and there
sulting payments, are not contractual terms of the financial
instrument.
In contrast, the contractual cash flows would
not be solely payments of principal and interest on the principal
amount outstanding if the contractual terms of the financial
instrument permit or require the issuer or another entity to
impose losses on the holder (e.g. by writing down the par amount
or by converting the instrument into a fixed number of the
issuer's ordinary shares) as long as those contractual terms are
genuine, even if the probability is remote that such a loss will
be imposed.
B4.1.14 The following examples illustrate contractual cash flows that are not solely payments of principal and interest on
the principal amount outstanding. This list of examples is not exhaustive.
Instrument F
Instrument F is a bond that is convertible into
a fixed number of equity instruments of the issuer.
Analysis
The holder would
analyse the convertible bond in its entirety.
The contractual cash flows are not payments of
Page 210/765
----- PAGE 211 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding
because they reflect a return that is inconsistent with a basic
lending arrangement (see paragraph B4.1.7A); i.e. the return is
linked to the value of the equity of the issuer.
Instrument G
Instrument G is a loan that pays an inverse
floating interest rate (i.e. the interest rate has an inverse
relationship to market interest rates).
Analysis
The contractual cash
flows are not solely payments of principal and interest on the
principal amount outstanding.
The interest amounts are not consideration for
the time value of money on the principal amount outstanding.
Instrument H
Instrument H is a
perpetual instrument but the issuer may call the instrument at
any point and pay the holder the par amount plus accrued interest
due.
Instrument H pays a
market interest rate but payment of interest cannot be made
unless the issuer is able to remain solvent immediately
afterwards.
Deferred interest does not accrue additional
interest.
Analysis
The contractual cash
flows are not payments of principal and interest on the principal
amount outstanding. That is because the issuer may be required to
defer interest payments and additional interest does not accrue
on those deferred interest amounts. As a result, interest amounts
are not consideration for the time value of money on the
principal amount outstanding.
If interest accrued
on the deferred amounts, the contractual cash flows could be
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding.
The fact that
Instrument H is perpetual does not in itself mean that the
contractual cash flows are not payments of principal and interest
on the principal amount outstanding. In effect, a perpetual
instrument has continuous (multiple) extension options. Such
options may result in contractual cash flows that are payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding if
interest payments are mandatory and must be paid in perpetuity.
Also, the fact that Instrument H is callable
does not mean that the contractual cash flows are not payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding unless
it is callable at an amount that does not substantially reflect
payment of outstanding principal and interest on that principal
amount outstanding. Even if the callable amount includes an
Page 211/765
----- PAGE 212 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
amount that reasonably compensates the holder for the early
termination of the instrument, the contractual cash flows could
be payments of principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding. (See also Paragraph B4.1.12.)
B4.1.15 In some cases a financial asset may have contractual cash flows that are described as principal and interest but
those cash flows do not represent the payment of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding as
described in paragraphs 4.1.2(b), 4.1.2A(b) and 4.1.3 of this Standard.
B4.1.16 This may be the case if the financial asset represents an investment in particular assets or cash flows and
hence the contractual cash flows are not solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
For example, if the contractual terms stipulate that the financial asset's cash flows increase as more automobiles use a
particular toll road, those contractual cash flows are inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement. As a result, the
instrument would not satisfy the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b). This could be the case when a creditor's
claim is limited to specified assets of the debtor or the cash flows from specified assets (for example, a 'non-recourse'
financial asset).
B4.1.17 However, the fact that a financial asset is non-recourse does not in itself necessarily preclude the financial asset
from meeting the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b). In such situations, the creditor is required to assess
('look through to') the particular underlying assets or cash flows to determine whether the contractual cash flows of the
financial asset being classified are payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. If the terms of
the financial asset give rise to any other cash flows or limit the cash flows in a manner inconsistent with payments
representing principal and interest, the financial asset does not meet the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b).
Whether the underlying assets are financial assets or non-financial assets does not in itself affect this assessment.
B4.1.18 A contractual cash flow characteristic does not affect the classification of the financial asset if it could have only
a de minimis effect on the contractual cash flows of the financial asset. To make this determination, an entity must
consider the possible effect of the contractual cash flow characteristic in each reporting period and cumulatively over the
life of the financial instrument. In addition, if a contractual cash flow characteristic could have an effect on the contractual
cash flows that is more than de minimis (either in a single reporting period or cumulatively) but that cash flow
characteristic is not genuine, it does not affect the classification of a financial asset. A cash flow characteristic is not
genuine if it affects the instrument's contractual cash flows only on the occurrence of an event that is extremely rare,
highly abnormal and very unlikely to occur.
B4.1.19 In almost every lending transaction the creditor's instrument is ranked relative to the instruments of the debtor's
other creditors. An instrument that is subordinated to other instruments may have contractual cash flows that are
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding if the debtor's nonpayment is a breach of contract
and the holder has a contractual right to unpaid amounts of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding
even in the event of the debtor's bankruptcy. For example, a trade receivable that ranks its creditor as a general creditor
would qualify as having payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. This is the case even if
the debtor issued loans that are collateralised, which in the event of bankruptcy would give that loan holder priority over
the claims of the general creditor in respect of the collateral but does not affect the contractual right of the general
creditor to unpaid principal and other amounts due.
Contractually linked instruments
B4.1.20 In some types of transactions, an issuer may prioritise payments to the holders of financial assets using multiple
contractually linked instruments that create concentrations of credit risk (tranches). Each tranche has a subordination
ranking that specifies the order in which any cash flows generated by the issuer are allocated to the tranche. In such
situations, the holders of a tranche have the right to payments of principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding only if the issuer generates sufficient cash flows to satisfy higher-ranking tranches.
B4.1.21 In such transactions, a tranche has cash flow characteristics that are payments of principal and interest on the
principal amount outstanding only if:
(a)
the contractual terms of the tranche being assessed for classification (without looking through to the underlying pool of
financial instruments) give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding (e.g. the interest rate on the tranche is not linked to a commodity index);
(b)
Page 212/765
----- PAGE 213 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the underlying pool of financial instruments has the cash flow characteristics set out in paragraphs B4.1.23 and B4.1.24;
and
(c)
the exposure to credit risk in the underlying pool of financial instruments inherent in the tranche is equal to or lower than
the exposure to credit risk of the underlying pool of financial instruments (for example, the credit rating of the tranche
being assessed for classification is equal to or higher than the credit rating that would apply to a single tranche that
funded the underlying pool of financial instruments).
B4.1.22 An entity must look through until it can identify the underlying pool of instruments that are creating (instead of
passing through) the cash flows. This is the underlying pool of financial instruments.
B4.1.23 The underlying pool must contain one or more instruments that have contractual cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
B4.1.24 The underlying pool of instruments may also include instruments that:
(a)
reduce the cash flow variability of the instruments in paragraph B4.1.23 and, when combined with the instruments in
paragraph B4.1.23, result in cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding (e.g. an interest rate cap or floor or a contract that reduces the credit risk on some or all of the instruments
in paragraph B4.1.23); or
(b)
align the cash flows of the tranches with the cash flows of the pool of underlying instruments in paragraph B4.1.23 to
address differences in and only in:
(i)
whether the interest rate is fixed or floating;
(ii)
the currency in which the cash flows are denominated, including inflation in that currency; or
(iii)
the timing of the cash flows.
B4.1.25 If any instrument in the pool does not meet the conditions in either paragraph B4.1.23 or paragraph B4.1.24, the
condition in paragraph B4.1.21(b) is not met. In performing this assessment, a detailed instrument-by-instrument
analysis of the pool may not be necessary. However, an entity must use judgement and perform sufficient analysis to
determine whether the instruments in the pool meet the conditions in paragraphs B4.1.23-B4.1.24. (See also paragraph
B4.1.18 for guidance on contractual cash flow characteristics that have only a de minimis effect.)
B4.1.26 If the holder cannot assess the conditions in paragraph B4.1.21 at initial recognition, the tranche must be
measured at fair value through profit or loss. If the underlying pool of instruments can change after initial recognition in
such a way that the pool may not meet the conditions in paragraphs B4.1.23-B4.1.24, the tranche does not meet the
conditions in paragraph B4.1.21 and must be measured at fair value through profit or loss. However, if the underlying
pool includes instruments that are collateralised by assets that do not meet the conditions in paragraphs
B4.1.23-B4.1.24, the ability to take possession of such assets shall be disregarded for the purposes of applying this
paragraph unless the entity acquired the tranche with the intention of controlling the collateral.
Option to designate a financial asset or financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss (Sections 4.1 and 4.2)
B4.1.27 Subject to the conditions in paragraphs 4.1.5 and 4.2.2, this Standard allows an entity to designate a financial
asset, a financial liability, or a group of financial instruments (financial assets, financial liabilities or both) as at fair value
through profit or loss provided that doing so results in more relevant information.
B4.1.28 The decision of an entity to designate a financial asset or financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss
is similar to an accounting policy choice (although, unlike an accounting policy choice, it is not required to be applied
consistently to all similar transactions). When an entity has such a choice, paragraph 14(b) of Ind AS 8 requires the
chosen policy to result in the financial statements providing reliable and more relevant information about the effects of
transactions, other events and conditions on the entity's financial position, financial performance or cash flows. For
example, in the case of designation of a financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss, paragraph 4.2.2 sets out
the two circumstances when the requirement for more relevant information will be met. Accordingly, to choose such
designation in accordance with paragraph 4.2.2, the entity needs to demonstrate that it falls within one (or both) of these
two circumstances.
Page 213/765
----- PAGE 214 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Designation eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch
B4.1.29 Measurement of a financial asset or financial liability and classification of recognized changes in its value are
determined by the item's classification and whether the item is part of a designated hedging relationship. Those
requirements can create a measurement or recognition inconsistency (sometimes referred to as an 'accounting
mismatch') when, for example, in the absence of designation as at fair value through profit or loss, a financial asset
would be classified as subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss and a liability the entity considers
related would be subsequently measured at amortised cost (with changes in fair value not recognized). In such
circumstances, an entity may conclude that its financial statements would provide more relevant information if both the
asset and the liability were measured as at fair value through profit or loss.
B4.1.30 The following examples show when this condition could be met. In all cases, an entity may use this condition to
designate financial assets or financial liabilities as at fair value through profit or loss only if it meets the principle in
paragraph 4.1.5 or 4.2.2(a):
(a)
an entity has liabilities under insurance contracts whose measurement incorporates current information (as permitted by
paragraph 24 of Ind AS104) and financial assets that it considers to be related and that would otherwise be measured at
either fair value through other comprehensive income or amortised cost.
(b)
an entity has financial assets, financial liabilities or both that share a risk, such as interest rate risk, and that gives rise to
opposite changes in fair value that tend to offset each other. However, only some of the instruments would be measured
at fair value through profit or loss (for example, those that are derivatives, or are classified as held for trading). It may
also be the case that the requirements for hedge accounting are not met because, for example, the requirements for
hedge effectiveness in paragraph 6.4.1 are not met.
(c)
an entity has financial assets, financial liabilities or both that share a risk, such as interest rate risk, that gives rise to
opposite changes in fair value that tend to offset each other and none of the financial assets or financial liabilities
qualifies for designation as a hedging instrument because they are not measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Furthermore, in the absence of hedge accounting there is a significant inconsistency in the recognition of gains and
losses. For example, the entity has financed a specified group of loans by issuing traded bonds whose changes in fair
value tend to offset each other. If, in addition, the entity regularly buys and sells the bonds but rarely, if ever, buys and
sells the loans, reporting both the loans and the bonds at fair value through profit or loss eliminates the inconsistency in
the timing of the recognition of the gains and losses that would otherwise result from measuring them both at amortised
cost and recognising a gain or loss each time a bond is repurchased.
B4.1.31 In cases such as those described in the preceding paragraph, to designate, at initial recognition, the financial
assets and financial liabilities not otherwise so measured as at fair value through profit or loss may eliminate or
significantly reduce the measurement or recognition inconsistency and produce more relevant information. For practical
purposes, the entity need not enter into all of the assets and liabilities giving rise to the measurement or recognition
inconsistency at exactly the same time. A reasonable delay is permitted provided that each transaction is designated as
at fair value through profit or loss at its initial recognition and, at that time, any remaining transactions are expected to
occur.
B4.1.32 It would not be acceptable to designate only some of the financial assets and financial liabilities giving rise to
the inconsistency as at fair value through profit or loss if to do so would not eliminate or significantly reduce the
inconsistency and would therefore not result in more relevant information. However, it would be acceptable to designate
only some of a number of similar financial assets or similar financial liabilities if doing so achieves a significant reduction
(and possibly a greater reduction than other allowable designations) in the inconsistency. For example, assume an entity
has a number of similar financial liabilities that sum to Rs.100 and a number of similar financial assets that sum to Rs.50
but are measured on a different basis. The entity may significantly reduce the measurement inconsistency by
designating at initial recognition all of the assets but only some of the liabilities (for example, individual liabilities with a
combined total of Rs.45) as at fair value through profit or loss. However, because designation as at fair value through
profit or loss can be applied only to the whole of a financial instrument, the entity in this example must designate one or
more liabilities in their entirety. It could not designate either a component of a liability (e.g. changes in value attributable
to only one risk, such as changes in a benchmark interest rate) or a proportion (i.e. percentage) of a liability.
Page 214/765
----- PAGE 215 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
A group of financial liabilities or financial assets and financial liabilities is managed and its performance is evaluated on a
fair value basis
B4.1.33 An entity may manage and evaluate the performance of a group of financial liabilities or financial assets and
financial liabilities in such a way that measuring that group at fair value through profit or loss results in more relevant
information. The focus in this instance is on the way the entity manages and evaluates performance, instead of on the
nature of its financial instruments.
B4.1.34 For example, an entity may use this condition to designate financial liabilities as at fair value through profit or
loss if it meets the principle in paragraph 4.2.2(b) and the entity has financial assets and financial liabilities that share
one or more risks and those risks are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented
policy of asset and liability management. An example could be an entity that has issued 'structured products' containing
multiple embedded derivatives and manages the resulting risks on a fair value basis using a mix of derivative and
non-derivative financial instruments.
B4.1.35 As noted above, this condition relies on the way the entity manages and evaluates performance of the group of
financial instruments under consideration. Accordingly, (subject to the requirement of designation at initial recognition)
an entity that designates financial liabilities as at fair value through profit or loss on the basis of this condition shall so
designate all eligible financial liabilities that are managed and evaluated together.
B4.1.36 Documentation of the entity's strategy need not be extensive but should be sufficient to demonstrate compliance
with paragraph 4.2.2(b). Such documentation is not required for each individual item, but may be on a portfolio basis.
For example, if the performance management system for a department-as approved by the entity's key management
personnel-clearly demonstrates that its performance is evaluated on this basis, no further documentation is required to
demonstrate compliance with paragraph 4.2.2(b).
Embedded derivatives (Section 4.3)
B4.3.1 When an entity becomes a party to a hybrid contract with a host that is not an asset within the scope of this
Standard, paragraph 4.3.3 requires the entity to identify any embedded derivative, assess whether it is required to be
separated from the host contract and, for those that are required to be separated, measure the derivatives at fair value
at initial recognition and subsequently at fair value through profit or loss.
B4.3.2 If a host contract has no stated or predetermined maturity and represents a residual interest in the net assets of
an entity, then its economic characteristics and risks are those of an equity instrument, and an embedded derivative
would need to possess equity characteristics related to the same entity to be regarded as closely related. If the host
contract is not an equity instrument and meets the definition of a financial instrument, then its economic characteristics
and risks are those of a debt instrument.
B4.3.3 An embedded non-option derivative (such as an embedded forward or swap) is separated from its host contract
on the basis of its stated or implied substantive terms, so as to result in it having a fair value of zero at initial recognition.
An embedded option-based derivative (such as an embedded put, call, cap, floor or swaption) is separated from its host
contract on the basis of the stated terms of the option feature. The initial carrying amount of the host instrument is the
residual amount after separating the embedded derivative.
B4.3.4 Generally, multiple embedded derivatives in a single hybrid contract are treated as a single compound embedded
derivative. However, embedded derivatives that are classified as equity (see Ind AS 32 Financial Instruments:
Presentation) are accounted for separately from those classified as assets or liabilities. In addition, if a hybrid contract
has more than one embedded derivative and those derivatives relate to different risk exposures and are readily
separable and independent of each other, they are accounted for separately from each other.
B4.3.5 The economic characteristics and risks of an embedded derivative are not closely related to the host contract
(paragraph 4.3.3(a)) in the following examples. In these examples, assuming the conditions in paragraph 4.3.3(b) and
(c) are met, an entity accounts for the embedded derivative separately from the host contract.
(a)
A put option embedded in an instrument that enables the holder to require the issuer to reacquire the instrument for an
amount of cash or other assets that varies on the basis of the change in an equity or commodity price or index is not
closely related to a host debt instrument.
(b)
An option or automatic provision to extend the remaining term to maturity of a debt instrument is not closely related to
the host debt instrument unless there is a concurrent adjustment to the approximate current market rate of interest at the
Page 215/765
----- PAGE 216 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
time of the extension. If an entity issues a debt instrument and the holder of that debt instrument writes a call option on
the debt instrument to a third party, the issuer regards the call option as extending the term to maturity of the debt
instrument provided the issuer can be required to participate in or facilitate the re-marketing of the debt instrument as a
result of the call option being exercised.
(c)
Equity-indexed interest or principal payments embedded in a host debt instrument or insurance contract-by which the
amount of interest or principal is indexed to the value of equity instruments-are not closely related to the host instrument
because the risks inherent in the host and the embedded derivative are dissimilar.
(d)
Commodity-indexed interest or principal payments embedded in a host debt instrument or insurance contract-by which
the amount of interest or principal is indexed to the price of a commodity (such as gold)-are not closely related to the
host instrument because the risks inherent in the host and the embedded derivative are dissimilar.
(e)
A call, put, or prepayment option embedded in a host debt contract or host insurance contract is not closely related to
the host contract unless:
(i)
the option's exercise price is approximately equal on each exercise date to the amortised cost of the host debt
instrument or the carrying amount of the host insurance contract; or
(ii)
the exercise price of a prepayment option reimburses the lender for an amount up to the approximate present value of
lost interest for the remaining term of the host contract. Lost interest is the product of the principal amount prepaid
multiplied by the interest rate differential. The interest rate differential is the excess of the effective interest rate of the
host contract over the effective interest rate the entity would receive at the prepayment date if it reinvested the principal
amount prepaid in a similar contract for the remaining term of the host contract.
The assessment of whether the call or put option is closely related to the host debt contract is made before separating
the equity element of a convertible debt instrument in accordance with Ind AS 32.
(f)
Credit derivatives that are embedded in a host debt instrument and allow one party (the 'beneficiary') to transfer the
credit risk of a particular reference asset, which it may not own, to another party (the 'guarantor') are not closely related
to the host debt instrument. Such credit derivatives allow the guarantor to assume the credit risk associated with the
reference asset without directly owning it.
B4.3.6 An example of a hybrid contract is a financial instrument that gives the holder a right to put the financial
instrument back to the issuer in exchange for an amount of cash or other financial assets that varies on the basis of the
change in an equity or commodity index that may increase or decrease (a 'puttable instrument'). Unless the issuer on
initial recognition designates the puttable instrument as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss, it is required
to separate an embedded derivative (i.e. the indexed principal payment)under paragraph 4.3.3 because the host
contract is a debt instrument under paragraph B4.3.2 and the indexed principal payment is not closely related to a host
debt instrument under paragraph B4.3.5(a). Because the principal payment can increase and decrease, the embedded
derivative is a non-option derivative whose value is indexed to the underlying variable.
B4.3.7 In the case of a puttable instrument that can be put back at any time for cash equal to a proportionate share of
the net asset value of an entity (such as units of an open-ended mutual fund or some unit-linked investment products),
the effect of separating an embedded derivative and accounting for each component is to measure the hybrid contract at
the redemption amount that is payable at the end of the reporting period if the holder exercised its right to put the
instrument back to the issuer.
B4.3.8 The economic characteristics and risks of an embedded derivative are closely related to the economic
characteristics and risks of the host contract in the following examples. In these examples, an entity does not account for
the embedded derivative separately from the host contract.
(a)
An embedded derivative in which the underlying is an interest rate or interest rate index that can change the amount of
interest that would otherwise be paid or received on an interest-bearing host debt contract or insurance contract is
closely related to the host contract unless the hybrid contract can be settled in such a way that the holder would not
Page 216/765
----- PAGE 217 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
recover substantially all of its recognized investment or the embedded derivative could at least double the holder's initial
rate of return on the host contract and could result in a rate of return that is at least twice what the market return would
be for a contract with the same terms as the host contract.
(b)
An embedded floor or cap on the interest rate on a debt contract or insurance contract is closely related to the host
contract, provided the cap is at or above the market rate of interest and the floor is at or below the market rate of interest
when the contract is issued, and the cap or floor is not leveraged in relation to the host contract. Similarly, provisions
included in a contract to purchase or sell an asset (e.g. a commodity) that establish a cap and a floor on the price to be
paid or received for the asset are closely related to the host contract if both the cap and floor were out of the money at
inception and are not leveraged.
(c)
An embedded foreign currency derivative that provides a stream of principal or interest payments that are denominated
in a foreign currency and is embedded in a host debt instrument (for example, a dual currency bond) is closely related to
the host debt instrument. Such a derivative is not separated from the host instrument because Ind AS 21 The Effects of
Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates requires foreign currency gains and losses on monetary items to be recognized in
profit or loss.
(d)
An embedded foreign currency derivative in a host contract that is an insurance contract or not a financial instrument
(such as a contract for the purchase or sale of a non-financial item where the price is denominated in a foreign currency)
is closely related to the host contract provided it is not leveraged, does not contain an option feature, and requires
payments denominated in one of the following currencies:
(i)
the functional currency of any substantial party to that contract;
(ii)
the currency in which the price of the related good or service that is acquired or delivered is routinely denominated in
commercial transactions around the world (such as the US dollar for crude oil transactions); or
(iii)
a currency that is commonly used in contracts to purchase or sell non-financial items in the economic environment in
which the transaction takes place (e.g. a relatively stable and liquid currency that is commonly used in local business
transactions or external trade).
(e)
An embedded prepayment option in an interest-only or principal-only strip is closely related to the host contract provided
the host contract (i) initially resulted from separating the right to receive contractual cash flows of a financial instrument
that, in and of itself, did not contain an embedded derivative, and (ii) does not contain any terms not present in the
original host debt contract.
(f)
[ An embedded derivative in a host lease contract is closely related to the host contract if the embedded derivative is (i)
an inflation-related index such as an index of lease payments to a consumer price index (provided that the lease is not
leveraged and the index relates to inflation in the entity's own economic environment), (ii) variable lease payments
based on related sales or (iii) variable lease payments based on variable interest rates.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(g)
A unit-linking feature embedded in a host financial instrument or host insurance contract is closely related to the host
instrument or host contract if the unit-denominated payments are measured at current unit values that reflect the fair
values of the assets of the fund. A unit-linking feature is a contractual term that requires payments denominated in units
of an internal or external investment fund.
(h)
A derivative embedded in an insurance contract is closely related to the host insurance contract if the embedded
derivative and host insurance contract are so interdependent that an entity cannot measure the embedded derivative
separately (i.e. without considering the host contract).
Instruments containing embedded derivatives
Page 217/765
----- PAGE 218 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B4.3.9 As noted in paragraph B4.3.1, when an entity becomes a party to a hybrid contract with a host that is not an
asset within the scope of this Standard and with one or more embedded derivatives, paragraph 4.3.3 requires the entity
to identify any such embedded derivative, assess whether it is required to be separated from the host contract and, for
those that are required to be separated, measure the derivatives at fair value at initial recognition and subsequently.
These requirements can be more complex, or result in less reliable measures, than measuring the entire instrument at
fair value through profit or loss. For that reason this Standard permits the entire hybrid contract to be designated as at
fair value through profit or loss.
B4.3.10 Such designation may be used whether paragraph 4.3.3 requires the embedded derivatives to be separated
from the host contract or prohibits such separation. However, paragraph 4.3.5 would not justify designating the hybrid
contract as at fair value through profit or loss in the cases set out in paragraph 4.3.5(a) and (b) because doing so would
not reduce complexity or increase reliability.
Reassessment of embedded derivatives
B4.3.11 In accordance with paragraph 4.3.3, an entity shall assess whether an embedded derivative is required to be
separated from the host contract and accounted for as a derivative when the entity first becomes a party to the contract.
Subsequent reassessment is prohibited unless there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies
the cash flows that otherwise would be required under the contract, in which case reassessment is required. An entity
determines whether a modification to cash flows is significant by considering the extent to which the expected future
cash flows associated with the embedded derivative, the host contract or both have changed and whether the change is
significant relative to the previously expected cash flows on the contract.
B4.3.12 Paragraph B4.3.11 does not apply to embedded derivatives in contracts acquired in:
(a)
a business combination (as defined in Ind AS103 Business Combinations);
(b)
a combination of entities or businesses under common control as described in paragraphs B1-B4 of Ind AS103; or
(c)
[ the formation of a joint venture as defined in Ind AS111 Joint Arrangements or their possible reassessment at the date
of acquisition.]
[Ind AS103 addresses the acquisition of contracts with embedded derivatives in a business combination.]
Reclassification of financial assets (Section 4.4)
Reclassification of financial assets
B4.4.1 Paragraph 4.4.1 requires an entity to reclassify financial assets if the entity changes its business model for
managing those financial assets. Such changes are expected to be very infrequent. Such changes are determined by
the entity's senior management as a result of external or internal changes and must be significant to the entity's
operations and demonstrable to external parties. Accordingly, a change in an entity's business model will occur only
when an entity either begins or ceases to perform an activity that is significant to its operations; for example, when the
entity has acquired, disposed of or terminated a business line. Examples of a change in business model include the
following:
(a)
An entity has a portfolio of commercial loans that it holds to sell in the short term. The entity acquires a company that
manages commercial loans and has a business model that holds the loans in order to collect the contractual cash flows.
The portfolio of commercial loans is no longer for sale, and the portfolio is now managed together with the acquired
commercial loans and all are held to collect the contractual cash flows.
(b)
A financial services firm decides to shut down its retail mortgage business. That business no longer accepts new
business and the financial services firm is actively marketing its mortgage loan portfolio for sale.
B4.4.2 A change in the objective of the entity's business model must be effected before the reclassification date. For
example, if a financial services firm decides on 15 February to shut down its retail mortgage business and hence must
reclassify all affected financial assets on 1 April (i.e. the first day of the entity's next reporting period), the entity must not
accept new retail mortgage business or otherwise engage in activities consistent with its former business model after 15
February.
B4.4.3 The following are not changes in business model:
Page 218/765
----- PAGE 219 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
a change in intention related to particular financial assets (even in circumstances of significant changes in market
conditions).
(b)
the temporary disappearance of a particular market for financial assets.
(c)
a transfer of financial assets between parts of the entity with different business models.
Measurement (Chapter 5)
Initial measurement (Section 5.1)
B5.1.1 The fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is normally the transaction price (i.e. the fair value of
the consideration given or received, see also paragraph B5.1.2A and Ind AS113). However, if part of the consideration
given or received is for something other than the financial instrument, an entity shall measure the fair value of the
financial instrument. For example, the fair value of a long-term loan or receivable that carries no interest can be
measured as the present value of all future cash receipts discounted using the prevailing market rate(s) of interest for a
similar instrument (similar as to currency, term, type of interest rate and other factors) with a similar credit rating. Any
additional amount lent is an expense or a reduction of income unless it qualifies for recognition as some other type of
asset.
B5.1.2 If an entity originates a loan that bears an off-market interest rate (e.g. 5 per cent when the market rate for similar
loans is 8 per cent), and receives an upfront fee as compensation, the entity recognises the loan at its fair value, i.e. net
of the fee it receives.
B5.1.2A The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is normally the transaction price
(i.e. the fair value of the consideration given or received, see also Ind AS113). If an entity determines that the fair value
at initial recognition differs from the transaction price as mentioned in paragraph 5.1.1A, the entity shall account for that
instrument at that date as follows:
(a)
at the measurement required by paragraph 5.1.1 if that fair value is evidenced by a quoted price in an active market for
an identical asset or liability (i.e. a Level 1 input) or based on a valuation technique that uses only data from observable
markets. An entity shall recognise the difference between the fair value at initial recognition and the transaction price as
a gain or loss.
(b)
in all other cases, at the measurement required by paragraph 5.1.1, adjusted to defer the difference between the fair
value at initial recognition and the transaction price. After initial recognition, the entity shall recognise that deferred
difference as a gain or loss only to the extent that it arises from a change in a factor (including time) that market
participants would take into account when pricing the asset or liability.
Subsequent measurement (Sections 5.2 and 5.3)
B5.2.1 If a financial instrument that was previously recognized as a financial asset is measured at fair value through
profit or loss and its fair value decreases below zero, it is a financial liability measured in accordance with paragraph
4.2.1. However, hybrid contracts with hosts that are assets within the scope of this Standard are always measured in
accordance with paragraph 4.3.2.
B5.2.2 The following example illustrates the accounting for transaction costs on the initial and subsequent measurement
of a financial asset measured at fair value with changes through other comprehensive income in accordance with either
paragraph 5.7.5 or 4.1.2A. An entity acquires a financial asset for Rs.100 plus a purchase commission of Rs.2. Initially,
the entity recognises the asset at Rs.102. The reporting period ends one day later, when the quoted market price of the
asset is Rs.100. If the asset were sold, a commission of Rs.3 would be paid. On that date, the entity measures the asset
at Rs.100 (without regard to the possible commission on sale) and recognises a loss of Rs.2 in other comprehensive
income. If the financial asset is measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with
paragraph 4.1.2A, the transaction costs are amortised to profit or loss using the effective interest method.
B5.2.2A The subsequent measurement of a financial asset or financial liability and the subsequent recognition of gains
and losses described in paragraph B5.1.2A shall be consistent with the requirements of this Standard.
Investments in equity instruments and contracts on those investments
B5.2.3 All investments in equity instruments and contracts on those instruments must be measured at fair value.
Page 219/765
----- PAGE 220 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
However, in limited circumstances, cost may be an appropriate estimate of fair value. That may be the case if insufficient
more recent information is available to measure fair value, or if there is a wide range of possible fair value
measurements and cost represents the best estimate of fair value within that range.
B5.2.4 Indicators that cost might not be representative of fair value include:
(a)
a significant change in the performance of the investee compared with budgets, plans or milestones.
(b)
changes in expectation that the investee's technical product milestones will be achieved.
(c)
a significant change in the market for the investee's equity or its products or potential products.
(d)
a significant change in the global economy or the economic environment in which the investee operates.
(e)
a significant change in the performance of comparable entities, or in the valuations implied by the overall market.
(f)
internal matters of the investee such as fraud, commercial disputes, litigation, changes in management or strategy.
(g)
evidence from external transactions in the investee's equity, either by the investee (such as a fresh issue of equity), or
by transfers of equity instruments between third parties.
B5.2.5 The list in paragraph B5.2.4 is not exhaustive. An entity shall use all information about the performance and
operations of the investee that becomes available after the date of initial recognition. To the extent that any such
relevant factors exist, they may indicate that cost might not be representative of fair value. In such cases, the entity must
measure fair value.
B5.2.6 Cost is never the best estimate of fair value for investments in quoted equity instruments (or contracts on quoted
equity instruments).
Amortised cost measurement (Section 5.4)
Effective interest method
B5.4.1 In applying the effective interest method, an entity identifies fees that are an integral part of the effective interest
rate of a financial instrument. The description of fees for financial services may not be indicative of the nature and
substance of the services provided. Fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument
are treated as an adjustment to the effective interest rate, unless the financial instrument is measured at fair value, with
the change in fair value being recognized in profit or loss. In those cases, the fees are recognized as revenue or
expense when the instrument is initially recognized.
B5.4.2 Fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument include:
(a)
origination fees received by the entity relating to the creation or acquisition of a financial asset. Such fees may include
compensation for activities such as evaluating the borrower's financial condition, evaluating and recording guarantees,
collateral and other security arrangements, negotiating the terms of the instrument, preparing and processing
documents and closing the transaction. These fees are an integral part of generating an involvement with the resulting
financial instrument.
(b)
commitment fees received by the entity to originate a loan when the loan commitment is not measured in accordance
with paragraph 4.2.1(a) and it is probable that the entity will enter into a specific lending arrangement. These fees are
regarded as compensation for an ongoing involvement with the acquisition of a financial instrument. If the commitment
expires without the entity making the loan, the fee is recognized as revenue on expiry.
(c)
origination fees paid on issuing financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. These fees are an integral part of
generating an involvement with a financial liability. An entity distinguishes fees and costs that are an integral part of the
effective interest rate for the financial liability from origination fees and transaction costs relating to the right to provide
services, such as investment management services.
[B5.4.3 Fees that are not an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument and are accounted for in
Page 220/765
----- PAGE 221 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
accordance with Ind AS 115 include:
(a)
fees charged for servicing a loan;
(b)
commitment fees to originate a loan when the loan commitment is not measured in accordance with paragraph 4.2.1(a)
and it is unlikely that a specific lending arrangement will be entered into; and
(c)
loan syndication fees received by an entity that arranges a loan and retains no part of the loan package for itself (or
retains a part at the same effective interest rate for comparable risk as other participants).]
B5.4.4 When applying the effective interest method, an entity generally amortises any fees, points paid or received,
transaction costs and other premiums or discounts that are included in the calculation of the effective interest rate over
the expected life of the financial instrument. However, a shorter period is used if this is the period to which the fees,
points paid or received, transaction costs, premiums or discounts relate. This will be the case when the variable to which
the fees, points paid or received, transaction costs, premiums or discounts relate is repriced to market rates before the
expected maturity of the financial instrument. In such a case, the appropriate amortisation period is the period to the
next such repricing date. For example, if a premium or discount on a floating-rate financial instrument reflects the
interest that has accrued on that financial instrument since the interest was last paid, or changes in the market rates
since the floating interest rate was reset to the market rates, it will be amortised to the next date when the floating
interest is reset to market rates. This is because the premium or discount relates to the period to the next interest reset
date because, at that date, the variable to which the premium or discount relates (i.e. interest rates) is reset to the
market rates. If, however, the premium or discount results from a change in the credit spread over the floating rate
specified in the financial instrument, or other variables that are not reset to the market rates, it is amortised over the
expected life of the financial instrument.
B5.4.5 For floating-rate financial assets and floating-rate financial liabilities, periodic re-estimation of cash flows to reflect
the movements in the market rates of interest alters the effective interest rate. If a floating-rate financial asset or a
floating-rate financial liability is recognized initially at an amount equal to the principal receivable or payable on maturity,
re-estimating the future interest payments normally has no significant effect on the carrying amount of the asset or the
liability.
B5.4.6 If an entity revises its estimates of payments or receipts (excluding modifications in accordance with paragraph
5.4.3 and changes in estimates of expected credit losses), it shall adjust the gross carrying amount of the financial asset
or amortised cost of a financial liability (or group of financial instruments) to reflect actual and revised estimated
contractual cash flows. The entity recalculates the gross carrying amount of the financial asset or amortised cost of the
financial liability as the present value of the estimated future contractual cash flows that are discounted at the financial
instrument's original effective interest rate (or credit-adjusted effective interest rate for purchased or originated
credit-impaired financial assets) or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate calculated in accordance with
paragraph 6.5.10. The adjustment is recognized in profit or loss as income or expense.
B5.4.7 In some cases a financial asset is considered credit-impaired at initial recognition because the credit risk is very
high, and in the case of a purchase it is acquired at a deep discount. An entity is required to include the initial expected
credit losses in the estimated cash flows when calculating the credit-adjusted effective interest rate for financial assets
that are considered to be purchased or originated credit-impaired at initial recognition. However, this does not mean that
a credit-adjusted effective interest rate should be applied solely because the financial asset has high credit risk at initial
recognition.
Transaction costs
B5.4.8 Transaction costs include fees and commission paid to agents (including employees acting as selling agents),
advisers, brokers and dealers, levies by regulatory agencies and security exchanges, and transfer taxes and duties.
Transaction costs do not include debt premiums or discounts, financing costs or internal administrative or holding costs.
Write-off
B5.4.9 Write-offs can relate to a financial asset in its entirety or to a portion of it. For example, an entity plans to enforce
the collateral on a financial asset and expects to recover no more than 30 per cent of the financial asset from the
collateral. If the entity has no reasonable prospects of recovering any further cash flows from the financial asset, it
should write off the remaining 70 per cent of the financial asset.
Page 221/765
----- PAGE 222 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Impairment (Section 5.5)
Collective and individual assessment basis
B5.5.1 In order to meet the objective of recognising lifetime expected credit losses for significant increases in credit risk
since initial recognition, it may be necessary to perform the assessment of significant increases in credit risk on a
collective basis by considering information that is indicative of significant increases in credit risk on, for example, a group
or sub-group of financial instruments. This is to ensure that an entity meets the objective of recognising lifetime expected
credit losses when there are significant increases in credit risk, even if evidence of such significant increases in credit
risk at the individual instrument level is not yet available.
B5.5.2 Lifetime expected credit losses are generally expected to be recognized before a financial instrument becomes
past due. Typically, credit risk increases significantly before a financial instrument becomes past due or other lagging
borrower-specific factors (for example, a modification or restructuring) are observed. Consequently when reasonable
and supportable information that is more forward-looking than past due information is available without undue cost or
effort, it must be used to assess changes in credit risk.
B5.5.3 However, depending on the nature of the financial instruments and the credit risk information available for
particular groups of financial instruments, an entity may not be able to identify significant changes in credit risk for
individual financial instruments before the financial instrument becomes past due. This may be the case for financial
instruments such as retail loans for which there is little or no updated credit risk information that is routinely obtained and
monitored on an individual instrument until a customer breaches the contractual terms. If changes in the credit risk for
individual financial instruments are not captured before they become past due, a loss allowance based only on credit
information at an individual financial instrument level would not faithfully represent the changes in credit risk since initial
recognition.
B5.5.4 In some circumstances an entity does not have reasonable and supportable information that is available without
undue cost or effort to measure lifetime expected credit losses on an individual instrument basis. In that case, lifetime
expected credit losses shall be recognized on a collective basis that considers comprehensive credit risk information.
This comprehensive credit risk information must incorporate not only past due information but also all relevant credit
information, including forward-looking macroeconomic information, in order to approximate the result of recognising
lifetime expected credit losses when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition on an
individual instrument level.
B5.5.5 For the purpose of determining significant increases in credit risk and recognising a loss allowance on a
collective basis, an entity can group financial instruments on the basis of shared credit risk characteristics with the
objective of facilitating an analysis that is designed to enable significant increases in credit risk to be identified on a
timely basis. The entity should not obscure this information by grouping financial instruments with different risk
characteristics. Examples of shared credit risk characteristics may include, but are not limited to, the:
(a)
instrument type;
(b)
credit risk ratings;
(c)
collateral type;
(d)
date of initial recognition;
(e)
remaining term to maturity;
(f)
industry;
(g)
geographical location of the borrower; and
(h)
the value of collateral relative to the financial asset if it has an impact on the probability of a default occurring (for
example, non-recourse loans in some jurisdictions or loan-to-value ratios).
B5.5.6 Paragraph 5.5.4 requires that lifetime expected credit losses are recognized on all financial instruments for which
Page 222/765
----- PAGE 223 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
there has been significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition. In order to meet this objective, if an entity is
not able to group financial instruments for which the credit risk is considered to have increased significantly since initial
recognition based on shared credit risk characteristics, the entity should recognise lifetime expected credit losses on a
portion of the financial assets for which credit risk is deemed to have increased significantly. The aggregation of financial
instruments to assess whether there are changes in credit risk on a collective basis may change over time as new
information becomes available on groups of, or individual, financial instruments.
Timing of recognising lifetime expected credit losses
B5.5.7 The assessment of whether lifetime expected credit losses should be recognized is based on significant
increases in the likelihood or risk of a default occurring since initial recognition (irrespective of whether a financial
instrument has been repriced to reflect an increase in credit risk) instead of on evidence of a financial asset being
credit-impaired at the reporting date or an actual default occurring. Generally, there will be a significant increase in credit
risk before a financial asset becomes credit-impaired or an actual default occurs.
B5.5.8 For loan commitments, an entity considers changes in the risk of a default occurring on the loan to which a loan
commitment relates. For financial guarantee contracts, an entity considers the changes in the risk that the specified
debtor will default on the contract.
B5.5.9 The significance of a change in the credit risk since initial recognition depends on the risk of a default occurring
as at initial recognition. Thus, a given change, in absolute terms, in the risk of a default occurring will be more significant
for a financial instrument with a lower initial risk of a default occurring compared to a financial instrument with a higher
initial risk of a default occurring.
B5.5.10 The risk of a default occurring on financial instruments that have comparable credit risk is higher the longer the
expected life of the instrument; for example, the risk of a default occurring on an AAA-rated bond with an expected life of
10 years is higher than that on an AAA-rated bond with an expected life of five years.
B5.5.11 Because of the relationship between the expected life and the risk of a default occurring, the change in credit
risk cannot be assessed simply by comparing the change in the absolute risk of a default occurring over time. For
example, if the risk of a default occurring for a financial instrument with an expected life of 10 years at initial recognition
is identical to the risk of a default occurring on that financial instrument when its expected life in a subsequent period is
only five years, that may indicate an increase in credit risk. This is because the risk of a default occurring over the
expected life usually decreases as time passes if the credit risk is unchanged and the financial instrument is closer to
maturity. However, for financial instruments that only have significant payment obligations close to the maturity of the
financial instrument the risk of a default occurring may not necessarily decrease as time passes. In such a case, an
entity should also consider other qualitative factors that would demonstrate whether credit risk has increased
significantly since initial recognition.
B5.5.12 An entity may apply various approaches when assessing whether the credit risk on a financial instrument has
increased significantly since initial recognition or when measuring expected credit losses. An entity may apply different
approaches for different financial instruments. An approach that does not include an explicit probability of default as an
input per se, such as a credit loss rate approach, can be consistent with the requirements in this Standard, provided that
an entity is able to separate the changes in the risk of a default occurring from changes in other drivers of expected
credit losses, such as collateral, and considers the following when making the assessment:
(a)
the change in the risk of a default occurring since initial recognition;
(b)
the expected life of the financial instrument; and
(c)
reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort that may affect credit risk.
B5.5.13 The methods used to determine whether credit risk has increased significantly on a financial instrument since
initial recognition should consider the characteristics of the financial instrument (or group of financial instruments) and
the default patterns in the past for comparable financial instruments. Despite the requirement in paragraph 5.5.9, for
financial instruments for which default patterns are not concentrated at a specific point during the expected life of the
financial instrument, changes in the risk of a default occurring over the next 12 months may be a reasonable
approximation of the changes in the lifetime risk of a default occurring. In such cases, an entity may use changes in the
risk of a default occurring over the next 12 months to determine whether credit risk has increased significantly since
Page 223/765
----- PAGE 224 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
initial recognition, unless circumstances indicate that a lifetime assessment is necessary.
B5.5.14 However, for some financial instruments, or in some circumstances, it may not be appropriate to use changes in
the risk of a default occurring over the next 12 months to determine whether lifetime expected credit losses should be
recognized. For example, the change in the risk of a default occurring in the next 12 months may not be a suitable basis
for determining whether credit risk has increased on a financial instrument with a maturity of more than 12 months when:
(a)
the financial instrument only has significant payment obligations beyond the next 12 months;
(b)
changes in relevant macroeconomic or other credit-related factors occur that are not adequately reflected in the risk of a
default occurring in the next 12 months; or
(c)
changes in credit-related factors only have an impact on the credit risk of the financial instrument (or have a more
pronounced effect) beyond 12 months.
Determining whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition
B5.5.15 When determining whether the recognition of lifetime expected credit losses is required, an entity shall consider
reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort and that may affect the credit risk
on a financial instrument in accordance with paragraph 5.5.17(c). An entity need not undertake an exhaustive search for
information when determining whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition.
B5.5.16 Credit risk analysis is a multi-factor and holistic analysis; whether a specific factor is relevant, and its weight
compared to other factors, will depend on the type of product, characteristics of the financial instruments and the
borrower as well as the geographical region. An entity shall consider reasonable and supportable information that is
available without undue cost or effort and that is relevant for the particular financial instrument being assessed.
However, some factors or indicators may not be identifiable on an individual financial instrument level. In such a case,
the factors or indicators should be assessed for appropriate portfolios, groups of portfolios or portions of a portfolio of
financial instruments to determine whether the requirement in paragraph 5.5.3 for the recognition of lifetime expected
credit losses has been met.
B5.5.17 The following non-exhaustive list of information may be relevant in assessing changes in credit risk:
(a)
significant changes in internal price indicators of credit risk as a result of a change in credit risk since inception,
including, but not limited to, the credit spread that would result if a particular financial instrument or similar financial
instrument with the same terms and the same counter-party were newly originated or issued at the reporting date.
(b)
other changes in the rates or terms of an existing financial instrument that would be significantly different if the
instrument was newly originated or issued at the reporting date (such as more stringent covenants, increased amounts
of collateral or guarantees, or higher income coverage) because of changes in the credit risk of the financial instrument
since initial recognition.
(c)
significant changes in external market indicators of credit risk for a particular financial instrument or similar financial
instruments with the same expected life. Changes in market indicators of credit risk include, but are not limited to:
(i)
the credit spread;
(ii)
the credit default swap prices for the borrower;
(iii)
the length of time or the extent to which the fair value of a financial asset has been less than its amortised cost; and
(iv)
other market information related to the borrower, such as changes in the price of a borrower's debt and equity
instruments.
(d)
an actual or expected significant change in the financial instrument's external credit rating.
(e)
Page 224/765
----- PAGE 225 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
an actual or expected internal credit rating downgrade for the borrower or decrease in behavioural scoring used to
assess credit risk internally. Internal credit ratings and internal behavioural scoring are more reliable when they are
mapped to external ratings or supported by default studies.
(f)
existing or forecast adverse changes in business, financial or economic conditions that are expected to cause a
significant change in the borrower's ability to meet its debt obligations, such as an actual or expected increase in interest
rates or an actual or expected significant increase in unemployment rates.
(g)
an actual or expected significant change in the operating results of the borrower. Examples include actual or expected
declining revenues or margins, increasing operating risks, working capital deficiencies, decreasing asset quality,
increased balance sheet leverage, liquidity, management problems or changes in the scope of business or
organisational structure (such as the discontinuance of a segment of the business) that results in a significant change in
the borrower's ability to meet its debt obligations.
(h)
significant increases in credit risk on other financial instruments of the same borrower.
(i)
an actual or expected significant adverse change in the regulatory, economic, or technological environment of the
borrower that results in a significant change in the borrower's ability to meet its debt obligations, such as a decline in the
demand for the borrower's sales product because of a shift in technology.
(j)
significant changes in the value of the collateral supporting the obligation or in the quality of third party guarantees or
credit enhancements, which are expected to reduce the borrower's economic incentive to make scheduled contractual
payments or to otherwise have an effect on the probability of a default occurring. For example, if the value of collateral
declines because house prices decline, borrowers in some jurisdictions have a greater incentive to default on their
mortgages.
(k)
a significant change in the quality of the guarantee provided by a shareholder (or an individual's parents) if the
shareholder (or parents) have an incentive and financial ability to prevent default by capital or cash infusion.
(l)
significant changes, such as reductions in financial support from a parent entity or other affiliate or an actual or expected
significant change in the quality of credit enhancement, that are expected to reduce the borrower's economic incentive to
make scheduled contractual payments. Credit quality enhancements or support include the consideration of the financial
condition of the guarantor and/or, for interests issued in securitisations, whether subordinated interests are expected to
be capable of absorbing expected credit losses (for example, on the loans underlying the security).
(m)
expected changes in the loan documentation including an expected breach of contract that may lead to covenant
waivers or amendments, interest payment holidays, interest rate step-ups, requiring additional collateral or guarantees,
or other changes to the contractual framework of the instrument.
(n)
significant changes in the expected performance and behaviour of the borrower, including changes in the payment
status of borrowers in the group (for example, an increase in the expected number or extent of delayed contractual
payments or significant increases in the expected number of credit card borrowers who are expected to approach or
exceed their credit limit or who are expected to be paying the minimum monthly amount).
(o)
changes in the entity's credit management approach in relation to the financial instrument; i.e. based on emerging
indicators of changes in the credit risk of the financial instrument, the entity's credit risk management practice is
expected to become more active or to be focused on managing the instrument, including the instrument becoming more
closely monitored or controlled, or the entity specifically intervening with the borrower.
(p)
past due information, including the rebuttable presumption as set out in paragraph 5.5.11.
B5.5.18 In some cases, the qualitative and non-statistical quantitative information available may be sufficient to
Page 225/765
----- PAGE 226 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
determine that a financial instrument has met the criterion for the recognition of a loss allowance at an amount equal to
lifetime expected credit losses. That is, the information does not need to flow through a statistical model or credit ratings
process in order to determine whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk of the financial instrument.
In other cases, an entity may need to consider other information, including information from its statistical models or
credit ratings processes. Alternatively, the entity may base the assessment on both types of information, i.e. qualitative
factors that are not captured through the internal ratings process and a specific internal rating category at the reporting
date, taking into consideration the credit risk characteristics at initial recognition, if both types of information are relevant.
More than 30 days past due rebuttable presumption
B5.5.19 The rebuttable presumption in paragraph 5.5.11 is not an absolute indicator that lifetime expected credit losses
should be recognized, but is presumed to be the latest point at which lifetime expected credit losses should be
recognized even when using forward-looking information (including macroeconomic factors on a portfolio level).
B5.5.20 An entity can rebut this presumption. However, it can do so only when it has reasonable and supportable
information available that demonstrates that even if contractual payments become more than 30 days past due, this
does not represent a significant increase in the credit risk of a financial instrument. For example when non-payment was
an administrative oversight, instead of resulting from financial difficulty of the borrower, or the entity has access to
historical evidence that demonstrates that there is no correlation between significant increases in the risk of a default
occurring and financial assets on which payments are more than 30. days past due, but that evidence does identify such
a correlation when payments are more than 60 days past due.
B5.5.21 An entity cannot align the timing of significant increases in credit risk and the recognition of lifetime expected
credit losses to when a financial asset is regarded as credit-impaired or an entity's internal definition of default.
Financial instruments that have low credit risk at the reporting date
B5.5.22 The credit risk on a financial instrument is considered low for the purposes of paragraph 5.5.10, if the financial
instrument has a low risk of default, the borrower has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow obligations in
the near term and adverse changes in economic and business conditions in the longer term may, but will not
necessarily, reduce the ability of the borrower to fulfil its contractual cash flow obligations. Financial instruments are not
considered to have low credit risk when they are regarded as having a low risk of loss simply because of the value of
collateral and the financial instrument without that collateral would not be considered low credit risk. Financial
instruments are also not considered to have low credit risk simply because they have a lower risk of default than the
entity's other financial instruments or relative to the credit risk of the jurisdiction within which an entity operates.
B5.5.23 To determine whether a financial instrument has low credit risk, an entity may use its internal credit risk ratings
or other methodologies that are consistent with a globally understood definition of low credit risk and that consider the
risks and the type of financial instruments that are being assessed. An external rating of 'investment grade' is an
example of a financial instrument that may be considered as having low credit risk. However, financial instruments are
not required to be externally rated to be considered to have low credit risk. They should, however, be considered to have
low credit risk from a market participant perspective taking into account all of the terms and conditions of the financial
instrument.
B5.5.24 Lifetime expected credit losses are not recognized on a financial instrument simply because it was considered
to have low credit risk in the previous reporting period and is not considered to have low credit risk at the reporting date.
In such a case, an entity shall determine whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial
recognition and thus whether lifetime expected credit losses are required to be recognized in accordance with paragraph
5.5.3.
Modifications
B5.5.25 In some circumstances, the renegotiation or modification of the contractual cash flows of a financial asset can
lead to the derecognition of the existing financial asset in accordance with this Standard. When the modification of a
financial asset results in the derecognition of the existing financial asset and the subsequent recognition of the modified
financial asset, the modified asset is considered a 'new' financial asset for the purposes of this Standard.
B5.5.26 Accordingly the date of the modification shall be treated as the date of initial recognition of that financial asset
when applying the impairment requirements to the modified financial asset. This typically means measuring the loss
allowance at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses until the requirements for the recognition of lifetime
expected credit losses in paragraph 5.5.3 are met. However, in some unusual circumstances following a modification
that results in derecognition of the original financial asset, there may be evidence that the modified financial asset is
Page 226/765
----- PAGE 227 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
credit-impaired at initial recognition, and thus, the financial asset should be recognized as an originated credit-impaired
financial asset. This might occur, for example, in a situation in which there was a substantial modification of a distressed
asset that resulted in the derecognition of the original financial asset. In such a case, it may be possible for the
modification to result in a new financial asset which is credit-impaired at initial recognition.
B5.5.27 If the contractual cash flows on a financial asset have been renegotiated or otherwise modified, but the financial
asset is not derecognized, that financial asset is not automatically considered to have lower credit risk. An entity shall
assess whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition on the basis of all reasonable
and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort. This includes historical and forward-looking
information and an assessment of the credit risk over the expected life of the financial asset, which includes information
about the circumstances that led to the modification. Evidence that the criteria for the recognition of lifetime expected
credit losses are no longer met may include a history of up-to-date and timely payment performance against the
modified contractual terms. Typically a customer would need to demonstrate consistently good payment behaviour over
a period of time before the credit risk is considered to have decreased. For example, a history of missed or incomplete
payments would not typically be erased by simply making one payment on time following a modification of the
contractual terms.
Measurement of expected credit losses
Expected credit losses
B5.5.28 Expected credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses (i.e. the present value of all cash
shortfalls) over the expected life of the financial instrument. A cash shortfall is the difference between the cash flows that
are due to an entity in accordance with the contract and the cash flows that the entity expects to receive. Because
expected credit losses consider the amount and timing of payments, a credit loss arises even if the entity expects to be
paid in full but later than when contractually due.
B5.5.29 For financial assets, a credit loss is the present value of the difference between:
(a)
the contractual cash flows that are due to an entity under the contract; and
(b)
the cash flows that the entity expects to receive.
B5.5.30 For undrawn loan commitments, a credit loss is the present value of the difference between:
(a)
the contractual cash flows that are due to the entity if the holder of the loan commitment draws down the loan; and
(b)
the cash flows that the entity expects to receive if the loan is drawn down.
B5.5.31 An entity's estimate of expected credit losses on loan commitments shall be consistent with its expectations of
draw downs on that loan commitment, i.e. it shall consider the expected portion of the loan commitment that will be
drawn down within 12 months of the reporting date when estimating 12-month expected credit losses, and the expected
portion of the loan commitment that will be drawn down over the expected life of the loan commitment when estimating
lifetime expected credit losses.
B5.5.32 For a financial guarantee contract, the entity is required to make payments only in the event of a default by the
debtor in accordance with the terms of the instrument that is guaranteed. Accordingly, cash shortfalls are the expected
payments to reimburse the holder for a credit loss that it incurs less any amounts that the entity expects to receive from
the holder, the debtor or any other party. If the asset is fully guaranteed, the estimation of cash shortfalls for a financial
guarantee contract would be consistent with the estimations of cash shortfalls for the asset subject to the guarantee.
B5.5.33 For a financial asset that is credit-impaired at the reporting date, but that is not a purchased or originated
credit-impaired financial asset, an entity shall measure the expected credit losses as the difference between the asset's
gross carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset's original
effective interest rate. Any adjustment is recognized in profit or loss as an impairment gain or loss.
[B5.5.34 When measuring a loss allowance for a lease receivable, the cash flows used for determining the expected
credit losses should be consistent with the cash flows used in measuring the lease receivable in accordance with Ind AS
116, Leases.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
B5.5.35 An entity may use practical expedients when measuring expected credit losses if they are consistent with the
Page 227/765
----- PAGE 228 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
principles in paragraph 5.5.17. An example of a practical expedient is the calculation of the expected credit losses on
trade receivables using a provision matrix. The entity would use its historical credit loss experience (adjusted as
appropriate in accordance with paragraphs B5.5.51-B5.5.52) for trade receivables to estimate the 12-month expected
credit losses or the lifetime expected credit losses on the financial assets as relevant. A provision matrix might, for
example, specify fixed provision rates depending on the number of days that a trade receivable is past due (for example,
1 per cent if not past due, 2 per cent if less than 30 days past due, 3 per cent if more than30 days but less than 90 days
past due, 20 per cent if 90-180 days past due etc.). Depending on the diversity of its customer base, the entity would
use appropriate groupings if its historical credit loss experience shows significantly different loss patterns for different
customer segments. Examples of criteria that might be used to group assets include geographical region, product type,
customer rating, collateral or trade credit insurance and type of customer (such as wholesale or retail).
Definition of default
B5.5.36 Paragraph 5.5.9 requires that when determining whether the credit risk on a financial instrument has increased
significantly, an entity shall consider the change in the risk of a default occurring since initial recognition.
B5.5.37 When defining default for the purposes of determining the risk of a default occurring, an entity shall apply a
default definition that is consistent with the definition used for internal credit risk management purposes for the relevant
financial instrument and consider qualitative indicators (for example, financial covenants) when appropriate. However,
there is a rebuttable presumption that default does not occur later than when a financial asset is 90 days past due
unless an entity has reasonable and supportable information to demonstrate that a more lagging default criterion is more
appropriate. The definition of default used for these purposes shall be applied consistently to all financial instruments
unless information becomes available that demonstrates that another default definition is more appropriate for a
particular financial instrument.
Period over which to estimate expected credit losses
B5.5.38 In accordance with paragraph 5.5.19, the maximum period over which expected credit losses shall be measured
is the maximum contractual period over which the entity is exposed to credit risk. For loan commitments and financial
guarantee contracts, this is the maximum contractual period over which an entity has a present contractual obligation to
extend credit.
B5.5.39 However, in accordance with paragraph 5.5.20, some financial instruments include both a loan and an undrawn
commitment component and the entity's contractual ability to demand repayment and cancel the undrawn commitment
does not limit the entity's exposure to credit losses to the contractual notice period. For example, revolving credit
facilities, such as credit cards and overdraft facilities, can be contractually withdrawn by the lender with as little as one
day's notice. However, in practice lenders continue to extend credit for a longer period and may only withdraw the facility
after the credit risk of the borrower increases, which could be too late to prevent some or all of the expected credit
losses. These financial instruments generally have the following characteristics as a result of the nature of the financial
instrument, the way in which the financial instruments are managed, and the nature of the available information about
significant increases in credit risk:
(a)
the financial instruments do not have a fixed term or repayment structure and usually have a short contractual
cancellation period (for example, one day);
(b)
the contractual ability to cancel the contract is not enforced in the normal day-to-day management of the financial
instrument and the contract may only be canceled when the entity becomes aware of an increase in credit risk at the
facility level; and
(c)
the financial instruments are managed on a collective basis.
B5.5.40 When determining the period over which the entity is expected to be exposed to credit risk, but for which
expected credit losses would not be mitigated by the entity's normal credit risk management actions, an entity should
consider factors such as historical information and experience about:
(a)
the period over which the entity was exposed to credit risk on similar financial instruments;
(b)
the length of time for related defaults to occur on similar financial instruments following a significant increase in credit
Page 228/765
----- PAGE 229 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
risk; and
(c)
the credit risk management actions that an entity expects to take once the credit risk on the financial instrument has
increased, such as the reduction or removal of undrawn limits.
Probability-weighted outcome
B5.5.41 The purpose of estimating expected credit losses is neither to estimate a worst-case scenario nor to estimate
the best-case scenario. Instead, an estimate of expected credit losses shall always reflect the possibility that a credit
loss occurs and the possibility that no credit loss occurs even if the most likely outcome is no credit loss.
B5.5.42 Paragraph 5.5.17(a) requires the estimate of expected credit losses to reflect an unbiased and probability
weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible outcomes. In practice, this may not need to be a
complex analysis. In some cases, relatively simple modelling may be sufficient, without the need for a large number of
detailed simulations of scenarios. For example, the average credit losses of a large group of financial instruments with
shared risk characteristics may be a reasonable estimate of the probability-weighted amount. In other situations, the
identification of scenarios that specify the amount and timing of the cash flows for particular outcomes and the estimated
probability of those outcomes will probably be needed. In those situations, the expected credit losses shall reflect at
least two outcomes in accordance with paragraph 5.5.18.
B5.5.43 For lifetime expected credit losses, an entity shall estimate the risk of a default occurring on the financial
instrument during its expected life. 12-month expected credit losses are a portion of the lifetime expected credit losses
and represent the lifetime cash shortfalls that will result if a default occurs in the 12 months after the reporting date (or a
shorter period if the expected life of a financial instrument is less than 12 months), weighted by the probability of that
default occurring. Thus, 12-month expected credit losses are neither the lifetime expected credit losses that an entity will
incur on financial instruments that it predicts will default in the next 12 months nor the cash shortfalls that are predicted
over the next 12 months.
Time value of money
B5.5.44 Expected credit losses shall be discounted to the reporting date, not to the expected default or some other date,
using the effective interest rate determined at initial recognition or an approximation thereof. If a financial instrument has
a variable interest rate, expected credit losses shall be discounted using the current effective interest rate determined in
accordance with paragraph B5.4.5.
B5.5.45 For purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets, expected credit losses shall be discounted using
the credit-adjusted effective interest rate determined at initial recognition.
[B5.5.46 Expected credit losses on lease receivables shall be discounted using the same discount rate used in the
measurement of the lease receivable in accordance with Ind AS 116.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
B5.5.47 The expected credit losses on a loan commitment shall be discounted using the effective interest rate, or an
approximation thereof, that will be applied when recognising the financial asset resulting from the loan commitment. This
is because for the purpose of applying the impairment requirements, a financial asset that is recognized following a draw
down on a loan commitment shall be treated as a continuation of that commitment instead of as a new financial
instrument. The expected credit losses on the financial asset shall therefore be measured considering the initial credit
risk of the loan commitment from the date that the entity became a party to the irrevocable commitment.
B5.5.48 Expected credit losses on financial guarantee contracts or on loan commitments for which the effective interest
rate cannot be determined shall be discounted by applying a discount rate that reflects the current market assessment of
the time value of money and the risks that are specific to the cash flows but only if, and to the extent that, the risks are
taken into account by adjusting the discount rate instead of adjusting the cash shortfalls being discounted.
Reasonable and supportable information
B5.5.49 For the purpose of this Standard, reasonable and supportable information is that which is reasonably available
at the reporting date without undue cost or effort, including information about past events, current conditions and
forecasts of future economic conditions. Information that is available for financial reporting purposes is considered to be
available without undue cost or effort.
B5.5.50 An entity is not required to incorporate forecasts of future conditions over the entire expected life of a financial
instrument. The degree of judgement that is required to estimate expected credit losses depends on the availability of
detailed information. As the forecast horizon increases, the availability of detailed information decreases and the degree
Page 229/765
----- PAGE 230 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
of judgement required to estimate expected credit losses increases. The estimate of expected credit losses does not
require a detailed estimate for periods that are far in the future-for such periods, an entity may extrapolate projections
from available, detailed information.
B5.5.51 An entity need not undertake an exhaustive search for information but shall consider all reasonable and
supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort and that is relevant to the estimate of expected
credit losses, including the effect of expected prepayments. The information used shall include factors that are specific
to the borrower, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the current as well as the forecast direction of
conditions at the reporting date. An entity may use various sources of data, that may be both internal (entity-specific)
and external. Possible data sources include internal historical credit loss experience, internal ratings, credit loss
experience of other entities and external ratings, reports and statistics. Entities that have no, or insufficient, sources of
entity-specific data may use peer group experience for the comparable financial instrument (or groups of financial
instruments).
B5.5.52 Historical information is an important anchor or base from which to measure expected credit losses. However,
an entity shall adjust historical data, such as credit loss experience, on the basis of current observable data to reflect the
effects of the current conditions and its forecasts of future conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical
data is based, and to remove the effects of the conditions in the historical period that are not relevant to the future
contractual cash flows. In some cases, the best reasonable and supportable information could be the unadjusted
historical information, depending on the nature of the historical information and when it was calculated, compared to
circumstances at the reporting date and the characteristics of the financial instrument being considered. Estimates of
changes in expected credit losses should reflect, and be directionally consistent with, changes in related observable
data from period to period (such as changes in unemployment rates, property prices, commodity prices, payment status
or other factors that are indicative of credit losses on the financial instrument or in the group of financial instruments and
in the magnitude of those changes). An entity shall regularly review the methodology and assumptions used for
estimating expected credit losses to reduce any differences between estimates and actual credit loss experience.
B5.5.53 When using historical credit loss experience in estimating expected credit losses, it is important that information
about historical credit loss rates is applied to groups that are defined in a manner that is consistent with the groups for
which the historical credit loss rates were observed. Consequently, the method used shall enable each group of financial
assets to be associated with information about past credit loss experience in groups of financial assets with similar risk
characteristics and with relevant observable data that reflects current conditions.
B5.5.54 Expected credit losses reflect an entity's own expectations of credit losses. However, when considering all
reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort in estimating expected credit
losses, an entity should also consider observable market information about the credit risk of the particular financial
instrument or similar financial instruments.
Collateral
B5.5.55 For the purposes of measuring expected credit losses, the estimate of expected cash shortfalls shall reflect the
cash flows expected from collateral and other credit enhancements that are part of the contractual terms and are not
recognized separately by the entity. The estimate of expected cash shortfalls on a collateralised financial instrument
reflects the amount and timing of cash flows that are expected from foreclosure on the collateral less the costs of
obtaining and selling the collateral, irrespective of whether foreclosure is probable (i.e. the estimate of expected cash
flows considers the probability of a foreclosure and the cash flows that would result from it). Consequently, any cash
flows that are expected from the realisation of the collateral beyond the contractual maturity of the contract should be
included in this analysis. Any collateral obtained as a result of foreclosure is not recognized as an asset that is separate
from the collateralised financial instrument unless it meets the relevant recognition criteria for an asset in this or other
Standards.
Reclassification of financial assets (Section 5.6)
B5.6.1 If an entity reclassifies financial assets in accordance with paragraph 4.4.1, paragraph 5.6.1 requires that the
reclassification is applied prospectively from the reclassification date. Both the amortised cost measurement category
and the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement category require that the effective interest rate is
determined at initial recognition. Both of those measurement categories also require that the impairment requirements
are applied in the same way. Consequently, when an entity reclassifies a financial asset between the amortised cost
measurement category and the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement category:
Page 230/765
----- PAGE 231 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
the recognition of interest revenue will not change and therefore the entity continues to use the same effective interest
rate.
(b)
the measurement of expected credit losses will not change because both measurement categories apply the same
impairment approach. However if a financial asset is reclassified out of the fair value through other comprehensive
income measurement category and into the amortised cost measurement category, a loss allowance would be
recognized as an adjustment to the gross carrying amount of the financial asset from the reclassification date. If a
financial asset is reclassified out of the amortised cost measurement category and into the fair value through other
comprehensive income measurement category, the loss allowance would be derecognized (and thus would no longer be
recognized as an adjustment to the gross carrying amount) but instead would be recognized as an accumulated
impairment amount (of an equal amount) in other comprehensive income and would be disclosed from the
reclassification date.
B5.6.2 However, an entity is not required to separately recognise interest revenue or impairment gains or losses for a
financial asset measured at fair value through profit or loss. Consequently, when an entity reclassifies a financial asset
out of the fair value through profit or loss measurement category, the effective interest rate is determined on the basis of
the fair value of the asset at the reclassification date. In addition, for the purposes of applying Section 5.5 to the financial
asset from the reclassification date, the date of the reclassification is treated as the date of initial recognition.
Gains and losses (Section 5.7)
B5.7.1 Paragraph 5.7.5 permits an entity to make an irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive income
changes in the fair value of an investment in an equity instrument that is not held for trading. This election is made on an
instrument-by-instrument (i.e. share-by-share) basis. Amounts presented in other comprehensive income shall not be
subsequently transferred to profit or loss. However, the entity may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity.
Dividends on such investments are recognized in profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 5.7.6 unless the dividend
clearly represents a recovery of part of the cost of the investment.
B5.7.1A Unless paragraph 4.1.5 applies, paragraph 4.1.2A requires that a financial asset is measured at fair value
through other comprehensive income if the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise to cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding and the asset is held in a business model whose
objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. This measurement category
recognises information in profit or loss as if the financial asset is measured at amortised cost, while the financial asset is
measured in the balance sheet at fair value. Gains or losses, other than those that are recognized in profit or loss in
accordance with paragraphs 5.7.10-5.7.11, are recognized in other comprehensive income. When these financial assets
are derecognized, cumulative gains or losses previously recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to
profit or loss. This reflects the gain or loss that would have been recognized in profit or loss upon derecognition if the
financial asset had been measured at amortised cost.
B5.7.2 An entity applies Ind AS 21 to financial assets and financial liabilities that are monetary items in accordance with
Ind AS 21 and denominated in a foreign currency. Ind AS 21 requires any foreign exchange gains and losses on
monetary assets and monetary liabilities to be recognized in profit or loss. An exception is a monetary item that is
designated as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge (see paragraph 6.5.11), a hedge of a net investment (see
paragraph 6.5.13) or a fair value hedge of an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to present changes in fair
value in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 (see paragraph 6.5.8).
B5.7.2A For the purpose of recognising foreign exchange gains and losses under Ind AS 21, a financial asset measured
at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A is treated as a monetary item.
Accordingly, such a financial asset is treated as an asset measured at amortised cost in the foreign currency. Exchange
differences on the amortised cost are recognized in profit or loss and other changes in the carrying amount are
recognized in accordance with paragraph 5.7.10.
B5.7.3 Paragraph 5.7.5 permits an entity to make an irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive income
subsequent changes in the fair value of particular investments in equity instruments. Such an investment is not a
monetary item.Accordingly, the gain or loss that is presented in other comprehensive income in accordance with
paragraph 5.7.5 includes any related foreign exchange component.
B5.7.4 If there is a hedging relationship between a non-derivative monetary asset and a non-derivative monetary liability,
Page 231/765
----- PAGE 232 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
changes in the foreign currency component of those financial instruments are presented in profit or loss.
Liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss
B5.7.5 When an entity designates a financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss, it must determine whether
presenting in other comprehensive income the effects of changes in the liability's credit risk would create or enlarge an
accounting mismatch in profit or loss. An accounting mismatch would be created or enlarged if presenting the effects of
changes in the liability's credit risk in other comprehensive income would result in a greater mismatch in profit or loss
than if those amounts were presented in profit or loss.
B5.7.6 To make that determination, an entity must assess whether it expects that the effects of changes in the liability's
credit risk will be offset in profit or loss by a change in the fair value of another financial instrument measured at fair
value through profit or loss. Such an expectation must be based on an economic relationship between the
characteristics of the liability and the characteristics of the other financial instrument.
B5.7.7 That determination is made at initial recognition and is not reassessed. For practical purposes the entity need not
enter into all of the assets and liabilities giving rise to an accounting mismatch at exactly the same time. A reasonable
delay is permitted provided that any remaining transactions are expected to occur. An entity must apply consistently its
methodology for determining whether presenting in other comprehensive income the effects of changes in the liability's
credit risk would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss. However, an entity may use different
methodologies when there are different economic relationships between the characteristics of the liabilities designated
as at fair value through profit or loss and the characteristics of the other financial instruments. Ind AS107 requires an
entity to provide qualitative disclosures in the notes to the financial statements about its methodology for making that
determination.
B5.7.8 If such a mismatch would be created or enlarged, the entity is required to present all changes in fair value
(including the effects of changes in the credit risk of the liability) in profit or loss. If such a mismatch would not be created
or enlarged, the entity is required to present the effects of changes in the liability's credit risk in other comprehensive
income.
B5.7.9 Amounts presented in other comprehensive income shall not be subsequently transferred to profit or loss.
However, the entity may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity.
B5.7.10 The following example describes a situation in which an accounting mismatch would be created in profit or loss
if the effects of changes in the credit risk of the liability were presented in other comprehensive income. A mortgage
bank provides loans to customers and funds those loans by selling bonds with matching characteristics (e.g. amount
outstanding, repayment profile, term and currency) in the market. The contractual terms of the loan permit the mortgage
customer to prepay its loan (i.e. satisfy its obligation to the bank) by buying the corresponding bond at fair value in the
market and delivering that bond to the mortgage bank. As a result of that contractual pre-payment right, if the credit
quality of the bond worsens (and, thus, the fair value of the mortgage bank's liability decreases), the fair value of the
mortgage bank's loan asset also decreases. The change in the fair value of the asset reflects the mortgage customer's
contractual right to prepay the mortgage loan by buying the underlying bond at fair value (which, in this example, has
decreased) and delivering the bond to the mortgage bank. Consequently, the effects of changes in the credit risk of the
liability (the bond) will be offset in profit or loss by a corresponding change in the fair value of a financial asset (the loan).
If the effects of changes in the liability's credit risk were presented in other comprehensive income there would be an
accounting mismatch in profit or loss. Consequently, the mortgage bank is required to present all changes in fair value of
the liability (including the effects of changes in the liability's credit risk) in profit or loss.
B5.7.11 In the example in paragraph B5.7.10, there is a contractual linkage between the effects of changes in the credit
risk of the liability and changes in the fair value of the financial asset (i.e. as a result of the mortgage customer's
contractual right to prepay the loan by buying the bond at fair value and delivering the bond to the mortgage bank).
However, an accounting mismatch may also occur in the absence of a contractual linkage.
B5.7.12 For the purposes of applying the requirements in paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8, an accounting mismatch is not
caused solely by the measurement method that an entity uses to determine the effects of changes in a liability's credit
risk. An accounting mismatch in profit or loss would arise only when the effects of changes in the liability's credit risk (as
defined in Ind AS107) are expected to be offset by changes in the fair value of another financial instrument. A mismatch
that arises solely as a result of the measurement method (i.e. because an entity does not isolate changes in a liability's
credit risk from some other changes in its fair value) does not affect the determination required by paragraphs 5.7.7 and
5.7.8. For example, an entity may not isolate changes in a liability's credit risk from changes in liquidity risk. If the entity
Page 232/765
----- PAGE 233 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
presents the combined effect of both factors in other comprehensive income, a mismatch may occur because changes
in liquidity risk may be included in the fair value measurement of the entity's financial assets and the entire fair value
change of those assets is presented in profit or loss. However, such a mismatch is caused by measurement imprecision,
not the offsetting relationship described in paragraph B5.7.6 and, therefore, does not affect the determination required
by paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8.
The meaning of 'credit risk' (paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8)
B5.7.13 Ind AS107 defines credit risk as 'the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for the
other party by failing to discharge an obligation'. The requirement in paragraph 5.7.7(a) relates to the risk that the issuer
will fail to perform on that particular liability. It does not necessarily relate to the creditworthiness of the issuer. For
example, if an entity issues a collateralised liability and a non-collateralised liability that are otherwise identical, the credit
risk of those two liabilities will be different, even though they are issued by the same entity. The credit risk on the
collateralised liability will be less than the credit risk of the non-collateralised liability. The credit risk for a collateralised
liability may be close to zero.
B5.7.14 For the purposes of applying the requirement in paragraph 5.7.7(a), credit risk is different from asset-specific
performance risk. Asset-specific performance risk is not related to the risk that an entity will fail to discharge a particular
obligation but instead it is related to the risk that a single asset or a group of assets will perform poorly (or not at all).
B5.7.15 The following are examples of asset-specific performance risk:
(a)
a liability with a unit-linking feature whereby the amount due to investors is contractually determined on the basis of the
performance of specified assets. The effect of that unit-linking feature on the fair value of the liability is asset-specific
performance risk, not credit risk.
(b)
a liability issued by a structured entity with the following characteristics. The entity is legally isolated so the assets in the
entity are ring-fenced solely for the benefit of its investors, even in the event of bankruptcy. The entity enters into no
other transactions and the assets in the entity cannot be hypothecated. Amounts are due to the entity's investors only if
the ring-fenced assets generate cash flows. Thus, changes in the fair value of the liability primarily reflect changes in the
fair value of the assets. The effect of the performance of the assets on the fair value of the liability is asset-specific
performance risk, not credit risk.
Determining the effects of changes in credit risk
B5.7.16 For the purposes of applying the requirement in paragraph 5.7.7(a), an entity shall determine the amount of
change in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability either:
(a)
as the amount of change in its fair value that is not attributable to changes in market conditions that give rise to market
risk (see paragraphs B5.7.17 and B5.7.18); or
(b)
using an alternative method the entity believes more faithfully represents the amount of change in the liability's fair value
that is attributable to changes in its credit risk.
B5.7.17 Changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk include changes in a benchmark interest rate, the
price of another entity's financial instrument, a commodity price, a foreign exchange rate or an index of prices or rates.
B5.7.18 If the only significant relevant changes in market conditions for a liability are changes in an observed
(benchmark) interest rate, the amount in paragraph B5.7.16(a) can be estimated as follows:
(a)
First, the entity computes the liability's internal rate of return at the start of the period using the fair value of the liability
and the liability's contractual cash flows at the start of the period. It deducts from this rate of return the observed
(benchmark) interest rate at the start of the period, to arrive at an instrument-specific component of the internal rate of
return.
(b)
Next, the entity calculates the present value of the cash flows associated with the liability using the liability's contractual
cash flows at the end of the period and a discount rate equal to the sum of (i) the observed (benchmark) interest rate at
the end of the period and (ii) the instrument-specific component of the internal rate of return as determined in (a).
(c)
Page 233/765
----- PAGE 234 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
The difference between the fair value of the liability at the end of the period and the amount determined in (b) is the
change in fair value that is not attributable to changes in the observed (benchmark) interest rate. This is the amount to
be presented in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.7(a).
B5.7.19 The example in paragraph B5.7.18 assumes that changes in fair value arising from factors other than changes
in the instrument's credit risk or changes in observed (benchmark) interest rates are not significant. This method would
not be appropriate if changes in fair value arising from other factors are significant. In those cases, an entity is required
to use an alternative method that more faithfully measures the effects of changes in the liability's credit risk (see
paragraph B5.7.16(b)). For example, if the instrument in the example contains an embedded derivative, the change in
fair value of the embedded derivative is excluded in determining the amount to be presented in other comprehensive
income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.7(a).
B5.7.20 As with all fair value measurements, an entity's measurement method for determining the portion of the change
in the liability's fair value that is attributable to changes in its credit risk must make maximum use of relevant observable
inputs and minimum use of unobservable inputs.
Hedge accounting (Chapter 6)
Hedging instruments (Section 6.2)
Qualifying instruments
B6.2.1 Derivatives that are embedded in hybrid contracts, but that are not separately accounted for, cannot be
designated as separate hedging instruments.
B6.2.2 An entity's own equity instruments are not financial assets or financial liabilities of the entity and therefore cannot
be designated as hedging instruments.
B6.2.3 For hedges of foreign currency risk, the foreign currency risk component of a non-derivative financial instrument
is determined in accordance with Ind AS 21.
Written options
B6.2.4 This Standard does not restrict the circumstances in which a derivative that is measured at fair value through
profit or loss may be designated as a hedging instrument, except for some written options. A written option does not
qualify as a hedging instrument unless it is designated as an offset to a purchased option, including one that is
embedded in another financial instrument (for example, a written call option used to hedge a callable liability).
Designation of hedging instruments
B6.2.5 For hedges other than hedges of foreign currency risk, when an entity designates a non-derivative financial asset
or a non-derivative financial liability measured at fair value through profit or loss as a hedging instrument, it may only
designate the non-derivative financial instrument in its entirety or a proportion of it.
B6.2.6 A single hedging instrument may be designated as a hedging instrument of more than one type of risk, provided
that there is a specific designation of the hedging instrument and of the different risk positions as hedged items. Those
hedged items can be in different hedging relationships.
Hedged items (Section 6.3)
Qualifying items
B6.3.1 A firm commitment to acquire a business in a business combination cannot be a hedged item, except for foreign
currency risk, because the other risks being hedged cannot be specifically identified and measured. Those other risks
are general business risks.
B6.3.2 An equity method investment cannot be a hedged item in a fair value hedge. This is because the equity method
recognises in profit or loss the investor's share of the investee's profit or loss, instead of changes in the investment's fair
value. For a similar reason, an investment in a consolidated subsidiary cannot be a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
This is because consolidation recognises in profit or loss the subsidiary's profit or loss, instead of changes in the
investment's fair value. A hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is different because it is a hedge of the foreign
currency exposure, not a fair value hedge of the change in the value of the investment.
B6.3.3 Paragraph 6.3.4 permits an entity to designate as hedged items aggregated exposures that are a combination of
an exposure and a derivative. When designating such a hedged item, an entity assesses whether the aggregated
exposure combines an exposure with a derivative so that it creates a different aggregated exposure that is managed as
one exposure for a particular risk (or risks). In that case, the entity may designate the hedged item on the basis of the
aggregated exposure. For example:
(a)
Page 234/765
----- PAGE 235 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
an entity may hedge a given quantity of highly probable coffee purchases in 15 months' time against price risk (based on
US dollars) using a 15-months futures contract for coffee. The highly probable coffee purchases and the futures contract
for coffee in combination can be viewed as a 15-months fixed-amount US dollar foreign currency risk exposure for risk
management purposes (i.e. like any fixed-amount US dollar cash outflow in 15 months' time).
(b)
an entity may hedge the foreign currency risk for the entire term of a 10-years fixed-rate debt denominated in a foreign
currency. However, the entity requires fixed-rate exposure in its functional currency only for a short to medium term (say
two years) and floating rate exposure in its functional currency for the remaining term to maturity. At the end of each of
the two-year intervals (i.e. on a two years rolling basis) the entity fixes the next two years' interest rate exposure (if the
interest level is such that the entity wants to fix interest rates). In such a situation an entity may enter into a 10-years
fixed-to-floating cross-currency interest rate swap that swaps the fixed-rate foreign currency debt into a variable-rate
functional currency exposure. This is overlaid with a two-year interest rate swap that-on the basis of the functional
currency-swaps variable-rate debt into fixed-rate debt. In effect, the fixed rate foreign currency debt and the 10-years
fixed-to-floating cross-currency interest rate swap in combination are viewed as a 10-years variable-rate debt functional
currency exposure for risk management purposes.
B6.3.4 When designating the hedged item on the basis of the aggregated exposure, an entity considers the combined
effect of the items that constitute the aggregated exposure for the purpose of assessing hedge effectiveness and
measuring hedge ineffectiveness. However, the items that constitute the aggregated exposure remain accounted for
separately. This means that, for example:
(a)
derivatives that are part of an aggregated exposure are recognized as separate assets or liabilities measured at fair
value; and
(b)
if a hedging relationship is designated between the items that constitute the aggregated exposure, the way in which a
derivative is included as part of an aggregated exposure must be consistent with the designation of that derivative as the
hedging instrument at the level of the aggregated exposure. For example, if an entity excludes the forward element of a
derivative from its designation as the hedging instrument for the hedging relationship between the items that constitute
the aggregated exposure, it must also exclude the forward element when including that derivative as a hedged item as
part of the aggregated exposure. Otherwise, the aggregated exposure shall include a derivative, either in its entirety or a
proportion of it.
B6.3.5 Paragraph 6.3.6 states that in consolidated financial statements the foreign currency risk of a highly probable
forecast intra-group transaction may qualify as a hedged item in a cash flow hedge, provided that the transaction is
denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity entering into that transaction and that the
foreign currency risk will affect consolidated profit or loss. For this purpose an entity can be a parent, subsidiary,
associate, joint arrangement or branch. If the foreign currency risk of a forecast intra-group transaction does not affect
consolidated profit or loss, the intra-group transaction cannot qualify as a hedged item. This is usually the case for
royalty payments, interest payments or management charges between members of the same group, unless there is a
related external transaction. However, when the foreign currency risk of a forecast intra-group transaction will affect
consolidated profit or loss, the intra-group transaction can qualify as a hedged item. An example is forecast sales or
purchases of inventories between members of the same group if there is an onward sale of the inventory to a party
external to the group. Similarly, a forecast intra-group sale of plant and equipment from the group entity that
manufactured it to a group entity that will use the plant and equipment in its operations may affect consolidated profit or
loss. This could occur, for example, because the plant and equipment will be depreciated by the purchasing entity and
the amount initially recognized for the plant and equipment may change if the forecast intra-group transaction is
denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the purchasing entity.
B6.3.6 If a hedge of a forecast intra-group transaction qualifies for hedge accounting, any gain or loss is recognized in,
and taken out of, other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 6.5.11. The relevant period or periods
during which the foreign currency risk of the hedged transaction affects profit or loss is when it affects consolidated profit
or loss.
Designation of hedged items
B6.3.7 A component is a hedged item that is less than the entire item. Consequently, a component reflects only some of
Page 235/765
----- PAGE 236 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the risks of the item of which it is a part or reflects the risks only to some extent (for example, when designating a
proportion of an item).
Risk components
B6.3.8 To be eligible for designation as a hedged item, a risk component must be a separately identifiable component of
the financial or the non-financial item, and the changes in the cash flows or the fair value of the item attributable to
changes in that risk component must be reliably measurable.
B6.3.9 When identifying what risk components qualify for designation as a hedged item, an entity assesses such risk
components within the context of the particular market structure to which the risk or risks relate and in which the hedging
activity takes place. Such a determination requires an evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, which differ by
risk and market.
B6.3.10 When designating risk components as hedged items, an entity considers whether the risk components are
explicitly specified in a contract (contractually specified risk components) or whether they are implicit in the fair value or
the cash flows of an item of which they are a part (non-contractually specified risk components). Non-contractually
specified risk components can relate to items that are not a contract (for example, forecast transactions) or contracts
that do not explicitly specify the component (for example, a firm commitment that includes only one single price instead
of a pricing formula that references different under-lyings). For example:
(a)
Entity A has a long-term supply contract for natural gas that is priced using a contractually specified formula that
references commodities and other factors (for example, gas oil, fuel oil and other components such as transport
charges). Entity A hedges the gas oil component in that supply contract using a gas oil forward contract. Because the
gas oil component is specified by the terms and conditions of the supply contract it is a contractually specified risk
component. Hence, because of the pricing formula, Entity A concludes that the gas oil price exposure is separately
identifiable. At the same time, there is a market for gas oil forward contracts. Hence, Entity A concludes that the gas oil
price exposure is reliably measurable. Consequently, the gas oil price exposure in the supply contract is a risk
component that is eligible for designation as a hedged item.
(b)
Entity B hedges its future coffee purchases based on its production forecast. Hedging starts up to 15 months before
delivery for part of the forecast purchase volume. Entity B increases the hedged volume over time (as the delivery date
approaches). Entity B uses two different types of contracts to manage its coffee price risk:
(i)
exchange-traded coffee futures contracts; and
(ii)
coffee supply contracts for Arabica coffee from Colombia delivered to a specific manufacturing site. These contracts
price a tonne of coffee based on the exchange-traded coffee futures contract price plus a fixed price differential plus a
variable logistics services charge using a pricing formula. The coffee supply contract is an executory contract in
accordance with which Entity B takes actual delivery of coffee.
For deliveries that relate to the current harvest, entering into the coffee supply contracts allows Entity B to fix the price
differential between the actual coffee quality purchased (Arabica coffee from Colombia) and the benchmark quality that
is the underlying of the exchange-traded futures contract. However, for deliveries that relate to the next harvest, the
coffee supply contracts are not yet available, so the price differential cannot be fixed. Entity B uses exchange-traded
coffee futures contracts to hedge the benchmark quality component of its coffee price risk for deliveries that relate to the
current harvest as well as the next harvest. Entity B determines that it is exposed to three different risks: coffee price risk
reflecting the benchmark quality, coffee price risk reflecting the difference (spread) between the price for the benchmark
quality coffee and the particular Arabica coffee from Colombia that it actually receives, and the variable logistics costs.
For deliveries related to the current harvest, after Entity B enters into a coffee supply contract, the coffee price risk
reflecting the benchmark quality is a contractually specified risk component because the pricing formula includes an
indexation to the exchange-traded coffee futures contract price. Entity B concludes that this risk component is separately
identifiable and reliably measurable. For deliveries related to the next harvest, Entity B has not yet entered into any
coffee supply contracts (i.e. those deliveries are forecast transactions). Hence, the coffee price risk reflecting the
benchmark quality is a non-contractually specified risk component. Entity B's analysis of the market structure takes into
account how eventual deliveries of the particular coffee that it receives are priced. Hence, on the basis of this analysis of
Page 236/765
----- PAGE 237 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the market structure, Entity B concludes that the forecast transactions also involve the coffee price risk that reflects the
benchmark quality as a risk component that is separately identifiable and reliably measurable even though it is not
contractually specified. Consequently, Entity B may designate hedging relationships on a risk components basis (for the
coffee price risk that reflects the benchmark quality) for coffee supply contracts as well as forecast transactions.
(c)
Entity C hedges part of its future jet fuel purchases on the basis of its consumption forecast up to 24 months before
delivery and increases the volume that it hedges over time. Entity C hedges this exposure using different types of
contracts depending on the time horizon of the hedge, which affects the market liquidity of the derivatives. For the longer
time horizons (12-24 months) Entity C uses crude oil contracts because only these have sufficient market liquidity. For
time horizons of 6-12 months Entity C uses gas oil derivatives because they are sufficiently liquid. For time horizons up
to six months Entity C uses jet fuel contracts. Entity C's analysis of the market structure for oil and oil products and its
evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances is as follows:
(i)
Entity C operates in a geographical area in which Brent is the crude oil benchmark. Crude oil is a raw material
benchmark that affects the price of various refined oil products as their most basic input. Gas oil is a benchmark for
refined oil products, which is used as a pricing reference for oil distillates more generally. This is also reflected in the
types of derivative financial instruments for the crude oil and refined oil products markets of the environment in which
Entity C operates, such as:
? the benchmark crude oil futures contract, which is for Brent crude oil;
? the benchmark gas oil futures contract, which is used as the pricing reference for distillates-for example, jet fuel
spread derivatives cover the price differential between jet fuel and that benchmark gas oil; and
? the benchmark gas oil crack spread derivative (i.e. the derivative for the price differential between crude oil and gas
oil-a refining margin), which is indexed to Brent crude oil.
(ii)
the pricing of refined oil products does not depend on which particular crude oil is processed by a particular refinery
because those refined oil products (such as gas oil or jet fuel) are standardised products.
Hence, Entity C concludes that the price risk of its jet fuel purchases includes a crude oil price risk component based on
Brent crude oil and a gas oil price risk component, even though crude oil and gas oil are not specified in any contractual
arrangement. Entity C concludes that these two risk components are separately identifiable and reliably measurable
even though they are not contractually specified. Consequently, Entity C may designate hedging relationships for
forecast jet fuel purchases on a risk components basis (for crude oil or gas oil). This analysis also means that if, for
example, Entity C used crude oil derivatives based on West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil, changes in the price
differential between Brent crude oil and WTI crude oil would cause hedge ineffectiveness.
(d)
Entity D holds a fixed-rate debt instrument. This instrument is issued in an environment with a market in which a large
variety of similar debt instruments are compared by their spreads to a benchmark rate (for example, LIBOR) and
variable-rate instruments in that environment are typically indexed to that benchmark rate. Interest rate swaps are
frequently used to manage interest rate risk on the basis of that benchmark rate, irrespective of the spread of debt
instruments to that benchmark rate. The price of fixed-rate debt instruments varies directly in response to changes in the
benchmark rate as they happen. Entity D concludes that the benchmark rate is a component that can be separately
identified and reliably measured. Consequently, Entity D may designate hedging relationships for the fixed-rate debt
instrument on a risk component basis for the benchmark interest rate risk.
B6.3.11 When designating a risk component as a hedged item, the hedge accounting requirements apply to that risk
component in the same way as they apply to other hedged items that are not risk components. For example, the
qualifying criteria apply, including that the hedging relationship must meet the hedge effectiveness requirements, and
any hedge ineffectiveness must be measured and recognized.
B6.3.12 An entity can also designate only changes in the cash flows or fair value of a hedged item above or below a
specified price or other variable (a 'one-sided risk'). The intrinsic value of a purchased option hedging instrument
(assuming that it has the same principal terms as the designated risk), but not its time value, reflects a one-sided risk in
a hedged item. For example, an entity can designate the variability of future cash flow outcomes resulting from a price
increase of a forecast commodity purchase. In such a situation, the entity designates only cash flow losses that result
Page 237/765
----- PAGE 238 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
from an increase in the price above the specified level. The hedged risk does not include the time value of a purchased
option, because the time value is not a component of the forecast transaction that affects profit or loss.
B6.3.13 There is a rebuttable presumption that unless inflation risk is contractually specified, it is not separately
identifiable and reliably measurable and hence cannot be designated as a risk component of a financial instrument.
However, in limited cases, it is possible to identify a risk component for inflation risk that is separately identifiable and
reliably measurable because of the particular circumstances of the inflation environment and the relevant debt market.
B6.3.14 For example, an entity issues debt in an environment in which inflation-linked bonds have a volume and term
structure that results in a sufficiently liquid market that allows constructing a term structure of zero coupon real interest
rates. This means that for the respective currency, inflation is a relevant factor that is separately considered by the debt
markets. In those circumstances the inflation risk component could be determined by discounting the cash flows of the
hedged debt instrument using the term structure of zero coupon real interest rates (i.e. in a manner similar to how a
risk-free (nominal) interest rate component can be determined). Conversely, in many cases an inflation risk component
is not separately identifiable and reliably measurable. For example, an entity issues only nominal interest rate debt in an
environment with a market for inflation-linked bonds that is not sufficiently liquid to allow a term structure of zero-coupon
real interest rates to be constructed. In this case the analysis of the market structure and of the facts and circumstances
does not support the entity concluding that inflation is a relevant factor that is separately considered by the debt
markets. Hence, the entity cannot overcome the rebuttable presumption that inflation risk that is not contractually
specified is not separately identifiable and reliably measurable. Consequently, an inflation risk component would not be
eligible for designation as the hedged item. This applies irrespective of any inflation hedging instrument that the entity
has actually entered into. In particular, the entity cannot simply impute the terms and conditions of the actual inflation
hedging instrument by projecting its terms and conditions onto the nominal interest rate debt.
B6.3.15 A contractually specified inflation risk component of the cash flows of a recognized inflation-linked bond
(assuming that there is no requirement to account for an embedded derivative separately) is separately identifiable and
reliably measurable, as long as other cash flows of the instrument are not affected by the inflation risk component.
Components of a nominal amount
B6.3.16 There are two types of components of nominal amounts that can be designated as the hedged item in a
hedging relationship: a component that is a proportion of an entire item or a layer component. The type of component
changes the accounting outcome. An entity shall designate the component for accounting purposes consistently with its
risk management objective.
B6.3.17 An example of a component that is a proportion is 50 per cent of the contractual cash flows of a loan.
B6.3.18 A layer component may be specified from a defined, but open, population, or from a defined nominal amount.
Examples include:
(a)
[part of a monetary transaction volume, for example, the next FC10 cash flows from sales denominated in a foreign
currency after the first FC20 in March 201X;]
[In this Standard monetary amounts are denominated in 'Indian Rupees' (Rs.) and 'foreign currency units' (FC).]
(b)
a part of a physical volume, for example, the bottom layer, measuring 5 million cubic metres, of the natural gas stored in
location XYZ;
(c)
a part of a physical or other transaction volume, for example, the first 100 barrels of the oil purchases in June 201X or
the first 100 MWh of electricity sales in June 201X; or
(d)
a layer from the nominal amount of the hedged item, for example, the last Rs.80 million of a Rs.100 million firm
commitment, the bottom layer of Rs.20 million of a Rs.100 million fixed-rate bond or the top layer of Rs.30 million from a
total amount of Rs.100 million of fixed-rate debt that can be prepaid at fair value (the defined nominal amount is Rs.100
million).
B6.3.19 If a layer component is designated in a fair value hedge, an entity shall specify it from a defined nominal
amount. To comply with the requirements for qualifying fair value hedges, an entity shall remeasure the hedged item for
fair value changes (i.e. remeasure the item for fair value changes attributable to the hedged risk). The fair value hedge
adjustment must be recognized in profit or loss no later than when the item is derecognized. Consequently, it is
Page 238/765
----- PAGE 239 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
necessary to track the item to which the fair value hedge adjustment relates. For a layer component in a fair value
hedge, this requires an entity to track the nominal amount from which it is defined. For example, in paragraph
B6.3.18(d), the total defined nominal amount of Rs.100 million must be tracked in order to track the bottom layer of
Rs.20 million or the top layer of Rs.30 million.
B6.3.20 A layer component that includes a prepayment option is not eligible to be designated as a hedged item in a fair
value hedge if the prepayment option's fair value is affected by changes in the hedged risk, unless the designated layer
includes the effect of the related prepayment option when determining the change in the fair value of the hedged item.
Relationship between components and the total cash flows of an item
B6.3.21 If a component of the cash flows of a financial or a non-financial item is designated as the hedged item, that
component must be less than or equal to the total cash flows of the entire item. However, all of the cash flows of the
entire item may be designated as the hedged item and hedged for only one particular risk (for example, only for those
changes that are attributable to changes in LIBOR or a benchmark commodity price).
B6.3.22 For example, in the case of a financial liability whose effective interest rate is below LIBOR, an entity cannot
designate:
(a)
a component of the liability equal to interest at LIBOR (plus the principal amount in case of a fair value hedge); and
(b)
a negative residual component.
B6.3.23 However, in the case of a fixed-rate financial liability whose effective interest rate is (for example) 100 basis
points below LIBOR, an entity can designate as the hedged item the change in the value of that entire liability (i.e.
principal plus interest at LIBOR minus 100 basis points) that is attributable to changes in LIBOR. If a fixed-rate financial
instrument is hedged some time after its origination and interest rates have changed in the meantime, the entity can
designate a risk component equal to a benchmark rate that is higher than the contractual rate paid on the item. The
entity can do so provided that the benchmark rate is less than the effective interest rate calculated on the assumption
that the entity had purchased the instrument on the day when it first designates the hedged item. For example, assume
that an entity originates a fixed-rate financial asset of Rs.100 that has an effective interest rate of 6 per cent at a time
when LIBOR is 4 per cent. It begins to hedge that asset some time later when LIBOR has increased to 8 per cent and
the fair value of the asset has decreased to Rs.90. The entity calculates that if it had purchased the asset on the date it
first designates the related LIBOR interest rate risk as the hedged item, the effective yield of the asset based on its then
fair value of Rs.90 would have been 9.5 per cent. Because LIBOR is less than this effective yield, the entity can
designate a LIBOR component of 8 per cent that consists partly of the contractual interest cash flows and partly of the
difference between the current fair value (i.e. Rs.90) and the amount repayable on maturity (i.e. Rs.100).
B6.3.24 If a variable-rate financial liability bears interest of (for example) three-month LIBOR minus 20 basis points (with
a floor at zero basis points), an entity can designate as the hedged item the change in the cash flows of that entire
liability (i.e. three-month LIBOR minus 20 basis points-including the floor) that is attributable to changes in LIBOR.
Hence, as long as the three-month LIBOR forward curve for the remaining life of that liability does not fall below 20 basis
points, the hedged item has the same cash flow variability as a liability that bears interest at three-month LIBOR with a
zero or positive spread. However, if the three-month LIBOR forward curve for the remaining life of that liability (or a part
of it) falls below 20 basis points, the hedged item has a lower cash flow variability than a liability that bears interest at
three-month LIBOR with a zero or positive spread.
B6.3.25 A similar example of a non-financial item is a specific type of crude oil from a particular oil field that is priced off
the relevant benchmark crude oil. If an entity sells that crude oil under a contract using a contractual pricing formula that
sets the price per barrel at the benchmark crude oil price minus Rs.10 with a floor of Rs.15, the entity can designate as
the hedged item the entire cash flow variability under the sales contract that is attributable to the change in the
benchmark crude oil price. However, the entity cannot designate a component that is equal to the full change in the
benchmark crude oil price. Hence, as long as the forward price (for each delivery) does not fall below Rs.25, the hedged
item has the same cash flow variability as a crude oil sale at the benchmark crude oil price (or with a positive spread).
However, if the forward price for any delivery falls below Rs.25, the hedged item has a lower cash flow variability than a
crude oil sale at the benchmark crude oil price (or with a positive spread).
Qualifying criteria for hedge accounting (Section 6.4)
Hedge effectiveness
Page 239/765
----- PAGE 240 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B6.4.1 Hedge effectiveness is the extent to which changes in the fair value or the cash flows of the hedging instrument
offset changes in the fair value or the cash flows of the hedged item (for example, when the hedged item is a risk
component, the relevant change in fair value or cash flows of an item is the one that is attributable to the hedged risk).
Hedge ineffectiveness is the extent to which the changes in the fair value or the cash flows of the hedging instrument
are greater or less than those on the hedged item.
B6.4.2 When designating a hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis, an entity shall analyse the sources of hedge
ineffectiveness that are expected to affect the hedging relationship during its term. This analysis (including any updates
in accordance with paragraph B6.5.21 arising from re-balancing a hedging relationship) is the basis for the entity's
assessment of meeting the hedge effectiveness requirements.
B6.4.3 For the avoidance of doubt, the effects of replacing the original counter-party with a clearing counter-party and
making the associated changes as described in paragraph 6.5.6 shall be reflected in the measurement of the hedging
instrument and therefore in the assessment of hedge effectiveness and the measurement of hedge effectiveness.
Economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument
B6.4.4 The requirement that an economic relationship exists means that the hedging instrument and the hedged item
have values that generally move in the opposite direction because of the same risk, which is the hedged risk. Hence,
there must be an expectation that the value of the hedging instrument and the value of the hedged item will
systematically change in response to movements in either the same underlying or under lyings that are economically
related in such a way that they respond in a similar way to the risk that is being hedged (for example, Brent and WTI
crude oil).
B6.4.5 If the under lyings are not the same but are economically related, there can be situations in which the values of
the hedging instrument and the hedged item move in the same direction, for example, because the price differential
between the two related under lyings changes while the under lyings themselves do not move significantly. That is still
consistent with an economic relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item if the values of the
hedging instrument and the hedged item are still expected to typically move in the opposite direction when the under
lyings move.
B6.4.6 The assessment of whether an economic relationship exists includes an analysis of the possible behaviour of the
hedging relationship during its term to ascertain whether it can be expected to meet the risk management objective. The
mere existence of a statistical correlation between two variables does not, by itself, support a valid conclusion that an
economic relationship exists.
The effect of credit risk
B6.4.7 Because the hedge accounting model is based on a general notion of offset between gains and losses on the
hedging instrument and the hedged item, hedge effectiveness is determined not only by the economic relationship
between those items (i.e. the changes in their under lyings) but also by the effect of credit risk on the value of both the
hedging instrument and the hedged item. The effect of credit risk means that even if there is an economic relationship
between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, the level of offset might become erratic. This can result from a
change in the credit risk of either the hedging instrument or the hedged item that is of such a magnitude that the credit
risk dominates the value changes that result from the economic relationship (i.e. the effect of the changes in the under
lyings). A level of magnitude that gives rise to dominance is one that would result in the loss (or gain) from credit risk
frustrating the effect of changes in the under lyings on the value of the hedging instrument or the hedged item, even if
those changes were significant. Conversely, if during a particular period there is little change in the under lyings, the fact
that even small credit risk-related changes in the value of the hedging instrument or the hedged item might affect the
value more than the under lyings does not create dominance.
B6.4.8 An example of credit risk dominating a hedging relationship is when an entity hedges an exposure to commodity
price risk using an un-collateralised derivative. If the counter-party to that derivative experiences a severe deterioration
in its credit standing, the effect of the changes in the counter-party's credit standing might outweigh the effect of changes
in the commodity price on the fair value of the hedging instrument, whereas changes in the value of the hedged item
depend largely on the commodity price changes.
Hedge ratio
B6.4.9 In accordance with the hedge effectiveness requirements, the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship must be the
same as that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the entity actually hedges and the quantity of the
hedging instrument that the entity actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item. Hence, if an entity hedges less
Page 240/765
----- PAGE 241 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
than 100 per cent of the exposure on an item, such as 85 per cent, it shall designate the hedging relationship using a
hedge ratio that is the same as that resulting from 85 per cent of the exposure and the quantity of the hedging
instrument that the entity actually uses to hedge those 85 per cent. Similarly, if, for example, an entity hedges an
exposure using a nominal amount of 40 units of a financial instrument, it shall designate the hedging relationship using a
hedge ratio that is the same as that resulting from that quantity of 40 units (i.e. the entity must not use a hedge ratio
based on a higher quantity of units that it might hold in total or a lower quantity of units) and the quantity of the hedged
item that it actually hedges with those 40 units.
B6.4.10 However, the designation of the hedging relationship using the same hedge ratio as that resulting from the
quantities of the hedged item and the hedging instrument that the entity actually uses shall not reflect an imbalance
between the weightings of the hedged item and the hedging instrument that would in turn create hedge ineffectiveness
(irrespective of whether recognized or not) that could result in an accounting outcome that would be inconsistent with the
purpose of hedge accounting. Hence, for the purpose of designating a hedging relationship, an entity must adjust the
hedge ratio that results from the quantities of the hedged item and the hedging instrument that the entity actually uses if
that is needed to avoid such an imbalance.
B6.4.11 Examples of relevant considerations in assessing whether an accounting outcome is inconsistent with the
purpose of hedge accounting are:
(a)
whether the intended hedge ratio is established to avoid recognising hedge ineffectiveness for cash flow hedges, or to
achieve fair value hedge adjustments for more hedged items with the aim of increasing the use of fair value accounting,
but without offsetting fair value changes of the hedging instrument; and
(b)
whether there is a commercial reason for the particular weightings of the hedged item and the hedging instrument, even
though that creates hedge ineffectiveness. For example, an entity enters into and designates a quantity of the hedging
instrument that is not the quantity that it determined as the best hedge of the hedged item because the standard volume
of the hedging instruments does not allow it to enter into that exact quantity of hedging instrument (a 'lot size issue'). An
example is an entity that hedges 100 tonnes of coffee purchases with standard coffee futures contracts that have a
contract size of 37,500 lbs (pounds). The entity could only use either five or six contracts (equivalent to 85.0 and 102.1
tonnes respectively) to hedge the purchase volume of 100 tonnes. In that case, the entity designates the hedging
relationship using the hedge ratio that results from the number of coffee futures contracts that it actually uses, because
the hedge ineffectiveness resulting from the mismatch in the weightings of the hedged item and the hedging instrument
would not result in an accounting outcome that is inconsistent with the purpose of hedge accounting.
Frequency of assessing whether the hedge effectiveness requirements are met
B6.4.12 An entity shall assess at the inception of the hedging relationship, and on an ongoing basis, whether a hedging
relationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements. At a minimum, an entity shall perform the ongoing assessment
at each reporting date or upon a significant change in the circumstances affecting the hedge effectiveness requirements,
whichever comes first. The assessment relates to expectations about hedge effectiveness and is therefore only
forward-looking.
Methods for assessing whether the hedge effectiveness requirements are met
B6.4.13 This Standard does not specify a method for assessing whether a hedging relationship meets the hedge
effectiveness requirements. However, an entity shall use a method that captures the relevant characteristics of the
hedging relationship including the sources of hedge ineffectiveness. Depending on those factors, the method can be a
qualitative or a quantitative assessment.
B6.4.14 For example, when the critical terms (such as the nominal amount, maturity and underlying) of the hedging
instrument and the hedged item match or are closely aligned, it might be possible for an entity to conclude on the basis
of a qualitative assessment of those critical terms that the hedging instrument and the hedged item have values that will
generally move in the opposite direction because of the same risk and hence that an economic relationship exists
between the hedged item and the hedging instrument (see paragraphs B6.4.4-B6.4.6).
B6.4.15 The fact that a derivative is in or out of the money when it is designated as a hedging instrument does not in
itself mean that a qualitative assessment is inappropriate. It depends on the circumstances whether hedge
ineffectiveness arising from that fact could have a magnitude that a qualitative assessment would not adequately
capture.
Page 241/765
----- PAGE 242 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B6.4.16 Conversely, if the critical terms of the hedging instrument and the hedged item are not closely aligned, there is
an increased level of uncertainty about the extent of offset. Consequently, the hedge effectiveness during the term of the
hedging relationship is more difficult to predict. In such a situation it might only be possible for an entity to conclude on
the basis of a quantitative assessment that an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and the hedging
instrument (see paragraphs B6.4.4-B6.4.6). In some situations a quantitative assessment might also be needed to
assess whether the hedge ratio used for designating the hedging relationship meets the hedge effectiveness
requirements (see paragraphs B6.4.9-B6.4.11). An entity can use the same or different methods for those two different
purposes.
B6.4.17 If there are changes in circumstances that affect hedge effectiveness, an entity may have to change the method
for assessing whether a hedging relationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements in order to ensure that the
relevant characteristics of the hedging relationship, including the sources of hedge ineffectiveness, are still captured.
B6.4.18 An entity's risk management is the main source of information to perform the assessment of whether a hedging
relationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements. This means that the management information (or analysis)
used for decision-making purposes can be used as a basis for assessing whether a hedging relationship meets the
hedge effectiveness requirements.
B6.4.19 An entity's documentation of the hedging relationship includes how it will assess the hedge effectiveness
requirements, including the method or methods used. The documentation of the hedging relationship shall be updated
for any changes to the methods (see paragraph B6.4.17).
Accounting for qualifying hedging relationships (Section 6.5)
B6.5.1 An example of a fair value hedge is a hedge of exposure to changes in the fair value of a fixed-rate debt
instrument arising from changes in interest rates. Such a hedge could be entered into by the issuer or by the holder.
B6.5.2 The purpose of a cash flow hedge is to defer the gain or loss on the hedging instrument to a period or periods in
which the hedged expected future cash flows affect profit or loss. An example of a cash flow hedge is the use of a swap
to change floating rate debt (whether measured at amortised cost or fair value) to fixed-rate debt (i.e. a hedge of a future
transaction in which the future cash flows being hedged are the future interest payments). Conversely, a forecast
purchase of an equity instrument that, once acquired, will be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, is an
example of an item that cannot be the hedged item in a cash flow hedge, because any gain or loss on the hedging
instrument that would be deferred could not be appropriately reclassified to profit or loss during a period in which it
would achieve offset. For the same reason, a forecast purchase of an equity instrument that, once acquired, will be
accounted for at fair value with changes in fair value presented in other comprehensive income also cannot be the
hedged item in a cash flow hedge.
B6.5.3 A hedge of a firm commitment (for example, a hedge of the change in fuel price relating to an unrecognized
contractual commitment by an electric utility to purchase fuel at a fixed price) is a hedge of an exposure to a change in
fair value. Accordingly, such a hedge is a fair value hedge. However, in accordance with paragraph 6.5.4, a hedge of the
foreign currency risk of a firm commitment could alternatively be accounted for as a cash flow hedge.
Measurement of hedge ineffectiveness
B6.5.4 When measuring hedge ineffectiveness, an entity shall consider the time value of money. Consequently, the
entity determines the value of the hedged item on a present value basis and therefore the change in the value of the
hedged item also includes the effect of the time value of money.
B6.5.5 To calculate the change in the value of the hedged item for the purpose of measuring hedge ineffectiveness, an
entity may use a derivative that would have terms that match the critical terms of the hedged item (this is commonly
referred to as a 'hypothetical derivative'), and, for example for a hedge of a forecast transaction, would be calibrated
using the hedged price (or rate) level. For example, if the hedge was for a two-sided risk at the current market level, the
hypothetical derivative would represent a hypothetical forward contract that is calibrated to a value of nil at the time of
designation of the hedging relationship. If the hedge was for example for a one-sided risk, the hypothetical derivative
would represent the intrinsic value of a hypothetical option that at the time of designation of the hedging relationship is at
the money if the hedged price level is the current market level, or out of the money if the hedged price level is above (or,
for a hedge of a long position, below) the current market level. Using a hypothetical derivative is one possible way of
calculating the change in the value of the hedged item. The hypothetical derivative replicates the hedged item and
hence results in the same outcome as if that change in value was determined by a different approach. Hence, using a
'hypothetical derivative' is not a method in its own right but a mathematical expedient that can only be used to calculate
Page 242/765
----- PAGE 243 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the value of the hedged item. Consequently, a 'hypothetical derivative' cannot be used to include features in the value of
the hedged item that only exist in the hedging instrument (but not in the hedged item). An example is debt denominated
in a foreign currency (irrespective of whether it is fixed-rate or variable-rate debt). When using a hypothetical derivative
to calculate the change in the value of such debt or the present value of the cumulative change in its cash flows, the
hypothetical derivative cannot simply impute a charge for exchanging different currencies even though actual derivatives
under which different currencies are exchanged might include such a charge (for example, cross-currency interest rate
swaps).
B6.5.6 The change in the value of the hedged item determined using a hypothetical derivative may also be used for the
purpose of assessing whether a hedging relationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements.
Rebalancing the hedging relationship and changes to the hedge ratio
B6.5.7 Rebalancing refers to the adjustments made to the designated quantities of the hedged item or the hedging
instrument of an already existing hedging relationship for the purpose of maintaining a hedge ratio that complies with the
hedge effectiveness requirements. Changes to designated quantities of a hedged item or of a hedging instrument for a
different purpose do not constitute rebalancing for the purpose of this Standard.
B6.5.8 Rebalancing is accounted for as a continuation of the hedging relationship in accordance with paragraphs
B6.5.9-B6.5.21. On rebalancing, the hedge ineffectiveness of the hedging relationship is determined and recognized
immediately before adjusting the hedging relationship.
B6.5.9 Adjusting the hedge ratio allows an entity to respond to changes in the relationship between the hedging
instrument and the hedged item that arise from their underlyings or risk variables. For example, a hedging relationship in
which the hedging instrument and the hedged item have different but related underlyings changes in response to a
change in the relationship between those two underlyings (for example, different but related reference indices, rates or
prices). Hence, rebalancing allows the continuation of a hedging relationship in situations in which the relationship
between the hedging instrument and the hedged item changes in a way that can be compensated for by adjusting the
hedge ratio.
B6.5.10 For example, an entity hedges an exposure to Foreign Currency A using a currency derivative that references
Foreign Currency B and Foreign Currencies A and B are pegged (i.e. their exchange rate is maintained within a band or
at an exchange rate set by a central bank or other authority). If the exchange rate between Foreign Currency A and
Foreign Currency B were changed (i.e. a new band or rate was set), rebalancing the hedging relationship to reflect the
new exchange rate would ensure that the hedging relationship would continue to meet the hedge effectiveness
requirement for the hedge ratio in the new circumstances. In contrast, if there was a default on the currency derivative,
changing the hedge ratio could not ensure that the hedging relationship would continue to meet that hedge effectiveness
requirement. Hence, rebalancing does not facilitate the continuation of a hedging relationship in situations in which the
relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item changes in a way that cannot be compensated for by
adjusting the hedge ratio.
B6.5.11 Not every change in the extent of offset between the changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the
hedged item's fair value or cash flows constitutes a change in the relationship between the hedging instrument and the
hedged item. An entity analyses the sources of hedge ineffectiveness that it expected to affect the hedging relationship
during its term and evaluates whether changes in the extent of offset are:
(a)
fluctuations around the hedge ratio, which remains valid (i.e. continues to appropriately reflect the relationship between
the hedging instrument and the hedged item); or
(b)
an indication that the hedge ratio no longer appropriately reflects the relationship between the hedging instrument and
the hedged item.
An entity performs this evaluation against the hedge effectiveness requirement for the hedge ratio, i.e. to ensure that the
hedging relationship does not reflect an imbalance between the weightings of the hedged item and the hedging
instrument that would create hedge ineffectiveness (irrespective of whether recognized or not) that could result in an
accounting outcome that would be inconsistent with the purpose of hedge accounting. Hence, this evaluation requires
judgement.
B6.5.12 Fluctuation around a constant hedge ratio (and hence the related hedge ineffectiveness) cannot be reduced by
adjusting the hedge ratio in response to each particular outcome. Hence, in such circumstances, the change in the
Page 243/765
----- PAGE 244 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
extent of offset is a matter of measuring and recognising hedge ineffectiveness but does not require rebalancing.
B6.5.13 Conversely, if changes in the extent of offset indicate that the fluctuation is around a hedge ratio that is different
from the hedge ratio that is currently used for that hedging relationship, or that there is a trend leading away from that
hedge ratio, hedge ineffectiveness can be reduced by adjusting the hedge ratio, whereas retaining the hedge ratio would
increasingly produce hedge ineffectiveness. Hence, in such circumstances, an entity must evaluate whether the hedging
relationship reflects an imbalance between the weightings of the hedged item and the hedging instrument that would
create hedge ineffectiveness (irrespective of whether recognized or not) that could result in an accounting outcome that
would be inconsistent with the purpose of hedge accounting. If the hedge ratio is adjusted, it also affects the
measurement and recognition of hedge ineffectiveness because, on rebalancing, the hedge ineffectiveness of the
hedging relationship must be determined and recognized immediately before adjusting the hedging relationship in
accordance with paragraph B6.5.8.
B6.5.14 Rebalancing means that, for hedge accounting purposes, after the start of a hedging relationship an entity
adjusts the quantities of the hedging instrument or the hedged item in response to changes in circumstances that affect
the hedge ratio of that hedging relationship. Typically, that adjustment should reflect adjustments in the quantities of the
hedging instrument and the hedged item that it actually uses. However, an entity must adjust the hedge ratio that results
from the quantities of the hedged item or the hedging instrument that it actually uses if:
(a)
the hedge ratio that results from changes to the quantities of the hedging instrument or the hedged item that the entity
actually uses would reflect an imbalance that would create hedge ineffectiveness that could result in an accounting
outcome that would be inconsistent with the purpose of hedge accounting; or
(b)
an entity would retain quantities of the hedging instrument and the hedged item that it actually uses, resulting in a hedge
ratio that, in new circumstances, would reflect an imbalance that would create hedge ineffectiveness that could result in
an accounting outcome that would be inconsistent with the purpose of hedge accounting (i.e. an entity must not create
an imbalance by omitting to adjust the hedge ratio).
B6.5.15 Rebalancing does not apply if the risk management objective for a hedging relationship has changed. Instead,
hedge accounting for that hedging relationship shall be discontinued (despite that an entity might designate a new
hedging relationship that involves the hedging instrument or hedged item of the previous hedging relationship as
described in paragraph B6.5.28).
B6.5.16 If a hedging relationship is rebalanced, the adjustment to the hedge ratio can be effected in different ways:
(a)
the weighting of the hedged item can be increased (which at the same time reduces the weighting of the hedging
instrument) by:
(i)
increasing the volume of the hedged item; or
(ii)
decreasing the volume of the hedging instrument.
(b)
the weighting of the hedging instrument can be increased (which at the same time reduces the weighting of the hedged
item) by:
(i)
increasing the volume of the hedging instrument; or
(ii)
decreasing the volume of the hedged item.
Changes in volume refer to the quantities that are part of the hedging relationship. Hence, decreases in volumes do not
necessarily mean that the items or transactions no longer exist, or are no longer expected to occur, but that they are not
part of the hedging relationship. For example, decreasing the volume of the hedging instrument can result in the entity
retaining a derivative, but only part of it might remain a hedging instrument of the hedging relationship. This could occur
if the rebalancing could be effected only by reducing the volume of the hedging instrument in the hedging relationship,
but with the entity retaining the volume that is no longer needed. In that case, the undesignated part of the derivative
would be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss (unless it was designated as a hedging instrument in a
Page 244/765
----- PAGE 245 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
different hedging relationship).
B6.5.17 Adjusting the hedge ratio by increasing the volume of the hedged item does not affect how the changes in the
fair value of the hedging instrument are measured. The measurement of the changes in the value of the hedged item
related to the previously designated volume also remains unaffected. However, from the date of rebalancing, the
changes in the value of the hedged item also include the change in the value of the additional volume of the hedged
item. These changes are measured starting from, and by reference to, the date of rebalancing instead of the date on
which the hedging relationship was designated. For example, if an entity originally hedged a volume of 100 tonnes of a
commodity at a forward price of Rs.80 (the forward price at inception of the hedging relationship) and added a volume of
10 tonnes on rebalancing when the forward price was Rs.90, the hedged item after rebalancing would comprise two
layers: 100 tonnes hedged at Rs.80 and 10 tonnes hedged at Rs.90.
B6.5.18 Adjusting the hedge ratio by decreasing the volume of the hedging instrument does not affect how the changes
in the value of the hedged item are measured. The measurement of the changes in the fair value of the hedging
instrument related to the volume that continues to be designated also remains unaffected. However, from the date of
rebalancing, the volume by which the hedging instrument was decreased is no longer part of the hedging relationship.
For example, if an entity originally hedged the price risk of a commodity using a derivative volume of 100 tonnes as the
hedging instrument and reduces that volume by 10 tonnes on rebalancing, a nominal amount of 90 tonnes of the
hedging instrument volume would remain (see paragraph B6.5.16 for the consequences for the derivative volume (i.e.
the 10 tonnes) that is no longer a part of the hedging relationship).
B6.5.19 Adjusting the hedge ratio by increasing the volume of the hedging instrument does not affect how the changes
in the value of the hedged item are measured. The measurement of the changes in the fair value of the hedging
instrument related to the previously designated volume also remains unaffected. However, from the date of rebalancing,
the changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument also include the changes in the value of the additional volume of
the hedging instrument. The changes are measured starting from, and by reference to, the date of rebalancing instead
of the date on which the hedging relationship was designated. For example, if an entity originally hedged the price risk of
a commodity using a derivative volume of 100 tonnes as the hedging instrument and added a volume of 10 tonnes on
rebalancing, the hedging instrument after rebalancing would comprise a total derivative volume of 110 tonnes. The
change in the fair value of the hedging instrument is the total change in the fair value of the derivatives that make up the
total volume of 110. tonnes. These derivatives could (and probably would) have different critical terms, such as their
forward rates, because they were entered into at different points in time (including the possibility of designating
derivatives into hedging relationships after their initial recognition).
B6.5.20 Adjusting the hedge ratio by decreasing the volume of the hedged item does not affect how the changes in the
fair value of the hedging instrument are measured. The measurement of the changes in the value of the hedged item
related to the volume that continues to be designated also remains unaffected. However, from the date of rebalancing,
the volume by which the hedged item was decreased is no longer part of the hedging relationship. For example, if an
entity originally hedged a volume of 100 tonnes of a commodity at a forward price of Rs.80 and reduces that volume by
10 tonnes on rebalancing, the hedged item after rebalancing would be 90 tonnes hedged at Rs.80. The 10 tonnes of the
hedged item that are no longer part of the hedging relationship would be accounted for in accordance with the
requirements for the discontinuation of hedge accounting (see paragraphs 6.5.6-6.5.7 and B6.5.22-B6.5.28).
B6.5.21 When rebalancing a hedging relationship, an entity shall update its analysis of the sources of hedge
ineffectiveness that are expected to affect the hedging relationship during its (remaining) term (see paragraph B6.4.2).
The documentation of the hedging relationship shall be updated accordingly.
Discontinuation of hedge accounting
B6.5.22 Discontinuation of hedge accounting applies prospectively from the date on which the qualifying criteria are no
longer met.
B6.5.23 An entity shall not de-designate and thereby discontinue a hedging relationship that:
(a)
still meets the risk management objective on the basis of which it qualified for hedge accounting (i.e. the entity still
pursues that risk management objective); and
(b)
continues to meet all other qualifying criteria (after taking into account any rebalancing of the hedging relationship, if
applicable).
Page 245/765
----- PAGE 246 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B6.5.24 For the purposes of this Standard, an entity's risk management strategy is distinguished from its risk
management objectives. The risk management strategy is established at the highest level at which an entity determines
how it manages its risk. Risk management strategies typically identify the risks to which the entity is exposed and set out
how the entity responds to them. A risk management strategy is typically in place for a longer period and may include
some flexibility to react to changes in circumstances that occur while that strategy is in place (for example, different
interest rate or commodity price levels that result in a different extent of hedging). This is normally set out in a general
document that is cascaded down through an entity through policies containing more specific guidelines. In contrast, the
risk management objective for a hedging relationship applies at the level of a particular hedging relationship. It relates to
how the particular hedging instrument that has been designated is used to hedge the particular exposure that has been
designated as the hedged item. Hence, a risk management strategy can involve many different hedging relationships
whose risk management objectives relate to executing that overall risk management strategy. For example:
(a)
an entity has a strategy of managing its interest rate exposure on debt funding that sets ranges for the overall entity for
the mix between variable-rate and fixed-rate funding. The strategy is to maintain between 20 per cent and 40 per cent of
the debt at fixed rates. The entity decides from time to time how to execute this strategy (i.e. where it positions itself
within the 20 per cent to 40 per cent range for fixed-rate interest exposure) depending on the level of interest rates. If
interest rates are low the entity fixes the interest for more debt than when interest rates are high. The entity's debt is
Rs.100 of variable-rate debt of which Rs.30 is swapped into a fixed-rate exposure. The entity takes advantage of low
interest rates to issue an additional Rs.50 of debt to finance a major investment, which the entity does by issuing a
fixed-rate bond. In the light of the low interest rates, the entity decides to set its fixed interest-rate exposure to 40 per
cent of the total debt by reducing by Rs.20 the extent to which it previously hedged its variable-rate exposure, resulting
in Rs.60 of fixed-rate exposure. In this situation the risk management strategy itself remains unchanged. However, in
contrast the entity's execution of that strategy has changed and this means that, for Rs.20 of variable-rate exposure that
was previously hedged, the risk management objective has changed (i.e. at the hedging relationship level).
Consequently, in this situation hedge accounting must be discontinued for Rs.20 of the previously hedged variable-rate
exposure. This could involve reducing the swap position by a Rs.20 nominal amount but, depending on the
circumstances, an entity might retain that swap volume and, for example, use it for hedging a different exposure or it
might become part of a trading book. Conversely, if an entity instead swapped a part of its new fixed-rate debt into a
variable-rate exposure, hedge accounting would have to be continued for its previously hedged variable-rate exposure.
(b)
some exposures result from positions that frequently change, for example, the interest rate risk of an open portfolio of
debt instruments. The addition of new debt instruments and the derecognition of debt instruments continuously change
that exposure (i.e. it is different from simply running off a position that matures). This is a dynamic process in which both
the exposure and the hedging instruments used to manage it do not remain the same for long. Consequently, an entity
with such an exposure frequently adjusts the hedging instruments used to manage the interest rate risk as the exposure
changes. For example, debt instruments with 24 months' remaining maturity are designated as the hedged item for
interest rate risk for 24 months. The same procedure is applied to other time buckets or maturity periods. After a short
period of time, the entity discontinues all, some or a part of the previously designated hedging relationships for maturity
periods and designates new hedging relationships for maturity periods on the basis of their size and the hedging
instruments that exist at that time. The discontinuation of hedge accounting in this situation reflects that those hedging
relationships are established in such a way that the entity looks at a new hedging instrument and a new hedged item
instead of the hedging instrument and the hedged item that were designated previously. The risk management strategy
remains the same, but there is no risk management objective that continues for those previously designated hedging
relationships, which as such no longer exist. In such a situation, the discontinuation of hedge accounting applies to the
extent to which the risk management objective has changed. This depends on the situation of an entity and could, for
example, affect all or only some hedging relationships of a maturity period, or only part of a hedging relationship.
(c)
an entity has a risk management strategy whereby it manages the foreign currency risk of forecast sales and the
resulting receivables. Within that strategy the entity manages the foreign currency risk as a particular hedging
relationship only up to the point of the recognition of the receivable. Thereafter, the entity no longer manages the foreign
currency risk on the basis of that particular hedging relationship. Instead, it manages together the foreign currency risk
Page 246/765
----- PAGE 247 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
from receivables, payables and derivatives (that do not relate to forecast transactions that are still pending) denominated
in the same foreign currency. For accounting purposes, this works as a 'natural' hedge because the gains and losses
from the foreign currency risk on all of those items are immediately recognized in profit or loss. Consequently, for
accounting purposes, if the hedging relationship is designated for the period up to the payment date, it must be
discontinued when the receivable is recognized, because the risk management objective of the original hedging
relationship no longer applies. The foreign currency risk is now managed within the same strategy but on a different
basis. Conversely, if an entity had a different risk management objective and managed the foreign currency risk as one
continuous hedging relationship specifically for that forecast sales amount and the resulting receivable until the
settlement date, hedge accounting would continue until that date.
B6.5.25 The discontinuation of hedge accounting can affect:
(a)
a hedging relationship in its entirety; or
(b)
a part of a hedging relationship (which means that hedge accounting continues for the remainder of the hedging
relationship).
B6.5.26 A hedging relationship is discontinued in its entirety when, as a whole, it ceases to meet the qualifying criteria.
For example:
(a)
the hedging relationship no longer meets the risk management objective on the basis of which it qualified for hedge
accounting (i.e. the entity no longer pursues that risk management objective);
(b)
the hedging instrument or instruments have been sold or terminated (in relation to the entire volume that was part of the
hedging relationship); or
(c)
there is no longer an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument or the effect of credit
risk starts to dominate the value changes that result from that economic relationship.
B6.5.27 A part of a hedging relationship is discontinued (and hedge accounting continues for its remainder) when only a
part of the hedging relationship ceases to meet the qualifying criteria. For example:
(a)
on rebalancing of the hedging relationship, the hedge ratio might be adjusted in such a way that some of the volume of
the hedged item is no longer part of the hedging relationship (see paragraph B6.5.20); hence, hedge accounting is
discontinued only for the volume of the hedged item that is no longer part of the hedging relationship; or
(b)
when the occurrence of some of the volume of the hedged item that is (or is a component of) a forecast transaction is no
longer highly probable, hedge accounting is discontinued only for the volume of the hedged item whose occurrence is no
longer highly probable. However, if an entity has a history of having designated hedges of forecast transactions and
having subsequently determined that the forecast transactions are no longer expected to occur, the entity's ability to
predict forecast transactions accurately is called into question when predicting similar forecast transactions. This affects
the assessment of whether similar forecast transactions are highly probable (see paragraph 6.3.3) and hence whether
they are eligible as hedged items.
B6.5.28 An entity can designate a new hedging relationship that involves the hedging instrument or hedged item of a
previous hedging relationship for which hedge accounting was (in part or in its entirety) discontinued. This does not
constitute a continuation of a hedging relationship but is a restart. For example:
(a)
a hedging instrument experiences such a severe credit deterioration that the entity replaces it with a new hedging
instrument. This means that the original hedging relationship failed to achieve the risk management objective and is
hence discontinued in its entirety. The new hedging instrument is designated as the hedge of the same exposure that
was hedged previously and forms a new hedging relationship. Hence, the changes in the fair value or the cash flows of
the hedged item are measured starting from, and by reference to, the date of designation of the new hedging
relationship instead of the date on which the original hedging relationship was designated.
(b)
Page 247/765
----- PAGE 248 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
a hedging relationship is discontinued before the end of its term. The hedging instrument in that hedging relationship can
be designated as the hedging instrument in another hedging relationship (for example, when adjusting the hedge ratio
on rebalancing by increasing the volume of the hedging instrument or when designating a whole new hedging
relationship).
Accounting for the time value of options
B6.5.29 An option can be considered as being related to a time period because its time value represents a charge for
providing protection for the option holder over a period of time. However, the relevant aspect for the purpose of
assessing whether an option hedges a transaction or time-period related hedged item are the characteristics of that
hedged item, including how and when it affects profit or loss. Hence, an entity shall assess the type of hedged item (see
paragraph 6.5.15(a)) on the basis of the nature of the hedged item (regardless of whether the hedging relationship is a
cash flow hedge or a fair value hedge):
(a)
the time value of an option relates to a transaction related hedged item if the nature of the hedged item is a transaction
for which the time value has the character of costs of that transaction. An example is when the time value of an option
relates to a hedged item that results in the recognition of an item whose initial measurement includes transaction costs
(for example, an entity hedges a commodity purchase, whether it is a forecast transaction or a firm commitment, against
the commodity price risk and includes the transaction costs in the initial measurement of the inventory). As a
consequence of including the time value of the option in the initial measurement of the particular hedged item, the time
value affects profit or loss at the same time as that hedged item. Similarly, an entity that hedges a sale of a commodity,
whether it is a forecast transaction or a firm commitment, would include the time value of the option as part of the cost
related to that sale (hence, the time value would be recognized in profit or loss in the same period as the revenue from
the hedged sale).
(b)
the time value of an option relates to a time-period related hedged item if the nature of the hedged item is such that the
time value has the character of a cost for obtaining protection against a risk over a particular period of time (but the
hedged item does not result in a transaction that involves the notion of a transaction cost in accordance with (a)). For
example, if commodity inventory is hedged against a fair value decrease for six months using a commodity option with a
corresponding life, the time value of the option would be allocated to profit or loss (i.e. amortised on a systematic and
rational basis) over that six-month period. Another example is a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation that is
hedged for 18 months using a foreign-exchange option, which would result in allocating the time value of the option over
that 18-month period.
B6.5.30 The characteristics of the hedged item, including how and when the hedged item affects profit or loss, also
affect the period over which the time value of an option that hedges a time-period related hedged item is amortised,
which is consistent with the period over which the option's intrinsic value can affect profit or loss in accordance with
hedge accounting. For example, if an interest rate option (a cap) is used to provide protection against increases in the
interest expense on a floating rate bond, the time value of that cap is amortised to profit or loss over the same period
over which any intrinsic value of the cap would affect profit or loss:
(a)
if the cap hedges increases in interest rates for the first three years out of a total life of the floating rate bond of five
years, the time value of that cap is amortised over the first three years; or
(b)
if the cap is a forward start option that hedges increases in interest rates for years two and three out of a total life of the
floating rate bond of five years, the time value of that cap is amortised during years two and three.
B6.5.31 The accounting for the time value of options in accordance with paragraph 6.5.15 also applies to a combination
of a purchased and a written option (one being a put option and one being a call option) that at the date of designation
as a hedging instrument has a net nil time value (commonly referred to as a 'zero-cost collar'). In that case, an entity
shall recognise any changes in time value in other comprehensive income, even though the cumulative change in time
value over the total period of the hedging relationship is nil. Hence, if the time value of the option relates to:
(a)
a transaction related hedged item, the amount of time value at the end of the hedging relationship that adjusts the
hedged item or that is reclassified to profit or loss (see paragraph 6.5.15(b)) would be nil.
Page 248/765
----- PAGE 249 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
a time-period related hedged item, the amortisation expense related to the time value is nil.
B6.5.32 The accounting for the time value of options in accordance with paragraph 6.5.15 applies only to the extent that
the time value relates to the hedged item (aligned time value). The time value of an option relates to the hedged item if
the critical terms of the option (such as the nominal amount, life and underlying) are aligned with the hedged item.
Hence, if the critical terms of the option and the hedged item are not fully aligned, an entity shall determine the aligned
time value, i.e. how much of the time value included in the premium (actual time value) relates to the hedged item (and
therefore should be treated in accordance with paragraph 6.5.15). An entity determines the aligned time value using the
valuation of the option that would have critical terms that perfectly match the hedged item.
B6.5.33 If the actual time value and the aligned time value differ, an entity shall determine the amount that is
accumulated in a separate component of equity in accordance with paragraph 6.5.15 as follows:
(a)
if, at inception of the hedging relationship, the actual time value is higher than the aligned time value, the entity shall:
(i)
determine the amount that is accumulated in a separate component of equity on the basis of the aligned time value; and
(ii)
account for the differences in the fair value changes between the two time values in profit or loss.
(b)
if, at inception of the hedging relationship, the actual time value is lower than the aligned time value, the entity shall
determine the amount that is accumulated in a separate component of equity by reference to the lower of the cumulative
change in fair value of:
(i)
the actual time value; and
(ii)
the aligned time value.
Any remainder of the change in fair value of the actual time value shall be recognized in profit or loss.
Accounting for the forward element of forward contracts and foreign currency basis spreads of financial instruments
B6.5.34 A forward contract can be considered as being related to a time period because its forward element represents
charges for a period of time (which is the tenor for which it is determined). However, the relevant aspect for the purpose
of assessing whether a hedging instrument hedges a transaction or time-period related hedged item are the
characteristics of that hedged item, including how and when it affects profit or loss. Hence, an entity shall assess the
type of hedged item (see paragraphs 6.5.16 and 6.5.15(a)) on the basis of the nature of the hedged item (regardless of
whether the hedging relationship is a cash flow hedge or a fair value hedge):
(a)
the forward element of a forward contract relates to a transaction related hedged item if the nature of the hedged item is
a transaction for which the forward element has the character of costs of that transaction. An example is when the
forward element relates to a hedged item that results in the recognition of an item whose initial measurement includes
transaction costs (for example, an entity hedges an inventory purchase denominated in a foreign currency, whether it is
a forecast transaction or a firm commitment, against foreign currency risk and includes the transaction costs in the initial
measurement of the inventory). As a consequence of including the forward element in the initial measurement of the
particular hedged item, the forward element affects profit or loss at the same time as that hedged item. Similarly, an
entity that hedges a sale of a commodity denominated in a foreign currency against foreign currency risk, whether it is a
forecast transaction or a firm commitment, would include the forward element as part of the cost that is related to that
sale (hence, the forward element would be recognized in profit or loss in the same period as the revenue from the
hedged sale).
(b)
the forward element of a forward contract relates to a time-period related hedged item if the nature of the hedged item is
such that the forward element has the character of a cost for obtaining protection against a risk over a particular period
of time (but the hedged item does not result in a transaction that involves the notion of a transaction cost in accordance
with (a)). For example, if commodity inventory is hedged against changes in fair value for six months using a commodity
forward contract with a corresponding life, the forward element of the forward contract would be allocated to profit or loss
Page 249/765
----- PAGE 250 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(i.e. amortised on a systematic and rational basis) over that six-month period. Another example is a hedge of a net
investment in a foreign operation that is hedged for 18 months using a foreign-exchange forward contract, which would
result in allocating the forward element of the forward contract over that 18-month period.
B6.5.35 The characteristics of the hedged item, including how and when the hedged item affects profit or loss, also
affect the period over which the forward element of a forward contract that hedges a time-period related hedged item is
amortised, which is over the period to which the forward element relates. For example, if a forward contract hedges the
exposure to variability in three-month interest rates for a three-month period that starts in six months' time, the forward
element is amortised during the period that spans months seven to nine.
B6.5.36 The accounting for the forward element of a forward contract in accordance with paragraph 6.5.16 also applies
if, at the date on which the forward contract is designated as a hedging instrument, the forward element is nil. In that
case, an entity shall recognise any fair value changes attributable to the forward element in other comprehensive
income, even though the cumulative fair value change attributable to the forward element over the total period of the
hedging relationship is nil. Hence, if the forward element of a forward contract relates to:
(a)
a transaction related hedged item, the amount in respect of the forward element at the end of the hedging relationship
that adjusts the hedged item or that is reclassified to profit or loss (see paragraphs 6.5.15(b) and 6.5.16) would be nil.
(b)
a time-period related hedged item, the amortisation amount related to the forward element is nil.
B6.5.37 The accounting for the forward element of forward contracts in accordance with paragraph 6.5.16 applies only
to the extent that the forward element relates to the hedged item (aligned forward element). The forward element of a
forward contract relates to the hedged item if the critical terms of the forward contract (such as the nominal amount, life
and underlying) are aligned with the hedged item. Hence, if the critical terms of the forward contract and the hedged
item are not fully aligned, an entity shall determine the aligned forward element, i.e. how much of the forward element
included in the forward contract (actual forward element) relates to the hedged item (and therefore should be treated in
accordance with paragraph 6.5.16). An entity determines the aligned forward element using the valuation of the forward
contract that would have critical terms that perfectly match the hedged item.
B6.5.38 If the actual forward element and the aligned forward element differ, an entity shall determine the amount that is
accumulated in a separate component of equity in accordance with paragraph 6.5.16 as follows:
(a)
if, at inception of the hedging relationship, the absolute amount of the actual forward element is higher than that of the
aligned forward element the entity shall:
(i)
determine the amount that is accumulated in a separate component of equity on the basis of the aligned forward
element; and
(ii)
account for the differences in the fair value changes between the two forward elements in profit or loss.
(b)
if, at inception of the hedging relationship, the absolute amount of the actual forward element is lower than that of the
aligned forward element, the entity shall determine the amount that is accumulated in a separate component of equity by
reference to the lower of the cumulative change in fair value of:
(i)
the absolute amount of the actual forward element; and
(ii)
the absolute amount of the aligned forward element.
Any remainder of the change in fair value of the actual forward element shall be recognized in profit or loss.
B6.5.39 When an entity separates the foreign currency basis spread from a financial instrument and excludes it from the
designation of that financial instrument as the hedging instrument (see paragraph 6.2.4(b)), the application guidance in
paragraphs B6.5.34-B6.5.38 applies to the foreign currency basis spread in the same manner as it is applied to the
forward element of a forward contract.
Hedge of a group of items (Section 6.6)
Hedge of a net position
Page 250/765
----- PAGE 251 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Eligibility for hedge accounting and designation of a net position
B6.6.1 A net position is eligible for hedge accounting only if an entity hedges on a net basis for risk management
purposes. Whether an entity hedges in this way is a matter of fact (not merely of assertion or documentation). Hence, an
entity cannot apply hedge accounting on a net basis solely to achieve a particular accounting outcome if that would not
reflect its risk management approach. Net position hedging must form part of an established risk management strategy.
Normally this would be approved by key management personnel as defined in Ind AS 24.
B6.6.2 For example, Entity A, whose functional currency is its local currency, has a firm commitment to pay FC150,000
for advertising expenses in nine months' time and a firm commitment to sell finished goods for FC150,000 in 15 months'
time. Entity A enters into a foreign currency derivative that settles in nine months' time under which it receives FC100
and pays Rs.70. Entity A has no other exposures to FC. Entity A does not manage foreign currency risk on a net basis.
Hence, Entity A cannot apply hedge accounting for a hedging relationship between the foreign currency derivative and a
net position of FC100 (consisting of FC150,000 of the firm purchase commitment-i.e. advertising services-and
FC149,900 (of the FC150,000) of the firm sale commitment) for a nine-month period.
B6.6.3 If Entity A did manage foreign currency risk on a net basis and did not enter into the foreign currency derivative
(because it increases its foreign currency risk exposure instead of reducing it), then the entity would be in a natural
hedged position for nine months. Normally, this hedged position would not be reflected in the financial statements
because the transactions are recognized in different reporting periods in the future. The nil net position would be eligible
for hedge accounting only if the conditions in paragraph 6.6.6 are met.
B6.6.4 When a group of items that constitute a net position is designated as a hedged item, an entity shall designate the
overall group of items that includes the items that can make up the net position. An entity is not permitted to designate a
non-specific abstract amount of a net position. For example, an entity has a group of firm sale commitments in nine
months' time for FC100 and a group of firm purchase commitments in 18 months' time for FC120. The entity cannot
designate an abstract amount of a net position up to FC20. Instead, it must designate a gross amount of purchases and
a gross amount of sales that together give rise to the hedged net position. An entity shall designate gross positions that
give rise to the net position so that the entity is able to comply with the requirements for the accounting for qualifying
hedging relationships.
Application of the hedge effectiveness requirements to a hedge of a net position
B6.6.5 When an entity determines whether the hedge effectiveness requirements of paragraph 6.4.1(c) are met when it
hedges a net position, it shall consider the changes in the value of the items in the net position that have a similar effect
as the hedging instrument in conjunction with the fair value change on the hedging instrument. For example, an entity
has a group of firm sale commitments in nine months' time for FC100 and a group of firm purchase commitments in 18
months' time for FC120. It hedges the foreign currency risk of the net position of FC20 using a forward exchange
contract for FC20. When determining whether the hedge effectiveness requirements of paragraph 6.4.1(c) are met, the
entity shall consider the relationship between:
(a)
the fair value change on the forward exchange contract together with the foreign currency risk related changes in the
value of the firm sale commitments; and
(b)
the foreign currency risk related changes in the value of the firm purchase commitments.
B6.6.6 Similarly, if in the example in paragraph B6.6.5 the entity had a nil net position it would consider the relationship
between the foreign currency risk related changes in the value of the firm sale commitments and the foreign currency
risk related changes in the value of the firm purchase commitments when determining whether the hedge effectiveness
requirements of paragraph 6.4.1(c) are met.
Cash flow hedges that constitute a net position
B6.6.7 When an entity hedges a group of items with offsetting risk positions (i.e. a net position), the eligibility for hedge
accounting depends on the type of hedge. If the hedge is a fair value hedge, then the net position may be eligible as a
hedged item. If, however, the hedge is a cash flow hedge, then the net position can only be eligible as a hedged item if it
is a hedge of foreign currency risk and the designation of that net position specifies the reporting period in which the
forecast transactions are expected to affect profit or loss and also specifies their nature and volume.
B6.6.8 For example, an entity has a net position that consists of a bottom layer of FC100 of sales and a bottom layer of
FC150 of purchases. Both sales and purchases are denominated in the same foreign currency. In order to sufficiently
Page 251/765
----- PAGE 252 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
specify the designation of the hedged net position, the entity specifies in the original documentation of the hedging
relationship that sales can be of Product A or Product B and purchases can be of Machinery Type A, Machinery Type B
and Raw Material A. The entity also specifies the volumes of the transactions by each nature. The entity documents that
the bottom layer of sales (FC100) is made up of a forecast sales volume of the first FC70 of Product A and the first
FC30 of Product B. If those sales volumes are expected to affect profit or loss in different reporting periods, the entity
would include that in the documentation, for example, the first FC70 from sales of Product A that are expected to affect
profit or loss in the first reporting period and the first FC30 from sales of Product B that are expected to affect profit or
loss in the second reporting period. The entity also documents that the bottom layer of the purchases (FC150) is made
up of purchases of the first FC60 of Machinery Type A, the first FC40 of Machinery Type B and the first FC50 of Raw
Material A. If those purchase volumes are expected to affect profit or loss in different reporting periods, the entity would
include in the documentation a disaggregation of the purchase volumes by the reporting periods in which they are
expected to affect profit or loss (similarly to how it documents the sales volumes). For example, the forecast transaction
would be specified as:
(a)
the first FC60 of purchases of Machinery Type A that are expected to affect profit or loss from the third reporting period
over the next ten reporting periods;
(b)
the first FC40 of purchases of Machinery Type B that are expected to affect profit or loss from the fourth reporting period
over the next 20 reporting periods; and
(c)
the first FC50 of purchases of Raw Material A that are expected to be received in the third reporting period and sold, i.e.
affect profit or loss, in that and the next reporting period.
Specifying the nature of the forecast transaction volumes would include aspects such as the depreciation pattern for
items of property, plant and equipment of the same kind, if the nature of those items is such that the depreciation pattern
could vary depending on how the entity uses those items. For example, if the entity uses items of Machinery Type A in
two different production processes that result in straight-line depreciation over ten reporting periods and the units of
production method respectively, its documentation of the forecast purchase volume for Machinery Type A would
dis-aggregate that volume by which of those depreciation patterns will apply.
B6.6.9 For a cash flow hedge of a net position, the amounts determined in accordance with paragraph 6.5.11 shall
include the changes in the value of the items in the net position that have a similar effect as the hedging instrument in
conjunction with the fair value change on the hedging instrument. However, the changes in the value of the items in the
net position that have a similar effect as the hedging instrument are recognized only once the transactions that they
relate to are recognized, such as when a forecast sale is recognized as revenue. For example, an entity has a group of
highly probable forecast sales in nine months' time for FC100 and a group of highly probable forecast purchases in 18
months' time for FC120. It hedges the foreign currency risk of the net position of FC20 using a forward exchange
contract for FC20. When determining the amounts that are recognized in the cash flow hedge reserve in accordance
with paragraph 6.5.11(a)-6.5.11(b), the entity compares:
(a)
the fair value change on the forward exchange contract together with the foreign currency risk related changes in the
value of the highly probable forecast sales; with
(b)
the foreign currency risk related changes in the value of the highly probable forecast purchases.
However, the entity recognises only amounts related to the forward exchange contract until the highly probable forecast
sales transactions are recognized in the financial statements, at which time the gains or losses on those forecast
transactions are recognized (i.e. the change in the value attributable to the change in the foreign exchange rate between
the designation of the hedging relationship and the recognition of revenue).
B6.6.10 Similarly, if in the example the entity had a nil net position it would compare the foreign currency risk related
changes in the value of the highly probable forecast sales with the foreign currency risk related changes in the value of
the highly probable forecast purchases. However, those amounts are recognized only once the related forecast
transactions are recognized in the financial statements.
Layers of groups of items designated as the hedged item
Page 252/765
----- PAGE 253 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B6.6.11 For the same reasons noted in paragraph B6.3.19, designating layer components of groups of existing items
requires the specific identification of the nominal amount of the group of items from which the hedged layer component
is defined.
B6.6.12 A hedging relationship can include layers from several different groups of items. For example, in a hedge of a
net position of a group of assets and a group of liabilities, the hedging relationship can comprise, in combination, a layer
component of the group of assets and a layer component of the group of liabilities.
Presentation of hedging instrument gains or losses
B6.6.13 If items are hedged together as a group in a cash flow hedge, they might affect different line items in the
statement of profit and loss. The presentation of hedging gains or losses in that statement depends on the group of
items.
B6.6.14 If the group of items does not have any offsetting risk positions (for example, a group of foreign currency
expenses that affect different line items in the statement of profit and loss that are hedged for foreign currency risk) then
the reclassified hedging instrument gains or losses shall be apportioned to the line items affected by the hedged items.
This apportionment shall be done on a systematic and rational basis and shall not result in the grossing up of the net
gains or losses arising from a single hedging instrument.
B6.6.15 If the group of items does have offsetting risk positions (for example, a group of sales and expenses
denominated in a foreign currency hedged together for foreign currency risk) then an entity shall present the hedging
gains or losses in a separate line item in the statement of profit and loss.Consider, for example, a hedge of the foreign
currency risk of a net position of foreign currency sales of FC100 and foreign currency expenses of FC80 using a
forward exchange contract for FC20. The gain or loss on the forward exchange contract that is reclassified from the
cash flow hedge reserve to profit or loss (when the net position affects profit or loss) shall be presented in a separate
line item from the hedged sales and expenses. Moreover, if the sales occur in an earlier period than the expenses, the
sales revenue is still measured at the spot exchange rate in accordance with Ind AS 21. The related hedging gain or
loss is presented in a separate line item, so that profit or loss reflects the effect of hedging the net position, with a
corresponding adjustment to the cash flow hedge reserve. When the hedged expenses affect profit or loss in a later
period, the hedging gain or loss previously recognized in the cash flow hedge reserve on the sales is reclassified to
profit or loss and presented as a separate line item from those that include the hedged expenses, which are measured
at the spot exchange rate in accordance with Ind AS 21.
B6.6.16 For some types of fair value hedges, the objective of the hedge is not primarily to offset the fair value change of
the hedged item but instead to transform the cash flows of the hedged item. For example, an entity hedges the fair value
interest rate risk of a fixed-rate debt instrument using an interest rate swap. The entity's hedge objective is to transform
the fixed-interest cash flows into floating interest cash flows. This objective is reflected in the accounting for the hedging
relationship by accruing the net interest accrual on the interest rate swap in profit or loss. In the case of a hedge of a net
position (for example, a net position of a fixed-rate asset and a fixed-rate liability), this net interest accrual must be
presented in a separate line item in the statement of profit and loss. This is to avoid the grossing up of a single
instrument's net gains or losses into offsetting gross amounts and recognising them in different line items (for example,
this avoids grossing up a net interest receipt on a single interest rate swap into gross interest revenue and gross interest
expense).
Effective date and transition (Chapter 7)
Transition (Section 7.2)
Financial assets held for trading
B7.2.1 At the date of initial application of this Standard, an entity must determine whether the objective of the entity's
business model for managing any of its financial assets meets the condition in paragraph 4.1.2(a) or the condition in
paragraph 4.1.2A(a) or if a financial asset is eligible for the election in paragraph 5.7.5. For that purpose, an entity shall
determine whether financial assets meet the definition of held for trading as if the entity had purchased the assets at the
date of initial application.
Impairment
B7.2.2 On transition, an entity should seek to approximate the credit risk on initial recognition by considering all
reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort. An entity is not required to
undertake an exhaustive search for information when determining, at the date of transition, whether there have been
significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition. If an entity is unable to make this determination without undue
Page 253/765
----- PAGE 254 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
cost or effort paragraph 7.2.20 applies.
B7.2.3 In order to determine the loss allowance on financial instruments initially recognized (or loan commitments or
financial guarantee contracts to which the entity became a party to the contract) prior to the date of initial application,
both on transition and until the derecognition of those items an entity shall consider information that is relevant in
determining or approximating the credit risk at initial recognition. In order to determine or approximate the initial credit
risk, an entity may consider internal and external information, including portfolio information, in accordance with
paragraphs B5.5.1-B5.5.6.
B7.2.4 An entity with little historical information may use information from internal reports and statistics (that may have
been generated when deciding whether to launch a new product), information about similar products or peer group
experience for comparable financial instruments, if relevant.
Definitions (Appendix A)
Derivatives
BA.1 Typical examples of derivatives are futures and forward, swap and option contracts. A derivative usually has a
notional amount, which is an amount of currency, a number of shares, a number of units of weight or volume or other
units specified in the contract. However, a derivative instrument does not require the holder or writer to invest or receive
the notional amount at the inception of the contract. Alternatively, a derivative could require a fixed payment or payment
of an amount that can change (but not proportionally with a change in the underlying) as a result of some future event
that is unrelated to a notional amount. For example, a contract may require a fixed payment of Rs. 1,000 if six-month
LIBOR increases by 100 basis points. Such a contract is a derivative even though a notional amount is not specified.
BA.2 The definition of a derivative in this Standard includes contracts that are settled gross by delivery of the underlying
item (e.g. a forward contract to purchase a fixed rate debt instrument). An entity may have a contract to buy or sell a
non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or another financial instrument or by exchanging financial instruments
(e.g. a contract to buy or sell a commodity at a fixed price at a future date). Such a contract is within the scope of this
Standard unless it was entered into and continues to be held for the purpose of delivery of a non-financial item in
accordance with the entity's expected purchase, sale or usage requirements. However, this Standard applies to such
contracts for an entity's expected purchase, sale or usage requirements if the entity makes a designation in accordance
with paragraph 2.5 (see paragraphs 2.4-2.7).
BA.3 One of the defining characteristics of a derivative is that it has an initial net investment that is smaller than would
be required for other types of contracts that would be expected to have a similar response to changes in market factors.
An option contract meets that definition because the premium is less than the investment that would be required to
obtain the underlying financial instrument to which the option is linked. A currency swap that requires an initial exchange
of different currencies of equal fair values meets the definition because it has a zero initial net investment.
BA.4 A regular way purchase or sale gives rise to a fixed price commitment between trade date and settlement date that
meets the definition of a derivative. However, because of the short duration of the commitment it is not recognized as a
derivative financial instrument. Instead, this Standard provides for special accounting for such regular way contracts
(see paragraphs 3.1.2 and B3.1.3-B3.1.6).
BA.5 The definition of a derivative refers to non-financial variables that are not specific to a party to the contract. These
include an index of earthquake losses in a particular region and an index of temperatures in a particular city.
Non-financial variables specific to a party to the contract include the occurrence or non-occurrence of a fire that
damages or destroys an asset of a party to the contract. A change in the fair value of a non-financial asset is specific to
the owner if the fair value reflects not only changes in market prices for such assets (a financial variable) but also the
condition of the specific non-financial asset held (a non-financial variable). For example, if a guarantee of the residual
value of a specific car exposes the guarantor to the risk of changes in the car's physical condition, the change in that
residual value is specific to the owner of the car.
Financial assets and liabilities held for trading
BA.6 Trading generally reflects active and frequent buying and selling, and financial instruments held for trading
generally are used with the objective of generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in price or dealer's margin.
BA.7 Financial liabilities held for trading include:
(a)
derivative liabilities that are not accounted for as hedging instruments;
(b)
Page 254/765
----- PAGE 255 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
obligations to deliver financial assets borrowed by a short seller (i.e. an entity that sells financial assets it has borrowed
and does not yet own);
(c)
financial liabilities that are incurred with an intention to repurchase them in the near term (e.g. a quoted debt instrument
that the issuer may buy back in the near term depending on changes in its fair value); and
(d)
financial liabilities that are part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which
there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit-taking.
BA.8 The fact that a liability is used to fund trading activities does not in itself make that liability one that is held for
trading.
Appendix C
Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation
(This appendix is an integral part of Ind AS 109)
Background
1. Many reporting entities have investments in foreign operations (as defined in Ind AS 21 paragraph 8). Such foreign
operations may be subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures or branches. Ind AS 21 requires an entity to determine the
functional currency of each of its foreign operations as the currency of the primary economic environment of that
operation. When translating the results and financial position of a foreign operation into a presentation currency, the
entity is required to recognise foreign exchange differences in other comprehensive income until it disposes of the
foreign operation.
2. Hedge accounting of the foreign currency risk arising from a net investment in a foreign operation will apply only when
the net assets of that foreign operation are included in the [financial statements]
[This will be the case for consolidated financial statements, financial statements in which investments such as
associates & joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method, and financial statements that include a branch or
a joint operation as defined in Ind AS 111, Joint Arrangements.]
. The item being hedged with respect to the foreign currency risk arising from the net investment in a foreign operation
may be an amount of net assets equal to or less than the carrying amount of the net assets of the foreign operation.
3. Ind AS 109 requires the designation of an eligible hedged item and eligible hedging instruments in a hedge
accounting relationship. If there is a designated hedging relationship, in the case of a net investment hedge, the gain or
loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge of the net investment is recognized in other
comprehensive income and is included with the foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the results and
financial position of the foreign operation.
4. An entity with many foreign operations may be exposed to a number of foreign currency risks. This Appendix provides
guidance on identifying the foreign currency risks that qualify as a hedged risk in the hedge of a net investment in a
foreign operation.
5. Ind AS 109 allows an entity to designate either a derivative or a non-derivative financial instrument (or a combination
of derivative and non-derivative financial instruments) as hedging instruments for foreign currency risk. This Appendix
provides guidance on where, within a group, hedging instruments that are hedges of a net investment in a foreign
operation can be held to qualify for hedge accounting.
6. Ind AS 21 and Ind AS 109 require cumulative amounts recognized in other comprehensive income relating to both the
foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the results and financial position of the foreign operation and the
gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge of the net investment to be
reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment when the parent disposes of the foreign
operation. This Appendix provides guidance on how an entity should determine the amounts to be reclassified from
equity to profit or loss for both the hedging instrument and the hedged item.
Scope
7. This Appendix applies to an entity that hedges the foreign currency risk arising from its net investments in foreign
operations and wishes to qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with Ind AS 109. For convenience this Appendix
refers to such an entity as a parent entity and to the financial statements in which the net assets of foreign operations
are included as consolidated financial statements. All references to a parent entity apply equally to an entity that has a
net investment in a foreign operation that is a joint venture, an associate or a branch.
Page 255/765
----- PAGE 256 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
8. This Appendix applies only to hedges of net investments in foreign operations; it should not be applied by analogy to
other types of hedge accounting.
Issues
9. Investments in foreign operations may be held directly by a parent entity or indirectly by its subsidiary or subsidiaries.
The issues addressed in this Appendix are:
(a)
the nature of the hedged risk and the amount of the hedged item for which a hedging relationship may be designated:
(i)
whether the parent entity may designate as a hedged risk only the foreign exchange differences arising from a
difference between the functional currencies of the parent entity and its foreign operation, or whether it may also
designate as the hedged risk the foreign exchange differences arising from the difference between the presentation
currency of the parent entity's consolidated financial statements and the functional currency of the foreign operation;
(ii)
if the parent entity holds the foreign operation indirectly, whether the hedged risk may include only the foreign exchange
differences arising from differences in functional currencies between the foreign operation and its immediate parent
entity, or whether the hedged risk may also include any foreign exchange differences between the functional currency of
the foreign operation and any intermediate or ultimate parent entity (i.e. whether the fact that the net investment in the
foreign operation is held through an intermediate parent affects the economic risk to the ultimate parent).
(b)
where in a group the hedging instrument can be held:
(i)
whether a qualifying hedge accounting relationship can be established only if the entity hedging its net investment is a
party to the hedging instrument or whether any entity in the group, regardless of its functional currency, can hold the
hedging instrument;
(ii)
whether the nature of the hedging instrument (derivative or non-derivative) or the method of consolidation affects the
assessment of hedge effectiveness.
(c)
what amounts should be reclassified from equity to profit or loss as reclassification adjustments on disposal of the
foreign operation:
(i)
when a foreign operation that was hedged is disposed of, what amounts from the parent entity's foreign currency
translation reserve in respect of the hedging instrument and in respect of that foreign operation should be reclassified
from equity to profit or loss in the parent entity's consolidated financial statements;
(ii)
whether the method of consolidation affects the determination of the amounts to be reclassified from equity to profit or
loss.
Accounting Principle
Nature of the hedged risk and amount of the hedged item for which a hedging relationship may be designated
10. Hedge accounting may be applied only to the foreign exchange differences arising between the functional currency
of the foreign operation and the parent entity's functional currency.
11. In a hedge of the foreign currency risks arising from a net investment in a foreign operation, the hedged item can be
an amount of net assets equal to or less than the carrying amount of the net assets of the foreign operation in the
consolidated financial statements of the parent entity. The carrying amount of the net assets of a foreign operation that
may be designated as the hedged item in the consolidated financial statements of a parent depends on whether any
lower level parent of the foreign operation has applied hedge accounting for all or part of the net assets of that foreign
operation and that accounting has been maintained in the parent's consolidated financial statements.
12. The hedged risk may be designated as the foreign currency exposure arising between the functional currency of the
foreign operation and the functional currency of any parent entity (the immediate, intermediate or ultimate parent entity)
of that foreign operation. The fact that the net investment is held through an intermediate parent does not affect the
nature of the economic risk arising from the foreign currency exposure to the ultimate parent entity.
Page 256/765
----- PAGE 257 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
13. An exposure to foreign currency risk arising from a net investment in a foreign operation may qualify for hedge
accounting only once in the consolidated financial statements. Therefore, if the same net assets of a foreign operation
are hedged by more than one parent entity within the group (for example, both a direct and an indirect parent entity) for
the same risk, only one hedging relationship will qualify for hedge accounting in the consolidated financial statements of
the ultimate parent. A hedging relationship designated by one parent entity in its consolidated financial statements need
not be maintained by another higher level parent entity. However, if it is not maintained by the higher level parent entity,
the hedge accounting applied by the lower level parent must be reversed before the higher level parent's hedge
accounting is recognized.
Where the hedging instrument can be held
14. A derivative or a non-derivative instrument (or a combination of derivative and non-derivative instruments) may be
designated as a hedging instrument in a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. The hedging instrument(s)
may be held by any entity or entities within the group, as long as the designation, documentation and effectiveness
requirements of Ind AS 109 paragraph 6.4.1 that relate to a net investment hedge are satisfied. In particular, the hedging
strategy of the group should be clearly documented because of the possibility of different designations at different levels
of the group.
15. For the purpose of assessing effectiveness, the change in value of the hedging instrument in respect of foreign
exchange risk is computed by reference to the functional currency of the parent entity against whose functional currency
the hedged risk is measured, in accordance with the hedge accounting documentation. Depending on where the
hedging instrument is held, in the absence of hedge accounting the total change in value might be recognized in profit or
loss, in other comprehensive income, or both. However, the assessment of effectiveness is not affected by whether the
change in value of the hedging instrument is recognized in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income. As part of
the application of hedge accounting, the total effective portion of the change is included in other comprehensive income.
The assessment of effectiveness is not affected by whether the hedging instrument is a derivative or a non-derivative
instrument or by the method of consolidation.
Disposal of a hedged foreign operation
16. When a foreign operation that was hedged is disposed of, the amount reclassified to profit or loss as a
reclassification adjustment from the foreign currency translation reserve in the consolidated financial statements of the
parent in respect of the hedging instrument is the amount that Ind AS 109 paragraph 6.5.14 requires to be identified.
That amount is the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument that was determined to be an effective hedge.
17. The amount reclassified to profit or loss from the foreign currency translation reserve in the consolidated financial
statements of a parent in respect of the net investment in that foreign operation in accordance with Ind AS 21 paragraph
48 is the amount included in that parent's foreign currency translation reserve in respect of that foreign operation. In the
ultimate parent's consolidated financial statements, the aggregate net amount recognized in the foreign currency
translation reserve in respect of all foreign operations is not affected by the consolidation method. However, whether the
ultimate parent uses the direct or the step-by-step [method of consolidation]
[The direct method is the method of consolidation in which the financial statements of the foreign operation are
translated directly into the functional currency of the ultimate parent. The step-by-step method is the method of
consolidation in which the financial statements of the foreign operation are first translated into the functional currency of
any intermediate parent(s) and then translated into the functional currency of the ultimate parent (or the presentation
currency if different).]
may affect the amount included in its foreign currency translation reserve in respect of an individual foreign operation.
The use of the step-by-step method of consolidation may result in the reclassification to profit or loss of an amount
different from that used to determine hedge effectiveness. This difference may be eliminated by determining the amount
relating to that foreign operation that would have arisen if the direct method of consolidation had been used. Making this
adjustment is not required by Ind AS 21. However, it is an accounting policy choice that should be followed consistently
for all net investments.
Application guidance to Appendix C
This application guidance is an integral part of the Appendix C.
AG1. This application guidance illustrates the application of the Appendix C using the corporate structure illustrated
below. In all cases the hedging relationships described would be tested for effectiveness in accordance with Ind AS 109,
although this testing is not discussed in this appendix. Parent, being the ultimate parent entity, presents its consolidated
Page 257/765
----- PAGE 258 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
financial statements in its functional currency of euro (EUR). Each of the subsidiaries is wholly owned. Parent's £500
million net investment in Subsidiary B (functional currency pounds sterling (GBP)) includes the £159 million equivalent of
Subsidiary B's US$300 million net investment in Subsidiary C (functional currency US dollars (USD)). In other words,
Subsidiary B's net assets other than its investment in Subsidiary C are £341 million.
Nature of hedged risk for which a hedging relationship may be designated (paragraphs 10-13)
AG2. Parent can hedge its net investment in each of Subsidiaries A, B and C for the foreign exchange risk between their
respective functional currencies (Japanese yen (JPY), pounds sterling and US dollars) and euro. In addition, Parent can
hedge the USD/GBP foreign exchange risk between the functional currencies of Subsidiary B and Subsidiary C. In its
consolidated financial statements, Subsidiary B can hedge its net investment in Subsidiary C for the foreign exchange
risk between their functional currencies of US dollars and pounds sterling. In the following examples the designated risk
is the spot foreign exchange risk because the hedging instruments are not derivatives. If the hedging instruments were
forward contracts, Parent could designate the forward foreign exchange risk.
Amount of hedged item for which a hedging relationship may be designated (paragraphs 10-13)
AG3. Parent wishes to hedge the foreign exchange risk from its net investment in Subsidiary C. Assume that Subsidiary
A has an external borrowing of US$300 million. The net assets of Subsidiary A at the start of the reporting period are
¥400,000 million including the proceeds of the external borrowing of US$300 million.
AG4. The hedged item can be an amount of net assets equal to or less than the carrying amount of Parent's net
investment in Subsidiary C (US$300 million) in its consolidated financial statements. In its consolidated financial
statements Parent can designate the US$300 million external borrowing in Subsidiary A as a hedge of the EUR/USD
spot foreign exchange risk associated with its net investment in the US$300 million net assets of Subsidiary C. In this
case, both the EUR/USD foreign exchange difference on the US$300 million external borrowing in Subsidiary A and the
EUR/USD foreign exchange difference on the US$300 million net investment in Subsidiary C are included in the foreign
currency translation reserve in Parent's consolidated financial statements after the application of hedge accounting.
AG5. In the absence of hedge accounting, the total USD/EUR foreign exchange difference on the US$300 million
external borrowing in Subsidiary A would be recognized in Parent's consolidated financial statements as follows:
? USD/JPY spot foreign exchange rate change, translated to euro, in profit or loss, and
? JPY/EUR spot foreign exchange rate change in other comprehensive income.
Instead of the designation in paragraph AG4, in its consolidated financial statements Parent can designate the US$300
million external borrowing in Subsidiary A as a hedge of the GBP/USD spot foreign exchange risk between Subsidiary C
and Subsidiary B. In this case, the total USD/EUR foreign exchange difference on the US$300 million external borrowing
in Subsidiary A would instead be recognized in Parent's consolidated financial statements as follows:
? the GBP/USD spot foreign exchange rate change in the foreign currency translation reserve relating to Subsidiary C,
? GBP/JPY spot foreign exchange rate change, translated to euro, in profit or loss, and
? JPY/EUR spot foreign exchange rate change in other comprehensive income.
AG6. Parent cannot designate the US$300 million external borrowing in Subsidiary A as a hedge of both the EUR/USD
spot foreign exchange risk and the GBP/USD spot foreign exchange risk in its consolidated financial statements. A
single hedging instrument can hedge the same designated risk only once. Subsidiary B cannot apply hedge accounting
in its consolidated financial statements because the hedging instrument is held outside the group comprising Subsidiary
B and Subsidiary C.
Where in a group can the hedging instrument be held (paragraphs 14 and 15)?
AG7. As noted in paragraph AG5, the total change in value in respect of foreign exchange risk of the US$300 million
external borrowing in Subsidiary A would be recorded in both profit or loss (USD/JPY spot risk) and other
comprehensive income (EUR/JPY spot risk) in Parent's consolidated financial statements in the absence of hedge
accounting. Both amounts are included for the purpose of assessing the effectiveness of the hedge designated in
paragraph AG4 because the change in value of both the hedging instrument and the hedged item are computed by
reference to the euro functional currency of Parent against the US dollar functional currency of Subsidiary C, in
accordance with the hedge documentation. The method of consolidation (i.e. direct method or step-by-step method)
does not affect the assessment of the effectiveness of the hedge.
Amounts reclassified to profit or loss on disposal of a foreign operation (paragraphs 16 and 17)
AG8. When Subsidiary C is disposed of, the amounts reclassified to profit or loss in Parent's consolidated financial
statements from its foreign currency translation reserve (FCTR) are:
Page 258/765
----- PAGE 259 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
in respect of the US$300 million external borrowing of Subsidiary A, the amount that Ind AS 109 requires to be
identified, i.e. the total change in value in respect of foreign exchange risk that was recognized in other comprehensive
income as the effective portion of the hedge; and
(b)
in respect of the US$300 million net investment in Subsidiary C, the amount determined by the entity's consolidation
method. If Parent uses the direct method, its FCTR in respect of Subsidiary C will be determined directly by the
EUR/USD foreign exchange rate. If Parent uses the step-by-step method, its FCTR in respect of Subsidiary C will be
determined by the FCTR recognized by Subsidiary B reflecting the GBP/USD foreign exchange rate, translated to
Parent's functional currency using the EUR/GBP foreign exchange rate. Parent's use of the step-by-step method of
consolidation in prior periods does not require it to or preclude it from determining the amount of FCTR to be reclassified
when it disposes of Subsidiary C to be the amount that it would have recognized if it had always used the direct method,
depending on its accounting policy.
Hedging more than one foreign operation (paragraphs 11, 13 and 15)
AG9. The following examples illustrate that in the consolidated financial statements of Parent, the risk that can be
hedged is always the risk between its functional currency (euro) and the functional currencies of Subsidiaries B and C.
No matter how the hedges are designated, the maximum amounts that can be effective hedges to be included in the
foreign currency translation reserve in Parent's consolidated financial statements when both foreign operations are
hedged are US$300 million for EUR/USD risk and £341 million for EUR/GBP risk. Other changes in value due to
changes in foreign exchange rates are included in Parent's consolidated profit or loss. Of course, it would be possible for
Parent to designate US$300 million only for changes in the USD/GBP spot foreign exchange rate or £500 million only for
changes in the GBP/EUR spot foreign exchange rate.
Parent holds both USD and GBP hedging instruments
AG10. Parent may wish to hedge the foreign exchange risk in relation to its net investment in Subsidiary B as well as
that in relation to Subsidiary C. Assume that Parent holds suitable hedging instruments denominated in US dollars and
pounds sterling that it could designate as hedges of its net investments in Subsidiary B and Subsidiary C. The
designations Parent can make in its consolidated financial statements include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a)
US$300 million hedging instrument designated as a hedge of the US$300 million of net investment in Subsidiary C with
the risk being the spot foreign exchange exposure (EUR/USD) between Parent and Subsidiary C and up to £341 million
hedging instrument designated as a hedge of £341 million of the net investment in Subsidiary B with the risk being the
spot foreign exchange exposure (EUR/GBP) between Parent and Subsidiary B.
(b)
US$300 million hedging instrument designated as a hedge of the US$300 million of net investment in Subsidiary C with
the risk being the spot foreign exchange exposure (GBP/USD) between Subsidiary B and Subsidiary C and up to £500
million hedging instrument designated as a hedge of £500 million of the net investment in Subsidiary B with the risk
being the spot foreign exchange exposure (EUR/GBP) between Parent and Subsidiary B.
AG11. The EUR/USD risk from Parent's net investment in Subsidiary C is a different risk from the EUR/GBP risk from
Parent's net investment in Subsidiary B. However, in the case described in paragraph AG10(a), by its designation of the
USD hedging instrument it holds, Parent has already fully hedged the EUR/USD risk from its net investment in
Subsidiary C. If Parent also designated a GBP instrument it holds as a hedge of its £500 million net investment in
Subsidiary B, £159 million of that net investment, representing the GBP equivalent of its USD net investment in
Subsidiary C, would be hedged twice for GBP/EUR risk in Parent's consolidated financial statements.
AG12. In the case described in paragraph AG10(b), if Parent designates the hedged risk as the spot foreign exchange
exposure (GBP/USD) between Subsidiary B and Subsidiary C, only the GBP/USD part of the change in the value of its
US$300 million hedging instrument is included in Parent's foreign currency translation reserve relating to Subsidiary C.
The remainder of the change (equivalent to the GBP/EUR change on £159 million) is included in Parent's consolidated
profit or loss, as in paragraph AG5. Because the designation of the USD/GBP risk between Subsidiaries B and C does
not include the GBP/EUR risk, Parent is also able to designate up to £500 million of its net investment in Subsidiary B
with the risk being the spot foreign exchange exposure (GBP/EUR) between Parent and Subsidiary B.
Subsidiary B holds the USD hedging instrument
Page 259/765
----- PAGE 260 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
AG13. Assume that Subsidiary B holds US$300 million of external debt the proceeds of which were transferred to
Parent by an inter-company loan denominated in pounds sterling. Because both its assets and liabilities increased by
£159 million, Subsidiary B's net assets are unchanged. Subsidiary B could designate the external debt as a hedge of the
GBP/USD risk of its net investment in Subsidiary C in its consolidated financial statements. Parent could maintain
Subsidiary B's designation of that hedging instrument as a hedge of its US$300 million net investment in Subsidiary C
for the GBP/USD risk (see paragraph 13) and Parent could designate the GBP hedging instrument it holds as a hedge
of its entire £500 million net investment in Subsidiary B. The first hedge, designated by Subsidiary B, would be assessed
by reference to Subsidiary B's functional currency (pounds sterling) and the second hedge, designated by Parent, would
be assessed by reference to Parent's functional currency (euro). In this case, only the GBP/USD risk from Parent's net
investment in Subsidiary C has been hedged in Parent's consolidated financial statements by the USD hedging
instrument, not the entire EUR/USD risk. Therefore, the entire EUR/GBP risk from Parent's £500 million net investment
in Subsidiary B may be hedged in the consolidated financial statements of Parent.
AG14. However, the accounting for Parent's £159 million loan payable to Subsidiary B must also be considered. If
Parent's loan payable is not considered part of its net investment in Subsidiary B because it does not satisfy the
conditions in Ind AS 21 paragraph 15, the GBP/EUR foreign exchange difference arising on translating it would be
included in Parent's consolidated profit or loss. If the £159 million loan payable to Subsidiary B is considered part of
Parent's net investment, that net investment would be only £341 million and the amount Parent could designate as the
hedged item for GBP/EUR risk would be reduced from £500 million to £341 million accordingly.
AG15. If Parent reversed the hedging relationship designated by Subsidiary B, Parent could designate the US$300
million external borrowing held by Subsidiary B as a hedge of its US$300 million net investment in Subsidiary C for the
EUR/USD risk and designate the GBP hedging instrument it holds itself as a hedge of only up to £341 million of the net
investment in Subsidiary B. In this case the effectiveness of both hedges would be computed by reference to Parent's
functional currency (euro). Consequently, both the USD/GBP change in value of the external borrowing held by
Subsidiary B and the GBP/EUR change in value of Parent's loan payable to Subsidiary B (equivalent to USD/EUR in
total) would be included in the foreign currency translation reserve in Parent's consolidated financial statements.
Because Parent has already fully hedged the EUR/USD risk from its net investment in Subsidiary C, it can hedge only
up to £341 million for the EUR/GBP risk of its net investment in Subsidiary B.
Appendix D
Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments
(This appendix is an integral part of Ind AS 109)
Background
1. A debtor and creditor might renegotiate the terms of a financial liability with the result that the debtor extinguishes the
liability fully or partially by issuing equity instruments to the creditor. These transactions are sometimes referred to as
'debt for equity swaps'.
Scope
2. This Appendix addresses the accounting by an entity when the terms of a financial liability are renegotiated and result
in the entity issuing equity instruments to a creditor of the entity to extinguish all or part of the financial liability. It does
not address the accounting by the creditor.
3. An entity shall not apply this Appendix to transactions in situations where:
(a)
the creditor is also a direct or indirect shareholder and is acting in its capacity as a direct or indirect existing shareholder.
(b)
the creditor and the entity are controlled by the same party or parties before and after the transaction and the substance
of the transaction includes an equity distribution by, or contribution to, the entity.
(c)
extinguishing the financial liability by issuing equity shares is in accordance with the original terms of the financial
liability.
Issues
4. This Appendix addresses the following issues:
(a)
Are an entity's equity instruments issued to extinguish all or part of a financial liability 'consideration paid' in accordance
Page 260/765
----- PAGE 261 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
with paragraph 3.3.3 of Ind AS 109?
(b)
How should an entity initially measure the equity instruments issued to extinguish such a financial liability?
(c)
How should an entity account for any difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished and
the initial measurement amount of the equity instruments issued?
Accounting principles
5. The issue of an entity's equity instruments to a creditor to extinguish all or part of a financial liability is consideration
paid in accordance with paragraph 3.3.3 of Ind AS 109. An entity shall remove a financial liability (or part of a financial
liability) from its balance sheet when, and only when, it is extinguished in accordance with paragraph 3.3.1 of Ind AS
109.
6. When equity instruments issued to a creditor to extinguish all or part of a financial liability are recognized initially, an
entity shall measure them at the fair value of the equity instruments issued, unless that fair value cannot be reliably
measured.
7. If the fair value of the equity instruments issued cannot be reliably measured then the equity instruments shall be
measured to reflect the fair value of the financial liability extinguished. In measuring the fair value of a financial liability
extinguished that includes a demand feature (e.g. a demand deposit), paragraph 47 of Ind AS 113 is not applied.
8. If only part of the financial liability is extinguished, the entity shall assess whether some of the consideration paid
relates to a modification of the terms of the liability that remains outstanding. If part of the consideration paid does relate
to a modification of the terms of the remaining part of the liability, the entity shall allocate the consideration paid between
the part of the liability extinguished and the part of the liability that remains outstanding. The entity shall consider all
relevant facts and circumstances relating to the transaction in making this allocation.
9. The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability (or part of a financial liability) extinguished, and
the consideration paid, shall be recognized in profit or loss, in accordance with paragraph 3.3.3 of Ind AS 109. The
equity instruments issued shall be recognized initially and measured at the date the financial liability (or part of that
liability) is extinguished.
10. When only part of the financial liability is extinguished, consideration shall be allocated in accordance with paragraph
8. The consideration allocated to the remaining liability shall form part of the assessment of whether the terms of that
remaining liability have been substantially modified. If the remaining liability has been substantially modified, the entity
shall account for the modification as the extinguishment of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability as
required by paragraph 3.3.2 of Ind AS 109.
11. An entity shall disclose a gain or loss recognized in accordance with paragraphs 9 and 10 as a separate line item in
profit or loss or in the notes.
Appendix E
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
This appendix lists the appendices which are part of other Indian Accounting Standards and make reference to Ind AS
109, Financial Instruments.
1. Appendix A, Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation
contained in Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
2. [ Appendix D, Service Concession Arrangements contained in Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
3.
[***]
[Omitted 'Appendix B, 3. Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of Lease contained in Ind
AS 17, Leases.' by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix 1
Note : This Appendix is not a part of this Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 109 and the corresponding International Financial
reporting Standard (IFRS) 9, Financial Instruments, IFRIC16, Hedges of Net Investment in a Foreign Operation and
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments.
Page 261/765
----- PAGE 262 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Comparison with IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, IFRIC 16 and IFRIC 19
1. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position', and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of Profit and Loss and comprehensive income'.
2. Option to apply requirements of IAS 39 for fair value hedge of the interest rate exposure of a portfolio of financial
assets or financial liabilities as provided in IFRS 9 has been removed in Ind AS 109. Accordingly, paragraph 6.1.3 has
been deleted and following paragraphs have been modified:
(i)
Paragraph 5.2.3
(ii)
Paragraph 5.3.2
(iii)
Paragraphs 5.7.1
(iv)
Paragraph 5.7.2-5.7.3
3. [ Paragraphs 7.1.1 to 7.1.3 of IFRS 9 related to effective date have not been included in Ind AS 109 as these
paragraphs are not relevant in Indian context. Paragraph 7.1.6 has not been included as it refers to amendments due to
issuance of IFRS 17, Insurance Contracts, for which corresponding Ind AS is under formulation. However, in order to
maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IFRS 9, these paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 109.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
4. [ Following paragraphs related to transition have not been included as these paragraphs are not relevant in Indian
context. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IFRS 9, the paragraph numbers are
retained in Ind AS 109.
(i)
Paragraph 7.2.2
(ii)
Paragraphs 7.2.6-7.2.7
(iii)
Paragraphs 7.2.12-7.2.13
(iv)
Paragraphs 7.2.14A-7.2.28.]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 110
Consolidated Financial Statements
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) is to establish principles for the presentation and
preparation of consolidated financial statements when an entity controls one or more other entities.
Meeting the objective
2. To meet the objective in paragraph 1, this Ind AS:
(a)
requires an entity (the parent) that controls one or more other entities (subsidiaries) to present consolidated financial
statements;
(b)
defines the principle of control, and establishes control as the basis for consolidation;
(c)
sets out how to apply the principle of control to identify whether an investor controls an investee and therefore must
consolidate the investee;
(d)
sets out the accounting requirements for the preparation of consolidated financial statements; and
(e)
defines an investment entity and sets out an exception to consolidating particular subsidiaries of an investment entity.
Page 262/765
----- PAGE 263 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
3. This Ind AS does not deal with the accounting requirements for business combinations and their effect on
consolidation, including goodwill arising on a business combination (see Ind AS 103, Business Combinations).
Scope
4. An entity that is a parent shall present consolidated financial statements. This Ind AS applies to all entities, except as
follows:
(a)
A parent need not present consolidated financial statements if it meets all the following conditions:
(i)
it is a wholly-owned subsidiary or is a partially-owned subsidiary of another entity and all its other owners, including
those not otherwise entitled to vote, have been informed about, and do not object to, the parent not presenting
consolidated financial statements;
(ii)
its debt or equity instruments are not traded in a public market (a domestic or foreign stock exchange or an
over-the-counter market, including local and regional markets);
(iii)
it did not file, nor is it in the process of filing, its financial statements with a securities commission or other regulatory
organisation for the purpose of issuing any class of instruments in a public market; and
(iv)
[ its ultimate or any intermediate parent produces financial statements that are available for public use and comply with
Ind ASs, in which subsidiaries are consolidated or are measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with
this Ind AS.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[Refer Appendix 1] [[Omitted '(b) post-employment benefit plans or other long-term employee benefit plans to which Ind
AS19, Employee Benefits, applies.
(c)
an investment entity need not present consolidated financial statements if it is required, in accordance with paragraph 31
of this Ind AS, to measure all of its subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss.' by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E),
dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]]
4A. [ This Ind AS does not apply to post-employment benefit plans or other long-term employee benefit plans to which
Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits, applies.
4B. A parent that is an investment entity shall not present consolidated financial statements if it is required, in
accordance with paragraph 31 of this Ind AS, to measure all of its subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Control
5. An investor, regardless of the nature of its involvement with an entity (the investee), shall determine whether it is a
parent by assessing whether it controls the investee.
6. An investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the
investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
7. Thus, an investor controls an investee if and only if the investor has all the following:
(a)
power over the investee (see paragraphs 10-14);
(b)
exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee (see paragraphs 15 and 16); and
(c)
the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the investor's returns (see paragraphs 17 and 18).
8. An investor shall consider all facts and circumstances when assessing whether it controls an investee. The investor
shall reassess whether it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more
of the three elements of control listed in paragraph 7 (see paragraphs B80-B85).
9. Two or more investors collectively control an investee when they must act together to direct the relevant activities. In
such cases, because no investor can direct the activities without the co-operation of the others, no investor individually
controls the investee. Each investor would account for its interest in the investee in accordance with the relevant Ind
Page 263/765
----- PAGE 264 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
ASs, such as Ind AS 111, Joint Arrangements, Ind AS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, or Ind AS 109,
Financial Instruments.
Power
10. An investor has power over an investee when the investor has existing rights that give it the current ability to direct
the relevant activities, i.e. the activities that significantly affect the investee's returns.
11. Power arises from rights. Sometimes assessing power is straightforward, such as when power over an investee is
obtained directly and solely from the voting rights granted by equity instruments such as shares, and can be assessed
by considering the voting rights from those shareholdings. In other cases, the assessment will be more complex and
require more than one factor to be considered, for example when power results from one or more contractual
arrangements.
12. An investor with the current ability to direct the relevant activities has power even if its rights to direct have yet to be
exercised. Evidence that the investor has been directing relevant activities can help determine whether the investor has
power, but such evidence is not, in itself, conclusive in determining whether the investor has power over an investee.
13. If two or more investors each have existing rights that give them the unilateral ability to direct different relevant
activities, the investor that has the current ability to direct the activities that most significantly affect the returns of the
investee has power over the investee.
14. An investor can have power over an investee even if other entities have existing rights that give them the current
ability to participate in the direction of the relevant activities, for example when another entity has significant influence.
However, an investor that holds only protective rights does not have power over an investee (see paragraphs B26-B28),
and consequently does not control the investee.
Returns
15. An investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee when the investor's
returns from its involvement have the potential to vary as a result of the investee's performance. The investor's returns
can be only positive, only negative or both positive and negative.
16. Although only one investor can control an investee, more than one party can share in the returns of an investee. For
example, holders of non-controlling interests can share in the profits or distributions of an investee.
Link between power and returns
17. An investor controls an investee if the investor not only has power over the investee and exposure or rights to
variable returns from its involvement with the investee, but also has the ability to use its power to affect the investor's
returns from its involvement with the investee.
18. Thus, an investor with decision-making rights shall determine whether it is a principal or an agent. An investor that is
an agent in accordance with paragraphs B58-B72 does not control an investee when it exercises decision-making rights
delegated to it.
Accounting requirements
19. A parent shall prepare consolidated financial statements using uniform accounting policies for like transactions and
other events in similar circumstances.
20. Consolidation of an investee shall begin from the date the investor obtains control of the investee and cease when
the investor loses control of the investee.
21. Paragraphs B86-B93 set out guidance for the preparation of consolidated financial statements.
Non-controlling interests
22. A parent shall present non-controlling interests in the consolidated balance sheet within equity, separately from the
equity of the owners of the parent.
23. Changes in a parent's ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in the parent losing control of the
subsidiary are equity transactions (i.e. transactions with owners in their capacity as owners).
24. Paragraphs B94-B96 set out guidance for the accounting for non-controlling interests in consolidated financial
statements.
Loss of control
25. If a parent loses control of a subsidiary, the parent:
(a)
derecognises the assets and liabilities of the former subsidiary from the consolidated balance sheet.
(b)
Page 264/765
----- PAGE 265 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
recognises any investment retained in the former subsidiary at its fair value when control is lost and subsequently
accounts for it and for any amounts owed by or to the former subsidiary in accordance with relevant Ind ASs. That fair
value shall be regarded as the fair value on initial recognition of a financial asset in accordance with Ind AS 109 or,
when appropriate, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or joint venture.
(c)
recognises the gain or loss associated with the loss of control attributable to the former controlling interest.
26. Paragraphs B97-B99 set out guidance for the accounting for the loss of control.
Determining whether an entity is an investment entity
27. A parent shall determine whether it is an investment entity. An investment entity is an entity that:
(a)
obtains funds from one or more investors for the purpose of providing those investor(s) with investment management
services;
(b)
commits to its investor(s) that its business purpose is to invest funds solely for returns from capital appreciation,
investment income, or both; and
(c)
measures and evaluates the performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
Paragraphs B85A-B85M provide related application guidance.
28. In assessing whether it meets the definition described in paragraph 27, an entity shall consider whether it has the
following typical characteristics of an investment entity:
(a)
it has more than one investment (see paragraphs B85O-B85P);
(b)
it has more than one investor (see paragraphs B85Q-B85S);
(c)
it has investors that are not related parties of the entity (see paragraphs B85T-B85U); and
(d)
it has ownership interests in the form of equity or similar interests (see paragraphs B85V-B85W).
The absence of any of these typical characteristics does not necessarily disqualify an entity from being classified as an
investment entity. An investment entity that does not have all of these typical characteristics provides additional
disclosure required by paragraph 9A of Ind AS 112, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
29. If facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements that make up the
definition of an investment entity, as described in paragraph 27, or the typical characteristics of an investment entity, as
described in paragraph 28, a parent shall reassess whether it is an investment entity.
30. A parent that either ceases to be an investment entity or becomes an investment entity shall account for the change
in its status prospectively from the date at which the change in status occurred (see paragraphs B100-B101).
Investment entities: exception to consolidation
31. Except as described in paragraph 32, an investment entity shall not consolidate its subsidiaries or apply Ind AS 103
when it obtains control of another entity. Instead, an investment entity shall measure an investment in a subsidiary at fair
value through profit or loss in accordance with Ind AS 109.
32. [ Notwithstanding the requirement in paragraph 31, if an investment entity has a subsidiary that is not itself an
investment entity and whose main purpose and activities are providing services that relate to the investment entity's
investment activities (see paragraphs B85C-B85E), it shall consolidate that subsidiary in accordance with paragraphs
19-26 of this Ind AS and apply the requirements of Ind AS 103 to the acquisition of any such subsidiary.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
33. A parent of an investment entity shall consolidate all entities that it controls, including those controlled through an
investment entity subsidiary, unless the parent itself is an investment entity.
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an integral
part of the Ind AS.
Page 265/765
----- PAGE 266 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Consolidated financial statements
The financial statements of agroupin
which the assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash
flows of theparentand itssubsidiariesare
presented as those of a single economic entity.
control of an investee
An investor controls an investee when the
investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its
involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those
returns through its power over the investee.
decision maker
An entity with decision-making rights that is
either a principal or an agent for other parties.
group
Aparentand itssubsidiaries.
investment entity
An entity that:
(a) obtains funds from one or more investors for
the purpose of providing those investor(s) with investment
management services;
(b) commits to its investor(s) that its business
purpose is to invest funds solely for returns from capital
appreciation, investment income, or both; and
(c) measures and evaluates the performance of
substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
non-controlling interest
Equity in asubsidiarynot attributable,
directly or indirectly, to aparent.
parent
An entity thatcontrolsone or more
entities.
power
Existing rights that give the current ability to
direct therelevant activities.
protective rights
Rights designed to protect the interest of the
party holding those rights without giving that party power over
the entity to which those rights relate.
relevant activities
For the purpose of this Ind AS, relevant
activities are activities of the investee that significantly
affect the investee's returns.
removal rights
Rights to deprive the decision maker of its
decision-making authority.
subsidiary
An entity that is controlled by another entity.
The following terms are defined in Ind AS 111, Ind AS 112, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, Ind AS 28 or Ind AS
24, Related Party Disclosure, and are used in this Ind AS with the meanings specified in those Ind ASs:
? associate
? interest in another entity
Page 266/765
----- PAGE 267 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
? joint venture
? key management personnel
? related party
? significant influence.
Appendix B
Application guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS. It describes the application of paragraphs 1-33 and has the same
authority as the other parts of the Ind AS.
B1. The examples in this appendix portray hypothetical situations. Although some aspects of the examples may be
present in actual fact patterns, all facts and circumstances of a particular fact pattern would need to be evaluated when
applying Ind AS 110.
Assessing control
B2. To determine whether it controls an investee an investor shall assess whether it has all the following:
(a)
power over the investee;
(b)
exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and
(c)
the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the investor's returns.
B3. Consideration of the following factors may assist in making that determination:
(a)
the purpose and design of the investee (see paragraphs B5-B8);
(b)
what the relevant activities are and how decisions about those activities are made (see paragraphs B11-B13);
(c)
whether the rights of the investor give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities (see paragraphs B14-B54);
(d)
whether the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee (see paragraphs
B55-B57); and
(e)
whether the investor has the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the investor's return (see
paragraphs B58-B72).
B4. When assessing control of an investee, an investor shall consider the nature of its relationship with other parties
(see paragraphs B73-B75).
Purpose and design of an investee
B5. When assessing control of an investee, an investor shall consider the purpose and design of the investee in order to
identify the relevant activities, how decisions about the relevant activities are made, who has the current ability to direct
those activities and who receives returns from those activities.
B6. When an investee's purpose and design are considered, it may be clear that an investee is controlled by means of
equity instruments that give the holder proportionate voting rights, such as ordinary shares in the investee. In this case,
in the absence of any additional arrangements that alter decision-making, the assessment of control focuses on which
party, if any, is able to exercise voting rights sufficient to determine the investee's operating and financing policies (see
paragraphs B34-B50). In the most straightforward case, the investor that holds a majority of those voting rights, in the
absence of any other factors, controls the investee.
B7. To determine whether an investor controls an investee in more complex cases, it may be necessary to consider
some or all of the other factors in paragraph B3.
B8. An investee may be designed so that voting rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the investee,
such as when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by means of
contractual arrangements. In such cases, an investor's consideration of the purpose and design of the investee shall
also include consideration of the risks to which the investee was designed to be exposed, the risks it was designed to
pass on to the parties involved with the investee and whether the investor is exposed to some or all of those risks.
Page 267/765
----- PAGE 268 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Consideration of the risks includes not only the downside risk, but also the potential for upside.
Power
B9. To have power over an investee, an investor must have existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the
relevant activities. For the purpose of assessing power, only substantive rights and rights that are not protective shall be
considered (see paragraphs B22-B28).
B10. The determination about whether an investor has power depends on the relevant activities, the way decisions
about the relevant activities are made and the rights the investor and other parties have in relation to the investee.
Relevant activities and direction of relevant activities
B11. For many investees, a range of operating and financing activities significantly affect their returns. Examples of
activities that, depending on the circumstances, can be relevant activities include, but are not limited to:
(a)
selling and purchasing of goods or services;
(b)
managing financial assets during their life (including upon default);
(c)
selecting, acquiring or disposing of assets;
(d)
researching and developing new products or processes; and
(e)
determining a funding structure or obtaining funding.
B12. Examples of decisions about relevant activities include but are not limited to:
(a)
establishing operating and capital decisions of the investee, including budgets; and
(b)
appointing and remunerating an investee's key management personnel or service providers and terminating their
services or employment.
B13. In some situations, activities both before and after a particular set of circumstances arises or event occurs may be
relevant activities. When two or more investors have the current ability to direct relevant activities and those activities
occur at different times, the investors shall determine which investor is able to direct the activities that most significantly
affect those returns consistently with the treatment of concurrent decision-making rights (see paragraph 13). The
investors shall reconsider this assessment over time if relevant facts or circumstances change.
Application examples
Example 1
Two investors form an
investee to develop and market a medical product. One investor is
responsible for developing and obtaining regulatory approval of
the medical product-that responsibility includes having the
unilateral ability to make all decisions relating to the
development of the product and to obtaining regulatory approval.
Once the regulator has approved the product, the other investor
will manufacture and market it-this investor has the unilateral
ability to make all decisions about the manufacture and marketing
of the project. If all the activities-developing and obtaining
regulatory approval as well as manufacturing and marketing of the
medical product-are relevant activities, each investor needs to
determine whether it is able to direct the activities that most
significantly affect the investee's returns. Accordingly, each
investor needs to consider whether developing and obtaining
regulatory approval or the manufacturing and marketing of the
medical product is the activity that most significantly affects
the investee's returns and whether it is able to direct that
Page 268/765
----- PAGE 269 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
activity. In determining which investor has power, the investors
would consider:
(a)
the purpose and design of the investee;
(b)
the factors that determine the profit margin, revenue and value
of the investee as well as the value of the medical product;
(c)
the effect on the investee's returns resulting from each
investor's decision-making authority with respect to the factors
in (b); and
(d)
the investors' exposure to variability of returns.
In
this particular example, the investors would also consider:
(e)
the uncertainty of, and effort required in, obtaining regulatory
approval (considering the investor's record of successfully
developing and obtaining regulatory approval of medical
products); and
(f)
which investor controls the medical product once the development
phase is successful.
Example 2
An investment vehicle (the investee) is created
and financed with a debt instrument held by an investor (the debt
investor) and equity instruments held by a number of other
investors. The equity tranche is designed to absorb the first
losses and to receive any residual return from the investee. One
of the equity investors who holds 30 per cent of the equity is
also the asset manager. The investee uses its proceeds to
purchase a portfolio of financial assets, exposing the investee
to the credit risk associated with the possible default of
principal and interest payments of the assets. The transaction is
marketed to the debt investor as an investment with minimal
exposure to the credit risk associated with the possible default
of the assets in the portfolio because of the nature of these
assets and because the equity tranche is designed to absorb the
first losses of the investee. The returns of the investee are
significantly affected by the management of the investee's asset
portfolio, which includes decisions about the selection,
acquisition and disposal of the assets within portfolio
guidelines and the management upon default of any portfolio
assets. All those activities are managed by the asset manager
until defaults reach a specified proportion of the portfolio
value (i.e. when the value of the portfolio is such that the
equity tranche of the investee has been consumed). From that
time, a third-party trustee manages the assets according to the
instructions of the debt investor. Managing the investee's asset
portfolio is the relevant activity of the investee. The asset
manager has the ability to direct the relevant activities until
Page 269/765
----- PAGE 270 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
defaulted assets reach the specified proportion of the portfolio
value; the debt investor has the ability to direct the relevant
activities when the value of defaulted assets surpasses that
specified proportion of the portfolio value. The asset manager
and the debt investor each need to determine whether they are
able to direct the activities that most significantly affect the
investee's returns, including considering the purpose and design
of the investee as well as each party's exposure to variability
of returns.
Rights that give an investor power over an investee
B14. Power arises from rights. To have power over an investee, an investor must have existing rights that give the
investor the current ability to direct the relevant activities. The rights that may give an investor power can differ between
investees.
B15. Examples of rights that, either individually or in combination, can give an investor power include but are not limited
to:
(a)
rights in the form of voting rights (or potential voting rights) of an investee (see paragraphs B34-B50);
(b)
rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of an investee's key management personnel who have the ability to
direct the relevant activities;
(c)
rights to appoint or remove another entity that directs the relevant activities;
(d)
rights to direct the investee to enter into, or veto any changes to, transactions for the benefit of the investor; and
(e)
other rights (such as decision-making rights specified in a management contract) that give the holder the ability to direct
the relevant activities.
B16. Generally, when an investee has a range of operating and financing activities that significantly affect the investee's
returns and when substantive decision-making with respect to these activities is required continuously, it will be voting or
similar rights that give an investor power, either individually or in combination with other arrangements.
B17. When voting rights cannot have a significant effect on an investee's returns, such as when voting rights relate to
administrative tasks only and contractual arrangements determine the direction of the relevant activities, the investor
needs to assess those contractual arrangements in order to determine whether it has rights sufficient to give it power
over the investee. To determine whether an investor has rights sufficient to give it power, the investor shall consider the
purpose and design of the investee (see paragraphs B5-B8) and the requirements in paragraphs B51-B54 together with
paragraphs B18-B20.
B18. In some circumstances it may be difficult to determine whether an investor's rights are sufficient to give it power
over an investee. In such cases, to enable the assessment of power to be made, the investor shall consider evidence of
whether it has the practical ability to direct the relevant activities unilaterally. Consideration is given, but is not limited, to
the following, which, when considered together with its rights and the indicators in paragraphs B19 and B20, may
provide evidence that the investor's rights are sufficient to give it power over the investee:
(a)
The investor can, without having the contractual right to do so, appoint or approve the investee's key management
personnel who have the ability to direct the relevant activities.
(b)
The investor can, without having the contractual right to do so, direct the investee to enter into, or can veto any changes
to, significant transactions for the benefit of the investor.
(c)
The investor can dominate either the nominations process for electing members of the investee's governing body or the
obtaining of proxies from other holders of voting rights.
(d)
Page 270/765
----- PAGE 271 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
The investee's key management personnel are related parties of the investor (for example, the chief executive officer of
the investee and the chief executive officer of the investor are the same person).
(e)
The majority of the members of the investee's governing body are related parties of the investor.
B19. Sometimes there will be indications that the investor has a special relationship with the investee, which suggests
that the investor has more than a passive interest in the investee. The existence of any individual indicator, or a
particular combination of indicators, does not necessarily mean that the power criterion is met. However, having more
than a passive interest in the investee may indicate that the investor has other related rights sufficient to give it power or
provide evidence of existing power over an investee. For example, the following suggests that the investor has more
than a passive interest in the investee and, in combination with other rights, may indicate power:
(a)
The investee's key management personnel who have the ability to direct the relevant activities are current or previous
employees of the investor.
(b)
The investee's operations are dependent on the investor, such as in the following situations:
(i)
The investee depends on the investor to fund a significant portion of its operations.
(ii)
The investor guarantees a significant portion of the investee's obligations.
(iii)
The investee depends on the investor for critical services, technology, supplies or raw materials.
(iv)
The investor controls assets such as licences or trademarks that are critical to the investee's operations.
(v)
The investee depends on the investor for key management personnel, such as when the investor's personnel have
specialised knowledge of the investee's operations.
(c)
A significant portion of the investee's activities either involve or are conducted on behalf of the investor.
(d)
The investor's exposure, or rights, to returns from its involvement with the investee is disproportionately greater than its
voting or other similar rights. For example, there may be a situation in which an investor is entitled, or exposed, to more
than half of the returns of the investee but holds less than half of the voting rights of the investee.
B20. The greater an investor's exposure, or rights, to variability of returns from its involvement with an investee, the
greater is the incentive for the investor to obtain rights sufficient to give it power. Therefore, having a large exposure to
variability of returns is an indicator that the investor may have power. However, the extent of the investor's exposure
does not, in itself, determine whether an investor has power over the investee.
B21. When the factors set out in paragraph B18 and the indicators set out in paragraphs B19 and B20 are considered
together with an investor's rights, greater weight shall be given to the evidence of power described in paragraph B18.
Substantive rights
B22. An investor, in assessing whether it has power, considers only substantive rights relating to an investee (held by
the investor and others). For a right to be substantive, the holder must have the practical ability to exercise that right.
B23. Determining whether rights are substantive requires judgement, taking into account all facts and circumstances.
Factors to consider in making that determination include but are not limited to:
(a)
Whether there are any barriers (economic or otherwise) that prevent the holder (or holders) from exercising the rights.
Examples of such barriers include but are not limited to:
(i)
financial penalties and incentives that would prevent (or deter) the holder from exercising its rights.
(ii)
an exercise or conversion price that creates a financial barrier that would prevent (or deter) the holder from exercising its
rights.
Page 271/765
----- PAGE 272 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(iii)
terms and conditions that make it unlikely that the rights would be exercised, for example, conditions that narrowly limit
the timing of their exercise.
(iv)
the absence of an explicit, reasonable mechanism in the founding documents of an investee or in applicable laws or
regulations that would allow the holder to exercise its rights.
(v)
the inability of the holder of the rights to obtain the information necessary to exercise its rights.
(vi)
operational barriers or incentives that would prevent (or deter) the holder from exercising its rights (e.g. the absence of
other managers willing or able to provide specialised services or provide the services and take on other interests held by
the incumbent manager).
(vii)
legal or regulatory requirements that prevent the holder from exercising its rights (e.g. where a foreign investor is
prohibited from exercising its rights).
(b)
When the exercise of rights requires the agreement of more than one party, or when the rights are held by more than
one party, whether a mechanism is in place that provides those parties with the practical ability to exercise their rights
collectively if they choose to do so. The lack of such a mechanism is an indicator that the rights may not be substantive.
The more parties that are required to agree to exercise the rights, the less likely it is that those rights are substantive.
However, a board of directors whose members are independent of the decision maker may serve as a mechanism for
numerous investors to act collectively in exercising their rights. Therefore, removal rights exercisable by an independent
board of directors are more likely to be substantive than if the same rights were exercisable individually by a large
number of investors.
(c)
Whether the party or parties that hold the rights would benefit from the exercise of those rights. For example, the holder
of potential voting rights in an investee (see paragraphs B47-B50) shall consider the exercise or conversion price of the
instrument. The terms and conditions of potential voting rights are more likely to be substantive when the instrument is in
the money or the investor would benefit for other reasons (e.g. by realising synergies between the investor and the
investee) from the exercise or conversion of the instrument.
B24. To be substantive, rights also need to be exercisable when decisions about the direction of the relevant activities
need to be made. Usually, to be substantive, the rights need to be currently exercisable. However, sometimes rights can
be substantive, even though the rights are not currently exercisable.
Application examples
Example 3
The investee has
annual shareholder meetings at which decisions to direct the
relevant activities are made. The next scheduled shareholders'
meeting is in eight months. However, shareholders that
individually or collectively hold at least 5 per cent of the
voting rights can call a special meeting to change the existing
policies over the relevant activities, but a requirement to give
notice to the other shareholders means that such a meeting cannot
be held for at least 30 days. Policies over the relevant
activities can be changed only at special or scheduled
shareholders' meetings. This includes the approval of material
sales of assets as well as the making or disposing of significant
investments.
The above fact
pattern applies to examples 3A-3D described below. Each example
is considered in isolation.
Page 272/765
----- PAGE 273 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Example 3A
An investor holds a
majority of the voting rights in the investee. The investor's
voting rights are substantive because the investor is able to
make decisions about the direction of the relevant activities
when they need to be made. The fact that it takes 30 days before
the investor can exercise its voting rights does not stop the
investor from having the current ability to direct the relevant
activities from the moment the investor acquires the
shareholding.
Example 3B
An investor is party
to a forward contract to acquire the majority of shares in the
investee. The forward contract's settlement date is in 25 days.
The existing shareholders are unable to change the existing
policies over the relevant activities because a special meeting
cannot be held for at least 30 days, at which point the forward
contract will have been settled. Thus, the investor has rights
that are essentially equivalent to the majority shareholder in
example 3A above (i.e. the investor holding the forward contract
can make decisions about the direction of the relevant activities
when they need to be made). The investor's forward contract is a
substantive right that gives the investor the current ability to
direct the relevant activities even before the forward contract
is settled.
Example 3C
An investor holds a
substantive option to acquire the majority of shares in the
investee that is exercisable in 25 days and is deeply in the
money. The same conclusion would be reached as in example 3B.
Example 3D
An investor is party to a forward contract to
acquire the majority of shares in the investee, with no other
related rights over the investee. The forward contract's
settlement date is in six months. In contrast to the examples
above, the investor does not have the current ability to direct
the relevant activities. The existing shareholders have the
current ability to direct the relevant activities because they
can change the existing policies over the relevant activities
before the forward contract is settled.
B25. Substantive rights exercisable by other parties can prevent an investor from controlling the investee to which those
rights relate. Such substantive rights do not require the holders to have the ability to initiate decisions. As long as the
rights are not merely protective (see paragraphs B26-B28), substantive rights held by other parties may prevent the
investor from controlling the investee even if the rights give the holders only the current ability to approve or block
decisions that relate to the relevant activities.
Protective rights
B26. In evaluating whether rights give an investor power over an investee, the investor shall assess whether its rights,
and rights held by others, are protective rights. Protective rights relate to fundamental changes to the activities of an
investee or apply in exceptional circumstances. However, not all rights that apply in exceptional circumstances or are
contingent on events are protective (see paragraphs B13 and B53).
B27. Because protective rights are designed to protect the interests of their holder without giving that party power over
Page 273/765
----- PAGE 274 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the investee to which those rights relate, an investor that holds only protective rights cannot have power or prevent
another party from having power over an investee (see paragraph 14).
B28. Examples of protective rights include but are not limited to:
(a)
a lender's right to restrict a borrower from undertaking activities that could significantly change the credit risk of the
borrower to the detriment of the lender.
(b)
the right of a party holding a non-controlling interest in an investee to approve capital expenditure greater than that
required in the ordinary course of business, or to approve the issue of equity or debt instruments.
(c)
the right of a lender to seize the assets of a borrower if the borrower fails to meet specified loan repayment conditions.
Franchises
B29. A franchise agreement for which the investee is the franchisee often gives the franchisor rights that are designed to
protect the franchise brand. Franchise agreements typically give franchisors some decision-making rights with respect to
the operations of the franchisee.
B30. Generally, franchisors' rights do not restrict the ability of parties other than the franchisor to make decisions that
have a significant effect on the franchisee's returns. Nor do the rights of the franchisor in franchise agreements
necessarily give the franchisor the current ability to direct the activities that significantly affect the franchisee's returns.
B31. It is necessary to distinguish between having the current ability to make decisions that significantly affect the
franchisee's returns and having the ability to make decisions that protect the franchise brand. The franchisor does not
have power over the franchisee if other parties have existing rights that give them the current ability to direct the relevant
activities of the franchisee.
B32. By entering into the franchise agreement the franchisee has made a unilateral decision to operate its business in
accordance with the terms of the franchise agreement, but for its own account.
B33. Control over such fundamental decisions as the legal form of the franchisee and its funding structure may be
determined by parties other than the franchisor and may significantly affect the returns of the franchisee. The lower the
level of financial support provided by the franchisor and the lower the franchisor's exposure to variability of returns from
the franchisee the more likely it is that the franchisor has only protective rights.
Voting rights
B34. Often an investor has the current ability, through voting or similar rights, to direct the relevant activities. An investor
considers the requirements in this section (paragraphs B35-B50) if the relevant activities of an investee are directed
through voting rights.
Power with a majority of the voting rights
B35. An investor that holds more than half of the voting rights of an investee has power in the following situations,
unless paragraph B36 or paragraph B37 applies:
(a)
the relevant activities are directed by a vote of the holder of the majority of the voting rights, or
(b)
a majority of the members of the governing body that directs the relevant activities are appointed by a vote of the holder
of the majority of the voting rights.
Majority of the voting rights but no power
B36. For an investor that holds more than half of the voting rights of an investee, to have power over an investee, the
investor's voting rights must be substantive, in accordance with paragraphs B22-B25, and must provide the investor with
the current ability to direct the relevant activities, which often will be through determining operating and financing
policies. If another entity has existing rights that provide that entity with the right to direct the relevant activities and that
entity is not an agent of the investor, the investor does not have power over the investee.
B37. An investor does not have power over an investee, even though the investor holds the majority of the voting rights
in the investee, when those voting rights are not substantive. For example, an investor that has more than half of the
voting rights in an investee cannot have power if the relevant activities are subject to direction by a government, court,
administrator, receiver, liquidator or regulator.
Power without a majority of the voting rights
Page 274/765
----- PAGE 275 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B38. An investor can have power even if it holds less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee. An investor can
have power with less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, for example, through:
(a)
a contractual arrangement between the investor and other vote holders (see paragraph B39);
(b)
rights arising from other contractual arrangements (see paragraph B40);
(c)
the investor's voting rights (see paragraphs B41-B45);
(d)
potential voting rights (see paragraphs B47-B50); or
(e)
a combination of (a)-(d).
Contractual arrangement with other vote holders
B39. A contractual arrangement between an investor and other vote holders can give the investor the right to exercise
voting rights sufficient to give the investor power, even if the investor does not have voting rights sufficient to give it
power without the contractual arrangement. However, a contractual arrangement might ensure that the investor can
direct enough other vote holders on how to vote to enable the investor to make decisions about the relevant activities.
Rights from other contractual arrangements
B40. Other decision-making rights, in combination with voting rights, can give an investor the current ability to direct the
relevant activities. For example, the rights specified in a contractual arrangement in combination with voting rights may
be sufficient to give an investor the current ability to direct the manufacturing processes of an investee or to direct other
operating or financing activities of an investee that significantly affect the investee's returns. However, in the absence of
any other rights, economic dependence of an investee on the investor (such as relations of a supplier with its main
customer) does not lead to the investor having power over the investee.
The investor's voting rights
B41. An investor with less than a majority of the voting rights has rights that are sufficient to give it power when the
investor has the practical ability to direct the relevant activities unilaterally.
B42. When assessing whether an investor's voting rights are sufficient to give it power, an investor considers all facts
and circumstances, including:
(a)
the size of the investor's holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders,
noting that:
(i)
the more voting rights an investor holds, the more likely the investor is to have existing rights that give it the current
ability to direct the relevant activities;
(ii)
the more voting rights an investor holds relative to other vote holders, the more likely the investor is to have existing
rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities;
(iii)
the more parties that would need to act together to outvote the investor, the more likely the investor is to have existing
rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities;
(b)
potential voting rights held by the investor, other vote holders or other parties (see paragraphs B47-B50);
(c)
rights arising from other contractual arrangements (see paragraph B40); and
(d)
any additional facts and circumstances that indicate the investor has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the
relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders'
meetings.
B43. When the direction of relevant activities is determined by majority vote and an investor holds significantly more
voting rights than any other vote holder or organised group of vote holders, and the other shareholdings are widely
Page 275/765
----- PAGE 276 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
dispersed, it may be clear, after considering the factors listed in paragraph B42 (a)-(c) alone, that the investor has power
over the investee.
Application examples
Example 4
An investor acquires
48 per cent of the voting rights of an investee. The remaining
voting rights are held by thousands of shareholders, none
individually holding more than 1 per cent of the voting rights.
None of the shareholders has any arrangements to consult any of
the others or make collective decisions. When assessing the
proportion of voting rights to acquire, on the basis of the
relative size of the other shareholdings, the investor determined
that a 48 per cent interest would be sufficient to give it
control. In this case, on the basis of the absolute size of its
holding and the relative size of the other shareholdings, the
investor concludes that it has a sufficiently dominant voting
interest to meet the power criterion without the need to consider
any other evidence of power.
Example 5
Investor A holds 40 per cent of the voting
rights of an investee and twelve other investors each hold 5 per
cent of the voting rights of the investee. A shareholder
agreement grants investor A the right to appoint, remove and set
the remuneration of management responsible for directing the
relevant activities. To change the agreement, a two-thirds
majority vote of the shareholders is required. In this case,
investor A concludes that the absolute size of the investor's
holding and the relative size of the other shareholdings alone
are not conclusive in determining whether the investor has rights
sufficient to give it power. However, investor A determines that
its contractual right to appoint, remove and set the remuneration
of management is sufficient to conclude that it has power over
the investee. The fact that investor. A might not have exercised
this right or the likelihood of investor A exercising its right
to select, appoint or remove management shall not be considered
when assessing whether investor A has power.
B44. In other situations, it may be clear after considering the factors listed in paragraph B42 (a)-(c) alone that an
investor does not have power.
Application example
Example 6
Investor A holds 45 per cent of the voting
rights of an investee. Two other investors each hold 26 per cent
of the voting rights of the investee. The remaining voting rights
are held by three other shareholders, each holding 1 per cent.
There are no other arrangements that affect decision-making. In
this case, the size of investor A's voting interest and its size
relative to the other shareholdings are sufficient to conclude
that investor A does not have power. Only two other investors
would need to co-operate to be able to prevent investor A from
directing the relevant activities of the investee.
B45. However, the factors listed in paragraph B42 (a)-(c) alone may not be conclusive. If an investor, having considered
Page 276/765
----- PAGE 277 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
those factors, is unclear whether it has power, it shall consider additional facts and circumstances, such as whether
other shareholders are passive in nature as demonstrated by voting patterns at previous shareholders' meetings. This
includes the assessment of the factors set out in paragraph B18 and the indicators in paragraphs B19 and B20. The
fewer voting rights the investor holds, and the fewer parties that would need to act together to outvote the investor, the
more reliance would be placed on the additional facts and circumstances to assess whether the investor's rights are
sufficient to give it power. When the facts and circumstances in paragraphs B18-B20 are considered together with the
investor's rights, greater weight shall be given to the evidence of power in paragraph B18 than to the indicators of power
in paragraphs B19 and B20.
Application examples
Example 7
An investor holds 45
per cent of the voting rights of an investee. Eleven other
shareholders each hold 5 per cent of the voting rights of the
investee. None of the shareholders has contractual arrangements
to consult any of the others or make collective decisions. In
this case, the absolute size of the investor's holding and the
relative size of the other shareholdings alone are not conclusive
in determining whether the investor has rights sufficient to give
it power over the investee. Additional facts and circumstances
that may provide evidence that the investor has, or does not
have, power shall be considered.
Example 8
An investor holds 35 per cent of the voting
rights of an investee. Three other shareholders each hold 5 per
cent of the voting rights of the investee. The remaining voting
rights are held by numerous other shareholders, none individually
holding more than 1 per cent of the voting rights. None of the
shareholders has arrangements to consult any of the others or
make collective decisions. Decisions about the relevant
activities of the investee require the approval of a majority of
votes cast at relevant shareholders' meetings-75 per cent of the
voting rights of the investee have been cast at recent relevant
shareholders' meetings. In this case, the active participation of
the other shareholders at recent shareholders' meetings indicates
that the investor would not have the practical ability to direct
the relevant activities unilaterally, regardless of whether the
investor has directed the relevant activities because a
sufficient number of other shareholders voted in the same way as
the investor.
B46. If it is not clear, having considered the factors listed in paragraph B42 (a)-(d), that the investor has power, the
investor does not control the investee.
Potential voting rights
B47. When assessing control, an investor considers its potential voting rights as well as potential voting rights held by
other parties, to determine whether it has power. Potential voting rights are rights to obtain voting rights of an investee,
such as those arising from convertible instruments or options, including forward contracts. Those potential voting rights
are considered only if the rights are substantive (see paragraphs B22-B25).
B48. When considering potential voting rights, an investor shall consider the purpose and design of the instrument, as
well as the purpose and design of any other involvement the investor has with the investee. This includes an
assessment of the various terms and conditions of the instrument as well as the investor's apparent expectations,
motives and reasons for agreeing to those terms and conditions.
B49. If the investor also has voting or other decision-making rights relating to the investee's activities, the investor
Page 277/765
----- PAGE 278 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
assesses whether those rights, in combination with potential voting rights, give the investor power.
B50. Substantive potential voting rights alone, or in combination with other rights, can give an investor the current ability
to direct the relevant activities. For example, this is likely to be the case when an investor holds 40 per cent of the voting
rights of an investee and, in accordance with paragraph B23, holds substantive rights arising from options to acquire a
further 20 per cent of the voting rights.
Application examples
Example 9
Investor A holds 70
per cent of the voting rights of an investee. Investor B has 30
per cent of the voting rights of the investee as well as an
option to acquire half of investor A's voting rights. The option
is exercisable for the next two years at a fixed price that is
deeply out of the money (and is expected to remain so for that
two-year period). Investor A has been exercising its votes and is
actively directing the relevant activities of the investee. In
such a case, investor A is likely to meet the power criterion
because it appears to have the current ability to direct the
relevant activities. Although investor B has currently
exercisable options to purchase additional voting rights (that,
if exercised, would give it a majority of the voting rights in
the investee), the terms and conditions associated with those
options are such that the options are not considered substantive.
Example 10
Investor A and two other investors each hold a
third of the voting rights of an investee. The investee's
business activity is closely related to investor A. In addition
to its equity instruments, investor A also holds debt instruments
that are convertible into ordinary shares of the investee at any
time for a fixed price that is out of the money (but not deeply
out of the money). If the debt were converted, investor A would
hold 60 per cent of the voting rights of the investee. Investor A
would benefit from realising synergies if the debt instruments
were converted into ordinary shares. Investor A has power over
the investee because it holds voting rights of the investee
together with substantive potential voting rights that give it
the current ability to direct the relevant activities.
Power when voting or similar rights do not have a significant effect on the investee's returns
B51. In assessing the purpose and design of an investee (see paragraphs B5-B8), an investor shall consider the
involvement and decisions made at the investee's inception as part of its design and evaluate whether the transaction
terms and features of the involvement provide the investor with rights that are sufficient to give it power. Being involved
in the design of an investee alone is not sufficient to give an investor control. However, involvement in the design may
indicate that the investor had the opportunity to obtain rights that are sufficient to give it power over the investee.
B52. In addition, an investor shall consider contractual arrangements such as call rights, put rights and liquidation rights
established at the investee's inception. When these contractual arrangements involve activities that are closely related to
the investee, then these activities are, in substance, an integral part of the investee's overall activities, even though they
may occur outside the legal boundaries of the investee. Therefore, explicit or implicit decision-making rights embedded
in contractual arrangements that are closely related to the investee need to be considered as relevant activities when
determining power over the investee.
B53. For some investees, relevant activities occur only when particular circumstances arise or events occur. The
investee may be designed so that the direction of its activities and its returns are predetermined unless and until those
particular circumstances arise or events occur. In this case, only the decisions about the investee's activities when those
Page 278/765
----- PAGE 279 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
circumstances or events occur can significantly affect its returns and thus be relevant activities. The circumstances or
events need not have occurred for an investor with the ability to make those decisions to have power. The fact that the
right to make decisions is contingent on circumstances arising or an event occurring does not, in itself, make those
rights protective.
Application examples
Example 11
An investee's only
business activity, as specified in its founding documents, is to
purchase receivables and service them on a day-to-day basis for
its investors. The servicing on a day-to-day basis includes the
collection and passing on of principal and interest payments as
they fall due. Upon default of a receivable the investee
automatically puts the receivable to an investor as agreed
separately in a put agreement between the investor and the
investee. The only relevant activity is managing the receivables
upon default because it is the only activity that can
significantly affect the investee's returns. Managing the
receivables before default is not a relevant activity because it
does not require substantive decisions to be made that could
significantly affect the investee's returns-the activities before
default are predetermined and amount only to collecting cash
flows as they fall due and passing them on to investors.
Therefore, only the investor's right to manage the assets upon
default should be considered when assessing the overall
activities of the investee that significantly affect the
investee's returns.
In this example, the
design of the investee ensures that the investor has
decision-making authority over the activities that significantly
affect the returns at the only time that such decision-making
authority is required. The terms of the put agreement are
integral to the overall transaction and the establishment of the
investee. Therefore, the terms of the put agreement together with
the founding documents of the investee lead to the conclusion
that the investor has power over the investee even though the
investor takes ownership of the receivables only upon default and
manages the defaulted receivables outside the legal boundaries of
the investee.
Example 12
The only assets of an investee are receivables.
When the purpose and design of the investee are considered, it is
determined that the only relevant activity is managing the
receivables upon default. The party that has the ability to
manage the defaulting receivables has power over the investee,
irrespective of whether any of the borrowers have defaulted.
B54. An investor may have an explicit or implicit commitment to ensure that an investee continues to operate as
designed. Such a commitment may increase the investor's exposure to variability of returns and thus increase the
incentive for the investor to obtain rights sufficient to give it power. Therefore a commitment to ensure that an investee
operates as designed may be an indicator that the investor has power, but does not, by itself, give an investor power,
nor does it prevent another party from having power.
Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from an investee
Page 279/765
----- PAGE 280 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B55. When assessing whether an investor has control of an investee, the investor determines whether it is exposed, or
has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee.
B56. Variable returns are returns that are not fixed and have the potential to vary as a result of the performance of an
investee. Variable returns can be only positive, only negative or both positive and negative (see paragraph 15). An
investor assesses whether returns from an investee are variable and how variable those returns are on the basis of the
substance of the arrangement and regardless of the legal form of the returns. For example, an investor can hold a bond
with fixed interest payments. The fixed interest payments are variable returns for the purpose of this Ind AS because
they are subject to default risk and they expose the investor to the credit risk of the issuer of the bond. The amount of
variability (i.e. how variable those returns are) depends on the credit risk of the bond. Similarly, fixed performance fees
for managing an investee's assets are variable returns because they expose the investor to the performance risk of the
investee. The amount of variability depends on the investee's ability to generate sufficient income to pay the fee.
B57. Examples of returns include:
(a)
dividends, other distributions of economic benefits from an investee (e.g. interest from debt securities issued by the
investee) and changes in the value of the investor's investment in that investee.
(b)
remuneration for servicing an investee's assets or liabilities, fees and exposure to loss from providing credit or liquidity
support, residual interests in the investee's assets and liabilities on liquidation of that investee, tax benefits, and access
to future liquidity that an investor has from its involvement with an investee.
(c)
returns that are not available to other interest holders. For example, an investor might use its assets in combination with
the assets of the investee, such as combining operating functions to achieve economies of scale, cost savings, sourcing
scarce products, gaining access to proprietary knowledge or limiting some operations or assets, to enhance the value of
the investor's other assets.
Link between power and returns
Delegated power
B58. When an investor with decision-making rights (a decision maker) assesses whether it controls an investee, it shall
determine whether it is a principal or an agent. An investor shall also determine whether another entity with
decision-making rights is acting as an agent for the investor. An agent is a party primarily engaged to act on behalf and
for the benefit of another party or parties (the principal(s)) and therefore does not control the investee when it exercises
its decision-making authority (see paragraphs 17 and 18). Thus, sometimes a principal's power may be held and
exercisable by an agent, but on behalf of the principal. A decision maker is not an agent simply because other parties
can benefit from the decisions that it makes.
B59. An investor may delegate its decision-making authority to an agent on some specific issues or on all relevant
activities. When assessing whether it controls an investee, the investor shall treat the decision-making rights delegated
to its agent as held by the investor directly. In situations where there is more than one principal, each of the principals
shall assess whether it has power over the investee by considering the requirements in paragraphs B5-B54. Paragraphs
B60-B72 provide guidance on determining whether a decision maker is an agent or a principal.
B60. A decision maker shall consider the overall relationship between itself, the investee being managed and other
parties involved with the investee, in particular all the factors below, in determining whether it is an agent:
(a)
the scope of its decision-making authority over the investee (paragraphs B62 and B63).
(b)
the rights held by other parties (paragraphs B64-B67).
(c)
the remuneration to which it is entitled in accordance with the remuneration agreement(s) (paragraphs B68-B70).
(d)
the decision maker's exposure to variability of returns from other interests that it holds in the investee (paragraphs B71
and B72).
Different weightings shall be applied to each of the factors on the basis of particular facts and circumstances.
B61. Determining whether a decision maker is an agent requires an evaluation of all the factors listed in paragraph B60.
Page 280/765
----- PAGE 281 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
unless a single party holds substantive rights to remove the decision maker (removal rights) and can remove the
decision maker without cause (see paragraph B65).
The scope of the decision-making authority
B62. The scope of a decision maker's decision-making authority is evaluated by considering:
(a)
the activities that are permitted according to the decision-making agreement(s) and specified by law, and
(b)
the discretion that the decision maker has when making decisions about those activities.
B63. A decision maker shall consider the purpose and design of the investee, the risks to which the investee was
designed to be exposed, the risks it was designed to pass on to the parties involved and the level of involvement the
decision maker had in the design of an investee. For example, if a decision maker is significantly involved in the design
of the investee (including in determining the scope of decision-making authority), that involvement may indicate that the
decision maker had the opportunity and incentive to obtain rights that result in the decision maker having the ability to
direct the relevant activities.
Rights held by other parties
B64. Substantive rights held by other parties may affect the decision maker's ability to direct the relevant activities of an
investee. Substantive removal or other rights may indicate that the decision maker is an agent.
B65. When a single party holds substantive removal rights and can remove the decision maker without cause, this, in
isolation, is sufficient to conclude that the decision maker is an agent. If more than one party holds such rights (and no
individual party can remove the decision maker without the agreement of other parties) those rights are not, in isolation,
conclusive in determining that a decision maker acts primarily on behalf and for the benefit of others. In addition, the
greater the number of parties required to act together to exercise rights to remove a decision maker and the greater the
magnitude of, and variability associated with, the decision maker's other economic interests (i.e. remuneration and other
interests), the less the weighting that shall be placed on this factor.
B66. Substantive rights held by other parties that restrict a decision maker's discretion shall be considered in a similar
manner to removal rights when evaluating whether the decision maker is an agent. For example, a decision maker that
is required to obtain approval from a small number of other parties for its actions is generally an agent. (See paragraphs
B22-B25 for additional guidance on rights and whether they are substantive.)
B67. Consideration of the rights held by other parties shall include an assessment of any rights exercisable by an
investee's board of directors (or other governing body) and their effect on the decision-making authority (see paragraph
B23 (b)).
Remuneration
B68. The greater the magnitude of, and variability associated with, the decision maker's remuneration relative to the
returns expected from the activities of the investee, the more likely the decision maker is a principal.
B69. In determining whether it is a principal or an agent the decision maker shall also consider whether the following
conditions exist:
(a)
The remuneration of the decision maker is commensurate with the services provided.
(b)
The remuneration agreement includes only terms, conditions or amounts that are customarily present in arrangements
for similar services and level of skills negotiated on an arm's length basis.
B70. A decision maker cannot be an agent unless the conditions set out in paragraph B69 (a) and (b) are present.
However, meeting those conditions in isolation is not sufficient to conclude that a decision maker is an agent.
Exposure to variability of returns from other interests
B71. A decision maker that holds other interests in an investee (e.g. investments in the investee or provides guarantees
with respect to the performance of the investee), shall consider its exposure to variability of returns from those interests
in assessing whether it is an agent. Holding other interests in an investee indicates that the decision maker may be a
principal.
B72. In evaluating its exposure to variability of returns from other interests in the investee a decision maker shall
consider the following:
(a)
Page 281/765
----- PAGE 282 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the greater the magnitude of, and variability associated with, its economic interests, considering its remuneration and
other interests in aggregate, the more likely the decision maker is a principal.
(b)
whether its exposure to variability of returns is different from that of the other investors and, if so, whether this might
influence its actions. For example, this might be the case when a decision maker holds subordinated interests in, or
provides other forms of credit enhancement to, an investee.
The decision maker shall evaluate its exposure relative to the total variability of returns of the investee. This evaluation is
made primarily on the basis of returns expected from the activities of the investee but shall not ignore the decision
maker's maximum exposure to variability of returns of the investee through other interests that the decision maker holds.
Application examples
Example 13
A decision maker
(fund manager) establishes, markets and manages a publicly
traded, regulated fund according to narrowly defined parameters
set out in the investment mandate as required by its local laws
and regulations. The fund was marketed to investors as an
investment in a diversified portfolio of equity securities of
publicly traded entities. Within the defined parameters, the fund
manager has discretion about the assets in which to invest. The
fund manager has made a 10 per cent pro rata investment in the
fund and receives a market-based fee for its services equal to 1
per cent of the net asset value of the fund. The fees are
commensurate with the services provided. The fund manager does
not have any obligation to fund losses beyond its 10 per cent
investment. The fund is not required to establish, and has not
established, an independent board of directors. The investors do
not hold any substantive rights that would affect the
decision-making authority of the fund manager, but can redeem
their interests within particular limits set by the fund.
Although operating
within the parameters set out in the investment mandate and in
accordance with the regulatory requirements, the fund manager has
decision-making rights that give it the current ability to direct
the relevant activities of the fund-the investors do not hold
substantive rights that could affect the fund manager's
decision-making authority. The fund manager receives a
market-based fee for its services that is commensurate with the
services provided and has also made a pro rata investment in the
fund. The remuneration and its investment expose the fund manager
to variability of returns from the activities of the fund without
creating exposure that is of such significance that it indicates
that the fund manager is a principal.
In this example,
consideration of the fund manager's exposure to variability of
returns from the fund together with its decision-making authority
within restricted parameters indicates that the fund manager is
an agent. Thus, the fund manager concludes that it does not
control the fund.
Example 14
A decision maker
establishes, markets and manages a fund that provides investment
Page 282/765
----- PAGE 283 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
opportunities to a number of investors. The decision maker (fund
manager) must make decisions in the best interests of all
investors and in accordance with the fund's governing agreements.
Nonetheless, the fund manager has wide decision-making
discretion. The fund manager receives a market-based fee for its
services equal to 1 per cent of assets under management and 20
per cent of all the fund's profits if a specified profit level is
achieved. The fees are commensurate with the services provided.
Although it must make
decisions in the best interests of all investors, the fund
manager has extensive decision-making authority to direct the
relevant activities of the fund. The fund manager is paid fixed
and performance-related fees that are commensurate with the
services provided. In addition, the remuneration aligns the
interests of the fund manager with those of the other investors
to increase the value of the fund, without creating exposure to
variability of returns from the activities of the fund that is of
such significance that the remuneration, when considered in
isolation, indicates that the fund manager is a principal.
The above fact
pattern and analysis applies to examples 14A-14C described below.
Each example is considered in isolation.
Example 14A
The fund manager also
has a 2 per cent investment in the fund that aligns its interests
with those of the other investors. The fund manager does not have
any obligation to fund losses beyond its 2 per cent investment.
The investors can remove the fund manager by a simple majority
vote, but only for breach of contract.
The fund manager's 2
per cent investment increases its exposure to variability of
returns from the activities of the fund without creating exposure
that is of such significance that it indicates that the fund
manager is a principal. The other investors' rights to remove the
fund manager are considered to be protective rights because they
are exercisable only for breach of contract. In this example,
although the fund manager has extensive decision-making authority
and is exposed to variability of returns from its interest and
remuneration, the fund manager's exposure indicates that the fund
manager is an agent. Thus, the fund manager concludes that it
does not control the fund.
Example 14B
The fund manager has
a more substantial pro rata investment in the fund, but does not
have any obligation to fund losses beyond that investment. The
investors can remove the fund manager by a simple majority vote,
but only for breach of contract.
In this example, the
other investors' rights to remove the fund manager are considered
to be protective rights because they are exercisable only for
breach of contract. Although the fund manager is paid fixed and
Page 283/765
----- PAGE 284 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
performance-related fees that are commensurate with the services
provided, the combination of the fund manager's investment
together with its remuneration could create exposure to
variability of returns from the activities of the fund that is of
such significance that it indicates that the fund manager is a
principal. The greater the magnitude of, and variability
associated with, the fund manager's economic interests
(considering its remuneration and other interests in aggregate),
the more emphasis the fund manager would place on those economic
interests in the analysis, and the more likely the fund manager
is a principal.
For example, having
considered its remuneration and the other factors, the fund
manager might consider a 20 per cent investment to be sufficient
to conclude that it controls the fund. However, in different
circumstances (i.e. if the remuneration or other factors are
different), control may arise when the level of investment is
different.
Example 14C
The fund manager has
a 20 per cent pro rata investment in the fund, but does not have
any obligation to fund losses beyond its 20 per cent investment.
The fund has a board of directors, all of whose members are
independent of the fund manager and are appointed by the other
investors. The board appoints the fund manager annually. If the
board decided not to renew the fund manager's contract, the
services performed by the fund manager could be performed by
other managers in the industry.
Although the fund
manager is paid fixed and performance-related fees that are
commensurate with the services provided, the combination of the
fund manager's 20 per cent investment together with its
remuneration creates exposure to variability of returns from the
activities of the fund that is of such significance that it
indicates that the fund manager is a principal. However, the
investors have substantive rights to remove the fund manager-the
board of directors provides a mechanism to ensure that the
investors can remove the fund manager if they decide to do so.
In this example, the
fund manager places greater emphasis on the substantive removal
rights in the analysis. Thus, although the fund manager has
extensive decision-making authority and is exposed to variability
of returns of the fund from its remuneration and investment, the
substantive rights held by the other investors indicate that the
fund manager is an agent. Thus, the fund manager concludes that
it does not control the fund.
Example 15
An investee is
created to purchase a portfolio of fixed rate asset-backed
securities, funded by fixed rate debt instruments and equity
instruments. The equity instruments are designed to provide first
Page 284/765
----- PAGE 285 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
loss protection to the debt investors and receive any residual
returns of the investee. The transaction was marketed to
potential debt investors as an investment in a portfolio of
asset-backed securities with exposure to the credit risk
associated with the possible default of the issuers of the
asset-backed securities in the portfolio and to the interest rate
risk associated with the management of the portfolio. On
formation, the equity instruments represent 10 per cent of the
value of the assets purchased. A decision maker (the asset
manager) manages the active asset portfolio by making investment
decisions within the parameters set out in the investee's
prospectus. For those services, the asset manager receives a
market based fixed fee (i.e. 1 per cent of assets under
management) and performance-related fees (i.e. 10 per cent of
profits) if the investee's profits exceed a specified level. The
fees are commensurate with the services provided. The asset
manager holds 35 per cent of the equity in the investee. The
remaining 65 per cent of the equity, and all the debt
instruments, are held by a large number of widely dispersed
unrelated third party investors. The asset manager can be
removed, without cause, by a simple majority decision of the
other investors.
The asset manager is
paid fixed and performance-related fees that are commensurate
with the services provided. The remuneration aligns the interests
of the fund manager with those of the other investors to increase
the value of the fund. The asset manager has exposure to
variability of returns from the activities of the fund because it
holds 35 per cent of the equity and from its remuneration.
Although operating
within the parameters set out in the investee's prospectus, the
asset manager has the current ability to make investment
decisions that significantly affect the investee's returns-the
removal rights held by the other investors receive little
weighting in the analysis because those rights are held by a
large number of widely dispersed investors. In this example, the
asset manager places greater emphasis on its exposure to
variability of returns of the fund from its equity interest,
which is subordinate to the debt instruments. Holding 35 per cent
of the equity creates subordinated exposure to losses and rights
to returns of the investee, which are of such significance that
it indicates that the asset manager is a principal. Thus, the
asset manager concludes that it controls the investee.
Example 16
A decision maker (the
sponsor) sponsors a multi-seller conduit, which issues short-term
debt instruments to unrelated third party investors. The
transaction was marketed to potential investors as an investment
in a portfolio of highly rated medium-term assets with minimal
exposure to the credit risk associated with the possible default
by the issuers of the assets in the portfolio. Various
Page 285/765
----- PAGE 286 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
transferors sell high quality medium-term asset portfolios to the
conduit. Each transferor services the portfolio of assets that it
sells to the conduit and manages receivables on default for a
market based servicing fee. Each transferor also provides first
loss protection against credit losses from its asset portfolio
through over-collateralisation of the assets transferred to the
conduit. The sponsor establishes the terms of the conduit and
manages the operations of the conduit for a market-based fee. The
fee is commensurate with the services provided. The sponsor
approves the sellers permitted to sell to the conduit, approves
the assets to be purchased by the conduit and makes decisions
about the funding of the conduit. The sponsor must act in the
best interests of all investors.
The sponsor is
entitled to any residual return of the conduit and also provides
credit enhancement and liquidity facilities to the conduit. The
credit enhancement provided by the sponsor absorbs losses of up
to 5 per cent of all of the conduit's assets, after losses are
absorbed by the transferors. The liquidity facilities are not
advanced against defaulted assets. The investors do not hold
substantive rights that could affect the decision-making
authority of the sponsor.
Even though the sponsor is paid a market-based
fee for its services that is commensurate with the services
provided, the sponsor has exposure to variability of returns from
the activities of the conduit because of its rights to any
residual returns of the conduit and the provision of credit
enhancement and liquidity facilities (i.e. the conduit is exposed
to liquidity risk by using short-term debt instruments to fund
medium-term assets). Even though each of the transferors has
decision-making rights that affect the value of the assets of the
conduit, the sponsor has extensive decision-making authority that
gives it the current ability to direct the activities that most
significantly affect the conduit's returns (i.e. the sponsor
established the terms of the conduit, has the right to make
decisions about the assets (approving the assets purchased and
the transferors of those assets) and the funding of the conduit
(for which new investment must be found on a regular basis). The
right to residual returns of the conduit and the provision of
credit enhancement and liquidity facilities expose the sponsor to
variability of returns from the activities of the conduit that is
different from that of the other investors. Accordingly, that
exposure indicates that the sponsor is a principal and thus the
sponsor concludes that it controls the conduit. The sponsor's
obligation to act in the best interest of all investors does not
prevent the sponsor from being a principal.
Relationship with other parties
B73. When assessing control, an investor shall consider the nature of its relationship with other parties and whether
those other parties are acting on the investor's behalf (i.e. they are 'de facto agents'). The determination of whether other
parties are acting as de facto agents requires judgement, considering not only the nature of the relationship but also how
those parties interact with each other and the investor.
Page 286/765
----- PAGE 287 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B74. Such a relationship need not involve a contractual arrangement. A party is a de facto agent when the investor has,
or those that direct the activities of the investor have, the ability to direct that party to act on the investor's behalf. In
these circumstances, the investor shall consider its de facto agent's decision-making rights and its indirect exposure, or
rights, to variable returns through the de facto agent together with its own when assessing control of an investee.
B75. The following are examples of such other parties that, by the nature of their relationship, might act as de facto
agents for the investor:
(a)
the investor's related parties.
(b)
a party that received its interest in the investee as a contribution or loan from the investor.
(c)
a party that has agreed not to sell, transfer or encumber its interests in the investee without the investor's prior approval
(except for situations in which the investor and the other party have the right of prior approval and the rights are based
on mutually agreed terms by willing independent parties).
(d)
a party that cannot finance its operations without subordinated financial support from the investor.
(e)
an investee for which the majority of the members of its governing body or for which its key management personnel are
the same as those of the investor.
(f)
a party that has a close business relationship with the investor, such as the relationship between a professional service
provider and one of its significant clients.
Control of specified assets
B76. An investor shall consider whether it treats a portion of an investee as a deemed separate entity and, if so, whether
it controls the deemed separate entity.
B77. An investor shall treat a portion of an investee as a deemed separate entity if and only if the following condition is
satisfied:
Specified assets of the investee (and related credit enhancements, if any) are the only source of payment for specified
liabilities of, or specified other interests in, the investee. Parties other than those with the specified liability do not have
rights or obligations related to the specified assets or to residual cash flows from those assets. In substance, none of the
returns from the specified assets can be used by the remaining investee and none of the liabilities of the deemed
separate entity are payable from the assets of the remaining investee. Thus, in substance, all the assets, liabilities and
equity of that deemed separate entity are ring-fenced from the overall investee. Such a deemed separate entity is often
called a 'silo'.
B78. When the condition in paragraph B77 is satisfied, an investor shall identify the activities that significantly affect the
returns of the deemed separate entity and how those activities are directed in order to assess whether it has power over
that portion of the investee. When assessing control of the deemed separate entity, the investor shall also consider
whether it has exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with that deemed separate entity and the ability
to use its power over that portion of the investee to affect the amount of the investor's returns.
B79. If the investor controls the deemed separate entity, the investor shall consolidate that portion of the investee. In
that case, other parties exclude that portion of the investee when assessing control of, and in consolidating, the
investee.
Continuous assessment
B80. An investor shall reassess whether it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are
changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed in paragraph 7.
B81. If there is a change in how power over an investee can be exercised, that change must be reflected in how an
investor assesses its power over an investee. For example, changes to decision-making rights can mean that the
relevant activities are no longer directed through voting rights, but instead other agreements, such as contracts, give
another party or parties the current ability to direct the relevant activities.
B82. An event can cause an investor to gain or lose power over an investee without the investor being involved in that
event. For example, an investor can gain power over an investee because decision-making rights held by another party
Page 287/765
----- PAGE 288 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
or parties that previously prevented the investor from controlling an investee have lapsed.
B83. An investor also considers changes affecting its exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with an
investee. For example, an investor that has power over an investee can lose control of an investee if the investor ceases
to be entitled to receive returns or to be exposed to obligations, because the investor would fail to satisfy paragraph 7(b)
(e.g. if a contract to receive performance-related fees is terminated).
B84. An investor shall consider whether its assessment that it acts as an agent or a principal has changed. Changes in
the overall relationship between the investor and other parties can mean that an investor no longer acts as an agent,
even though it has previously acted as an agent, and vice versa. For example, if changes to the rights of the investor, or
of other parties, occur, the investor shall reconsider its status as a principal or an agent.
B85. An investor's initial assessment of control or its status as a principal or an agent would not change simply because
of a change in market conditions (e.g. a change in the investee's returns driven by market conditions), unless the
change in market conditions changes one or more of the three elements of control listed in paragraph 7 or changes the
overall relationship between a principal and an agent.
Determining whether an entity is an investment entity
B85A. An entity shall consider all facts and circumstances when assessing whether it is an investment entity, including
its purpose and design. An entity that possesses the three elements of the definition of an investment entity set out in
paragraph 27 is an investment entity. Paragraphs B85B-B85M describe the elements of the definition in more detail.
Business purpose
B85B. The definition of an investment entity requires that the purpose of the entity is to invest solely for capital
appreciation, investment income (such as dividends, interest or rental income), or both. Documents that indicate what
the entity's investment objectives are, such as the entity's offering memorandum, publications distributed by the entity
and other corporate or partnership documents, will typically provide evidence of an investment entity's business
purpose. Further evidence may include the manner in which the entity presents itself to other parties (such as potential
investors or potential investees); for example, an entity may present its business as providing medium-term investment
for capital appreciation. In contrast, an entity that presents itself as an investor whose objective is to jointly develop,
produce or market products with its investees has a business purpose that is inconsistent with the business purpose of
an investment entity, because the entity will earn returns from the development, production or marketing activity as well
as from its investments (see paragraph B85I).
[B85C. An investment entity may provide investment-related services (eg investment advisory services, investment
management, investment support and administrative services), either directly or through a subsidiary, to third parties as
well as to its investors, even if those activities are substantial to the entity, subject to the entity continuing to meet the
definition of an investment entity.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
B85D. An investment entity may also participate in the following investment-related activities, either directly or through a
subsidiary, if these activities are undertaken to maximise the investment return (capital appreciation or investment
income) from its investees and do not represent a separate substantial business activity or a separate substantial source
of income to the investment entity:
(a)
providing management services and strategic advice to an investee; and
(b)
providing financial support to an investee, such as a loan, capital commitment or guarantee.
[B85E. If an investment entity has a subsidiary that is not itself an investment entity and whose main purpose and
activities are providing investment-related services or activities that relate to the investment entity's investment activities,
such as those described in paragraphs B85C-B85D, to the entity or other parties, it shall consolidate that subsidiary in
accordance with paragraph 32. If the subsidiary that provides the investment-related services or activities is itself an
investment entity, the investment entity parent shall measure that subsidiary at fair value through profit or loss in
accordance with paragraph 31.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Exit strategies
B85F. An entity's investment plans also provide evidence of its business purpose. One feature that differentiates an
investment entity from other entities is that an investment entity does not plan to hold its investments indefinitely; it holds
Page 288/765
----- PAGE 289 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
them for a limited period. Because equity investments and non-financial asset investments have the potential to be held
indefinitely, an investment entity shall have an exit strategy documenting how the entity plans to realise capital
appreciation from substantially all of its equity investments and non-financial asset investments. An investment entity
shall also have an exit strategy for any debt instruments that have the potential to be held indefinitely, for example
perpetual debt investments. The entity need not document specific exit strategies for each individual investment but
shall identify different potential strategies for different types or portfolios of investments, including a substantive time
frame for exiting the investments. Exit mechanisms that are only put in place for default events, such as a breach of
contract or non-performance, are not considered exit strategies for the purpose of this assessment.
B85G. Exit strategies can vary by type of investment. For investments in private equity securities, examples of exit
strategies include an initial public offering, a private placement, a trade sale of a business, distributions (to investors) of
ownership interests in investees and sales of assets (including the sale of an investee's assets followed by a liquidation
of the investee). For equity investments that are traded in a public market, examples of exit strategies include selling the
investment in a private placement or in a public market. For real estate investments, an example of an exit strategy
includes the sale of the real estate through specialized property dealers or the open market.
B85H. An investment entity may have an investment in another investment entity that is formed in connection with the
entity for legal, regulatory, tax or similar business reasons. In this case, the investment entity investor need not have an
exit strategy for that investment, provided that the investment entity investee has appropriate exit strategies for its
investments.
Earnings from investments
B85I. An entity is not investing solely for capital appreciation, investment income, or both, if the entity or another
member of the group containing the entity (i.e. the group that is controlled by the investment entity's ultimate parent)
obtains, or has the objective of obtaining, other benefits from the entity's investments that are not available to other
parties that are not related to the investee. Such benefits include:
(a)
the acquisition, use, exchange or exploitation of the processes, assets or technology of an investee. This would include
the entity or another group member having disproportionate, or exclusive, rights to acquire assets, technology, products
or services of any investee; for example, by holding an option to purchase an asset from an investee if the asset's
development is deemed successful;
(b)
joint arrangements (as defined in Ind AS 111) or other agreements between the entity or another group member and an
investee to develop, produce, market or provide products or services;
(c)
financial guarantees or assets provided by an investee to serve as collateral for borrowing arrangements of the entity or
another group member (however, an investment entity would still be able to use an investment in an investee as
collateral for any of its borrowings);
(d)
an option held by a related party of the entity to purchase, from that entity or another group member, an ownership
interest in an investee of the entity;
(e)
except as described in paragraph B85J, transactions between the entity or another group member and an investee that:
(i)
are on terms that are unavailable to entities that are not related parties of either the entity, another group member or the
investee;
(ii)
are not at fair value; or
(iii)
represent a substantial portion of the investee's or the entity's business activity, including business activities of other
group entities.
B85J. An investment entity may have a strategy to invest in more than one investee in the same industry, market or
geographical area in order to benefit from synergies that increase the capital appreciation and investment income from
those investees. Notwithstanding paragraph B85I(e), an entity is not disqualified from being classified as an investment
Page 289/765
----- PAGE 290 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
entity merely because such investees trade with each other.
Fair value measurement
B85K. An essential element of the definition of an investment entity is that it measures and evaluates the performance of
substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis, because using fair value results in more relevant information
than, for example, consolidating its subsidiaries or using the equity method for its interests in associates or joint
ventures. In order to demonstrate that it meets this element of the definition, an investment entity:
(a)
provides investors with fair value information and measures substantially all of its investments at fair value in its financial
statements whenever fair value is required or permitted in accordance with Ind ASs; and
(b)
reports fair value information internally to the entity's key management personnel (as defined in Ind AS 24), who use fair
value as the primary measurement attribute to evaluate the performance of substantially all of its investments and to
make investment decisions.
B85L. In order to meet the requirement in B85K(a), an investment entity would:
(a)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(b)
elect the exemption from applying the equity method in Ind AS 28 for its investments in associates and joint ventures;
and
(c)
measure its financial assets at fair value using the requirements in Ind AS 109.
B85M. An investment entity may have some non-investment assets, such as a head office property and related
equipment, and may also have financial liabilities. The fair value measurement element of the definition of an investment
entity in paragraph 27(c) applies to an investment entity's investments. Accordingly, an investment entity need not
measure its non-investment assets or its liabilities at fair value.
Typical characteristics of an investment entity
B85N. In determining whether it meets the definition of an investment entity, an entity shall consider whether it displays
the typical characteristics of one (see paragraph 28). The absence of one or more of these typical characteristics does
not necessarily disqualify an entity from being classified as an investment entity but indicates that additional judgement
is required in determining whether the entity is an investment entity.
More than one investment
B85O. An investment entity typically holds several investments to diversify its risk and maximise its returns. An entity
may hold a portfolio of investments directly or indirectly, for example by holding a single investment in another
investment entity that itself holds several investments.
B85P. There may be times when the entity holds a single investment. However, holding a single investment does not
necessarily prevent an entity from meeting the definition of an investment entity. For example, an investment entity may
hold only a single investment when the entity:
(a)
is in its start-up period and has not yet identified suitable investments and, therefore, has not yet executed its investment
plan to acquire several investments;
(b)
has not yet made other investments to replace those it has disposed of;
(c)
is established to pool investors' funds to invest in a single investment when that investment is unobtainable by individual
investors (e.g. when the required minimum investment is too high for an individual investor); or
(d)
is in the process of liquidation.
More than one investor
B85Q. Typically, an investment entity would have several investors who pool their funds to gain access to investment
management services and investment opportunities that they might not have had access to individually. Having several
investors would make it less likely that the entity, or other members of the group containing the entity, would obtain
Page 290/765
----- PAGE 291 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
benefits other than capital appreciation or investment income (see paragraph B85I).
B85R. Alternatively, an investment entity may be formed by, or for, a single investor that represents or supports the
interests of a wider group of investors (e.g. a pension fund, government investment fund or family trust).
B85S. There may also be times when the entity temporarily has a single investor. For example, an investment entity
may have only a single investor when the entity:
(a)
is within its initial offering period, which has not expired and the entity is actively identifying suitable investors;
(b)
has not yet identified suitable investors to replace ownership interests that have been redeemed; or
(c)
is in the process of liquidation
Unrelated investors
B85T. Typically, an investment entity has several investors that are not related parties (as defined in Ind AS 24) of the
entity or other members of the group containing the entity. Having unrelated investors would make it less likely that the
entity, or other members of the group containing the entity, would obtain benefits other than capital appreciation or
investment income (see paragraph B85I).
B85U. However, an entity may still qualify as an investment entity even though its investors are related to the entity. For
example, an investment entity may set up a separate 'parallel' fund for a group of its employees (such as key
management personnel) or other related party investor(s), which mirrors the investments of the entity's main investment
fund. This 'parallel' fund may qualify as an investment entity even though all of its investors are related parties.
Ownership interests
B85V. An investment entity is typically, but is not required to be, a separate legal entity. Ownership interests in an
investment entity are typically in the form of equity or similar interests (e.g. partnership interests), to which proportionate
shares of the net assets of the investment entity are attributed. However, having different classes of investors, some of
which have rights only to a specific investment or groups of investments or which have different proportionate shares of
the net assets, does not preclude an entity from being an investment entity.
B85W. In addition, an entity that has significant ownership interests in the form of debt that, in accordance with other
applicable Ind ASs, does not meet the definition of equity, may still qualify as an investment entity, provided that the debt
holders are exposed to variable returns from changes in the fair value of the entity's net assets.
Accounting requirements
Consolidation procedures
B86. Consolidated financial statements:
(a)
combine like items of assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows of the parent with those of its
subsidiaries.
(b)
offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the parent's investment in each subsidiary and the parent's portion of equity of
each subsidiary (Ind AS 103 explains how to account for any related goodwill).
(c)
eliminate in full intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions
between entities of the group (profits or losses resulting from intragroup transactions that are recognized in assets, such
as inventory and fixed assets, are eliminated in full). Intragroup losses may indicate an impairment that requires
recognition in the consolidated financial statements. Ind AS12, Income Taxes, applies to temporary differences that
arise from the elimination of profits and losses resulting from intragroup transactions.
Uniform accounting policies
B87. If a member of the group uses accounting policies other than those adopted in the consolidated financial
statements for like transactions and events in similar circumstances, appropriate adjustments are made to that group
member's financial statements in preparing the consolidated financial statements to ensure conformity with the group's
accounting policies.
Measurement
B88. An entity includes the income and expenses of a subsidiary in the consolidated financial statements from the date it
Page 291/765
----- PAGE 292 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
gains control until the date when the entity ceases to control the subsidiary. Income and expenses of the subsidiary are
based on the amounts of the assets and liabilities recognized in the consolidated financial statements at the acquisition
date. For example, depreciation expense recognized in the consolidated statement of profit and loss after the acquisition
date is based on the fair values of the related depreciable assets recognized in the consolidated financial statements at
the acquisition date.
Potential voting rights
B89. When potential voting rights, or other derivatives containing potential voting rights, exist, the proportion of profit or
loss and changes in equity allocated to the parent and non-controlling interests in preparing consolidated financial
statements is determined solely on the basis of existing ownership interests and does not reflect the possible exercise or
conversion of potential voting rights and other derivatives, unless paragraph B90 applies.
B90. In some circumstances an entity has, in substance, an existing ownership interest as a result of a transaction that
currently gives the entity access to the returns associated with an ownership interest. In such circumstances, the
proportion allocated to the parent and non-controlling interests in preparing consolidated financial statements is
determined by taking into account the eventual exercise of those potential voting rights and other derivatives that
currently give the entity access to the returns.
B91. Ind AS 109 does not apply to interests in subsidiaries that are consolidated. When instruments containing potential
voting rights in substance currently give access to the returns associated with an ownership interest in a subsidiary, the
instruments are not subject to the requirements of Ind AS 109. In all other cases, instruments containing potential voting
rights in a subsidiary are accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 109.
Reporting date
B92. The financial statements of the parent and its subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial
statements shall have the same reporting date. When the end of the reporting period of the parent is different from that
of a subsidiary, the subsidiary prepares, for consolidation purposes, additional financial information as of the same date
as the financial statements of the parent to enable the parent to consolidate the financial information of the subsidiary,
unless it is impracticable to do so.
B93. If it is impracticable to do so, the parent shall consolidate the financial information of the subsidiary using the most
recent financial statements of the subsidiary adjusted for the effects of significant transactions or events that occur
between the date of those financial statements and the date of the consolidated financial statements. In any case, the
difference between the date of the subsidiary's financial statements and that of the consolidated financial statements
shall be no more than three months, and the length of the reporting periods and any difference between the dates of the
financial statements shall be the same from period to period.
Non-controlling interests
B94. An entity shall attribute the profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income to the owners of the
parent and to the non-controlling interests. The entity shall also attribute total comprehensive income to the owners of
the parent and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
B95. If a subsidiary has outstanding cumulative preference shares that are classified as equity and are held by
non-controlling interests, the entity shall compute its share of profit or loss after adjusting for the dividends on such
shares, whether or not such dividends have been declared.
Changes in the proportion held by non-controlling interests
B96. When the proportion of the equity held by non-controlling interests changes, an entity shall adjust the carrying
amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiary.
The entity shall recognise directly in equity any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are
adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received, and attribute it to the owners of the parent.
Loss of control
B97. A parent might lose control of a subsidiary in two or more arrangements (transactions). However, sometimes
circumstances indicate that the multiple arrangements should be accounted for as a single transaction. In determining
whether to account for the arrangements as a single transaction, a parent shall consider all the terms and conditions of
the arrangements and their economic effects. One or more of the following indicate that the parent should account for
the multiple arrangements as a single transaction:
(a)
They are entered into at the same time or in contemplation of each other.
Page 292/765
----- PAGE 293 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
They form a single transaction designed to achieve an overall commercial effect.
(c)
The occurrence of one arrangement is dependent on the occurrence of at least one other arrangement.
(d)
One arrangement considered on its own is not economically justified, but it is economically justified when considered
together with other arrangements. An example is when a disposal of shares is priced below market and is compensated
for by a subsequent disposal priced above market.
B98. If a parent loses control of a subsidiary, it shall:
(a)
derecognise:
(i)
the assets (including any goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary at their carrying amounts at the date when control is
lost; and
(ii)
the carrying amount of any non-controlling interests in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost (including
any components of other comprehensive income attributable to them).
(b)
recognise:
(i)
the fair value of the consideration received, if any, from the transaction, event or circumstances that resulted in the loss
of control;
(ii)
if the transaction, event or circumstances that resulted in the loss of control involves a distribution of shares of the
subsidiary to owners in their capacity as owners, that distribution; and
(iii)
any investment retained in the former subsidiary at its fair value at the date when control is lost.
(c)
reclassify to profit or loss, or transfer directly to retained earnings if required by other Ind ASs, the amounts recognized
in other comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary on the basis described in paragraph B99.
(d)
recognise any resulting difference as a gain or loss in profit or loss attributable to the parent.
B99. If a parent loses control of a subsidiary, the parent shall account for all amounts previously recognized in other
comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary on the same basis as would be required if the parent had directly
disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive
income would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the parent shall reclassify
the gain or loss from equity to profit or loss (as a reclassification adjustment) when it loses control of the subsidiary. If a
revaluation surplus previously recognized in other comprehensive income would be transferred directly to retained
earnings on the disposal of the asset, the parent shall transfer the revaluation surplus directly to retained earnings when
it loses control of the subsidiary.
Accounting for a change in investment entity status
B100. When an entity ceases to be an investment entity, it shall apply Ind AS 103 to any subsidiary that was previously
measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 31. The date of the change of status shall be
the deemed acquisition date. The fair value of the subsidiary at the deemed acquisition date shall represent the
transferred deemed consideration when measuring any goodwill or gain from a bargain purchase that arises from the
deemed acquisition. All subsidiaries shall be consolidated in accordance with paragraphs 19-24 of this Ind AS from the
date of change of status.
B101. When an entity becomes an investment entity, it shall cease to consolidate its subsidiaries at the date of the
change in status, except for any subsidiary that shall continue to be consolidated in accordance with paragraph 32. The
investment entity shall apply the requirements of paragraphs 25 and 26 to those subsidiaries that it ceases to
consolidate as though the investment entity had lost control of those subsidiaries at that date.
Page 293/765
----- PAGE 294 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Appendix C
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
1. Appendix A, Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners contained, in Ind AS 10, Events after the Reporting Period,
makes reference to this Standard also.
2. Appendix A, Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds,
contained in Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, makes reference to this Standard also.
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 110 and the corresponding International
Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 10, Consolidated Financial Statements, issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board.
Comparison with IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements
1. IFRS 10 requires all investments to be measured at fair value to qualify for the exemption from consolidation available
to an investment entity. Since, Ind AS 40, Investment Properties requires all investment properties to be measured at
cost initially and cost less depreciation subsequently, sub-paragraph (a) of B85L have been deleted as this deal with
investment property measured at fair value which is not relevant in the Indian context.
2. Different terminology is used, as used in existing laws e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of
financial position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'.
3. Appendix C of IFRS 10 dealing with effective date, transition and withdrawal of other IFRSs has not been included in
Ind AS 10, due to the following reasons:
(i)
Effective date is not relevant as the date of application will be notified under the Companies Act.
(ii)
Transitional provisions related to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in Ind AS 101,
First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards, corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International
Financial Reporting Standards.
(iii)
Paragraphs dealing with withdrawal of other IFRSs are not relevant.
4. [ Following paragraph numbers appear as 'Deleted' in IFRS 10. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IFRS 10, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 110:
(i)
Paragraph 4(b)
(ii)
Paragraph 4(c).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 111
Joint Arrangements
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) is to establish principles for financial reporting by entities
that have an interest in arrangements that are controlled jointly (i.e. joint arrangements).
Meeting the objective
2. To meet the objective in paragraph 1, this Ind AS defines joint control and requires an entity that is a party to a joint
arrangement to determine the type of joint arrangement in which it is involved by assessing its rights and obligations and
to account for those rights and obligations in accordance with that type of joint arrangement.
Scope
3. This Ind AS shall be applied by all entities that are a party to a joint arrangement.
Joint arrangements
4. A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have joint control.
5. A joint arrangement has the following characteristics:
Page 294/765
----- PAGE 295 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
The parties are bound by a contractual arrangement (see paragraphs B2-B4).
(b)
The contractual arrangement gives two or more of those parties joint control of the arrangement (see paragraphs 7-13).
6. A joint arrangement is either a joint operation or a joint venture.
Joint control
7. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about
the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
8. An entity that is a party to an arrangement shall assess whether the contractual arrangement gives all the parties, or a
group of the parties, control of the arrangement collectively. All the parties, or a group of the parties, control the
arrangement collectively when they must act together to direct the activities that significantly affect the returns of the
arrangement (.e. the relevant activities).
9. Once it has been determined that all the parties, or a group of the parties, control the arrangement collectively, joint
control exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties that control
the arrangement collectively.
10. In a joint arrangement, no single party controls the arrangement on its own. A party with joint control of an
arrangement can prevent any of the other parties, or a group of the parties, from controlling the arrangement.
11. An arrangement can be a joint arrangement even though not all of its parties have joint control of the arrangement.
This Ind AS distinguishes between parties that have joint control of a joint arrangement (joint operators or joint
venturers) and parties that participate in, but do not have joint control of, a joint arrangement.
12. An entity will need to apply judgement when assessing whether all the parties, or a group of the parties, have joint
control of an arrangement. An entity shall make this assessment by considering all facts and circumstances (see
paragraphs B5-B11).
13. If facts and circumstances change, an entity shall reassess whether it still has joint control of the arrangement.
Types of joint arrangement
14. An entity shall determine the type of joint arrangement in which it is involved. The classification of a joint
arrangement as a joint operation or a joint venture depends upon the rights and obligations of the parties to the
arrangement.
15. A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to
the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. Those parties are called joint operators.
16. A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to
the net assets of the arrangement. Those parties are called joint venturers.
17. An entity applies judgement when assessing whether a joint arrangement is a joint operation or a joint venture. An
entity shall determine the type of joint arrangement in which it is involved by considering its rights and obligations arising
from the arrangement. An entity assesses its rights and obligations by considering the structure and legal form of the
arrangement, the terms agreed by the parties in the contractual arrangement and, when relevant, other facts and
circumstances (see paragraphs B12-B33).
18. Sometimes the parties are bound by a framework agreement that sets up the general contractual terms for
undertaking one or more activities. The framework agreement might set out that the parties establish different joint
arrangements to deal with specific activities that form part of the agreement. Even though those joint arrangements are
related to the same framework agreement, their type might be different if the parties' rights and obligations differ when
undertaking the different activities dealt with in the framework agreement. Consequently, joint operations and joint
ventures can coexist when the parties undertake different activities that form part of the same framework agreement.
19. If facts and circumstances change, an entity shall reassess whether the type of joint arrangement in which it is
involved has changed.
Financial statements of parties to a joint arrangement
Joint operations
20. A joint operator shall recognise in relation to its interest in a joint operation:
(a)
its assets, including its share of any assets held jointly;
(b)
Page 295/765
----- PAGE 296 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
its liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly;
(c)
its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation;
(d)
its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation; and
(e)
its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly.
21. A joint operator shall account for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to its interest in a joint
operation in accordance with the Ind ASs applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
21A. When an entity acquires an interest in a joint operation in which the activity of the joint operation constitutes a
business, as defined in Ind AS 103, it shall apply, to the extent of its share in accordance with paragraph 20, all of the
principles on business combinations accounting in Ind AS 103, and other Ind ASs, that do not conflict with the guidance
in this Ind AS and disclose the information that is required in those Ind ASs in relation to business combinations. This
applies to the acquisition of both the initial interest and additional interests in a joint operation in which the activity of the
joint operation constitutes a business. The accounting for the acquisition of an interest in such a joint operation is
specified in paragraphs B33A-B33D.
22. The accounting for transactions such as the sale, contribution or purchase of assets between an entity and a joint
operation in which it is a joint operator is specified in paragraphs B34-B37.
23. A party that participates in, but does not have joint control of, a joint operation shall also account for its interest in the
arrangement in accordance with paragraphs 20-22 if that party has rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities,
relating to the joint operation. If a party that participates in, but does not have joint control of, a joint operation does not
have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to that joint operation, it shall account for its interest in
the joint operation in accordance with the Ind ASs applicable to that interest.
Joint ventures
24. A joint venturer shall recognise its interest in a joint venture as an investment and shall account for that investment
using the equity method in accordance with Ind AS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, unless the entity
is exempted from applying the equity method as specified in that standard.
25. A party that participates in, but does not have joint control of, a joint venture shall account for its interest in the
arrangement in accordance with Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments, unless it has significant influence over the joint
venture, in which case it shall account for it in accordance with Ind AS 28.
Separate financial statements
26. In its separate financial statements, a joint operator or joint venturer shall account for its interest in:
(a)
a joint operation in accordance with paragraphs 20-22;
(b)
a joint venture in accordance with paragraph 10 of Ind AS 27, Separate Financial Statements.
27. In its separate financial statements, a party that participates in, but does not have joint control of, a joint arrangement
shall account for its interest in:
(a)
a joint operation in accordance with paragraph 23;
(b)
a joint venture in accordance with Ind AS 109, unless the entity has significant influence over the joint venture, in which
case it shall apply paragraph 10 of Ind AS 27.
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an integral
part of the Ind AS.
joint arrangement
An arrangement of which two or more parties havejoint
control.
joint control
Page 296/765
----- PAGE 297 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
The contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement,
which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities
require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
joint operation
Ajoint arrangementwhereby the parties that havejoint
controlof the arrangement have rights to the assets, and
obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
joint operator
A party to ajoint operationthat hasjoint controlof that
joint operation.
joint venture
Ajoint arrangementwhereby the parties that havejoint
controlof the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the
arrangement.
joint venturer
A party to ajoint venturethat hasjoint controlof that
joint venture.
party to a joint arrangement
An entity that participates in ajoint arrangement, regardless
of whether that entity hasjoint controlof the arrangement.
separate vehicle
A separately identifiable financial structure, including separate legal entities or entities recognized by statute, regardless
of whether those entities have a legal personality.
The following terms are defined in Ind AS 27, Ind AS 28 or Ind AS 110, Consolidated Financial Statements, and are
used in this Ind AS with the meanings specified in those Ind ASs:
? control of an investee
? equity method
? power
? protective rights
? relevant activities
? separate financial statements
? significant influence.
Appendix B
Application guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS. It describes the application of paragraphs 1-27 and has the same
authority as the other parts of this Ind AS.
B1. The examples in this appendix portray hypothetical situations. Although some aspects of the examples may be
present in actual fact patterns, all relevant facts and circumstances of a particular fact pattern would need to be
evaluated when applying Ind AS 111.
Joint arrangements
Contractual arrangement (paragraph 5)
B2. Contractual arrangements can be evidenced in several ways. An enforceable contractual arrangement is often, but
not always, in writing, usually in the form of a contract or documented discussions between the parties. Statutory
mechanisms can also create enforceable arrangements, either on their own or in conjunction with contracts between the
parties.
B3. When joint arrangements are structured through a separate vehicle (see paragraphs B19-B33), the contractual
arrangement, or some aspects of the contractual arrangement, will in some cases be incorporated in the articles, charter
or by-laws of the separate vehicle.
B4. The contractual arrangement sets out the terms upon which the parties participate in the activity that is the subject of
the arrangement. The contractual arrangement generally deals with such matters as:
(a)
Page 297/765
----- PAGE 298 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the purpose, activity and duration of the joint arrangement.
(b)
how the members of the board of directors, or equivalent governing body, of the joint arrangement, are appointed.
(c)
the decision-making process: the matters requiring decisions from the parties, the voting rights of the parties and the
required level of support for those matters. The decision-making process reflected in the contractual arrangement
establishes joint control of the arrangement (see paragraphs B5-B11).
(d)
the capital or other contributions required of the parties.
(e)
how the parties share assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses or profit or loss relating to the joint arrangement.
Joint Control (paragraphs 7-13)
B5. In assessing whether an entity has joint control of an arrangement, an entity shall assess first whether all the parties,
or a group of the parties, control the arrangement. Ind AS 110 defines control and shall be used to determine whether all
the parties, or a group of the parties, are exposed, or have rights, to variable returns from their involvement with the
arrangement and have the ability to affect those returns through their power over the arrangement. When all the parties,
or a group of the parties, considered collectively, are able to direct the activities that significantly affect the returns of the
arrangement (i.e. the relevant activities), the parties control the arrangement collectively.
B6. After concluding that all the parties, or a group of the parties, control the arrangement collectively, an entity shall
assess whether it has joint control of the arrangement. Joint control exists only when decisions about the relevant
activities require the unanimous consent of the parties that collectively control the arrangement. Assessing whether the
arrangement is jointly controlled by all of its parties or by a group of the parties, or controlled by one of its parties alone,
can require judgement.
B7. Sometimes the decision-making process that is agreed upon by the parties in their contractual arrangement
implicitly leads to joint control. For example, assume two parties establish an arrangement in which each has 50 per
cent of the voting rights and the contractual arrangement between them specifies that at least 51 per cent of the voting
rights are required to make decisions about the relevant activities. In this case, the parties have implicitly agreed that
they have joint control of the arrangement because decisions about the relevant activities cannot be made without both
parties agreeing.
B8. In other circumstances, the contractual arrangement requires a minimum proportion of the voting rights to make
decisions about the relevant activities. When that minimum required proportion of the voting rights can be achieved by
more than one combination of the parties agreeing together, that arrangement is not a joint arrangement unless the
contractual arrangement specifies which parties (or combination of parties) are required to agree unanimously to
decisions about the relevant activities of the arrangement.
Application examples
Example 1
Assume that three
parties establish an arrangement: A has 50 per cent of the voting
rights in the arrangement, B has 30 per cent and C has 20 per
cent. The contractual arrangement between A, B and C specifies
that at least 75 per cent of the voting rights are required to
make decisions about the relevant activities of the arrangement.
Even though A can block any decision, it does not control the
arrangement because it needs the agreement of B. The terms of
their contractual arrangement requiring at least 75 per cent of
the voting rights to make decisions about the relevant activities
imply that A and B have joint control of the arrangement because
decisions about the relevant activities of the arrangement cannot
be made without both A and B agreeing.
Example 2
Assume an arrangement
Page 298/765
----- PAGE 299 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
has three parties: A has 50 per cent of the voting rights in the
arrangement and B and C each have 25 per cent. The contractual
arrangement between A, B and C specifies that at least 75 per
cent of the voting rights are required to make decisions about
the relevant activities of the arrangement. Even though A can
block any decision, it does not control the arrangement because
it needs the agreement of either B or C. In this example, A, B
and C collectively control the arrangement. However, there is
more than one combination of parties that can agree to reach 75
per cent of the voting rights (i.e. either A and B or A and C).
In such a situation, to be a joint arrangement the contractual
arrangement between the parties would need to specify which
combination of the parties is required to agree unanimously to
decisions about the relevant activities of the arrangement.
Example 3
Assume an arrangement in which A and B each have
35 per cent of the voting rights in the arrangement with the
remaining 30 per cent being widely dispersed. Decisions about the
relevant activities require approval by a majority of the voting
rights. A and B have joint control of the arrangement only if the
contractual arrangement specifies that decisions about the
relevant activities of the arrangement require both A and B
agreeing.
B9. The requirement for unanimous consent means that any party with joint control of the arrangement can prevent any
of the other parties, or a group of the parties, from making unilateral decisions (about the relevant activities) without its
consent. If the requirement for unanimous consent relates only to decisions that give a party protective rights and not to
decisions about the relevant activities of an arrangement, that party is not a party with joint control of the arrangement.
B10. A contractual arrangement might include clauses on the resolution of disputes, such as arbitration. These
provisions may allow for decisions to be made in the absence of unanimous consent among the parties that have joint
control. The existence of such provisions does not prevent the arrangement from being jointly controlled and,
consequently, from being a joint arrangement.
Assessing joint control
B11. When an arrangement is outside the scope of Ind AS 111, an entity accounts for its interest in the arrangement in
accordance with relevant Ind ASs, such as Ind AS 110, Ind AS 28 or Ind AS 109.
Types of joint arrangement (paragraphs 14-19)
B12. Joint arrangements are established for a variety of purposes (e.g. as a way for parties to share costs and risks, or
as a way to provide the parties with access to new technology or new markets), and can be established using different
structures and legal forms.
B13. Some arrangements do not require the activity that is the subject of the arrangement to be undertaken in a
separate vehicle. However, other arrangements involve the establishment of a separate vehicle.
B14. The classification of joint arrangements required by this Ind AS depends upon the parties' rights and obligations
arising from the arrangement in the normal course of business. This Ind AS classifies joint arrangements as either joint
operations or joint ventures. When an entity has rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the
arrangement, the arrangement is a joint operation. When an entity has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, the
arrangement is a joint venture. Paragraphs B16-B33 set out the assessment an entity carries out to determine whether it
has an interest in a joint operation or an interest in a joint venture.
Classification of a joint arrangement
B15. As stated in paragraph B14, the classification of joint arrangements requires the parties to assess their rights and
obligations arising from the arrangement. When making that assessment, an entity shall consider the following:
(a)
the structure of the joint arrangement (see paragraphs B16-B21).
Page 299/765
----- PAGE 300 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
when the joint arrangement is structured through a separate vehicle:
(i)
the legal form of the separate vehicle (see paragraphs B22-B24);
(ii)
the terms of the contractual arrangement (see paragraphs B25-B28); and
(iii)
when relevant, other facts and circumstances (see paragraphs B29-B33).
Structure of the joint arrangement
Joint arrangements not structured through a separate vehicle
B16. A joint arrangement that is not structured through a separate vehicle is a joint operation. In such cases, the
contractual arrangement establishes the parties' rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the
arrangement, and the parties' rights to the corresponding revenues and obligations for the corresponding expenses.
B17. The contractual arrangement often describes the nature of the activities that are the subject of the arrangement
and how the parties intend to undertake those activities together. For example, the parties to a joint arrangement could
agree to manufacture a product together, with each party being responsible for a specific task and each using its own
assets and incurring its own liabilities. The contractual arrangement could also specify how the revenues and expenses
that are common to the parties are to be shared among them. In such a case, each joint operator recognises in its
financial statements the assets and liabilities used for the specific task, and recognises its share of the revenues and
expenses in accordance with the contractual arrangement.
B18. In other cases, the parties to a joint arrangement might agree, for example, to share and operate an asset together.
In such a case, the contractual arrangement establishes the parties' rights to the asset that is operated jointly, and how
output or revenue from the asset and operating costs are shared among the parties. Each joint operator accounts for its
share of the joint asset and its agreed share of any liabilities, and recognises its share of the output, revenues and
expenses in accordance with the contractual arrangement.
Joint arrangements structured through a separate vehicle
B19. A joint arrangement in which the assets and liabilities relating to the arrangement are held in a separate vehicle
can be either a joint venture or a joint operation.
B20. Whether a party is a joint operator or a joint venturer depends on the party's rights to the assets, and obligations for
the liabilities, relating to the arrangement that are held in the separate vehicle.
B21. As stated in paragraph B15, when the parties have structured a joint arrangement in a separate vehicle, the parties
need to assess whether the legal form of the separate vehicle, the terms of the contractual arrangement and, when
relevant, any other facts and circumstances give them:
(a)
rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement (i.e. the arrangement is a joint
operation); or
(b)
rights to the net assets of the arrangement (i.e. the arrangement is a joint venture).
Classification of a joint arrangement: assessment of the parties' rights and obligations arising from the arrangement
The legal form of the separate vehicle
B22. The legal form of the separate vehicle is relevant when assessing the type of joint arrangement. The legal form
assists in the initial assessment of the parties' rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities held in the separate
vehicle, such as whether the parties have interests in the assets held in the separate vehicle and whether they are liable
for the liabilities held in the separate vehicle.
B23. For example, the parties might conduct the joint arrangement through a separate vehicle, whose legal form causes
the separate vehicle to be considered in its own right (i.e. the assets and liabilities held in the separate vehicle are the
assets and liabilities of the separate vehicle and not the assets and liabilities of the parties). In such a case, the
assessment of the rights and obligations conferred upon the parties by the legal form of the separate vehicle indicates
that the arrangement is a joint venture. However, the terms agreed by the parties in their contractual arrangement (see
paragraphs B25-B28) and, when relevant, other facts and circumstances (see paragraphs B29-B33) can override the
assessment of the rights and obligations conferred upon the parties by the legal form of the separate vehicle.
Page 300/765
----- PAGE 301 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B24. The assessment of the rights and obligations conferred upon the parties by the legal form of the separate vehicle is
sufficient to conclude that the arrangement is a joint operation only if the parties conduct the joint arrangement in a
separate vehicle whose legal form does not confer separation between the parties and the separate vehicle (i.e. the
assets and liabilities held in the separate vehicle are the parties' assets and liabilities).
Assessing the terms of the contractual arrangement
B25. In many cases, the rights and obligations agreed to by the parties in their contractual arrangements are consistent,
or do not conflict, with the rights and obligations conferred on the parties by the legal form of the separate vehicle in
which the arrangement has been structured.
B26. In other cases, the parties use the contractual arrangement to reverse or modify the rights and obligations
conferred by the legal form of the separate vehicle in which the arrangement has been structured.
Application example
Example 4
Assume that two
parties structure a joint arrangement in an incorporated entity.
Each party has a 50 per cent ownership interest in the
incorporated entity. The incorporation enables the separation of
the entity from its owners and as a consequence the assets and
liabilities held in the entity are the assets and liabilities of
the incorporated entity. In such a case, the assessment of the
rights and obligations conferred upon the parties by the legal
form of the separate vehicle indicates that the parties have
rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
However, the parties modify the features of the
corporation through their contractual arrangement so that each
has an interest in the assets of the incorporated entity and each
is liable for the liabilities of the incorporated entity in a
specified proportion. Such contractual modifications to the
features of a corporation can cause an arrangement to be a joint
operation.
B27. The following table compares common terms in contractual arrangements of parties to a joint operation and
common terms in contractual arrangements of parties to a joint venture. The examples of the contractual terms provided
in the following table are not exhaustive.
Assessing the terms of the contractual
arrangement
Joint operation
Joint venture
The terms of the contractual arrangement
The contractual arrangement provides the parties
to the joint arrangement with rights to the assets, and
obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
The contractual arrangement provides the parties
to the joint arrangement with rights to the net assets of the
arrangement (i.e. it is the separate vehicle, not the parties,
that has rights to the assets, and obligations for the
liabilities, relating to the arrangement).
Rights to assets
The contractual arrangement establishes that the
parties to the joint arrangement share all interests (e.g.
rights, title or ownership) in the assets relating to the
arrangement in a specified proportion (e.g. in proportion to the
parties' ownership interest in the arrangement or in proportion
Page 301/765
----- PAGE 302 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
to the activity carried out through the arrangement that is
directly attributed to them).
The contractual arrangement establishes that the
assets brought into the arrangement or subsequently acquired by
the joint arrangement are the arrangement's assets. The parties
have no interests (i.e. no rights, title or ownership) in the
assets of the arrangement.
Obligations for liabilities
The contractual
arrangement establishes that the parties to the joint arrangement
share all liabilities, obligations, costs and expenses in a
specified proportion (e.g. in proportion to the parties'
ownership interest in the arrangement or in proportion to the
activity carried out through the arrangement that is directly
attributed to them).
The contractual
arrangement establishes that the parties to the joint arrangement
are liable for claims raised by third parties.
The contractual
arrangement establishes that the joint arrangement is liable for
the debts and obligations of the arrangement.
The contractual
arrangement establishes that the parties to the joint arrangement
are liable to the arrangement only to the extent of their
respective investments in the arrangement or to their respective
obligations to contribute any unpaid or additional capital to the
arrangement, or both.
The contractual arrangement states that
creditors of the joint arrangement do not have rights of recourse
against any party with respect to debts or obligations of the
arrangement.
Revenues, expenses, profit or loss
The contractual arrangement establishes the
allocation of revenues and expenses on the basis of the relative
performance of each party to the joint arrangement. For example,
the contractual arrangement might establish that revenues and
expenses are allocated on the basis of the capacity that each
party uses in a plant operated jointly, which could differ from
their ownership interest in the joint arrangement. In other
instances, the parties might have agreed to share the profit or
loss relating to the arrangement on the basis of a specified
proportion such as the parties' ownership interest in the
arrangement. This would not prevent the arrangement from being a
joint operation if the parties have rights to the assets, and
obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
The contractual arrangement establishes each
party's share in the profit or loss relating to the activities of
the arrangement.
Guarantees
The parties to joint arrangements are often
required to provide guarantees to third parties that, for
Page 302/765
----- PAGE 303 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
example, receive a service from, or provide financing to, the
joint arrangement. The provision of such guarantees, or the
commitment by the parties to provide them, does not, by itself,
determine that the joint arrangement is a joint operation. The
feature that determines whether the joint arrangement is a joint
operation or a joint venture is whether the parties have
obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement (for
some of which the parties might or might not have provided a
guarantee).
B28. When the contractual arrangement specifies that the parties have rights to the assets, and obligations for the
liabilities, relating to the arrangement, they are parties to a joint operation and do not need to consider other facts and
circumstances (paragraphs B29-B33) for the purposes of classifying the joint arrangement.
Assessing other facts and circumstances
B29. When the terms of the contractual arrangement do not specify that the parties have rights to the assets, and
obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement, the parties shall consider other facts and circumstances to
assess whether the arrangement is a joint operation or a joint venture.
B30. A joint arrangement might be structured in a separate vehicle whose legal form confers separation between the
parties and the separate vehicle. The contractual terms agreed among the parties might not specify the parties' rights to
the assets and obligations for the liabilities, yet consideration of other facts and circumstances can lead to such an
arrangement being classified as a joint operation. This will be the case when other facts and circumstances give the
parties rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
B31. When the activities of an arrangement are primarily designed for the provision of output to the parties, this indicates
that the parties have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets of the arrangement. The parties to
such arrangements often ensure their access to the outputs provided by the arrangement by preventing the
arrangement from selling output to third parties.
B32. The effect of an arrangement with such a design and purpose is that the liabilities incurred by the arrangement are,
in substance, satisfied by the cash flows received from the parties through their purchases of the output. When the
parties are substantially the only source of cash flows contributing to the continuity of the operations of the arrangement,
this indicates that the parties have an obligation for the liabilities relating to the arrangement.
Application example
Example 5
Assume that two
parties structure a joint arrangement in an incorporated entity
(entity C) in which each party has a 50 per cent ownership
interest. The purpose of the arrangement is to manufacture
materials required by the parties for their own, individual
manufacturing processes. The arrangement ensures that the parties
operate the facility that produces the materials to the quantity
and quality specifications of the parties. The legal form of
entity C (an incorporated entity) through which the activities
are conducted initially indicates that the assets and liabilities
held in entity C are the assets and liabilities of entity C. The
contractual arrangement between the parties does not specify that
the parties have rights to the assets or obligations for the
liabilities of entity C. Accordingly, the legal form of entity C
and the terms of the contractual arrangement indicate that the
arrangement is a joint venture.
However, the parties
also consider the following aspects of the arrangement:
The parties
agreed to purchase all the output produced by entity C in a
Page 303/765
----- PAGE 304 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
ratio of 50:50. Entity C cannot sell any of the output to third
parties, unless this is approved by the two parties to the
arrangement. Because the purpose of the arrangement is to
provide the parties with output they require, such sales to
third parties are expected to be uncommon and not material.
The price of the
output sold to the parties is set by both parties at a level
that is designed to cover the costs of production and
administrative expenses incurred by entity C. On the basis of
this operating model, the arrangement is intended to operate at
a break-even level.
From the fact pattern
above, the following facts and circumstances are relevant:
The obligation
of the parties to purchase all the output produced by entity C
reflects the exclusive dependence of entity C upon the parties
for the generation of cash flows and, thus, the parties have an
obligation to fund the settlement of the liabilities of entity
C.
The fact that
the parties have rights to all the output produced by entity C
means that the parties are consuming, and therefore have rights
to, all the economic benefits of the assets of entity C.
These facts and
circumstances indicate that the arrangement is a joint operation.
The conclusion about the classification of the joint arrangement
in these circumstances would not change if, instead of the
parties using their share of the output themselves in a
subsequent manufacturing process, the parties sold their share of
the output to third parties.
If the parties changed the terms of the
contractual arrangement so that the arrangement was able to sell
output to third parties, this would result in entity C assuming
demand, inventory and credit risks. In that scenario, such a
change in the facts and circumstances would require reassessment
of the classification of the joint arrangement. Such facts and
circumstances would indicate that the arrangement is a joint
venture.
B33. The following flow chart reflects the assessment an entity follows to classify an arrangement when the joint
arrangement is structured through a separate vehicle:
Classification of a joint arrangement structured through a separate vehicle
Financial statements of parties to a joint arrangement (paragraphs 21A-22)
Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations
B33A When an entity acquires an interest in a joint operation in which the activity of the joint operation constitutes a
business, as defined in Ind AS 103, it shall apply, to the extent of its share in accordance with paragraph 20, all of the
principles on business combinations accounting in Ind AS 103, and other Ind ASs, that do not conflict with the guidance
in this Ind AS and disclose the information required by those Ind ASs in relation to business combinations. The
principles on business combinations accounting that do not conflict with the guidance in this Ind AS include but are not
limited to:
(a)
measuring identifiable assets and liabilities at fair value, other than items for which exceptions are given in Ind AS 103
Page 304/765
----- PAGE 305 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
and other Ind ASs;
(b)
recognising acquisition-related costs as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred and the services are
received, with the exception that the costs to issue debt or equity securities are recognized in accordance with Ind AS 32
Financial Instruments: Presentation and Ind AS109;
(c)
recognising deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities that arise from the initial recognition of assets or liabilities,
except for deferred tax liabilities that arise from the initial recognition of goodwill, as required by Ind AS 103 and Ind AS
12 Income Taxes for business combinations;
(d)
recognising the excess of the consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, if any, as goodwill; and
(e)
testing for impairment a cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated at least annually, and whenever there
is an indication that the unit may be impaired, as required by Ind AS 36 Impairment of Assets for goodwill acquired in a
business combination.
B33B Paragraphs 21A and B33A also apply to the formation of a joint operation if, and only if, an existing business, as
defined in Ind AS 103, is contributed to the joint operation on its formation by one of the parties that participate in the
joint operation. However, those paragraphs do not apply to the formation of a joint operation if all of the parties that
participate in the joint operation only contribute assets or groups of assets that do not constitute businesses to the joint
operation on its formation.
B33C A joint operator might increase its interest in a joint operation in which the activity of the joint operation constitutes
a business, as defined in Ind AS 103, by acquiring an additional interest in the joint operation. In such cases, previously
held interests in the joint operation are not remeasured if the joint operator retains joint control.
[B33CA. A party that participates in, but does not have joint control of, a joint operation might obtain joint control of the
joint operation in which the activity of the joint operation constitutes a business as defined in Ind AS 103. In such cases,
previously held interests in the joint operation are not remeasured.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
B33D Paragraphs 21A and B33A - B33C do not apply for the acquisition of an interest in a joint operation when the
parties sharing joint control, including the entity acquiring the interest in the joint operation, are under the common
control of the same ultimate controlling party or parties both before and after the acquisition, and that control is not
transitory. For such transactions, accounting specified in Appendix C of Ind AS 103 shall be applicable.
Accounting for sales or contributions of assets to a joint operation
B34. When an entity enters into a transaction with a joint operation in which it is a joint operator, such as a sale or
contribution of assets, it is conducting the transaction with the other parties to the joint operation and, as such, the joint
operator shall recognise gains and losses resulting from such a transaction only to the extent of the other parties'
interests in the joint operation.
B35. When such transactions provide evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of the assets to be sold or
contributed to the joint operation, or of an impairment loss of those assets, those losses shall be recognized fully by the
joint operator.
Accounting for purchases of assets from a joint operation
B36. When an entity enters into a transaction with a joint operation in which it is a joint operator, such as a purchase of
assets, it shall not recognise its share of the gains and losses until it resells those assets to a third party.
B37. When such transactions provide evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of the assets to be purchased
or of an impairment loss of those assets, a joint operator shall recognise its share of those losses.
[Appendix C]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS and has the same authority as the other parts of the Ind AS.
Effective date
________________________________________________________________________________________
C1 *
Page 305/765
----- PAGE 306 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
C1A *
C1AA *
C1AB Annual Improvements to Ind AS (2018)added paragraph B33CA. An entity shall apply those amendments to
transactions in which it obtains joint control on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or
after 1 April, 2019.
* Refer Appendix 1
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 111 and the corresponding International
Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 11, Joint Arrangements, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements
1. [ Paragraph C1 of Appendix C of IFRS 11 refers to Effective date that has not been included since the same is not
relevant as the date of application is notified under the Companies Act.Paragraphs C1A and C1AA related to transitional
provisions have not been included since, transitional provisions wherever considered appropriate have been included in
Ind AS 101, First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards, corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of
International Financial Reporting Standards. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IFRS
11, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 111.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
2. Paragraph B33D refers to the accounting specified in Appendix C 'Business Combinations under Common Control' of
Ind AS 103 for the acquisition of an interest in a joint operation when the parties sharing joint control, including the entity
acquiring the interest in the joint operation, are under the common control of the same ultimate controlling party or
parties both before and after the acquisition, and that control is not transitory. IFRS 11 scopes out the same as IFRS 3,
Business Combinations, does not deal with business combinations under common control.
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 112
Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) is to require an entity to disclose information that enables
users of its financial statements to evaluate :
(a)
the nature of, and risks associated with, its interests in other entities; and
(b)
the effects of those interests on its financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
Meeting the objective
2. To meet the objective in paragraph 1, an entity shall disclose :
(a)
the significant judgements and assumptions it has made in determining:
(i)
the nature of its interest in another entity or arrangement;
(ii)
the type of joint arrangement in which it has an interest (paragraphs 7-9);
(iii)
that it meets the definition of an investment entity, if applicable (paragraph 9A); and
(b)
information about its interests in :
(i)
subsidiaries (paragraphs 10-19);
(ii)
arrangements and associates (paragraphs 20-23); and
(iii)
Page 306/765
----- PAGE 307 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
structured entities that are not controlled by the entity (unconsolidated structured entities) (paragraphs 24-31).
3. If the disclosures required by this Ind AS, together with disclosures required by other Ind ASs, do not meet the
objective in paragraph 1, an entity shall disclose whatever additional information is necessary to meet that objective.
4. An entity shall consider the level of detail necessary to satisfy the disclosure objective and how much emphasis to
place on each of the requirements in this Ind AS. It shall aggregate or dis-aggregate disclosures so that useful
information is not obscured by either the inclusion of a large amount of insignificant detail or the aggregation of items
that have different characteristics (see paragraphs B2-B6).
Scope
5. This Ind AS shall be applied by an entity that has an interest in any of the following :
(a)
subsidiaries
(b)
joint arrangements (i.e. joint operations or joint ventures)
(c)
associates
(d)
unconsolidated structured entities.
[5A Except as described in paragraph B17, the requirements in this Ind AS apply to an entity's interests listed in
paragraph 5 that are classified (or included in a disposal group that is classified) as held for sale or discontinued
operations in accordance with Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
6. This Ind AS does not apply to :
(a)
post-employment benefit plans or other long-term employee benefit plans to which Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits,
applies.
(b)
[ an entity's separate financial statements to which Ind AS 27, Separate Financial Statements, applies. However:
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(i)
if an entity has interests in unconsolidated structured entities and prepares separate financial statements as its only
financial statements, it shall apply the requirements in paragraphs 24-31 when preparing those separate financial
statements.
(ii)
an investment entity that prepares financial statements in which all of its subsidiaries are measured at fair value through
profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 31 of Ind AS 110 shall present the disclosures relating to investment entities
required by this Ind AS.]
(c)
an interest held by an entity that participates in, but does not have joint control of, a joint arrangement unless that
interest results in significant influence over the arrangement or is an interest in a structured entity.
(d)
an interest in another entity that is accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments. However, an
entity shall apply this Ind AS:
(i)
when that interest is an interest in an associate or a joint venture that, in accordance with Ind AS 28, Investments in
Associates and Joint Ventures, is measured at fair value through profit or loss; or
(ii)
when that interest is an interest in an unconsolidated structured entity.
Significant judgements and assumptions
7. An entity shall disclose information about significant judgements and assumptions it has made (and changes to those
judgements and assumptions) in determining:
(a)
Page 307/765
----- PAGE 308 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
that it has control of another entity, i.e. an investee as described in paragraphs 5 and 6 of Ind AS 110, Consolidated
Financial Statements;
(b)
that it has joint control of an arrangement or significant influence over another entity; and
(c)
the type of joint arrangement (i.e. joint operation or joint venture) when the arrangement has been structured through a
separate vehicle.
8. The significant judgements and assumptions disclosed in accordance with paragraph 7 include those made by the
entity when changes in facts and circumstances are such that the conclusion about whether it has control, joint control
or significant influence changes during the reporting period.
9. To comply with paragraph 7, an entity shall disclose, for example, significant judgements and assumptions made in
determining that :
(a)
it does not control another entity even though it holds more than half of the voting rights of the other entity.
(b)
it controls another entity even though it holds less than half of the voting rights of the other entity.
(c)
it is an agent or a principal (see paragraphs B58-B72 of Ind AS 110).
(d)
it does not have significant influence even though it holds 20 per cent or more of the voting rights of another entity.
(e)
it has significant influence even though it holds less than 20 per cent of the voting rights of another entity.
Investment entity status
9A.
When a parent determines that it is an investment entity in accordance with paragraph 27 of Ind AS 110, the investment
entity shall disclose information about significant judgements and assumptions it has made in determining that it is an
investment entity. If the investment entity does not have one or more of the typical characteristics of an investment entity
(see paragraph 28 of Ind AS 110), it shall disclose its reasons for concluding that it is nevertheless an investment entity.
9B.
When an entity becomes, or ceases to be, an investment entity, it shall disclose the change of investment entity status
and the reasons for the change. In addition, an entity that becomes an investment entity shall disclose the effect of the
change of status on the financial statements for the period presented, including :
(a)
the total fair value, as of the date of change of status, of the subsidiaries that cease to be consolidated;
(b)
the total gain or loss, if any, calculated in accordance with paragraph B101 of Ind AS 110; and
(c)
the line item(s) in profit or loss in which the gain or loss is recognized (if not presented separately).
Interests in subsidiaries
10. An entity shall disclose information that enables users of its consolidated financial statements
(a)
to understand :
(i)
the composition of the group; and
(ii)
the interest that non-controlling interests have in the group's activities and cash flows (paragraph 12); and
(b)
to evaluate:
(i)
the nature and extent of significant restrictions on its ability to access or use assets, and settle liabilities, of the group
(paragraph 13);
Page 308/765
----- PAGE 309 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(ii)
the nature of, and changes in, the risks associated with its interests in consolidated structured entities (paragraphs
14-17);
(iii)
the consequences of changes in its ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control (paragraph
18); and
(iv)
the consequences of losing control of a subsidiary during the reporting period (paragraph 19).
11. When the financial statements of a subsidiary used in the preparation of consolidated financial statements are as of
a date or for a period that is different from that of the consolidated financial statements (see paragraphs B92. and B93 of
Ind AS 110), an entity shall disclose:
(a)
the date of the end of the reporting period of the financial statements of that subsidiary; and
(b)
the reason for using a different date or period.
The interest that non-controlling interests have in the group's activities and cash flows
12. An entity shall disclose for each of its subsidiaries that have non-controlling interests that are material to the
reporting entity:
(a)
the name of the subsidiary.
(b)
the principal place of business (and country of incorporation if different from the principal place of business) of the
subsidiary.
(c)
the proportion of ownership interests held by non-controlling interests.
(d)
the proportion of voting rights held by non-controlling interests, if different from the proportion of ownership interests
held.
(e)
the profit or loss allocated to non-controlling interests of the subsidiary during the reporting period.
(f)
accumulated non-controlling interests of the subsidiary at the end of the reporting period.
(g)
summarised financial information about the subsidiary (see paragraph B10).
The nature and extent of significant restrictions
13. An entity shall disclose:
(a)
significant restrictions (e.g. statutory, contractual and regulatory restrictions) on its ability to access or use the assets
and settle the liabilities of the group, such as:
(i)
those that restrict the ability of a parent or its subsidiaries to transfer cash or other assets to (or from) other entities
within the group.
(ii)
guarantees or other requirements that may restrict dividends and other capital distributions being paid, or loans and
advances being made or repaid, to (or from) other entities within the group.
(b)
the nature and extent to which protective rights of non-controlling interests can significantly restrict the entity's ability to
access or use the assets and settle the liabilities of the group (such as when a parent is obliged to settle liabilities of a
subsidiary before settling its own liabilities, or approval of non-controlling interests is required either to access the assets
or to settle the liabilities of a subsidiary).
(c)
Page 309/765
----- PAGE 310 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements of the assets and liabilities to which those restrictions
apply.
Nature of the risks associated with an entity's interests in consolidated structured entities
14. An entity shall disclose the terms of any contractual arrangements that could require the parent or its subsidiaries to
provide financial support to a consolidated structured entity, including events or circumstances that could expose the
reporting entity to a loss (e.g. liquidity arrangements or credit rating triggers associated with obligations to purchase
assets of the structured entity or provide financial support).
15. If during the reporting period a parent or any of its subsidiaries has, without having a contractual obligation to do so,
provided financial or other support to a consolidated structured entity (e.g. purchasing assets of or instruments issued by
the structured entity), the entity shall disclose:
(a)
the type and amount of support provided, including situations in which the parent or its subsidiaries assisted the
structured entity in obtaining financial support; and
(b)
the reasons for providing the support.
16. If during the reporting period a parent or any of its subsidiaries has, without having a contractual obligation to do so,
provided financial or other support to a previously unconsolidated structured entity and that provision of support resulted
in the entity controlling the structured entity, the entity shall disclose an explanation of the relevant factors in reaching
that decision.
17. An entity shall disclose any current intentions to provide financial or other support to a consolidated structured entity,
including intentions to assist the structured entity in obtaining financial support.
Consequences of changes in a parent's ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control
18. An entity shall present a schedule that shows the effects on the equity attributable to owners of the parent of any
changes in its ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control.
Consequences of losing control of a subsidiary during the reporting period
19. An entity shall disclose the gain or loss, if any, calculated in accordance with paragraph 25 of Ind AS 110, and:
(a)
the portion of that gain or loss attributable to measuring any investment retained in the former subsidiary at its fair value
at the date when control is lost; and
(b)
the line item(s) in profit or loss in which the gain or loss is recognized (if not presented separately).
Interests in unconsolidated subsidiaries (investment entities)
19A.
An investment entity that, in accordance with Ind AS 110, is required to apply the exception to consolidation and instead
account for its investment in a subsidiary at fair value through profit or loss shall disclose that fact.
19B.
For each unconsolidated subsidiary, an investment entity shall disclose:
(a)
the subsidiary's name;
(b)
the principal place of business (and country of incorporation if different from the principal place of business) of the
subsidiary; and
(c)
the proportion of ownership interest held by the investment entity and, if different, the proportion of voting rights held.
19C.
If an investment entity is the parent of another investment entity, the parent shall also provide the disclosures in
19B(a)-(c) for investments that are controlled by its investment entity subsidiary. The disclosure may be provided by
including, in the financial statements of the parent, the financial statements of the subsidiary (or subsidiaries) that
contain the above information.
19D.
An investment entity shall disclose:
Page 310/765
----- PAGE 311 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
the nature and extent of any significant restrictions (e.g. resulting from borrowing arrangements, regulatory requirements
or contractual arrangements) on the ability of an unconsolidated subsidiary to transfer funds to the investment entity in
the form of cash dividends or to repay loans or advances made to the unconsolidated subsidiary by the investment
entity; and
(b)
any current commitments or intentions to provide financial or other support to an unconsolidated subsidiary, including
commitments or intentions to assist the subsidiary in obtaining financial support.
19E.
If, during the reporting period, an investment entity or any of its subsidiaries has, without having a contractual obligation
to do so, provided financial or other support to an unconsolidated subsidiary (e.g. purchasing assets of, or instruments
issued by, the subsidiary or assisting the subsidiary in obtaining financial support), the entity shall disclose:
(a)
the type and amount of support provided to each unconsolidated subsidiary; and
(b)
the reasons for providing the support.
19F.
An investment entity shall disclose the terms of any contractual arrangements that could require the entity or its
unconsolidated subsidiaries to provide financial support to an unconsolidated, controlled, structured entity, including
events or circumstances that could expose the reporting entity to a loss (e.g. liquidity arrangements or credit rating
triggers associated with obligations to purchase assets of the structured entity or to provide financial support).
19G.
If during the reporting period an investment entity or any of its unconsolidated subsidiaries has, without having a
contractual obligation to do so, provided financial or other support to an unconsolidated, structured entity that the
investment entity did not control, and if that provision of support resulted in the investment entity controlling the
structured entity, the investment entity shall disclose an explanation of the relevant factors in reaching the decision to
provide that support.
Interests in joint arrangements and associates
20. An entity shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements to evaluate:
(a)
the nature, extent and financial effects of its interests in joint arrangements and associates, including the nature and
effects of its contractual relationship with the other investors with joint control of, or significant influence over, joint
arrangements and associates (paragraphs 21 and 22); and
(b)
the nature of, and changes in, the risks associated with its interests in joint ventures and associates (paragraph 23).
Nature, extent and financial effects of an entity's interests in joint arrangements and associates
21. An entity shall disclose:
(a)
for each joint arrangement and associate that is material to the reporting entity:
(i)
the name of the joint arrangement or associate.
(ii)
the nature of the entity's relationship with the joint arrangement or associate (by, for example, describing the nature of
the activities of the joint arrangement or associate and whether they are strategic to the entity's activities).
(iii)
the principal place of business (and country of incorporation, if applicable and different from the principal place of
business) of the joint arrangement or associate.
(iv)
the proportion of ownership interest or participating share held by the entity and, if different, the proportion of voting
rights held (if applicable).
(b)
Page 311/765
----- PAGE 312 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
for each joint venture and associate that is material to the reporting entity:
(i)
whether the investment in the joint venture or associate is measured using the equity method or at fair value.
(ii)
summarised financial information about the joint venture or associate as specified in paragraphs B12 and B13.
(iii)
if the joint venture or associate is accounted for using the equity method, the fair value of its investment in the joint
venture or associate, if there is a quoted market price for the investment.
(c)
financial information as specified in paragraph B16 about the entity's investments in joint ventures and associates that
are not individually material:
(i)
in aggregate for all individually immaterial joint ventures and, separately,
(ii)
in aggregate for all individually immaterial associates.
21A. An investment entity need not provide the disclosures required by paragraphs 21(b)-21(c).
22. An entity shall also disclose:
(a)
the nature and extent of any significant restrictions (e.g. resulting from borrowing arrangements, regulatory requirements
or contractual arrangements between investors with joint control of or significant influence over a joint venture or an
associate) on the ability of joint ventures or associates to transfer funds to the entity in the form of cash dividends, or to
repay loans or advances made by the entity.
(b)
when the financial statements of a joint venture or associate used in applying the equity method are as of a date or for a
period that is different from that of the entity:
(i)
the date of the end of the reporting period of the financial statements of that joint venture or associate; and
(ii)
the reason for using a different date or period.
(c)
the unrecognized share of losses of a joint venture or associate, both for the reporting period and cumulatively, if the
entity has stopped recognising its share of losses of the joint venture or associate when applying the equity method.
Risks associated with an entity's interests in joint ventures and associates
23. An entity shall disclose:
(a)
commitments that it has relating to its joint ventures separately from the amount of other commitments as specified in
paragraphs B18-B20.
(b)
in accordance with Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, unless the probability of loss is
remote, contingent liabilities incurred relating to its interests in joint ventures or associates (including its share of
contingent liabilities incurred jointly with other investors with joint control of, or significant influence over, the joint
ventures or associates), separately from the amount of other contingent liabilities.
Interests in unconsolidated structured entities
24. An entity shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements:
(a)
to understand the nature and extent of its interests in unconsolidated structured entities (paragraphs 26-28); and
(b)
to evaluate the nature of, and changes in, the risks associated with its interests in unconsolidated structured entities
(paragraphs 29-31).
25. The information required by paragraph 24(b) includes information about an entity's exposure to risk from involvement
that it had with unconsolidated structured entities in previous periods (e.g. sponsoring the structured entity), even if the
Page 312/765
----- PAGE 313 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
entity no longer has any contractual involvement with the structured entity at the reporting date.
25A.
An investment entity need not provide the disclosures required by paragraph 24 for an unconsolidated structured entity
that it controls and for which it presents the disclosures required by paragraphs 19A-19G.
Nature of interests
26. An entity shall disclose qualitative and quantitative information about its interests in unconsolidated structured
entities, including, but not limited to, the nature, purpose, size and activities of the structured entity and how the
structured entity is financed.
27. If an entity has sponsored an unconsolidated structured entity for which it does not provide information required by
paragraph 29 (e.g. because it does not have an interest in the entity at the reporting date), the entity shall disclose:
(a)
how it has determined which structured entities it has sponsored;
(b)
income from those structured entities during the reporting period, including a description of the types of income
presented; and
(c)
the carrying amount (at the time of transfer) of all assets transferred to those structured entities during the reporting
period.
28. An entity shall present the information in paragraph 27(b) and (c) in tabular format, unless another format is more
appropriate, and classify its sponsoring activities into relevant categories (see paragraphs B2-B6).
Nature of risks
29. An entity shall disclose in tabular format, unless another format is more appropriate, a summary of:
(a)
the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities recognized in its financial statements relating to its interests in
unconsolidated structured entities.
(b)
the line items in the balance sheet in which those assets and liabilities are recognized.
(c)
the amount that best represents the entity's maximum exposure to loss from its interests in unconsolidated structured
entities, including how the maximum exposure to loss is determined. If an entity cannot quantify its maximum exposure
to loss from its interests in unconsolidated structured entities it shall disclose that fact and the reasons.
(d)
a comparison of the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities of the entity that relate to its interests in
unconsolidated structured entities and the entity's maximum exposure to loss from those entities.
30. If during the reporting period an entity has, without having a contractual obligation to do so, provided financial or
other support to an unconsolidated structured entity in which it previously had or currently has an interest (for example,
purchasing assets of or instruments issued by the structured entity), the entity shall disclose:
(a)
the type and amount of support provided, including situations in which the entity assisted the structured entity in
obtaining financial support; and
(b)
the reasons for providing the support.
31. An entity shall disclose any current intentions to provide financial or other support to an unconsolidated structured
entity, including intentions to assist the structured entity in obtaining financial support.
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an integral
part of the Ind AS.
income from a structured entity
For the purpose of this Ind AS, income from astructured entityincludes, but is not limited to, recurring and
non-recurring fees, interest, dividends, gains or losses on the
Page 313/765
----- PAGE 314 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
remeasurement or derecognition of interests in structured
entities and gains or losses from the transfer of assets and
liabilities to the structured entity.
interest in another entity
For the purpose of this Ind AS, an interest in
another entity refers to contractual and non-contractual
involvement that exposes an entity to variability of returns from
the performance of the other entity. An interest in another
entity can be evidenced by, but is not limited to, the holding of
equity or debt instruments as well as other forms of involvement
such as the provision of funding, liquidity support, credit
enhancement and guarantees. It includes the means by which an
entity has control or joint control of, or significant influence
over, another entity. An entity does not necessarily have an
interest in another entity solely because of a typical customer
supplier relationship.
Paragraphs B7-B9 provide further information
about interests in other entities.
Paragraphs B55-B57 of Ind AS 110 explain
variability of returns.
structured entity
An entity that has been designed so that voting
or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who
controls the entity, such as when any voting rights relate to
administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are
directed by means of contractual arrangements.
Paragraphs B22-B24 provide further information
about structured entities.
The following terms are defined in Ind AS 27 , Ind AS 28 , Ind AS 110 and Ind AS 111, Joint Arrangements, and are
used in this Ind AS with the meanings specified in those Ind ASs:
? associate
? consolidated financial statements
? control of an entity
? equity method
? group
? investment entity
? joint arrangement
? joint control
? joint operation
? joint venture
? non-controlling interest
? parent
? protective rights
? relevant activities
? separate financial statements
? separate vehicle
? significant influence
? subsidiary.
Appendix B
Application guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS. It describes the application of paragraphs 1-31 and has the same
Page 314/765
----- PAGE 315 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
authority as the other parts of the Ind AS.
B1. The examples in this appendix portray hypothetical situations. Although some aspects of the examples may be
present in actual fact patterns, all relevant facts and circumstances of a particular fact pattern would need to be
evaluated when applying Ind AS 112.
Aggregation (paragraph 4)
B2. An entity shall decide, in the light of its circumstances, how much detail it provides to satisfy the information needs of
users, how much emphasis it places on different aspects of the requirements and how it aggregates the information. It is
necessary to strike a balance between burdening financial statements with excessive detail that may not assist users of
financial statements and obscuring information as a result of too much aggregation.
B3. An entity may aggregate the disclosures required by this Ind AS for interests in similar entities if aggregation is
consistent with the disclosure objective and the requirement in paragraph B4, and does not obscure the information
provided. An entity shall disclose how it has aggregated its interests in similar entities.
B4. An entity shall present information separately for interests in:
(a)
subsidiaries;
(b)
joint ventures;
(c)
joint operations;
(d)
associates; and
(e)
unconsolidated structured entities.
B5. In determining whether to aggregate information, an entity shall consider quantitative and qualitative information
about the different risk and return characteristics of each entity it is considering for aggregation and the significance of
each such entity to the reporting entity. The entity shall present the disclosures in a manner that clearly explains to users
of financial statements the nature and extent of its interests in those other entities.
B6. Examples of aggregation levels within the classes of entities set out in paragraph B4 that might be appropriate are:
(a)
nature of activities (e.g. a research and development entity, a revolving credit card securitisation entity).
(b)
industry classification.
(c)
geography (e.g. country or region)
Interests in other entities
B7. An interest in another entity refers to contractual and non-contractual involvement that exposes the reporting entity
to variability of returns from the performance of the other entity. Consideration of the purpose and design of the other
entity may help the reporting entity when assessing whether it has an interest in that entity and, therefore, whether it is
required to provide the disclosures in this Ind AS. That assessment shall include consideration of the risks that the other
entity was designed to create and the risks the other entity was designed to pass on to the reporting entity and other
parties.
B8. A reporting entity is typically exposed to variability of returns from the performance of another entity by holding
instruments (such as equity or debt instruments issued by the other entity) or having another involvement that absorbs
variability. For example, assume a structured entity holds a loan portfolio. The structured entity obtains a credit default
swap from another entity (the reporting entity) to protect itself from the default of interest and principal payments on the
loans. The reporting entity has involvement that exposes it to variability of returns from the performance of the structured
entity because the credit default swap absorbs variability of returns of the structured entity.
B9. Some instruments are designed to transfer risk from a reporting entity to another entity. Such instruments create
variability of returns for the other entity but do not typically expose the reporting entity to variability of returns from the
performance of the other entity. For example, assume a structured entity is established to provide investment
opportunities for investors who wish to have exposure to entity Z's credit risk (entity Z is unrelated to any party involved
Page 315/765
----- PAGE 316 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
in the arrangement). The structured entity obtains funding by issuing to those investors notes that are linked to entity Z's
credit risk (credit-linked notes) and uses the proceeds to invest in a portfolio of risk-free financial assets. The structured
entity obtains exposure to entity Z's credit risk by entering into a credit default swap (CDS) with a swap counter-party.
The CDS passes entity Z's credit risk to the structured entity in return for a fee paid by the swap counter-party. The
investors in the structured entity receive a higher return that reflects both the structured entity's return from its asset
portfolio and the CDS fee. The swap counter-party does not have involvement with the structured entity that exposes it
to variability of returns from the performance of the structured entity because the CDS transfers variability to the
structured entity, rather than absorbing variability of returns of the structured entity.
Summarised financial information for subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (paragraphs 12 and 21)
B10. For each subsidiary that has non-controlling interests that are material to the reporting entity, an entity shall
disclose:
(a)
dividends paid to non-controlling interests.
(b)
summarised financial information about the assets, liabilities, profit or loss and cash flows of the subsidiary that enables
users to understand the interest that non-controlling interests have in the group's activities and cash flows. That
information might include but is not limited to, for example, current assets, non-current assets, current liabilities,
non-current liabilities, revenue, profit or loss and total comprehensive income.
B11. The summarised financial information required by paragraph B10(b) shall be the amounts before inter-company
eliminations.
B12. For each joint venture and associate that is material to the reporting entity, an entity shall disclose:
(a)
dividends received from the joint venture or associate.
(b)
summarised financial information for the joint venture or associate (see paragraphs B14 and B15) including, but not
necessarily limited to:
(i)
current assets.
(ii)
non-current assets.
(iii)
current liabilities.
(iv)
non-current liabilities.
(v)
revenue.
(vi)
profit or loss from continuing operations.
(vii)
post-tax profit or loss from discontinued operations.
(viii)
other comprehensive income.
(ix)
total comprehensive income.
B13. In addition to the summarised financial information required by paragraph B12, an entity shall disclose for each
joint venture that is material to the reporting entity the amount of:
(a)
cash and cash equivalents included in paragraph B12(b)(i).
(b)
current financial liabilities (excluding trade and other payables and provisions) included in paragraph B12(b)(iii).
(c)
Page 316/765
----- PAGE 317 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
non-current financial liabilities (excluding trade and other payables and provisions) included in paragraph B12(b)(iv).
(d)
depreciation and amortisation.
(e)
interest income.
(f)
interest expense.
(g)
income tax expense or income.
B14. The summarised financial information presented in accordance with paragraphs B12 and B13 shall be the amounts
included in the Ind AS financial statements of the joint venture or associate (and not the entity's share of those
amounts). If the entity accounts for its interest in the joint venture or associate using the equity method:
(a)
the amounts included in the Ind AS financial statements of the joint venture or associate shall be adjusted to reflect
adjustments made by the entity when using the equity method, such as fair value adjustments made at the time of
acquisition and adjustments for differences in accounting policies.
(b)
the entity shall provide a reconciliation of the summarised financial information presented to the carrying amount of its
interest in the joint venture or associate.
B15. An entity may present the summarised financial information required by paragraphs B12 and B13 on the basis of
the joint venture's or associate's financial statements if:
(a)
the entity measures its interest in the joint venture or associate at fair value in accordance with Ind AS 28 ; and
(b)
the joint venture or associate does not prepare Ind AS financial statements and preparation on that basis would be
impracticable or cause undue cost.
In that case, the entity shall disclose the basis on which the summarised financial information has been prepared.
B16. An entity shall disclose, in aggregate, the carrying amount of its interests in all individually immaterial joint ventures
or associates that are accounted for using the equity method. An entity shall also disclose separately the aggregate
amount of its share of those joint ventures' or associates':
(a)
profit or loss from continuing operations.
(b)
post-tax profit or loss from discontinued operations.
(c)
other comprehensive income.
(d)
total comprehensive income.
An entity provides the disclosures separately for joint ventures and associates.
[B17. When an entity's interest in a subsidiary, a joint venture or an associate (or a portion of its interest in a joint
venture or an associate) is classified (or included in a disposal group that is classified) as held for sale in accordance
with Ind AS 105, the entity is not required to disclose summarised financial information for that subsidiary, joint venture
or associate in accordance with paragraphs B10-B16.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Commitments for joint ventures [paragraph 23(a)]
B18. An entity shall disclose total commitments it has made but not recognized at the reporting date (including its share
of commitments made jointly with other investors with joint control of a joint venture) relating to its interests in joint
ventures. Commitments are those that may give rise to a future outflow of cash or other resources.
B19. Unrecognized commitments that may give rise to a future outflow of cash or other resources include:
(a)
unrecognized commitments to contribute funding or resources as a result of, for example:
Page 317/765
----- PAGE 318 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(i)
the constitution or acquisition agreements of a joint venture (that, for example, require an entity to contribute funds over
a specific period).
(ii)
capital-intensive projects undertaken by a joint venture.
(iii)
unconditional purchase obligations, comprising procurement of equipment, inventory or services that an entity is
committed to purchasing from, or on behalf of, a joint venture.
(iv)
unrecognized commitments to provide loans or other financial support to a joint venture.
(v)
unrecognized commitments to contribute resources to a joint venture, such as assets or services.
(vi)
other non-cancellable unrecognized commitments relating to a joint venture.
(b)
unrecognized commitments to acquire another party's ownership interest (or a portion of that ownership interest) in a
joint venture if a particular event occurs or does not occur in the future.
B20. The requirements and examples in paragraphs B18 and B19 illustrate some of the types of disclosure required by
paragraph 18 of Ind AS 24, Related Party Disclosures.
Interests in unconsolidated structured entities (paragraphs 24-31)
Structured entities
B21. A structured entity is an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in
deciding who controls the entity, such as when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the relevant
activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements.
B22. A structured entity often has some or all of the following features or attributes:
(a)
restricted activities.
(b)
a narrow and well-defined objective, such as to effect a tax-efficient lease, carry out research and development
activities, provide a source of capital or funding to an entity or provide investment opportunities for investors by passing
on risks and rewards associated with the assets of the structured entity to investors.
(c)
insufficient equity to permit the structured entity to finance its activities without subordinated financial support.
(d)
financing in the form of multiple contractually linked instruments to investors that create concentrations of credit or other
risks (tranches).
B23. Examples of entities that are regarded as structured entities include, but are not limited to:
(a)
securitisation vehicles.
(b)
asset-backed financings.
(c)
some investment funds.
B24. An entity that is controlled by voting rights is not a structured entity simply because, for example, it receives funding
from third parties following a restructuring.
Nature of risks from interests in unconsolidated structured entities (paragraphs 29-31)
B25. In addition to the information required by paragraphs 29-31, an entity shall disclose additional information that is
necessary to meet the disclosure objective in paragraph 24(b).
B26. Examples of additional information that, depending on the circumstances, might be relevant to an assessment of
the risks to which an entity is exposed when it has an interest in an unconsolidated structured entity are:
(a)
Page 318/765
----- PAGE 319 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the terms of an arrangement that could require the entity to provide financial support to an unconsolidated structured
entity (e.g. liquidity arrangements or credit rating triggers associated with obligations to purchase assets of the
structured entity or provide financial support), including:
(i)
a description of events or circumstances that could expose the reporting entity to a loss.
(ii)
whether there are any terms that would limit the obligation.
(iii)
whether there are any other parties that provide financial support and, if so, how the reporting entity's obligation ranks
with those of other parties.
(b)
losses incurred by the entity during the reporting period relating to its interests in unconsolidated structured entities.
(c)
the types of income the entity received during the reporting period from its interests in unconsolidated structured entities.
(d)
whether the entity is required to absorb losses of an unconsolidated structured entity before other parties, the maximum
limit of such losses for the entity, and (if relevant) the ranking and amounts of potential losses borne by parties whose
interests rank lower than the entity's interest in the unconsolidated structured entity.
(e)
information about any liquidity arrangements, guarantees or other commitments with third parties that may affect the fair
value or risk of the entity's interests in unconsolidated structured entities.
(f)
any difficulties an unconsolidated structured entity has experienced in financing its activities during the reporting period.
(g)
in relation to the funding of an unconsolidated structured entity, the forms of funding (e.g. commercial paper or
medium-term notes) and their weighted-average life. That information might include maturity analyses of the assets and
funding of an unconsolidated structured entity if the structured entity has longer-term assets funded by shorter-term
funding.
[Appendix C, Effective date and transition
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS and has the same authority as the other parts of the Ind AS
Effective date and transition
C1 *
C1A *
C1B *
C1C *
C1D Annual improvements to Ind AS - Amendments in Ind AS 112 and 28, added paragraph 5A and amended
paragraph B17. An entity shall apply those amendments retrospectively in accordance with Ind AS 8, Accounting
Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, for annual periods beginning on or after 1st April, 2018.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
* Refer Appendix 1
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 112 and the corresponding International
Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board.
Comparison with IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
1. Different terminology is used, as used in existing laws e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of
financial position'.
2. [ Paragraphs C1 to C1C of Appendix C, have not been included as these paragraphs relate to effective date and
transition that are not relevant in Indian context. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of
IFRS 12, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 112.]
Page 319/765
----- PAGE 320 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 113
Fair Value Measurement
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. This Ind AS:
(a)
defines fair value;
(b)
sets out in a single Ind AS a framework for measuring fair value; and
(c)
requires disclosures about fair value measurements.
2. Fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement. For some assets and liabilities,
observable market transactions or market information might be available. For other assets and liabilities, observable
market transactions and market information might not be available. However, the objective of a fair value measurement
in both cases is the same-to estimate the price at which an orderly transaction to sell the asset or to transfer the liability
would take place between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions (i.e. an exit
price at the measurement date from the perspective of a market participant that holds the asset or owes the liability).
3. When a price for an identical asset or liability is not observable, an entity measures fair value using another valuation
technique that maximises the use of relevant observable inputs and minimises the use of unobservable inputs. Because
fair value is a market-based measurement, it is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use
when pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about risk. As a result, an entity's intention to hold an asset or
to settle or otherwise fulfil a liability is not relevant when measuring fair value.
4. The definition of fair value focuses on assets and liabilities because they are a primary subject of accounting
measurement. In addition, this Ind AS shall be applied to an entity's own equity instruments measured at fair value.
Scope
5. This Ind AS applies when another Ind AS requires or permits fair value measurements or disclosures about fair value
measurements (and measurements, such as fair value less costs to sell, based on fair value or disclosures about those
measurements), except as specified in paragraphs 6 and 7.
6. The measurement and disclosure requirements of this Ind AS do not apply to the following:
(a)
share-based payment transactions within the scope of Ind AS 102, Share-based Payment;
(b)
[ leasing transactions accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 116, Leases; and]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(c)
measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable value in Ind AS 2,
Inventories, or value in use in Ind AS 36, Impairment of Assets.
7. The disclosures required by this Ind AS are not required for the following:
(a)
plan assets measured at fair value in accordance with Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits;
(b)
(Refer Appendix 1); and
(c)
assets for which recoverable amount is fair value less costs of disposal in accordance with Ind AS 36.
8. The fair value measurement framework described in this Ind AS applies to both initial and subsequent measurement if
fair value is required or permitted by other Ind ASs.
Measurement
Definition of fair value
9. This Ind AS defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
Page 320/765
----- PAGE 321 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
10. Paragraph B2 describes the overall fair value measurement approach.
The asset or liability
11. A fair value measurement is for a particular asset or liability. Therefore, when measuring fair value an entity shall
take into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants would take those characteristics into
account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Such characteristics include, for example, the
following:
(a)
the condition and location of the asset; and
(b)
restrictions, if any, on the sale or use of the asset.
12. The effect on the measurement arising from a particular characteristic will differ depending on how that characteristic
would be taken into account by market participants.
13. The asset or liability measured at fair value might be either of the following:
(a)
a stand-alone asset or liability (e.g. a financial instrument or a non-financial asset); or
(b)
a group of assets, a group of liabilities or a group of assets and liabilities (e.g. a cash-generating unit or a business).
14. Whether the asset or liability is a stand-alone asset or liability, a group of assets, a group of liabilities or a group of
assets and liabilities for recognition or disclosure purposes depends on its unit of account. The unit of account for the
asset or liability shall be determined in accordance with the Ind AS that requires or permits the fair value measurement,
except as provided in this Ind AS.
The transaction
15. A fair value measurement assumes that the asset or liability is exchanged in an orderly transaction between market
participants to sell the asset or transfer the liability at the measurement date under current market conditions.
16. A fair value measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
(a)
in the principal market for the asset or liability; or
(b)
in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
17. An entity need not undertake an exhaustive search of all possible markets to identify the principal market or, in the
absence of a principal market, the most advantageous market, but it shall take into account all information that is
reasonably available. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the market in which the entity would normally enter into
a transaction to sell the asset or to transfer the liability is presumed to be the principal market or, in the absence of a
principal market, the most advantageous market.
18. If there is a principal market for the asset or liability, the fair value measurement shall represent the price in that
market (whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique), even if the price in a
different market is potentially more advantageous at the measurement date.
19. The entity must have access to the principal (or most advantageous) market at the measurement date. Because
different entities (and businesses within those entities) with different activities may have access to different markets, the
principal (or most advantageous) market for the same asset or liability might be different for different entities (and
businesses within those entities). Therefore, the principal (or most advantageous) market (and thus, market participants)
shall be considered from the perspective of the entity, thereby allowing for differences between and among entities with
different activities.
20. Although an entity must be able to access the market, the entity does not need to be able to sell the particular asset
or transfer the particular liability on the measurement date to be able to measure fair value on the basis of the price in
that market.
21. Even when there is no observable market to provide pricing information about the sale of an asset or the transfer of
a liability at the measurement date, a fair value measurement shall assume that a transaction takes place at that date,
considered from the perspective of a market participant that holds the asset or owes the liability. That assumed
transaction establishes a basis for estimating the price to sell the asset or to transfer the liability.
Page 321/765
----- PAGE 322 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Market participants
22. An entity shall measure the fair value of an asset or a liability using the assumptions that market participants would
use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
23. In developing those assumptions, an entity need not identify specific market participants. Rather, the entity shall
identify characteristics that distinguish market participants generally, considering factors specific to all the following:
(a)
the asset or liability;
(b)
the principal (or most advantageous) market for the asset or liability; and
(c)
market participants with whom the entity would enter into a transaction in that market.
The price
24. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in
the principal (or most advantageous) market at the measurement date under current market conditions (i.e. an exit price)
regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique.
25. The price in the principal (or most advantageous) market used to measure the fair value of the asset or liability shall
not be adjusted for transaction costs. Transaction costs shall be accounted for in accordance with other Ind ASs.
Transaction costs are not a characteristic of an asset or a liability; rather, they are specific to a transaction and will differ
depending on how an entity enters into a transaction for the asset or liability.
26. Transaction costs do not include transport costs. If location is a characteristic of the asset (as might be the case, for
example, for a commodity), the price in the principal (or most advantageous) market shall be adjusted for the costs, if
any, that would be incurred to transport the asset from its current location to that market.
Application to non-financial assets
Highest and best use for non-financial assets
27. A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant's ability to generate
economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would
use the asset in its highest and best use.
28. The highest and best use of a non-financial asset takes into account the use of the asset that is physically possible,
legally permissible and financially feasible, as follows:
(a)
A use that is physically possible takes into account the physical characteristics of the asset that market participants
would take into account when pricing the asset (e.g. the location or size of a property).
(b)
A use that is legally permissible takes into account any legal restrictions on the use of the asset that market participants
would take into account when pricing the asset (e.g. the zoning regulations applicable to a property).
(c)
A use that is financially feasible takes into account whether a use of the asset that is physically possible and legally
permissible generates adequate income or cash flows (taking into account the costs of converting the asset to that use)
to produce an investment return that market participants would require from an investment in that asset put to that use.
29. Highest and best use is determined from the perspective of market participants, even if the entity intends a different
use. However, an entity's current use of a non-financial asset is presumed to be its highest and best use unless market
or other factors suggest that a different use by market participants would maximise the value of the asset.
30. To protect its competitive position, or for other reasons, an entity may intend not to use an acquired non-financial
asset actively or it may intend not to use the asset according to its highest and best use. For example, that might be the
case for an acquired intangible asset that the entity plans to use defensively by preventing others from using it.
Nevertheless, the entity shall measure the fair value of a non-financial asset assuming its highest and best use by
market participants.
Valuation premise for non-financial assets
31. The highest and best use of a non-financial asset establishes the valuation premise used to measure the fair value
of the asset, as follows:
(a)
Page 322/765
----- PAGE 323 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
The highest and best use of a non-financial asset might provide maximum value to market participants through its use in
combination with other assets as a group (as installed or otherwise configured for use) or in combination with other
assets and liabilities (e.g. a business).
(i)
If the highest and best use of the asset is to use the asset in combination with other assets or with other assets and
liabilities, the fair value of the asset is the price that would be received in a current transaction to sell the asset assuming
that the asset would be used with other assets or with other assets and liabilities and that those assets and liabilities (i.e.
its complementary assets and the associated liabilities) would be available to market participants.
(ii)
Liabilities associated with the asset and with the complementary assets include liabilities that fund working capital, but
do not include liabilities used to fund assets other than those within the group of assets.
(iii)
Assumptions about the highest and best use of a non-financial asset shall be consistent for all the assets (for which
highest and best use is relevant) of the group of assets or the group of assets and liabilities within which the asset would
be used.
(b)
The highest and best use of a non-financial asset might provide maximum value to market participants on a stand-alone
basis. If the highest and best use of the asset is to use it on a stand-alone basis, the fair value of the asset is the price
that would be received in a current transaction to sell the asset to market participants that would use the asset on a
stand-alone basis.
32. The fair value measurement of a non-financial asset assumes that the asset is sold consistently with the unit of
account specified in other Ind ASs (which may be an individual asset). That is the case even when that fair value
measurement assumes that the highest and best use of the asset is to use it in combination with other assets or with
other assets and liabilities because a fair value measurement assumes that the market participant already holds the
complementary assets and the associated liabilities.
33. Paragraph B3 describes the application of the valuation premise concept for non-financial assets.
Application to liabilities and an entity's own equity instruments
General principles
34. A fair value measurement assumes that a financial or non-financial liability or an entity's own equity instrument (e.g.
equity interests issued as consideration in a business combination) is transferred to a market participant at the
measurement date. The transfer of a liability or an entity's own equity instrument assumes the following:
(a)
A liability would remain outstanding and the market participant transferee would be required to fulfil the obligation. The
liability would not be settled with the counter-party or otherwise extinguished on the measurement date.
(b)
An entity's own equity instrument would remain outstanding and the market participant transferee would take on the
rights and responsibilities associated with the instrument. The instrument would not be canceled or otherwise
extinguished on the measurement date.
35. Even when there is no observable market to provide pricing information about the transfer of a liability or an entity's
own equity instrument (e.g. because contractual or other legal restrictions prevent the transfer of such items), there
might be an observable market for such items if they are held by other parties as assets (e.g. a corporate bond or a call
option on an entity's shares).
36. In all cases, an entity shall maximise the use of relevant observable inputs and minimise the use of unobservable
inputs to meet the objective of a fair value measurement, which is to estimate the price at which an orderly transaction to
transfer the liability or equity instrument would take place between market participants at the measurement date under
current market conditions.
Liabilities and equity instruments held by other parties as assets
37. When a quoted price for the transfer of an identical or a similar liability or entity's own equity instrument is not
available and the identical item is held by another party as an asset, an entity shall measure the fair value of the liability
or equity instrument from the perspective of a market participant that holds the identical item as an asset at the
measurement date.
Page 323/765
----- PAGE 324 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
38. In such cases, an entity shall measure the fair value of the liability or equity instrument as follows:
(a)
using the quoted price in an active market for the identical item held by another party as an asset, if that price is
available.
(b)
if that price is not available, using other observable inputs, such as the quoted price in a market that is not active for the
identical item held by another party as an asset.
(c)
if the observable prices in (a) and (b) are not available, using another valuation technique, such as:
(i)
an income approach (e.g. a present value technique that takes into account the future cash flows that a market
participant would expect to receive from holding the liability or equity instrument as an asset; see paragraphs B10 and
B11).
(ii)
a market approach (e.g. using quoted prices for similar liabilities or equity instruments held by other parties as assets;
see paragraphs B5-B7).
39. An entity shall adjust the quoted price of a liability or an entity's own equity instrument held by another party as an
asset only if there are factors specific to the asset that are not applicable to the fair value measurement of the liability or
equity instrument. An entity shall ensure that the price of the asset does not reflect the effect of a restriction preventing
the sale of that asset. Some factors that may indicate that the quoted price of the asset should be adjusted include the
following:
(a)
The quoted price for the asset relates to a similar (but not identical) liability or equity instrument held by another party as
an asset. For example, the liability or equity instrument may have a particular characteristic (e.g. the credit quality of the
issuer) that is different from that reflected in the fair value of the similar liability or equity instrument held as an asset.
(b)
The unit of account for the asset is not the same as for the liability or equity instrument. For example, for liabilities, in
some cases the price for an asset reflects a combined price for a package comprising both the amounts due from the
issuer and a third-party credit enhancement. If the unit of account for the liability is not for the combined package, the
objective is to measure the fair value of the issuer's liability, not the fair value of the combined package. Thus, in such
cases, the entity would adjust the observed price for the asset to exclude the effect of the third-party credit
enhancement.
Liabilities and equity instruments not held by other parties as assets
40. When a quoted price for the transfer of an identical or a similar liability or entity's own equity instrument is not
available and the identical item is not held by another party as an asset, an entity shall measure the fair value of the
liability or equity instrument using a valuation technique from the perspective of a market participant that owes the
liability or has issued the claim on equity.
41. For example, when applying a present value technique an entity might take into account either of the following:
(a)
the future cash outflows that a market participant would expect to incur in fulfilling the obligation, including the
compensation that a market participant would require for taking on the obligation (see paragraphs B31-B33).
(b)
the amount that a market participant would receive to enter into or issue an identical liability or equity instrument, using
the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the identical item (e.g. having the same credit
characteristics) in the principal (or most advantageous) market for issuing a liability or an equity instrument with the
same contractual terms.
Non-performance risk
42. The fair value of a liability reflects the effect of non-performance risk. Non-performance risk includes, but may not be
limited to, an entity's own credit risk (as defined in Ind AS 107, Financial Instruments: Disclosures). Non-performance
risk is assumed to be the same before and after the transfer of the liability.
43. When measuring the fair value of a liability, an entity shall take into account the effect of its credit risk (credit
Page 324/765
----- PAGE 325 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
standing) and any other factors that might influence the likelihood that the obligation will or will not be fulfilled. That effect
may differ depending on the liability, for example:
(a)
whether the liability is an obligation to deliver cash (a financial liability) or an obligation to deliver goods or services (a
non-financial liability).
(b)
the terms of credit enhancements related to the liability, if any.
44. The fair value of a liability reflects the effect of non-performance risk on the basis of its unit of account. The issuer of
a liability issued with an inseparable third-party credit enhancement that is accounted for separately from the liability
shall not include the effect of the credit enhancement (e.g. a third-party guarantee of debt) in the fair value measurement
of the liability. If the credit enhancement is accounted for separately from the liability, the issuer would take into account
its own credit standing and not that of the third party guarantor when measuring the fair value of the liability.
Restriction preventing the transfer of a liability or an entity's own equity instrument
45. When measuring the fair value of a liability or an entity's own equity instrument, an entity shall not include a separate
input or an adjustment to other inputs relating to the existence of a restriction that prevents the transfer of the item. The
effect of a restriction that prevents the transfer of a liability or an entity's own equity instrument is either implicitly or
explicitly included in the other inputs to the fair value measurement.
46. For example, at the transaction date, both the creditor and the obligor accepted the transaction price for the liability
with full knowledge that the obligation includes a restriction that prevents its transfer. As a result of the restriction being
included in the transaction price, a separate input or an adjustment to an existing input is not required at the transaction
date to reflect the effect of the restriction on transfer. Similarly, a separate input or an adjustment to an existing input is
not required at subsequent measurement dates to reflect the effect of the restriction on transfer.
Financial liability with a demand feature
47. The fair value of a financial liability with a demand feature (e.g. a demand deposit) is not less than the amount
payable on demand, discounted from the first date that the amount could be required to be paid.
Application to financial assets and financial liabilities with offsetting positions in market risks or counter-party credit risk
48. An entity that holds a group of financial assets and financial liabilities is exposed to market risks (as defined in Ind
AS 107) and to the credit risk (as defined in Ind AS 107) of each of the counter-parties. If the entity manages that group
of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis of its net exposure to either market risks or credit risk, the entity is
permitted to apply an exception to this Ind AS for measuring fair value. That exception permits an entity to measure the
fair value of a group of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis of the price that would be received to sell a
net long position (i.e. an asset) for a particular risk exposure or paid to transfer a net short position (i.e. a liability) for a
particular risk exposure in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current
market conditions. Accordingly, an entity shall measure the fair value of the group of financial assets and financial
liabilities consistently with how market participants would price the net risk exposure at the measurement date.
49. An entity is permitted to use the exception in paragraph 48 only if the entity does all the following:
(a)
manages the group of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis of the entity's net exposure to a particular
market risk (or risks) or to the credit risk of a particular counter-party in accordance with the entity's documented risk
management or investment strategy;
(b)
provides information on that basis about the group of financial assets and financial liabilities to the entity's key
management personnel, as defined in Ind AS 24, Related Party Disclosures; and
(c)
is required or has elected to measure those financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value in the balance sheet at
the end of each reporting period.
50. The exception in paragraph 48 does not pertain to financial statement presentation. In some cases the basis for the
presentation of financial instruments in the balance sheet differs from the basis for the measurement of financial
instruments, for example, if an Ind AS does not require or permit financial instruments to be presented on a net basis. In
such cases an entity may need to allocate the portfolio-level adjustments (see paragraphs 53-56) to the individual assets
or liabilities that make up the group of financial assets and financial liabilities managed on the basis of the entity's net
Page 325/765
----- PAGE 326 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
risk exposure. An entity shall perform such allocations on a reasonable and consistent basis using a methodology
appropriate in the circumstances.
51. An entity shall make an accounting policy decision in accordance with Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in
Accounting Estimates and Errors, to use the exception in paragraph 48. An entity that uses the exception shall apply
that accounting policy, including its policy for allocating bid-ask adjustments (see paragraphs 53-55) and credit
adjustments (see paragraph 56), if applicable, consistently from period to period for a particular portfolio.
52. The exception in paragraph 48 applies only to financial assets, financial liabilities and other contracts within the
scope of Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments. The references to financial assets and financial liabilities in paragraphs
48-51 and 53-56 should be read as applying to all contracts within the scope of, and accounted for in accordance with,
Ind AS 109, regardless of whether they meet the definitions of financial assets or financial liabilities in Ind AS 32,
Financial Instruments: Presentation.
Exposure to market risks
53. When using the exception in paragraph 48 to measure the fair value of a group of financial assets and financial
liabilities managed on the basis of the entity's net exposure to a particular market risk (or risks), the entity shall apply the
price within the bid-ask spread that is most representative of fair value in the circumstances to the entity's net exposure
to those market risks (see paragraphs 70 and 71).
54. When using the exception in paragraph 48, an entity shall ensure that the market risk (or risks) to which the entity is
exposed within that group of financial assets and financial liabilities is substantially the same. For example, an entity
would not combine the interest rate risk associated with a financial asset with the commodity price risk associated with a
financial liability because doing so would not mitigate the entity's exposure to interest rate risk or commodity price risk.
When using the exception in paragraph 48, any basis risk resulting from the market risk parameters not being identical
shall be taken into account in the fair value measurement of the financial assets and financial liabilities within the group.
55. Similarly, the duration of the entity's exposure to a particular market risk (or risks) arising from the financial assets
and financial liabilities shall be substantially the same. For example, an entity that uses a 12-month futures contract
against the cash flows associated with 12 months' worth of interest rate risk exposure on a five-year financial instrument
within a group made up of only those financial assets and financial liabilities measures the fair value of the exposure to
12-month interest rate risk on a net basis and the remaining interest rate risk exposure (i.e. years 2-5) on a gross basis.
Exposure to the credit risk of a particular counter-party
56. When using the exception in paragraph 48 to measure the fair value of a group of financial assets and financial
liabilities entered into with a particular counter-party, the entity shall include the effect of the entity's net exposure to the
credit risk of that counter-party or the counter-party's net exposure to the credit risk of the entity in the fair value
measurement when market participants would take into account any existing arrangements that mitigate credit risk
exposure in the event of default (e.g. a master netting agreement with the counter-party or an agreement that requires
the exchange of collateral on the basis of each party's net exposure to the credit risk of the other party). The fair value
measurement shall reflect market participants' expectations about the likelihood that such an arrangement would be
legally enforceable in the event of default.
Fair value at initial recognition
57. When an asset is acquired or a liability is assumed in an exchange transaction for that asset or liability, the
transaction price is the price paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price). In contrast, the
fair value of the asset or liability is the price that would be received to sell the asset or paid to transfer the liability (an exit
price). Entities do not necessarily sell assets at the prices paid to acquire them. Similarly, entities do not necessarily
transfer liabilities at the prices received to assume them.
58. In many cases the transaction price will equal the fair value (e.g. that might be the case when on the transaction
date the transaction to buy an asset takes place in the market in which the asset would be sold).
59. When determining whether fair value at initial recognition equals the transaction price, an entity shall take into
account factors specific to the transaction and to the asset or liability. Paragraph B4 describes situations in which the
transaction price might not represent the fair value of an asset or a liability at initial recognition.
60. If another Ind AS requires or permits an entity to measure an asset or a liability initially at fair value and the
transaction price differs from fair value, the entity shall recognise the resulting gain or loss in profit or loss unless that Ind
AS specifies otherwise.
Valuation techniques
Page 326/765
----- PAGE 327 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
61. An entity shall use valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are
available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of
unobservable inputs.
62. The objective of using a valuation technique is to estimate the price at which an orderly transaction to sell the asset
or to transfer the liability would take place between market participants at the measurement date under current market
conditions. Three widely used valuation techniques are the market approach, the cost approach and the income
approach. The main aspects of those approaches are summarised in paragraphs B5-B11. An entity shall use valuation
techniques consistent with one or more of those approaches to measure fair value.
63. In some cases a single valuation technique will be appropriate (e.g. when valuing an asset or a liability using quoted
prices in an active market for identical assets or liabilities). In other cases, multiple valuation techniques will be
appropriate (e.g. that might be the case when valuing a cash-generating unit). If multiple valuation techniques are used
to measure fair value, the results (i.e. respective indications of fair value) shall be evaluated considering the
reasonableness of the range of values indicated by those results. A fair value measurement is the point within that range
that is most representative of fair value in the circumstances.
64. If the transaction price is fair value at initial recognition and a valuation technique that uses unobservable inputs will
be used to measure fair value in subsequent periods, the valuation technique shall be calibrated so that at initial
recognition the result of the valuation technique equals the transaction price. Calibration ensures that the valuation
technique reflects current market conditions, and it helps an entity to determine whether an adjustment to the valuation
technique is necessary (e.g. there might be a characteristic of the asset or liability that is not captured by the valuation
technique). After initial recognition, when measuring fair value using a valuation technique or techniques that use
unobservable inputs, an entity shall ensure that those valuation techniques reflect observable market data (e.g. the price
for a similar asset or liability) at the measurement date.
65.
Valuation techniques used to measure fair value shall be applied consistently. However, a change in a valuation
technique or its application (e.g. a change in its weightage when multiple valuation techniques are used or a change in
an adjustment applied to a valuation technique) is appropriate if the change results in a measurement that is equally or
more representative of fair value in the circumstances. That might be the case if, for example, any of the following
events take place:
(a)
new markets develop;
(b)
new information becomes available;
(c)
information previously used is no longer available;
(d)
valuation techniques improve; or
(e)
market conditions change.
66.
Revisions resulting from a change in the valuation technique or its application shall be accounted for as a change in
accounting estimate in accordance with Ind AS 8. However, the disclosures in Ind AS 8 for a change in accounting
estimate are not required for revisions resulting from a change in a valuation technique or its application.
Inputs to valuation techniques
General principles
67.
Valuation techniques used to measure fair value shall maximise the use of relevant observable inputs and minimise the
use of unobservable inputs.
68.
Examples of markets in which inputs might be observable for some assets and liabilities (e.g. financial instruments)
include exchange markets, dealer markets, brokered markets and principal-to-principal markets (see paragraph B34).
69.
Page 327/765
----- PAGE 328 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
An entity shall select inputs that are consistent with the characteristics of the asset or liability that market participants
would take into account in a transaction for the asset or liability (see paragraphs 11 and 12). In some cases those
characteristics result in the application of an adjustment, such as a premium or discount (e.g. a control premium or
non-controlling interest discount). However, a fair value measurement shall not incorporate a premium or discount that is
inconsistent with the unit of account in the Ind AS that requires or permits the fair value measurement (see paragraphs
13 and 14). Premiums or discounts that reflect size as a characteristic of the entity's holding (specifically, a blockage
factor that adjusts the quoted price of an asset or a liability because the market's normal daily trading volume is not
sufficient to absorb the quantity held by the entity, as described in paragraph 80) rather than as a characteristic of the
asset or liability (e.g. a control premium when measuring the fair value of a controlling interest) are not permitted in a fair
value measurement. In all cases, if there is a quoted price in an active market (i.e. a Level 1 input) for an asset or a
liability, an entity shall use that price without adjustment when measuring fair value, except as specified in paragraph 79.
Inputs based on bid and ask prices
70.
If an asset or a liability measured at fair value has a bid price and an ask price (eg. an input from a dealer market), the
price within the bid-ask spread that is most representative of fair value in the circumstances shall be used to measure
fair value regardless of where the input is categorised within the fair value hierarchy (i.e. Level 1, 2 or 3; see paragraphs
72-90). The use of bid prices for asset positions and ask prices for liability positions is permitted, but is not required.
71.
This Ind AS does not preclude the use of mid-market pricing or other pricing conventions that are used by market
participants as a practical expedient for fair value measurements within a bid-ask spread.
Fair value hierarchy
72.
To increase consistency and comparability in fair value measurements and related disclosures, this Ind AS establishes a
fair value hierarchy that categorises into three levels (see paragraphs 76-90), the inputs to valuation techniques used to
measure fair value. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for
identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 inputs) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs).
73.
In some cases, the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability might be categorised within different
levels of the fair value hierarchy. In those cases, the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same
level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire measurement. Assessing the
significance of a particular input to the entire measurement requires judgement, taking into account factors specific to
the asset or liability. Adjustments to arrive at measurements based on fair value, such as costs to sell when measuring
fair value less costs to sell, shall not be taken into account when determining the level of the fair value hierarchy within
which a fair value measurement is categorised.
74.
The availability of relevant inputs and their relative subjectivity might affect the selection of appropriate valuation
techniques (see paragraph 61). However, the fair value hierarchy prioritises the inputs to valuation techniques, not the
valuation techniques used to measure fair value. For example, a fair value measurement developed using a present
value technique might be categorised within Level 2 or Level 3, depending on the inputs that are significant to the entire
measurement and the level of the fair value hierarchy within which those inputs are categorised.
75.
If an observable input requires an adjustment using an unobservable input and that adjustment results in a significantly
higher or lower fair value measurement, the resulting measurement would be categorised within Level 3 of the fair value
hierarchy. For example, if a market participant would take into account the effect of a restriction on the sale of an asset
when estimating the price for the asset, an entity would adjust the quoted price to reflect the effect of that restriction. If
that quoted price is a Level 2 input and the adjustment is an unobservable input that is significant to the entire
measurement, the measurement would be categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
Level 1 inputs
76.
Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access
at the measurement date.
Page 328/765
----- PAGE 329 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
77.
A quoted price in an active market provides the most reliable evidence of fair value and shall be used without adjustment
to measure fair value whenever available, except as specified in paragraph 79.
78.
A Level 1 input will be available for many financial assets and financial liabilities, some of which might be exchanged in
multiple active markets (e.g. on different exchanges). Therefore, the emphasis within Level 1 is on determining both of
the following:
(a)
the principal market for the asset or liability or, in the absence of a principal market, the most advantageous market for
the asset or liability; and
(b)
whether the entity can enter into a transaction for the asset or liability at the price in that market at the measurement
date.
79.
An entity shall not make an adjustment to a Level 1 input except in the following circumstances:
(a)
when an entity holds a large number of similar (but not identical) assets or liabilities (e.g. debt securities) that are
measured at fair value and a quoted price in an active market is available but not readily accessible for each of those
assets or liabilities individually (i.e. given the large number of similar assets or liabilities held by the entity, it would be
difficult to obtain pricing information for each individual asset or liability at the measurement date). In that case, as a
practical expedient, an entity may measure fair value using an alternative pricing method that does not rely exclusively
on quoted prices (e.g. matrix pricing). However, the use of an alternative pricing method results in a fair value
measurement categorised within a lower level of the fair value hierarchy.
(b)
when a quoted price in an active market does not represent fair value at the measurement date. That might be the case
if, for example, significant events (such as transactions in a principal-to-principal market, trades in a brokered market or
announcements) take place after the close of a market but before the measurement date. An entity shall establish and
consistently apply a policy for identifying those events that might affect fair value measurements. However, if the quoted
price is adjusted for new information, the adjustment results in a fair value measurement categorised within a lower level
of the fair value hierarchy.
(c)
when measuring the fair value of a liability or an entity's own equity instrument using the quoted price for the identical
item traded as an asset in an active market and that price needs to be adjusted for factors specific to the item or the
asset (see paragraph 39). If no adjustment to the quoted price of the asset is required, the result is a fair value
measurement categorised within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. However, any adjustment to the quoted price of the
asset results in a fair value measurement categorised within a lower level of the fair value hierarchy.
80.
If an entity holds a position in a single asset or liability (including a position comprising a large number of identical assets
or liabilities, such as a holding of financial instruments) and the asset or liability is traded in an active market, the fair
value of the asset or liability shall be measured within Level 1 as the product of the quoted price for the individual asset
or liability and the quantity held by the entity. That is the case even if a market's normal daily trading volume is not
sufficient to absorb the quantity held and placing orders to sell the position in a single transaction might affect the quoted
price.
Level 2 inputs
81.
Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,
either directly or indirectly.
82.
If the asset or liability has a specified (contractual) term, a Level 2 input must be observable for substantially the full term
of the asset or liability. Level 2 inputs include the following:
(a)
Page 329/765
----- PAGE 330 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets.
(b)
quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active.
(c)
inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, for example:
(i)
interest rates and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals;
(ii)
implied volatilities; and
(iii)
credit spreads.
(d)
market-corroborated inputs.
83.
Adjustments to Level 2 inputs will vary depending on factors specific to the asset or liability. Those factors include the
following:
(a)
the condition or location of the asset;
(b)
the extent to which inputs relate to items that are comparable to the asset or liability (including those factors described in
paragraph 39); and
(c)
the volume or level of activity in the markets within which the inputs are observed.
84.
An adjustment to a Level 2 input that is significant to the entire measurement might result in a fair value measurement
categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy if the adjustment uses significant unobservable inputs.
85.
Paragraph B35 describes the use of Level 2 inputs for particular assets and liabilities.
Level 3 inputs
86.
Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
87.
Unobservable inputs shall be used to measure fair value to the extent that relevant observable inputs are not available,
thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement
date. However, the fair value measurement objective remains the same, i.e. an exit price at the measurement date from
the perspective of a market participant that holds the asset or owes the liability. Therefore, unobservable inputs shall
reflect the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions
about risk.
88.
Assumptions about risk include the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique used to measure fair value (such as
a pricing model) and the risk inherent in the inputs to the valuation technique. A measurement that does not include an
adjustment for risk would not represent a fair value measurement if market participants would include one when pricing
the asset or liability. For example, it might be necessary to include a risk adjustment when there is significant
measurement uncertainty (e.g. when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity when
compared with normal market activity for the asset or liability, or similar assets or liabilities, and the entity has
determined that the transaction price or quoted price does not represent fair value, as described in paragraphs
B37-B47).
89.
An entity shall develop unobservable inputs using the best information available in the circumstances, which might
include the entity's own data. In developing unobservable inputs, an entity may begin with its own data, but it shall adjust
those data if reasonably available information indicates that other market participants would use different data or there is
Page 330/765
----- PAGE 331 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
something particular to the entity that is not available to other market participants (e.g. an entity-specific synergy). An
entity need not undertake exhaustive efforts to obtain information about market participant assumptions. However, an
entity shall take into account all information about market participant assumptions that is reasonably available.
Unobservable inputs developed in the manner described above are considered market participant assumptions and
meet the objective of a fair value measurement.
90.
Paragraph B36 describes the use of Level 3 inputs for particular assets and liabilities.
Disclosure
91.
An entity shall disclose information that helps users of its financial statements assess both of the following:
(a)
for assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring or non-recurring basis in the balance sheet after
initial recognition, the valuation techniques and inputs used to develop those measurements.
(b)
for recurring fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3), the effect of the measurements on
profit or loss or other comprehensive income for the period.
92.
To meet the objectives in paragraph 91, an entity shall consider all the following:
(a)
the level of detail necessary to satisfy the disclosure requirements;
(b)
how much emphasis to place on each of the various requirements;
(c)
how much aggregation or disaggregation to undertake; and
(d)
whether users of financial statements need additional information to evaluate the quantitative information disclosed.
If the disclosures provided in accordance with this Ind AS and other Ind ASs are insufficient to meet the objectives in
paragraph 91, an entity shall disclose additional information necessary to meet those objectives.
93.
To meet the objectives in paragraph 91, an entity shall disclose, at a minimum, the following information for each class
of assets and liabilities (see paragraph 94 for information on determining appropriate classes of assets and liabilities)
measured at fair value (including measurements based on fair value within the scope of this Ind AS) in the balance
sheet after initial recognition:
(a)
for recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements, the fair value measurement at the end of the reporting period,
and for non-recurring fair value measurements, the reasons for the measurement. Recurring fair value measurements of
assets or liabilities are those that other Ind ASs require or permit in the balance sheet at the end of each reporting
period. Non-recurring fair value measurements of assets or liabilities are those that other Ind ASs require or permit in the
balance sheet in particular circumstances (e.g. when an entity measures an asset held for sale at fair value less costs to
sell in accordance with Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, because the asset's
fair value less costs to sell is lower than its carrying amount).
(b)
for recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements, the level of the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value
measurements are categorised in their entirety (Level 1, 2 or 3).
(c)
for assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting period that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, the
amounts of any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the reasons for those transfers and the
entity's policy for determining when transfers between levels are deemed to have occurred (see paragraph 95).
Transfers into each level shall be disclosed and discussed separately from transfers out of each level.
(d)
for recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements categorised within Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair value
Page 331/765
----- PAGE 332 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
hierarchy, a description of the valuation technique(s) and the inputs used in the fair value measurement. If there has
been a change in valuation technique (e.g. changing from a market approach to an income approach or the use of an
additional valuation technique), the entity shall disclose that change and the reason(s) for making it. For fair value
measurements categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, an entity shall provide quantitative information
about the significant unobservable inputs (e.g. a market multiple or future cash flows) used in the fair value
measurement. An entity is not required to create quantitative information to comply with this disclosure requirement if
quantitative unobservable inputs are not developed by the entity when measuring fair value (e.g. when an entity uses
prices from prior transactions or third-party pricing information without adjustment). However, when providing this
disclosure an entity cannot ignore quantitative unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value measurement
and are reasonably available to the entity.
(e)
for recurring fair value measurements categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, a reconciliation from the
opening balances to the closing balances, disclosing separately changes during the period attributable to the following:
(i)
total gains or losses for the period recognized in profit or loss, and the line item(s) in profit or loss in which those gains or
losses are recognized.
(ii)
total gains or losses for the period recognized in other comprehensive income, and the line item(s) in other
comprehensive income in which those gains or losses are recognized.
(iii)
purchases, sales, issues and settlements (each of those types of changes disclosed separately).
(iv)
the amounts of any transfers into or out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, the reasons for those transfers and the
entity's policy for determining when transfers between levels are deemed to have occurred (see paragraph 95).
Transfers into Level 3 shall be disclosed and discussed separately from transfers out of Level 3.
(f)
for recurring fair value measurements categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, the amount of the total gains
or losses for the period in (e)(i) included in profit or loss that is attributable to the change in unrealised gains or losses
relating to those assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting period, and the line item(s) in profit or loss in which
those unrealised gains or losses are recognized.
(g)
for recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, a
description of the valuation processes used by the entity (including, for example, how an entity decides its valuation
policies and procedures and analyses changes in fair value measurements from period to period).
(h)
for recurring fair value measurements categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy:
(i)
for all such measurements, a narrative description of the sensitivity of the fair value measurement to changes in
unobservable inputs if a change in those inputs to a different amount might result in a significantly higher or lower fair
value measurement. If there are inter-relationships between those inputs and other unobservable inputs used in the fair
value measurement, an entity shall also provide a description of those inter-relationships and of how they might magnify
or mitigate the effect of changes in the unobservable inputs on the fair value measurement. To comply with that
disclosure requirement, the narrative description of the sensitivity to changes in unobservable inputs shall include, at a
minimum, the unobservable inputs disclosed when complying with 93(d).
(ii)
for financial assets and financial liabilities, if changing one or more of the unobservable inputs to reflect reasonably
possible alternative assumptions would change fair value significantly, an entity shall state that fact and disclose the
effect of those changes. The entity shall disclose how the effect of a change to reflect a reasonably possible alternative
assumption was calculated. For that purpose, significance shall be judged with respect to profit or loss, and total assets
or total liabilities, or, when changes in fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income, total equity.
(i)
Page 332/765
----- PAGE 333 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
for recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements, if the highest and best use of a non-financial asset differs from
its current use, an entity shall disclose that fact and why the non-financial asset is being used in a manner that differs
from its highest and best use.
94.
An entity shall determine appropriate classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the following:
(a)
the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability; and
(b)
the level of the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement is categorised.
The number of classes may need to be greater for fair value measurements categorised within Level 3 of the fair value
hierarchy because those measurements have a greater degree of uncertainty and subjectivity. Determining appropriate
classes of assets and liabilities for which disclosures about fair value measurements should be provided requires
judgement. A class of assets and liabilities will often require greater disaggregation than the line items presented in the
balance sheet. However, an entity shall provide information sufficient to permit reconciliation to the line items presented
in the balance sheet. If another Ind AS specifies the class for an asset or a liability, an entity may use that class in
providing the disclosures required in this Ind AS if that class meets the requirements in this paragraph.
95.
An entity shall disclose and consistently follow its policy for determining when transfers between levels of the fair value
hierarchy are deemed to have occurred in accordance with paragraph 93(c) and (e)(iv). The policy about the timing of
recognising transfers shall be the same for transfers into the levels as for transfers out of the levels. Examples of
policies for determining the timing of transfers include the following:
(a)
the date of the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer.
(b)
the beginning of the reporting period.
(c)
the end of the reporting period.
96.
If an entity makes an accounting policy decision to use the exception in paragraph 48, it shall disclose that fact.
97.
For each class of assets and liabilities not measured at fair value in the balance sheet but for which the fair value is
disclosed, an entity shall disclose the information required by paragraph 93(b), (d) and (i). However, an entity is not
required to provide the quantitative disclosures about significant unobservable inputs used in fair value measurements
categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy required by paragraph 93(d). For such assets and liabilities, an
entity does not need to provide the other disclosures required by this Ind AS.
98.
For a liability measured at fair value and issued with an inseparable third-party credit enhancement, an issuer shall
disclose the existence of that credit enhancement and whether it is reflected in the fair value measurement of the
liability.
99.
An entity shall present the quantitative disclosures required by this Ind AS in a tabular format unless another format is
more appropriate.
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an integral
part of the Ind AS.
active market
A market in which transactions for the asset or
liability take place with sufficient frequency and volume to
provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
cost approach
Page 333/765
----- PAGE 334 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
A valuation technique that reflects the amount
that would be required currently to replace the service capacity
of an asset (often referred to as current replacement cost).
entry price
The price paid to acquire an asset or received
to assume a liability in an exchange transaction.
exit price
The price that would be received to sell an
asset or paid to transfer a liability.
expected cash flow
The probability-weighted average (i.e. mean of
the distribution) of possible future cash flows.
fair value
The price that would be received to sell an
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date.
highest and best use
The use of a non-financial asset by market
participants that would maximise the value of the asset or the
group of assets and liabilities (e.g. a business) within which
the asset would be used.
income approach
Valuation techniques that convert future amounts
(e.g. cash flows or income and expenses) to a single current
(i.e. discounted) amount. The fair value measurement is
determined on the basis of the value indicated by current market
expectations about those future amounts.
inputs
The assumptions that market participants would
use when pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions
about risk, such as the following:
(a) the risk inherent in a particular valuation
technique used to measure fair value (such as a pricing model);
and
(b) the risk inherent in the inputs to the
valuation technique.
Inputs may be observable or unobservable.
Level 1 inputs
Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for
identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the
measurement date.
Level 2 inputs
Inputs other than quoted prices included within
Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either
directly or indirectly.
Level 3 inputs
Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
market approach
A valuation technique that uses prices and other
relevant information generated by market transactions involving
identical or comparable (i.e. similar) assets, liabilities or a
Page 334/765
----- PAGE 335 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
group of assets and liabilities, such as a business.
market-corroborated inputs
Inputs that are derived principally from or
corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other
means.
market participants
Buyers and sellers in the principal (or most
advantageous) market for the asset or liability that have all of
the following characteristics:
(a) They are independent of each other, i.e.
they are not related parties as defined in Ind AS 24, although
the price in a related party transaction may be used as an input
to a fair value measurement if the entity has evidence that the
transaction was entered into at market terms.
(b) They are knowledgeable, having a reasonable
understanding about the asset or liability and the transaction
using all available information, including information that might
be obtained through due diligence efforts that are usual and
customary.
(c) They are able to enter into a transaction
for the asset or liability.
(d) They are willing to enter into a transaction
for the asset or liability, i.e. they are motivated but not
forced or otherwise compelled to do so.
most advantageous market
The market that maximises the amount that would
be received to sell the asset or minimises the amount that would
be paid to transfer the liability, after taking into account
transaction costs and transport costs.
non-performance risk
The risk that an entity will not fulfill an
obligation. Non-performance risk includes, but may not be limited
to, the entity's own credit risk.
observable inputs
Inputs that are developed using market data,
such as publicly available information about actual events or
transactions, and that reflect the assumptions that market
participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
orderly transaction
A transaction that assumes exposure to the
market for a period before the measurement date to allow for
marketing activities that are usual and customary for
transactions involving such assets or liabilities; it is not a
forced transaction (eg. a forced liquidation or distress sale).
principal market
The market with the greatest volume and level of
activity for the asset or liability.
risk premium
Compensation sought by risk-averse market
participants for bearing the uncertainty inherent in the cash
flows of an asset or a liability. Also referred to as a 'risk
Page 335/765
----- PAGE 336 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
adjustment'.
transaction costs
The costs to sell an asset or transfer a
liability in the principal (or most advantageous) market for the
asset or liability that are directly attributable to the disposal
of the asset or the transfer of the liability and meet both of
the following criteria:
(a) They result directly from and are essential
to that transaction.
(b) They would not have been incurred by the
entity had the decision to sell the asset or transfer the
liability not been made (similar to costs to sell, as defined in
Ind AS 105).
transport costs
The costs that would be incurred to transport an
asset from its current location to its principal (or most
advantageous) market.
unit of account
The level at which an asset or a liability is
aggregated or disaggregated in an IndAS
for recognition purposes.
unobservable inputs
Inputs for which market data are not available
and that are developed using the best information available about
the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing
the asset or liability.
Appendix B
Application guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
B1. The judgements applied in different valuation situations may be different. This appendix describes the judgements
that might apply when an entity measures fair value in different valuation situations.
The fair value measurement approach
B2. The objective of a fair value measurement is to estimate the price at which an orderly transaction to sell the asset or
to transfer the liability would take place between market participants at the measurement date under current market
conditions. A fair value measurement requires an entity to determine all the following:
(a)
the particular asset or liability that is the subject of the measurement (consistently with its unit of account).
(b)
for a non-financial asset, the valuation premise that is appropriate for the measurement (consistently with its highest and
best use).
(c)
the principal (or most advantageous) market for the asset or liability.
(d)
the valuation technique(s) appropriate for the measurement, considering the availability of data with which to develop
inputs that represent the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability and the level
of the fair value hierarchy within which the inputs are categorised.
Valuation premise for non-financial assets (paragraphs 31-33)
B3. When measuring the fair value of a non-financial asset used in combination with other assets as a group (as
installed or otherwise configured for use) or in combination with other assets and liabilities (e.g. a business), the effect of
the valuation premise depends on the circumstances. For example:
(a)
Page 336/765
----- PAGE 337 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the fair value of the asset might be the same whether the asset is used on a stand-alone basis or in combination with
other assets or with other assets and liabilities. That might be the case if the asset is a business that market participants
would continue to operate. In that case, the transaction would involve valuing the business in its entirety. The use of the
assets as a group in an ongoing business would generate synergies that would be available to market participants (i.e.
market participant synergies that, therefore, should affect the fair value of the asset on either a stand-alone basis or in
combination with other assets or with other assets and liabilities).
(b)
an asset's use in combination with other assets or with other assets and liabilities might be incorporated into the fair
value measurement through adjustments to the value of the asset used on a stand-alone basis. That might be the case
if the asset is a machine and the fair value measurement is determined using an observed price for a similar machine
(not installed or otherwise configured for use), adjusted for transport and installation costs so that the fair value
measurement reflects the current condition and location of the machine (installed and configured for use).
(c)
an asset's use in combination with other assets or with other assets and liabilities might be incorporated into the fair
value measurement through the market participant assumptions used to measure the fair value of the asset. For
example, if the asset is work in progress inventory that is unique and market participants would convert the inventory
into finished goods, the fair value of the inventory would assume that market participants have acquired or would acquire
any specialised machinery necessary to convert the inventory into finished goods.
(d)
an asset's use in combination with other assets or with other assets and liabilities might be incorporated into the
valuation technique used to measure the fair value of the asset. That might be the case when using the multi-period
excess earnings method to measure the fair value of an intangible asset because that valuation technique specifically
takes into account the contribution of any complementary assets and the associated liabilities in the group in which such
an intangible asset would be used.
(e)
in more limited situations, when an entity uses an asset within a group of assets, the entity might measure the asset at
an amount that approximates its fair value when allocating the fair value of the asset group to the individual assets of the
group. That might be the case if the valuation involves real property and the fair value of improved property (i.e. an asset
group) is allocated to its component assets (such as land and improvements).
Fair value at initial recognition (paragraphs 57-60)
B4. When determining whether fair value at initial recognition equals the transaction price, an entity shall take into
account factors specific to the transaction and to the asset or liability. For example, the transaction price might not
represent the fair value of an asset or a liability at initial recognition if any of the following conditions exist:
(a)
The transaction is between related parties, although the price in a related party transaction may be used as an input into
a fair value measurement if the entity has evidence that the transaction was entered into at market terms.
(b)
The transaction takes place under duress or the seller is forced to accept the price in the transaction. For example, that
might be the case if the seller is experiencing financial difficulty.
(c)
The unit of account represented by the transaction price is different from the unit of account for the asset or liability
measured at fair value. For example, that might be the case if the asset or liability measured at fair value is only one of
the elements in the transaction (e.g. in a business combination), the transaction includes unstated rights and privileges
that are measured separately in accordance with another Ind AS, or the transaction price includes transaction costs.
(d)
The market in which the transaction takes place is different from the principal market (or most advantageous market).
For example, those markets might be different if the entity is a dealer that enters into transactions with customers in the
retail market, but the principal (or most advantageous) market for the exit transaction is with other dealers in the dealer
market.
Valuation techniques (paragraphs 61-66)
Market approach
Page 337/765
----- PAGE 338 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B5. The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving
identical or comparable (i.e. similar) assets, liabilities or a group of assets and liabilities, such as a business.
B6. For example, valuation techniques consistent with the market approach often use market multiples derived from a
set of comparables. Multiples might be in ranges with a different multiple for each comparable. The selection of the
appropriate multiple within the range requires judgement, considering qualitative and quantitative factors specific to the
measurement.
B7. Valuation techniques consistent with the market approach include matrix pricing. Matrix pricing is a mathematical
technique used principally to value some types of financial instruments, such as debt securities, without relying
exclusively on quoted prices for the specific securities, but rather relying on the securities' relationship to other
benchmark quoted securities.
Cost approach
B8. The cost approach reflects the amount that would be required currently to replace the service capacity of an asset
(often referred to as current replacement cost).
B9. From the perspective of a market participant seller, the price that would be received for the asset is based on the
cost to a market participant buyer to acquire or construct a substitute asset of comparable utility, adjusted for
obsolescence. That is because a market participant buyer would not pay more for an asset than the amount for which it
could replace the service capacity of that asset. Obsolescence encompasses physical deterioration, functional
(technological) obsolescence and economic (external) obsolescence and is broader than depreciation for financial
reporting purposes (an allocation of historical cost) or tax purposes (using specified service lives). In many cases the
current replacement cost method is used to measure the fair value of tangible assets that are used in combination with
other assets or with other assets and liabilities.
Income approach
B10. The income approach converts future amounts (e.g. cash flows or income and expenses) to a single current (i.e.
discounted) amount. When the income approach is used, the fair value measurement reflects current market
expectations about those future amounts.
B11. Those valuation techniques include, for example, the following:
(a)
present value techniques (see paragraphs B12-B30);
(b)
option pricing models, such as the Black-Scholes-Merton formula or a binomial model (i.e. a lattice model), that
incorporate present value techniques and reflect both the time value and the intrinsic value of an option; and
(c)
the multi-period excess earnings method, which is used to measure the fair value of some intangible assets.
Present value techniques
B12. Paragraphs B13-B30 describe the use of present value techniques to measure fair value. Those paragraphs focus
on a discount rate adjustment technique and an expected cashflow (expected present value) technique. Those
paragraphs neither prescribe the use of a single specific present value technique nor limit the use of present value
techniques to measure fair value to the techniques discussed. The present value technique used to measure fair value
will depend on facts and circumstances specific to the asset or liability being measured (e.g. whether prices for
comparable assets or liabilities can be observed in the market) and the availability of sufficient data.
The components of a present value measurement
B13. Present value (i.e. an application of the income approach) is a tool used to link future amounts (e.g. cash flows or
values) to a present amount using a discount rate. A fair value measurement of an asset or a liability using a present
value technique captures all the following elements from the perspective of market participants at the measurement
date:
(a)
an estimate of future cash flows for the asset or liability being measured.
(b)
expectations about possible variations in the amount and timing of the cash flows representing the uncertainty inherent
in the cash flows.
(c)
Page 338/765
----- PAGE 339 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the time value of money, represented by the rate on risk-free monetary assets that have maturity dates or durations that
coincide with the period covered by the cash flows and pose neither uncertainty in timing nor risk of default to the holder
(i.e. a risk-free interest rate).
(d)
the price for bearing the uncertainty inherent in the cash flows (i.e. a risk premium).
(e)
other factors that market participants would take into account in the circumstances.
(f)
for a liability, the non-performance risk relating to that liability, including the entity's (i.e. the obligor's) own credit risk.
General principles
B14. Present value techniques differ in how they capture the elements in paragraph B13. However, all the following
general principles govern the application of any present value technique used to measure fair value:
(a)
Cash flows and discount rates should reflect assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or
liability.
(b)
Cash flows and discount rates should take into account only the factors attributable to the asset or liability being
measured.
(c)
To avoid double-counting or omitting the effects of risk factors, discount rates should reflect assumptions that are
consistent with those inherent in the cash flows. For example, a discount rate that reflects the uncertainty in
expectations about future defaults is appropriate if using contractual cash flows of a loan (i.e. a discount rate adjustment
technique). That same rate should not be used if using expected (i.e. probability-weighted) cash flows (i.e. an expected
present value technique) because the expected cash flows already reflect assumptions about the uncertainty in future
defaults; instead, a discount rate that is commensurate with the risk inherent in the expected cash flows should be used.
(d)
Assumptions about cash flows and discount rates should be internally consistent. For example, nominal cash flows,
which include the effect of inflation, should be discounted at a rate that includes the effect of inflation. The nominal
risk-free interest rate includes the effect of inflation. Real cash flows, which exclude the effect of inflation, should be
discounted at a rate that excludes the effect of inflation. Similarly, after-tax cash flows should be discounted using an
after-tax discount rate. Pre-tax cash flows should be discounted at a rate consistent with those cash flows.
(e)
Discount rates should be consistent with the underlying economic factors of the currency in which the cash flows are
denominated.
Risk and uncertainty
B15. A fair value measurement using present value techniques is made under conditions of uncertainty because the
cash flows used are estimates rather than known amounts. In many cases both the amount and timing of the cash flows
are uncertain. Even contractually fixed amounts, such as the payments on a loan, are uncertain if there is risk of default.
B16. Market participants generally seek compensation (i.e. a risk premium) for bearing the uncertainty inherent in the
cash flows of an asset or a liability. A fair value measurement should include a risk premium reflecting the amount that
market participants would demand as compensation for the uncertainty inherent in the cash flows. Otherwise, the
measurement would not faithfully represent fair value. In some cases determining the appropriate risk premium might be
difficult. However, the degree of difficulty alone is not a sufficient reason to exclude a risk premium.
B17. Present value techniques differ in how they adjust for risk and in the type of cash flows they use. For example:
(a)
The discount rate adjustment technique (see paragraphs B18-B22) uses a risk-adjusted discount rate and contractual,
promised or most likely cash flows.
(b)
Method 1 of the expected present value technique (see paragraph B25) uses risk-adjusted expected cash flows and a
risk-free rate.
(c)
Page 339/765
----- PAGE 340 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Method 2 of the expected present value technique (see paragraph B26) uses expected cash flows that are not
risk-adjusted and a discount rate adjusted to include the risk premium that market participants require. That rate is
different from the rate used in the discount rate adjustment technique.
Discount rate adjustment technique
B18. The discount rate adjustment technique uses a single set of cash flows from the range of possible estimated
amounts, whether contractual or promised (as is the case for a bond) or most likely cash flows. In all cases, those cash
flows are conditional upon the occurrence of specified events (e.g. contractual or promised cash flows for a bond are
conditional on the event of no default by the debtor). The discount rate used in the discount rate adjustment technique is
derived from observed rates of return for comparable assets or liabilities that are traded in the market. Accordingly, the
contractual, promised or most likely cash flows are discounted at an observed or estimated market rate for such
conditional cash flows (i.e. a market rate of return).
B19. The discount rate adjustment technique requires an analysis of market data for comparable assets or liabilities.
Comparability is established by considering the nature of the cash flows (e.g. whether the cash flows are contractual or
non-contractual and are likely to respond similarly to changes in economic conditions), as well as other factors (e.. credit
standing, collateral, duration, restrictive covenants and liquidity). Alternatively, if a single comparable asset or liability
does not fairly reflect the risk inherent in the cash flows of the asset or liability being measured, it may be possible to
derive a discount rate using data for several comparable assets or liabilities in conjunction with the risk-free yield curve
(i.e. using a 'build-up' approach).
B20. To illustrate a build-up approach, assume that Asset A is a contractual right to receive Rs. 800 in one year (i.e.
there is no timing uncertainty). There is an established market for comparable assets, and information about those
assets, including price information, is available. Of those comparable assets:
(a)
Asset B is a contractual right to receive Rs. 1,200 in one year and has a market price of Rs. 1,083. Thus, the implied
annual rate of return (i.e. a one-year market rate of return) is 10.8 percent [(Rs. 1,200/Rs. 1,083) - 1].
(b)
Asset C is a contractual right to receive Rs. 700 in two years and has a market price of Rs. 566. Thus, the implied
annual rate of return (i.e. a two-year market rate of return) is 11.2 per cent [(Rs. 700/Rs. 566)^0.5 - 1].
(c)
All three assets are comparable with respect to risk (i.e. dispersion of possible pay-offs and credit).
B21. On the basis of the timing of the contractual payments to be received for Asset A relative to the timing for Asset B
and Asset C (i.e. one year for Asset B versus two years for Asset C), Asset B is deemed more comparable to Asset A.
Using the contractual payment to be received for Asset A (Rs. 800) and the one-year market rate derived from Asset B
(10.8 per cent), the fair value of Asset A is Rs. 722 (Rs. 800/1.108). Alternatively, in the absence of available market
information for Asset B, the one-year market rate could be derived from Asset C using the build-up approach. In that
case the two-year market rate indicated by Asset C (11.2 per cent) would be adjusted to a one-year market rate using
the term structure of the risk-free yield curve. Additional information and analysis might be required to determine
whether the risk premiums for one-year and two-year assets are the same. If it is determined that the risk premiums for
one-year and two year assets are not the same, the two-year market rate of return would be further adjusted for that
effect.
B22. When the discount rate adjustment technique is applied to fixed receipts or payments, the adjustment for risk
inherent in the cash flows of the asset or liability being measured is included in the discount rate. In some applications of
the discount rate adjustment technique to cash flows that are not fixed receipts or payments, an adjustment to the cash
flows may be necessary to achieve comparability with the observed asset or liability from which the discount rate is
derived.
Expected present value technique
B23. The expected present value technique uses as a starting point a set of cash flows that represents the
probability-weighted average of all possible future cash flows (i.e. the expected cash flows). The resulting estimate is
identical to expected value, which, in statistical terms, is the weighted average of a discrete random variable's possible
values with the respective probabilities as the weights. Because all possible cash flows are probability-weighted, the
resulting expected cash flow is not conditional upon the occurrence of any specified event (unlike the cash flows used in
the discount rate adjustment technique).
Page 340/765
----- PAGE 341 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B24. In making an investment decision, risk-averse market participants would take into account the risk that the actual
cash flows may differ from the expected cash flows. Portfolio theory distinguishes between two types of risk:
(a)
unsystematic (diversifiable) risk, which is the risk specific to a particular asset or liability.
(b)
systematic (non-diversifiable) risk, which is the common risk shared by an asset or a liability with the other items in a
diversified portfolio.
Portfolio theory holds that in a market in equilibrium, market participants will be compensated only for bearing the
systematic risk inherent in the cash flows. (In markets that are inefficient or out of equilibrium, other forms of return or
compensation might be available.)
B25. Method 1 of the expected present value technique adjusts the expected cash flows of an asset for systematic (i.e.
market) risk by subtracting a cash risk premium (i.e. risk-adjusted expected cash flows). Those risk adjusted expected
cash flows represent a certainty-equivalent cash flow, which is discounted at a risk-free interest rate. A
certainty-equivalent cash flow refers to an expected cash flow (as defined), adjusted for risk so that a market participant
is indifferent to trading a certain cash flow for an expected cash flow. For example, if a market participant was willing to
trade an expected cash flow of Rs. 1,200 for a certain cash flow of Rs. 1,000, the Rs. 1,000 is the certainty equivalent of
the Rs. 1,200 (i.e. the Rs. 200 would represent the cash risk premium). In that case the market participant would be
indifferent as to the asset held.
B26. In contrast, Method 2 of the expected present value technique adjusts for systematic (i.e. market) risk by applying a
risk premium to the risk-free interest rate. Accordingly, the expected cash flows are discounted at a rate that
corresponds to an expected rate associated with probability-weighted cash flows (i.e. an expected rate of return).
Models used for pricing risky assets, such as the capital asset pricing model, can be used to estimate the expected rate
of return. Because the discount rate used in the discount rate adjustment technique is a rate of return relating to
conditional cash flows, it is likely to be higher than the discount rate used in Method 2 of the expected present value
technique, which is an expected rate of return relating to expected or probability-weighted cash flows.
B27. To illustrate Methods 1 and 2, assume that an asset has expected cash flows of Rs. 780 in one year determined on
the basis of the possible cash flows and probabilities shown below. The applicable risk-free interest rate for cash flows
with a one-year horizon is 5 per cent, and the systematic risk premium for an asset with the same risk profile is 3 per
cent.
Possible cash flows
Probability
Probability-weighted cash flows
Rs. 500
15%
Rs. 75
Rs. 800
60%
Rs. 480
Rs. 900
25%
Rs. 225
Expected cash flows
Rs. 780
B28. In this simple illustration, the expected cash flows (Rs. 780) represent the probability-weighted average of the three
possible outcomes. In more realistic situations, there could be many possible outcomes. However, to apply the expected
present value technique, it is not always necessary to take into account distributions of all possible cash flows using
complex models and techniques. Rather, it might be possible to develop a limited number of discrete scenarios and
probabilities that capture the array of possible cash flows. For example, an entity might use realised cash flows for some
relevant past period, adjusted for changes in circumstances occurring subsequently (e.g. changes in external factors,
including economic or market conditions, industry trends and competition as well as changes in internal factors affecting
the entity more specifically), taking into account the assumptions of market participants.
Page 341/765
----- PAGE 342 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B29. In theory, the present value (i.e. the fair value) of the asset's cash flows is the same whether determined using
Method 1 or Method 2, as follows:
(a)
Using Method 1, the expected cash flows are adjusted for systematic (i.e. market) risk. In the absence of market data
directly indicating the amount of the risk adjustment, such adjustment could be derived from an asset pricing model
using the concept of certainty equivalents. For example, the risk adjustment (i.e. the cash risk premium of Rs. 22) could
be determined using the systematic risk premium of 3 per cent (Rs. 780 - [Rs. 780 x (1.05/1.08)]), which results in
risk-adjusted expected cash flows of Rs. 758 (Rs. 780 - Rs. 22). The Rs. 758 is the certainty equivalent of Rs. 780 and
is discounted at the risk-free interest rate (5 per cent). The present value (i.e. the fair value) of the asset is Rs. 722 (Rs.
758/1.05).
(b)
Using Method 2, the expected cash flows are not adjusted for systematic (i.e. market) risk. Rather, the adjustment for
that risk is included in the discount rate. Thus, the expected cash flows are discounted at an expected rate of return of 8
per cent (i.e. the 5 per cent risk-free interest rate plus the 3 per cent systematic risk premium). The present value (i.e.
the fair value) of the asset is Rs. 722 (Rs. 780/1.08).
B30. When using an expected present value technique to measure fair value, either Method 1 or Method 2 could be
used. The selection of Method 1 or Method 2 will depend on facts and circumstances specific to the asset or liability
being measured, the extent to which sufficient data are available and the judgements applied.
Applying present value techniques to liabilities and an entity's own equity instruments not held by other parties as assets
(paragraphs 40 and 41)
B31. When using a present value technique to measure the fair value of a liability that is not held by another party as an
asset (e.g. a decommissioning liability), an entity shall, among other things, estimate the future cash outflows that
market participants would expect to incur in fulfilling the obligation. Those future cash outflows shall include market
participants' expectations about the costs of fulfilling the obligation and the compensation that a market participant would
require for taking on the obligation. Such compensation includes the return that a market participant would require for
the following:
(a)
undertaking the activity (i.e. the value of fulfilling the obligation; e.g. by using resources that could be used for other
activities); and
(b)
assuming the risk associated with the obligation (i.e. a risk premium that reflects the risk that the actual cash outflows
might differ from the expected cash outflows; see paragraph B33).
B32. For example, a non-financial liability does not contain a contractual rate of return and there is no observable market
yield for that liability. In some cases the components of the return that market participants would require will be
indistinguishable from one another (e.g. when using the price a third party contractor would charge on a fixed fee basis).
In other cases an entity needs to estimate those components separately (e.g. when using the price a third party
contractor would charge on a cost plus basis because the contractor in that case would not bear the risk of future
changes in costs).
B33. An entity can include a risk premium in the fair value measurement of a liability or an entity's own equity instrument
that is not held by another party as an asset in one of the following ways:
(a)
by adjusting the cash flows (i.e. as an increase in the amount of cash outflows); or
(b)
by adjusting the rate used to discount the future cash flows to their present values (i.e. as a reduction in the discount
rate).
An entity shall ensure that it does not double-count or omit adjustments for risk. For example, if the estimated cash flows
are increased to take into account the compensation for assuming the risk associated with the obligation, the discount
rate should not be adjusted to reflect that risk.
Inputs to valuation techniques (paragraphs 67-71)
B34. Examples of markets in which inputs might be observable for some assets and liabilities (e.g. financial instruments)
include the following:
Page 342/765
----- PAGE 343 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
Exchange markets. In an exchange market, closing prices are both readily available and generally representative of fair
value. An example of such a market is the National Stock Exchange.
(b)
Dealer markets. In a dealer market, dealers stand ready to trade (either buy or sell for their own account), thereby
providing liquidity by using their capital to hold an inventory of the items for which they make a market. Typically bid and
ask prices (representing the price at which the dealer is willing to buy and the price at which the dealer is willing to sell,
respectively) are more readily available than closing prices. Over-the-counter markets (for which prices are publicly
reported) are dealer markets. Dealer markets also exist for some other assets and liabilities, including some financial
instruments, commodities and physical assets (e.g. used equipment).
(c)
Brokered markets. In a brokered market, brokers attempt to match buyers with sellers but do not stand ready to trade for
their own account. In other words, brokers do not use their own capital to hold an inventory of the items for which they
make a market. The broker knows the prices bid and asked by the respective parties, but each party is typically unaware
of another party's price requirements. Prices of completed transactions are sometimes available. Brokered markets
include electronic communication networks, in which buy and sell orders are matched, and commercial and residential
real estate markets.
(d)
Principal-to-principal markets. In a principal-to-principal market, transactions, both originations and resales, are
negotiated independently with no intermediary. Little information about those transactions may be made available
publicly.
Fair value hierarchy (paragraphs 72-90)
Level 2 inputs (paragraphs 81-85)
B35. Examples of Level 2 inputs for particular assets and liabilities include the following:
(a)
Receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swap based on the Mumbai Interbank Offered Rate (MIBOR) swap rate. A
Level 2 input would be the MIBOR swap rate if that rate is observable at commonly quoted intervals for substantially the
full term of the swap.
(b)
Receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swap based on a yield curve denominated in a foreign currency. A Level 2 input
would be the swap rate based on a yield curve denominated in a foreign currency that is observable at commonly
quoted intervals for substantially the full term of the swap. That would be the case if the term of the swap is 10 years and
that rate is observable at commonly quoted intervals for 9 years, provided that any reasonable extrapolation of the yield
curve for year 10 would not be significant to the fair value measurement of the swap in its entirety.
(c)
Receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swap based on a specific bank's prime rate. A Level 2 input would be the bank's
prime rate derived through extrapolation if the extrapolated values are corroborated by observable market data, for
example, by correlation with an interest rate that is observable over substantially the full term of the swap.
(d)
Three-year option on exchange-traded shares. A Level 2 input would be the implied volatility for the shares derived
through extrapolation to year 3 if both of the following conditions exist:
(i)
Prices for one-year and two-year options on the shares are observable.
(ii)
The extrapolated implied volatility of a three-year option is corroborated by observable market data for substantially the
full term of the option.
In that case the implied volatility could be derived by extrapolating from the implied volatility of the one-year and
two-year options on the shares and corroborated by the implied volatility for three-year options on comparable entities'
shares, provided that correlation with the one-year and two-year implied volatilities is established.
(e)
Licensing arrangement. For a licensing arrangement that is acquired in a business combination and was recently
Page 343/765
----- PAGE 344 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
negotiated with an unrelated party by the acquired entity (the party to the licensing arrangement), a Level 2 input would
be the royalty rate in the contract with the unrelated party at inception of the arrangement.
(f)
Finished goods inventory at a retail outlet. For finished goods inventory that is acquired in a business combination, a
Level 2 input would be either a price to customers in a retail market or a price to retailers in a wholesale market,
adjusted for differences between the condition and location of the inventory item and the comparable (i.e. similar)
inventory items so that the fair value measurement reflects the price that would be received in a transaction to sell the
inventory to another retailer that would complete the requisite selling efforts. Conceptually, the fair value measurement
will be the same, whether adjustments are made to a retail price (downward) or to a wholesale price (upward).
Generally, the price that requires the least amount of subjective adjustments should be used for the fair value
measurement.
(g)
Building held and used. A Level 2 input would be the price per square metre for the building (a valuation multiple)
derived from observable market data, e.g. multiples derived from prices in observed transactions involving comparable
(i.e. similar) buildings in similar locations.
(h)
Cash-generating unit. A Level 2 input would be a valuation multiple (e.g. a multiple of earnings or revenue or a similar
performance measure) derived from observable market data, e.g. multiples derived from prices in observed transactions
involving comparable (i.e. similar) businesses, taking into account operational, market, financial and non-financial
factors.
Level 3 inputs (paragraphs 86-90)
B36. Examples of Level 3 inputs for particular assets and liabilities include the following:
(a)
Long-dated currency swap. A Level 3 input would be an interest rate in a specified currency that is not observable and
cannot be corroborated by observable market data at commonly quoted intervals or otherwise for substantially the full
term of the currency swap. The interest rates in a currency swap are the swap rates calculated from the respective
countries' yield curves.
(b)
Three-year option on exchange-traded shares. A Level 3 input would be historical volatility, i.e. the volatility for the
shares derived from the shares' historical prices. Historical volatility typically does not represent current market
participants' expectations about future volatility, even if it is the only information available to price an option.
(c)
Interest rate swap. A Level 3 input would be an adjustment to a mid-market consensus (nonbinding) price for the swap
developed using data that are not directly observable and cannot otherwise be corroborated by observable market data.
(d)
Decommissioning liability assumed in a business combination. A Level 3 input would be a current estimate using the
entity's own data about the future cash outflows to be paid to fulfill the obligation (including market participants'
expectations about the costs of fulfilling the obligation and the compensation that a market participant would require for
taking on the obligation to dismantle the asset) if there is no reasonably available information that indicates that market
participants would use different assumptions. That Level 3 input would be used in a present value technique together
with other inputs, e.g. a current risk-free interest rate or a credit-adjusted risk-free rate if the effect of the entity's credit
standing on the fair value of the liability is reflected in the discount rate rather than in the estimate of future cash
outflows.
(e)
Cash-generating unit. A Level 3 input would be a financial forecast (e.g. of cash flows or profit or loss) developed using
the entity's own data if there is no reasonably available information that indicates that market participants would use
different assumptions.
Measuring fair value when the volume or level of activity for an asset or a liability has significantly decreased
B37. The fair value of an asset or a liability might be affected when there has been a significant decrease in the volume
or level of activity for that asset or liability in relation to normal market activity for the asset or liability (or similar assets or
liabilities). To determine whether, on the basis of the evidence available, there has been a significant decrease in the
Page 344/765
----- PAGE 345 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
volume or level of activity for the asset or liability, an entity shall evaluate the significance and relevance of factors such
as the following:
(a)
There are few recent transactions.
(b)
Price quotations are not developed using current information.
(c)
Price quotations vary substantially either over time or among market-makers (e.g. some brokered markets).
(d)
Indices that previously were highly correlated with the fair values of the asset or liability are demonstrably uncorrelated
with recent indications of fair value for that asset or liability.
(e)
There is a significant increase in implied liquidity risk premiums, yields or performance indicators (such as delinquency
rates or loss severities) for observed transactions or quoted prices when compared with the entity's estimate of expected
cash flows, taking into account all available market data about credit and other non-performance risk for the asset or
liability.
(f)
There is a wide bid-ask spread or significant increase in the bid-ask spread.
(g)
There is a significant decline in the activity of, or there is an absence of, a market for new issues (i.e. a primary market)
for the asset or liability or similar assets or liabilities.
(h)
Little information is publicly available (e.g. for transactions that take place in a principal-to-principal market).
B38. If an entity concludes that there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or
liability in relation to normal market activity for the asset or liability (or similar assets or liabilities), further analysis of the
transactions or quoted prices is needed. A decrease in the volume or level of activity on its own may not indicate that a
transaction price or quoted price does not represent fair value or that a transaction in that market is not orderly.
However, if an entity determines that a transaction or quoted price does not represent fair value (e.g. there may be
transactions that are not orderly), an adjustment to the transactions or quoted prices will be necessary if the entity uses
those prices as a basis for measuring fair value and that adjustment may be significant to the fair value measurement in
its entirety. Adjustments also may be necessary in other circumstances (e.g. when a price for a similar asset requires
significant adjustment to make it comparable to the asset being measured or when the price is stale).
B39. This Ind AS does not prescribe a methodology for making significant adjustments to transactions or quoted prices.
see paragraphs 61-66 and B5-B11 for a discussion of the use of valuation techniques when measuring fair value.
Regardless of the valuation technique used, an entity shall include appropriate risk adjustments, including a risk
premium reflecting the amount that market participants would demand as compensation for the uncertainty inherent in
the cash flows of an asset or a liability (see paragraph B17). Otherwise, the measurement does not faithfully represent
fair value. In some cases determining the appropriate risk adjustment might be difficult. However, the degree of difficulty
alone is not a sufficient basis on which to exclude a risk adjustment. The risk adjustment shall be reflective of an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions.
B40. If there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability, a change in
valuation technique or the use of multiple valuation techniques may be appropriate (e.g. the use of a market approach
and a present value technique). When weighting indications of fair value resulting from the use of multiple valuation
techniques, an entity shall consider the reasonableness of the range of fair value measurements. The objective is to
determine the point within the range that is most representative of fair value under current market conditions. A wide
range of fair value measurements may be an indication that further analysis is needed.
B41. Even when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability, the
objective of a fair value measurement remains the same. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset
or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction (i.e. not a forced liquidation or distress sale) between market
participants at the measurement date under current market conditions.
B42. Estimating the price at which market participants would be willing to enter into a transaction at the measurement
Page 345/765
----- PAGE 346 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
date under current market conditions if there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the
asset or liability depends on the facts and circumstances at the measurement date and requires judgement. An entity's
intention to hold the asset or to settle or otherwise fulfill the liability is not relevant when measuring fair value because
fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement.
Identifying transactions that are not orderly
B43. The determination of whether a transaction is orderly (or is not orderly) is more difficult if there has been a
significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to normal market activity for the
asset or liability (or similar assets or liabilities). In such circumstances it is not appropriate to conclude that all
transactions in that market are not orderly (i.e. forced liquidations or distress sales). Circumstances that may indicate
that a transaction is not orderly include the following:
(a)
There was not adequate exposure to the market for a period before the measurement date to allow for marketing
activities that are usual and customary for transactions involving such assets or liabilities under current market
conditions.
(b)
There was a usual and customary marketing period, but the seller marketed the asset or liability to a single market
participant.
(c)
The seller is in or near bankruptcy or receivership (i.e. the seller is distressed).
(d)
The seller was required to sell to meet regulatory or legal requirements (i.e. the seller was forced).
(e)
The transaction price is an outlier when compared with other recent transactions for the same or a similar asset or
liability.
An entity shall evaluate the circumstances to determine whether, on the weight of the evidence available, the transaction
is orderly.
B44. An entity shall consider all the following when measuring fair value or estimating market risk premiums:
(a)
If the evidence indicates that a transaction is not orderly, an entity shall place little, if any, weight (compared with other
indications of fair value) on that transaction price.
(b)
If the evidence indicates that a transaction is orderly, an entity shall take into account that transaction price. The amount
of weight placed on that transaction price when compared with other indications of fair value will depend on the facts
and circumstances, such as the following:
(i)
the volume of the transaction.
(ii)
the comparability of the transaction to the asset or liability being measured.
(iii)
the proximity of the transaction to the measurement date.
(c)
If an entity does not have sufficient information to conclude whether a transaction is orderly, it shall take into account the
transaction price. However, that transaction price may not represent fair value (i.e. the transaction price is not
necessarily the sole or primary basis for measuring fair value or estimating market risk premiums). When an entity does
not have sufficient information to conclude whether particular transactions are orderly, the entity shall place less weight
on those transactions when compared with other transactions that are known to be orderly.
An entity need not undertake exhaustive efforts to determine whether a transaction is orderly, but it shall not ignore
information that is reasonably available. When an entity is a party to a transaction, it is presumed to have sufficient
information to conclude whether the transaction is orderly.
Using quoted prices provided by third parties
B45. This Ind AS does not preclude the use of quoted prices provided by third parties, such as pricing services or
Page 346/765
----- PAGE 347 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
brokers, if an entity has determined that the quoted prices provided by those parties are developed in accordance with
this Ind AS.
B46. If there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability, an entity shall
evaluate whether the quoted prices provided by third parties are developed using current information that reflects orderly
transactions or a valuation technique that reflects market participant assumptions (including assumptions about risk). In
weighting a quoted price as an input to a fair value measurement, an entity places less weight (when compared with
other indications of fair value that reflect the results of transactions) on quotes that do not reflect the result of
transactions.
B47. Furthermore, the nature of a quote (e.g. whether the quote is an indicative price or a binding offer) shall be taken
into account when weighting the available evidence, with more weight given to quotes provided by third parties that
represent binding offers.
[Appendix C]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Effective date and transition
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS and has same authority as the other parts of the Ind AS.
C1-C5 Omitted *
C6 Ind AS 116, Leases, amended paragraph 6. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies Ind AS 116.
[Appendix D]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
This appendix lists the appendices which are part of other Indian Accounting Standards and make reference to Ind AS
113, Fair Value Measurement.
1. Appendix A, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners contained in Ind AS 10, Events after the Reporting Period.
2. Appendix D, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments contained in Ind AS 109, Financial
Instruments.
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 113 and the corresponding International
Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 13, Fair Value Measurement, issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board.
Comparison with IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement
1. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position'.
2. Paragraph 7(b) refers to IAS 26, Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit Plans, which is not relevant for the
companies. Hence the paragraph is deleted. In order to maintain consistency with the paragraph numbers of IFRS 13,
the paragraph number is retained in Ind AS 113.
3. [ Paragraphs C1-C5 of IFRS 13 have not been included in Ind AS 113 as these paragraphs relate to effective date
and transition which are not relevant in Indian context. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IFRS 13, these paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 113.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 114, Regulatory Deferral Accounts
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to specify the financial reporting requirements for regulatory deferral account
balances that arise when an entity provides goods or services to customers at a price or rate that is subject to rate
regulation.
2. In meeting this objective, the Standard requires:
(a)
limited changes to the accounting policies that were applied in accordance with previous generally accepted accounting
Page 347/765
----- PAGE 348 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
principles (previous GAAP) for regulatory deferral account balances, which are primarily related to the presentation of
these accounts; and
(b)
disclosures that:
(i)
identify and explain the amounts recognized in the entity's financial statements that arise from rate regulation; and
(ii)
help users of the financial statements to understand the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows from any
regulatory deferral account balances that are recognized.
3. The requirements of this Standard permit an entity within its scope to continue to account for regulatory deferral
account balances in its financial statements in accordance with its previous GAAP when it adopts Ind ASs, subject to the
limited changes referred to in paragraph 2 above.
4. In addition, this Standard provides some exceptions to, or exemptions from, the requirements of other Standards. All
specified requirements for reporting regulatory deferral account balances, and any exceptions to, or exemptions from,
the requirements of other Standards that are related to those balances, are contained within this Standard instead of
within those other Standards.
Scope
5. An entity is permitted to apply the requirements of this Standard in its first Ind AS financial statements if and only if it:
(a)
conducts rate-regulated activities; and
(b)
recognized amounts that qualify as regulatory deferral account balances in its financial statements in accordance with its
previous GAAP.
6. An entity shall apply the requirements of this Standard in its financial statements for subsequent periods if and only if,
in its first [Ind AS financial statements]
[An entity subject to rate regulation coming into existence after Ind AS coming into force or an entity whose activities
become subject to rate regulation as defined in this Ind AS subsequent to preparation and presentation of its first Ind AS
financial statements shall be entitled to apply the requirements of the previous GAAP in respect of its such rate
regulated activities.]
, it recognized regulatory deferral account balances by electing to apply the requirements of this Standard.
7. This Standard does not address other aspects of accounting by entities that are engaged in rate-regulated activities.
By applying the requirements in this Standard, any amounts that are permitted or required to be recognized as assets or
liabilities in accordance with other Standards shall not be included within the amounts classified as regulatory deferral
account balances.
8. An entity that is within the scope of, and that elects to apply, this Standard shall apply all of its requirements to all
regulatory deferral account balances that arise from all of the entity's rate regulated activities.
Recognition, measurement, impairment and derecognition
Temporary exemption from paragraph 11 of Ind AS 8
Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
9. An entity that has rate-regulated activities and that is within the scope of, and elects to apply, this Standard shall apply
paragraphs 10 and 12 of Ind AS 8 when developing its accounting policies for the recognition, measurement, impairment
and derecognition of regulatory deferral account balances.
10. Paragraphs 11-12 of Ind AS 8 specify sources of requirements and guidance that management is required or
permitted to consider in developing an accounting policy for an item, if no relevant Standard applies specifically to that
item. This Standard exempts an entity from applying paragraph 11 of Ind AS 8 to its accounting policies for the
recognition, measurement, impairment and derecognition of regulatory deferral account balances. Consequently, entities
that recognise regulatory deferral account balances, either as separate items or as part of the carrying value of other
assets and liabilities, in accordance with previous GAAP, are permitted to continue to recognise those balances in
accordance with this Standard through the exemption from paragraph 11 of Ind AS 8, subject to any presentation
changes required by paragraphs 18-19. of this Standard.
Continuation of existing accounting policies
Page 348/765
----- PAGE 349 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
11. On initial application of this Standard, an entity shall continue to apply previous GAAP accounting policies for the
recognition, measurement, impairment and derecognition of regulatory deferral account balances, except for any
changes permitted by paragraphs 13-15. However, the presentation of such amounts shall comply with the presentation
requirements of this Standard, which may require changes to the entity's previous GAAP presentation policies (see
paragraphs 18-19).
12. An entity shall apply the policies established in accordance with paragraph 11 consistently in subsequent periods,
except for any changes permitted by paragraphs 13-15.
Changes in accounting policies
13. An entity shall not change its accounting policies in order to start to recognise regulatory deferral account balances.
An entity may only change its accounting policies for the recognition, measurement, impairment and derecognition of
regulatory deferral account balances if the change makes the financial statements more relevant to the economic
decision-making needs of users and no less reliable, or more reliable and no less relevant to those needs. An entity
shall judge relevance and reliability using the criteria in paragraph 10 of Ind AS 8.
14. This Standard does not exempt entities from applying paragraphs 10 or 14-15 of Ind AS 8 to changes in accounting
policy. To justify changing its accounting policies for regulatory deferral account balances, an entity shall demonstrate
that the change brings its financial statements closer to meeting the criteria in paragraph 10 of Ind AS 8. However, the
change does not need to achieve full compliance with those criteria for the recognition, measurement, impairment and
derecognition of regulatory deferral account balances.
15. Paragraphs 13-14 apply both to changes made on initial application of this Standard and to changes made in
subsequent reporting periods.
Interaction with other Standards
16. Any specific exception, exemption or additional requirements related to the interaction of this Standard with other
Standards are contained within this Standard (see paragraphs B7-B28). In the absence of any such exception,
exemption or additional requirements, other Standards shall apply to regulatory deferral account balances in the same
way as they apply to assets, liabilities, income and expenses that are recognized in accordance with other Standards.
17. In some situations, another Standard might need to be applied to a regulatory deferral account balance that has
been measured in accordance with an entity's accounting policies that are established in accordance with paragraphs
11-12 in order to reflect that balance appropriately in the financial statements. For example, the entity might have
rate-regulated activities in a foreign country for which the transactions and regulatory deferral account balances are
denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency of the reporting entity. The regulatory deferral account
balances and the movements in those balances are translated by applying Ind AS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign
Exchange Rates.
Presentation
Changes in presentation
18. This Standard introduces presentation requirements, outlined in paragraphs 20-26, for regulatory deferral account
balances that are recognized in accordance with paragraphs 11-12. When this Standard is applied, the regulatory
deferral account balances are recognized in the balance sheet in addition to the assets and liabilities that are recognized
in accordance with other Standards. These presentation requirements separate the impact of recognising regulatory
deferral account balances from the financial reporting requirements of other Standards.
19. In addition to the items that are required to be presented in the balance sheet and in the statement of profit and loss
in accordance with Ind AS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, an entity applying this Standard shall present all
regulatory deferral account balances and the movements in those balances in accordance with paragraphs 20-26.
Classification of regulatory deferral account balances
20. An entity shall present separate line items in the balance sheet for:
(a)
the total of all regulatory deferral account debit balances; and
(b)
the total of all regulatory deferral account credit balances.
21. When an entity presents current and non-current assets, and current and non-current liabilities, as separate
classifications in its balance sheet, it shall not classify the totals of regulatory deferral account balances as current or
non-current. Instead, the separate line items required by paragraph 20 shall be distinguished from the assets and
Page 349/765
----- PAGE 350 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
liabilities that are presented in accordance with other Standards by the use of sub-totals, which are drawn before the
regulatory deferral account balances are presented.
Classification of movements in regulatory deferral account balances
22. An entity shall present, in the other comprehensive income section of the statement of profit and loss , the net
movement in all regulatory deferral account balances for the reporting period that relate to items recognized in other
comprehensive income. Separate line items shall be used for the net movement related to items that, in accordance with
other Standards:
(a)
will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss; and
(b)
will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met.
23. An entity shall present a separate line item in the profit or loss section of the statement of profit and loss, for the
remaining net movement in all regulatory deferral account balances for the reporting period, excluding movements that
are not reflected in profit or loss, such as amounts acquired. This separate line item shall be distinguished from the
income and expenses that are presented in accordance with other Standards by the use of a sub-total, which is drawn
before the net movement in regulatory deferral account balances.
24. When an entity recognises a deferred tax asset or a deferred tax liability as a result of recognising regulatory deferral
account balances, the entity shall present the resulting deferred tax asset (liability) and the related movement in that
deferred tax asset (liability) with the related regulatory deferral account balances and movements in those balances,
instead of within the total presented in accordance with Ind AS 12 Income Taxes for deferred tax assets (liabilities) and
the tax expense (income) (see paragraphs B9-B12).
25. When an entity presents a discontinued operation or a disposal group in accordance with Ind AS 105 Non-current
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the entity shall present any related regulatory deferral account
balances and the net movement in those balances, as applicable, with the regulatory deferral account balances and
movements in those balances, instead of within the disposal groups or discontinued operations (see paragraphs
B19-B22).
26. When an entity presents earnings per share in accordance with Ind AS 33 Earnings per Share, the entity shall
present additional basic and diluted earnings per share, which are calculated using the earnings amounts required by
Ind AS 33 but excluding the movements in regulatory deferral account balances (see paragraphs B13-B14).
Disclosure
Objective
27. An entity that elects to apply this Standard shall disclose information that enables users to assess:
(a)
the nature of, and the risks associated with, the rate regulation that establishes the price(s) that the entity can charge
customers for the goods or services it provides; and
(b)
the effects of that rate regulation on its financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
28. If any of the disclosures set out in paragraphs 30-36 are not considered relevant to meet the objective in paragraph
27, they may be omitted from the financial statements. If the disclosures provided in accordance with paragraphs 30-36
are insufficient to meet the objective in paragraph 27, an entity shall disclose additional information that is necessary to
meet that objective.
29. To meet the disclosure objective in paragraph 27, an entity shall consider all of the following:
(a)
the level of detail that is necessary to satisfy the disclosure requirements;
(b)
how much emphasis to place on each of the various requirements;
(c)
how much aggregation or disaggregation to undertake; and
(d)
whether users of financial statements need additional information to evaluate the quantitative information disclosed.
Explanation of activities subject to rate regulation
Page 350/765
----- PAGE 351 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
30. To help a user of the financial statements assess the nature of, and the risks associated with, the entity's rate
regulated activities, an entity shall, for each type of rate-regulated activity, disclose:
(a)
a brief description of the nature and extent of the rate-regulated activity and the nature of the regulatory rate-setting
process;
(b)
the identity of the rate regulator(s). If the rate regulator is a related party (as defined in Ind AS 24 Related Party
Disclosures), the entity shall disclose that fact, together with an explanation of how it is related;
(c)
how the future recovery of each class (i.e. each type of cost or income) of regulatory deferral account debit balance or
reversal of each class of regulatory deferral account credit balance is affected by risks and uncertainty, for example:
(i)
demand risk (for example, changes in consumer attitudes, the availability of alternative sources of supply or the level of
competition);
(ii)
regulatory risk (for example, the submission or approval of a rate-setting application or the entity's assessment of the
expected future regulatory actions); and
(iii)
other risks (for example, currency or other market risks).
31. The disclosures required by paragraph 30 shall be given in the financial statements either directly in the notes or
incorporated by cross-reference from the financial statements to some other statement, such as a management
commentary or risk report, that is available to users of the financial statements on the same terms as the financial
statements and at the same time. If the information is not included in the financial statements directly or incorporated by
cross-reference, the financial statements are incomplete.
Explanation of recognized amounts
32. An entity shall disclose the basis on which regulatory deferral account balances are recognized and derecognized,
and how they are measured initially and subsequently, including how regulatory deferral account balances are assessed
for recoverability and how any impairment loss is allocated.
33. For each type of rate-regulated activity, an entity shall disclose the following information for each class of regulatory
deferral account balance:
(a)
a reconciliation of the carrying amount at the beginning and the end of the period, in a table unless another format is
more appropriate. The entity shall apply judgement in deciding the level of detail necessary (see paragraphs 28-29), but
the following components would usually be relevant:
(i)
the amounts that have been recognized in the current period in the balance sheet as regulatory deferral account
balances;
(ii)
the amounts that have been recognized in the statement of profit and loss relating to balances that have been recovered
(sometimes described as amortised) or reversed in the current period; and
(iii)
other amounts, separately identified, that affected the regulatory deferral account balances, such as impairments, items
acquired or assumed in a business combination, items disposed of, or the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates
or discount rates;
(b)
the rate of return or discount rate (including a zero rate or a range of rates, when applicable) used to reflect the time
value of money that is applicable to each class of regulatory deferral account balance; and
(c)
the remaining periods over which the entity expects to recover (or amortise) the carrying amount of each class of
regulatory deferral account debit balance or to reverse each class of regulatory deferral account credit balance.
34. When rate regulation affects the amount and timing of an entity's income tax expense (income), the entity shall
Page 351/765
----- PAGE 352 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
disclose the impact of the rate regulation on the amounts of current and deferred tax recognized. In addition, the entity
shall separately disclose any regulatory deferral account balance that relates to taxation and the related movement in
that balance.
35. When an entity provides disclosures in accordance with Ind AS 112 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities for an
interest in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture that has rate-regulated activities and for which regulatory deferral
account balances are recognized in accordance with this Standard, the entity shall disclose the amounts that are
included for the regulatory deferral account debit and credit balances and the net movement in those balances for the
interests disclosed (see paragraphs B25-B28).
36. When an entity concludes that a regulatory deferral account balance is no longer fully recoverable or reversible, it
shall disclose that fact, the reason why it is not recoverable or reversible and the amount by which the regulatory
deferral account balance has been reduced.
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an
integral part of the Standard.
First Ind AS financial statements
The first annual financial statements in which
an entity adopts Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS), by an
explicit and unreserved statement of compliance with Ind AS.
First-time adopter
An entity that presents itsfirst Ind AS
financial statements.
Previous GAAP
The basis of accounting that afirst-time
adopterused immediately before adopting Ind ASs for its
reporting requirements in India. For instance, for companies
preparing their financial statements in accordance with the
existing Accounting Standards notified under the Companies
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006 shall consider those financial
statements as previous GAAP financial statements.
Explanation:
Guidance Note on Accounting for the Rate
Regulated Activities, issued by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of India (ICAI) shall be considered to be the
previous GAAP.
Rate-regulated activities
An entity's activities that are subject torate
regulation.
Rate regulation
'Cost of Service Regulation'as defined
in the Guidance Note onAccounting for Rate Regulated
Activities.
Rate regulator
'Regulator'as defined in the Guidance
Note onAccounting for Rate Regulated Activities.
Regulatory deferral account balance
A'Regulatory Asset'or a'Regulatory
Liability'as defined in the Guidance Note onAccounting
for Rate Regulated Activities.
Appendix B
Application Guidance
Page 352/765
----- PAGE 353 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard.
Rate-regulated activities
B1. Historically, rate regulation applied to all activities of an entity. However, with acquisitions, diversification and
deregulation, rate regulation may now apply to only a portion of an entity's activities, resulting in it having both regulated
and non-regulated activities. This Standard applies only to the rate-regulated activities that are subject to statutory or
regulatory restrictions through the actions of a rate regulator, regardless of the type of entity or the industry to which it
belongs.
B2. An entity shall not apply this Standard to activities that are self-regulated, i.e. activities that are not subject to a
pricing framework that is overseen and/or approved by a rate regulator.
Continuation of existing accounting policies
B3. For the purposes of this Standard, a regulatory deferral account balance is defined as the balance of any expense
(or income) account that would not be recognized as an asset or a liability in accordance with other Standards, but that
qualifies for deferral because it is included, or is expected to be included, by the rate regulator in establishing the rate(s)
that can be charged to customers. Some items of expense (income) may be outside the regulated rate(s) because, for
example, the amounts are not expected to be accepted by the rate regulator or because they are not within the scope of
the rate regulation. Consequently, such an item is recognized as income or expense as incurred, unless another
Standard permits or requires it to be included in the carrying amount of an asset or liability.
B4. In some cases, other Standards explicitly prohibit an entity from recognising, in the balance sheet, regulatory
deferral account balances that might be recognized, either separately or included within other line items such as
property, plant and equipment in accordance with previous GAAP accounting policies. However, in accordance with
paragraph 11 of this Standard, an entity that elects to apply this Standard in its first Ind AS financial statements applies
the exemption from paragraph 11 of Ind AS 8 in order to continue to apply its previous GAAP accounting policies for the
recognition, measurement, impairment, and derecognition of regulatory deferral account balances. Such accounting
policies may include, for example, the following practices:
(a)
recognising a regulatory deferral account debit balance when the entity has the right, as a result of the actual or
expected actions of the rate regulator, to increase rates in future periods in order to recover its allowable costs (i.e. the
costs for which the regulated rate(s) is intended to provide recovery);
(b)
recognising, as a regulatory deferral account debit or credit balance, an amount that is equivalent to any loss or gain on
the disposal or retirement of both items of property, plant and equipment and of intangible assets, which is expected to
be recovered or reversed through future rates;
(c)
recognising a regulatory deferral account credit balance when the entity is required, as a result of the actual or expected
actions of the rate regulator, to decrease rates in future periods in order to reverse over-recoveries of allowable costs
(i.e. amounts in excess of the recoverable amount specified by the rate regulator); and
(d)
measuring regulatory deferral account balances on an undiscounted basis or on a discounted basis that uses an interest
or discount rate specified by the rate regulator.
B5. The following are examples of the types of costs that rate regulators might allow in rate-setting decisions and that an
entity might, therefore, recognise in regulatory deferral account balances:
(i)
volume or purchase price variances;
(ii)
costs of approved 'green energy' initiatives (in excess of amounts that are capitalised as part of the cost of property,
plant and equipment in accordance with Ind AS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment);
(iii)
non-directly-attributable overhead costs that are treated as capital costs for rate regulation purposes (but are not
permitted, in accordance with Ind AS 16, to be included in the cost of an item of property, plant and equipment);
(iv)
project cancellation costs;
Page 353/765
----- PAGE 354 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(v)
storm damage costs; and
(vi)
deemed interest (including amounts allowed for funds that are used during construction that provide the entity with a
return on the owner's equity capital as well as borrowings).
B6. Regulatory deferral account balances usually represent timing differences between the recognition of items of
income or expenses for regulatory purposes and the recognition of those items for financial reporting purposes. When
an entity changes an accounting policy on the first-time adoption of Ind AS or on the initial application of a new or
revised Standard, new or revised timing differences may arise that create new or revised regulatory deferral account
balances. The prohibition in paragraph 13 that prevents an entity from changing its accounting policy in order to start to
recognise regulatory deferral account balances does not prohibit the recognition of the new or revised regulatory deferral
account balances that are created because of other changes in accounting policies required by Ind AS. This is because
the recognition of regulatory deferral account balances for such timing differences would be consistent with the existing
recognition policy applied in accordance with paragraph 11 and would not represent the introduction of a new
accounting policy. Similarly, paragraph 13 does not prohibit the recognition of regulatory deferral account balances
arising from timing differences that did not exist immediately prior to the date of transition to Ind AS but are consistent
with the entity's accounting policies established in accordance with paragraph 11 (for example, storm damage costs).
Applicability of other Standards
B7. An entity that is within the scope of, and that elects to apply, the requirements of this Standard shall continue to
apply its previous GAAP accounting policies for the recognition, measurement, impairment and derecognition of
regulatory deferral account balances. However, paragraphs 16-17 state that, in some situations, other Standards might
also need to be applied to regulatory deferral account balances in order to reflect them appropriately in the financial
statements. The following paragraphs outline how some other Standards interact with the requirements of this Standard.
In particular, the following paragraphs clarify specific exceptions to, and exemptions from, other Standards and
additional presentation and disclosure requirements that are expected to be applicable.
Application of Ind AS 10 Events after the Reporting Period
B8. An entity may need to use estimates and assumptions in the recognition and measurement of its regulatory deferral
account balances. For events that occur between the end of the reporting period and the date when the financial
statements are authorised for issue, the entity shall apply Ind AS 10 to identify whether those estimates and
assumptions should be adjusted to reflect those events.
Application of Ind AS 12 Income Taxes
B9. Ind AS 12 requires, with certain limited exceptions, an entity to recognise a deferred tax liability and (subject to
certain conditions) a deferred tax asset for all temporary differences. A rate-regulated entity shall apply Ind AS 12 to all
of its activities, including its rate-regulated activities, to identify the amount of income tax that is to be recognized.
B10. In some rate-regulatory schemes, the rate regulator permits or requires an entity to increase its future rates in order
to recover some or all of the entity's income tax expense. In such circumstances, this might result in the entity
recognising a regulatory deferral account balance in the balance sheet related to income tax, in accordance with its
accounting policies established in accordance with paragraphs 11-12. The recognition of this regulatory deferral account
balance that relates to income tax might itself create an additional temporary difference for which a further deferred tax
amount would be recognized.
B11. Notwithstanding the presentation and disclosure requirements of Ind AS 12, when an entity recognises a deferred
tax asset or a deferred tax liability as a result of recognising regulatory deferral account balances, the entity shall not
include that deferred tax amount within the total deferred tax asset (liability) balances. Instead, the entity shall present
the deferred tax asset (liability) that arises as a result of recognising regulatory deferral account balances either:
(a)
with the line items that are presented for the regulatory deferral account debit balances and credit balances; or
(b)
as a separate line item alongside the related regulatory deferral account debit balances and credit balances.
B12. Similarly, when an entity recognises the movement in a deferred tax asset (liability) that arises as a result of
recognising regulatory deferral account balances, the entity shall not include the movement in that deferred tax amount
within the tax expense (income) line item that is presented in the statement of profit and loss in accordance with Ind AS
Page 354/765
----- PAGE 355 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
12. Instead, the entity shall present the movement in the deferred tax asset (liability) that arises as a result of
recognising regulatory deferral account balances either:
(a)
with the line items that are presented in the statement of profit and loss for the movements in regulatory deferral account
balances; or
(b)
as a separate line item alongside the related line items that are presented in the statement of profit and loss for the
movements in regulatory deferral account balances.
Application of Ind AS 33 Earnings per Share
B13. Paragraph 66 of Ind AS 33 requires some entities to present, in the statement of profit and loss, basic and diluted
earnings per share both for profit or loss from continuing operations and profit or loss that is attributable to the ordinary
equity holders of the parent entity. In addition, paragraph 68 of Ind AS 33 requires an entity that reports a discontinued
operation to disclose the basic and diluted amounts per share for the discontinued operation, either in the statement of
profit or loss and other comprehensive income or in the notes.
B14. For each earnings per share amount presented in accordance with Ind AS 33, an entity applying this Standard
shall present additional basic and diluted earnings per share amounts that are calculated in the same way, except that
those amounts shall exclude the net movement in the regulatory deferral account balances. Consistent with the
requirement in paragraph 73 of Ind AS 33, an entity shall present the earnings per share required by paragraph 26 of
this Standard with equal prominence to the earnings per share required by Ind AS 33 for all periods presented.
Application of Ind AS 36 Impairment of Assets
B15. Paragraphs 11-12 require an entity to continue to apply its previous GAAP accounting policies for the identification,
recognition, measurement and reversal of any impairment of its recognized regulatory deferral account balances.
Consequently, Ind AS 36 does not apply to the separate regulatory deferral account balances recognized.
B16. However, Ind AS 36 might require an entity to perform an impairment test on a cash-generating unit (CGU) that
includes regulatory deferral account balances. This test might be required because the CGU contains goodwill, or
because one or more of the impairment indicators described in Ind AS 36 have been identified relating to the CGU. In
such situations, paragraphs 74-79 of Ind AS 36 contain requirements for identifying the recoverable amount and the
carrying amount of a CGU. An entity shall apply those requirements to decide whether any of the regulatory deferral
account balances recognized are included in the carrying amount of the CGU for the purpose of the impairment test.
The remaining requirements of Ind AS 36 shall then be applied to any impairment loss that is recognized as a result of
this test.
Application of Ind AS 103 Business Combinations
B17. The core principle of Ind AS 103 is that an acquirer of a business recognises the assets acquired and the liabilities
assumed at their acquisition-date fair values. Ind AS 103 provides limited exceptions to its recognition and measurement
principles. Paragraph B18 of this Standard provides an additional exception.
B18. Paragraphs 11-12 require an entity to continue to apply its previous GAAP accounting policies for the recognition,
measurement, impairment and derecognition of regulatory deferral account balances. Consequently, if an entity acquires
a business, it shall apply, in its consolidated financial statements, its accounting policies established in accordance with
paragraphs 11-12 for the recognition and measurement of the acquiree's regulatory deferral account balances at the
date of acquisition. The acquiree's regulatory deferral account balances shall be recognized in the consolidated financial
statements of the acquirer in accordance with the acquirer's policies, irrespective of whether the acquiree recognises
those balances in its own financial statements.
Application of Ind AS 105 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
B19. Paragraphs 11-12 require an entity to continue to apply its previous accounting policies for the recognition,
measurement, impairment and derecognition of regulatory deferral account balances. Consequently, the measurement
requirements of Ind AS 105 shall not apply to the regulatory deferral account balances recognized.
B20. Paragraph 33 of Ind AS 105 requires a single amount to be presented for discontinued operations in the statement
of profit and loss. Notwithstanding the requirements of that paragraph, when an entity that elects to apply this Standard
presents a discontinued operation, it shall not include the movement in regulatory deferral account balances that arose
from the rate-regulated activities of the discontinued operation within the line items that are required by paragraph 33 of
Ind AS 105. Instead, the entity shall present the movement in regulatory deferral account balances that arose from the
Page 355/765
----- PAGE 356 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
rate-regulated activities of the discontinued operation either:
(a)
within the line item that is presented for movements in the regulatory deferral account balances related to profit or loss;
or
(b)
as a separate line item alongside the related line item that is presented for movements in the regulatory deferral account
balances related to profit or loss.
B21. Similarly, notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph 38 of Ind AS 105, when an entity presents a disposal
group, the entity shall not include the total of the regulatory deferral account debit balances and credit balances that are
part of the disposal group within the line items that are required by paragraph 38 of Ind AS 105. Instead, the entity shall
present the total of the regulatory deferral account debit balances and credit balances that are part of the disposal group
either:
(a)
within the line items that are presented for the regulatory deferral account debit balances and credit balances; or
(b)
as separate line items alongside the other regulatory deferral account debit balances and credit balances.
B22. If the entity chooses to include the regulatory deferral account balances and movements in those balances that are
related to the disposal group or discontinued operation within the related regulated deferral account line items, it may be
necessary to disclose them separately as part of the analysis of the regulatory deferral account line items described by
paragraph 33 of this Standard.
Application of Ind AS 110 Consolidated Financial Statements and Ind AS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint
Ventures
B23. Paragraph 19 of Ind 110 requires that a "parent shall prepare consolidated financial statements using uniform
accounting policies for like transactions and other events in similar circumstances". Paragraph 8 of this Standard
requires that an entity that is within the scope of, and elects to apply, this Standard shall apply all of its requirements to
all regulatory deferral account balances arising from all of the entity's rate-regulated activities. Consequently, if a parent
recognises regulatory deferral account balances in its consolidated financial statements in accordance with this
Standard, it shall apply the same accounting policies to the regulatory deferral account balances arising in all of its
subsidiaries. This shall apply irrespective of whether the subsidiaries recognise those balances in their own financial
statements.
B24. Similarly, paragraphs 35-36 of Ind AS 28 require that, in applying the equity method, an "entity's financial
statements shall be prepared using uniform accounting policies for like transactions and events in similar
circumstances". Consequently, adjustments shall be made to make the associate's or joint venture's accounting policies
for the recognition, measurement, impairment and derecognition of regulatory deferral account balances conform to
those of the investing entity in applying the equity method.
Application of Ind AS 112 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
B25. Paragraph 12(e) of Ind AS 112 requires an entity to disclose, for each of its subsidiaries that have non-controlling
interests that are material to the reporting entity, the profit or loss that was allocated to non-controlling interests of the
subsidiary during the reporting period. An entity that recognises regulatory deferral account balances in accordance with
this Standard shall disclose the net movement in regulatory deferral account balances that is included within the
amounts that are required to be disclosed by paragraph 12(e) of Ind AS 112.
B26. Paragraph 12(g) of Ind AS 112 requires an entity to disclose, for each of its subsidiaries that have non-controlling
interests that are material to the reporting entity, summarised financial information about the subsidiary, as specified in
paragraph B10 of Ind AS 112. Similarly, paragraph 21(b)(ii) of Ind AS 112 requires an entity to disclose, for each joint
venture and associate that is material to the reporting entity, summarised financial information as specified in
paragraphs B12-B13 of Ind AS 112. Paragraph B16 of Ind AS 112 specifies the summary financial information that an
entity is required to disclose for all other associates and joint ventures that are not individually material in accordance
with paragraph 21(c) of Ind AS 112.
B27. In addition to the information specified in paragraphs 12, 21, B10, B12-B13 and B16 of Ind AS 112, an entity that
recognises regulatory deferral account balances in accordance with this Standard shall also disclose the total regulatory
deferral account debit balance, the total regulatory deferral account credit balance and the net movements in those
Page 356/765
----- PAGE 357 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
balances, split between amounts recognized in profit or loss and amounts recognized as other comprehensive income,
for each entity for which those Ind AS 112 disclosures are required.
B28. Paragraph 19 of Ind AS 112 specifies the information that an entity is required to disclose when the entity
recognises a gain or loss on losing control of a subsidiary, calculated in accordance with paragraph 25 of Ind AS 110. In
addition to the information required by paragraph 19 of Ind AS 112, an entity that elects to apply this Standard shall
disclose the portion of that gain or loss that is attributable to derecognising regulatory deferral account balances in the
former subsidiary at the date when control is lost.
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of this Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 114 and the corresponding International Financial
Reporting Standard (IFRS) 14, Regulatory Deferral Accounts.
Comparison with IFRS 14, Regulatory Deferral Accounts
1. Appendix A, Defined terms have been modified to clarify that Guidance Note of Accounting for Rate Regulated
Activities would be considered as the previous GAAP for the purpose of Ind AS 114.
2. Under paragraph 6 of Ind AS 114, a footnote has been added to clarify the application of requirements of previous
GAAP in the case of an entity subject to rate regulation coming into existence after Ind AS coming into force or an entity
whose activities become subject to rate regulation as defined in this Ind AS subsequent to preparation and presentation
of its first Ind AS financial statements.
3. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position', and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of Profit and Loss and comprehensive income'.
[Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 115]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
(The Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to establish the principles that an entity shall apply to report useful information to
users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a
contract with a customer. Meeting the objective
2. To meet the objective in paragraph 1, the core principle of this Standard is that an entity shall recognise revenue to
depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the
entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
3. An entity shall consider the terms of the contract and all relevant facts and circumstances when applying this
Standard. An entity shall apply this Standard, including the use of any practical expedients, consistently to contracts with
similar characteristics and in similar circumstances.
4. This Standard specifies the accounting for an individual contract with a customer. However, as a practical expedient,
an entity may apply this Standard to a portfolio of contracts (or performance obligations) with similar characteristics if the
entity reasonably expects that the effects on the financial statements of applying this Standard to the portfolio would not
differ materially from applying this Standard to the individual contracts (or performance obligations) within that portfolio.
When accounting for a portfolio, an entity shall use estimates and assumptions that reflect the size and composition of
the portfolio.
Scope
5. An entity shall apply this Standard to all contracts with customers, except the following:
(a)
[ lease contracts within the scope of Ind AS 116, Leases;]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b)
insurance contracts within the scope of Ind AS 104, Insurance Contracts;
(c)
financial instruments and other contractual rights or obligations within the scope of Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments,
Ind AS 110, Consolidated Financial Statements, Ind AS 111, Joint Arrangements, Ind AS 27, Separate Financial
Page 357/765
----- PAGE 358 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Statements and Ind AS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures; and
(d)
non-monetary exchanges between entities in the same line of business to facilitate sales to customers or potential
customers. For example, this Standard would not apply to a contract between two oil companies that agree to an
exchange of oil to fulfil demand from their customers in different specified locations on a timely basis.
6. An entity shall apply this Standard to a contract (other than a contract listed in paragraph 5) only if the counterparty to
the contract is a customer. A customer is a party that has contracted with an entity to obtain goods or services that are
an output of the entity's ordinary activities in exchange for consideration. A counterparty to the contract would not be a
customer if, for example, the counterparty has contracted with the entity to participate in an activity or process in which
the parties to the contract share in the risks and benefits that result from the activity or process (such as developing an
asset in a collaboration arrangement) rather than to obtain the output of the entity's ordinary activities.
* Refer Appendix 1
7. A contract with a customer may be partially within the scope of this Standard and partially within the scope of other
Standards listed in paragraph 5.
(a)
If the other Standards specify how to separate and/or initially measure one or more parts of the contract, then an entity
shall first apply the separation and/or measurement requirements in those Standards. An entity shall exclude from the
transaction price the amount of the part (or parts) of the contract that are initially measured in accordance with other
Standards and shall apply paragraphs 73- 86 to allocate the amount of the transaction price that remains (if any) to each
performance obligation within the scope of this Standard and to any other parts of the contract identified by paragraph
7(b).
(b)
If the other Standards do not specify how to separate and/or initially measure one or more parts of the contract, then the
entity shall apply this Standard to separate and/or initially measure the part (or parts) of the contract.
8. This Standard specifies the accounting for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer and for the
costs incurred to fulfil a contract with a customer if those costs are not within the scope of another Standard (see
paragraphs 91-104). An entity shall apply those paragraphs only to the costs incurred that relate to a contract with a
customer (or part of that contract) that is within the scope of this Standard.
Recognition
Identifying the contract
9. An entity shall account for a contract with a customer that is within the scope of this Standard only when all of the
following criteria are met:
(a)
the parties to the contract have approved the contract (in writing, orally or in accordance with other customary business
practices) and are committed to perform their respective obligations;
(b)
the entity can identify each party's rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred;
(c)
the entity can identify the payment terms for the goods or services to be transferred;
(d)
the contract has commercial substance (ie the risk, timing or amount of the entity's future cash flows is expected to
change as a result of the contract); and
(e)
it is probable that the entity will collect the consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for the goods or services
that will be transferred to the customer. In evaluating whether collectability of an amount of consideration is probable, an
entity shall consider only the customer's ability and intention to pay that amount of consideration when it is due. The
amount of consideration to which the entity will be entitled may be less than the price stated in the contract if the
consideration is variable because the entity may offer the customer a price concession (see paragraph 52).
10. A contract is an agreement between two or more parties that creates enforceable rights and obligations.
Enforceability of the rights and obligations in a contract is a matter of law. Contracts can be written, oral or implied by an
entity's customary business practices. The practices and processes for establishing contracts with customers vary
Page 358/765
----- PAGE 359 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
across legal jurisdictions, industries and entities. In addition, they may vary within an entity (for example, they may
depend on the class of customer or the nature of the promised goods or services). An entity shall consider those
practices and processes in determining whether and when an agreement with a customer creates enforceable rights and
obligations.
11. Some contracts with customers may have no fixed duration and can be terminated or modified by either party at any
time. Other contracts may automatically renew on a periodic basis that is specified in the contract. An entity shall apply
this Standard to the duration of the contract (ie the contractual period) in which the parties to the contract have present
enforceable rights and obligations.
12. For the purpose of applying this Standard, a contract does not exist if each party to the contract has the unilateral
enforceable right to terminate a wholly unperformed contract without compensating the other party (or parties). A
contract is wholly unperformed if both of the following criteria are met:
(a)
the entity has not yet transferred any promised goods or services to the customer; and
(b)
the entity has not yet received, and is not yet entitled to receive, any consideration in exchange for promised goods or
services.
13. If a contract with a customer meets the criteria in paragraph 9 at contract inception, an entity shall not reassess
those criteria unless there is an indication of a significant change in facts and circumstances. For example, if a
customer's ability to pay the consideration deteriorates significantly, an entity would reassess whether it is probable that
the entity will collect the consideration to which the entity will be entitled in exchange for the remaining goods or services
that will be transferred to the customer.
14. If a contract with a customer does not meet the criteria in paragraph 9, an entity shall continue to assess the contract
to determine whether the criteria in paragraph 9 are subsequently met.
15. When a contract with a customer does not meet the criteria in paragraph 9 and an entity receives consideration from
the customer, the entity shall recognise the consideration received as revenue only when either of the following events
has occurred:
(a)
the entity has no remaining obligations to transfer goods or services to the customer and all, or substantially all, of the
consideration promised by the customer has been received by the entity and is non-refundable; or
(b)
the contract has been terminated and the consideration received from the customer is non-refundable.
16. An entity shall recognise the consideration received from a customer as a liability until one of the events in
paragraph 15 occurs or until the criteria in paragraph 9 are subsequently met (see paragraph 14). Depending on the
facts and circumstances relating to the contract, the liability recognised represents the entity's obligation to either
transfer goods or services in the future or refund the consideration received. In either case, the liability shall be
measured at the amount of consideration received from the customer. Combination of contracts
17. An entity shall combine two or more contracts entered into at or near the same time with the same customer (or
related parties of the customer) and account for the contracts as a single contract if one or more of the following criteria
are met:
(a)
the contracts are negotiated as a package with a single commercial objective;
(b)
the amount of consideration to be paid in one contract depends on the price or performance of the other contract; or
(c)
the goods or services promised in the contracts (or some goods or services promised in each of the contracts) are a
single performance obligation in accordance with paragraphs 22-30.
Contract modifications
18. A contract modification is a change in the scope or price (or both) of a contract that is approved by the parties to the
contract. In some industries and jurisdictions, a contract modification may be described as a change order, a variation or
an amendment. A contract modification exists when the parties to a contract approve a modification that either creates
new or changes existing enforceable rights and obligations of the parties to the contract. A contract modification could
Page 359/765
----- PAGE 360 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
be approved in writing, by oral agreement or implied by customary business practices. If the parties to the contract have
not approved a contract modification, an entity shall continue to apply this Standard to the existing contract until the
contract modification is approved.
19. A contract modification may exist even though the parties to the contract have a dispute about the scope or price (or
both) of the modification or the parties have approved a change in the scope of the contract but have not yet determined
the corresponding change in price. In determining whether the rights and obligations that are created or changed by a
modification are enforceable, an entity shall consider all relevant facts and circumstances including the terms of the
contract and other evidence. If the parties to a contract have approved a change in the scope of the contract but have
not yet determined the corresponding change in price, an entity shall estimate the change to the transaction price arising
from the modification in accordance with paragraphs 50-54 on estimating variable consideration and paragraphs 56-58
on constraining estimates of variable consideration.
20. An entity shall account for a contract modification as a separate contract if both of the following conditions are
present:
(a)
the scope of the contract increases because of the addition of promised goods or services that are distinct (in
accordance with paragraphs 26-30); and
(b)
the price of the contract increases by an amount of consideration that reflects the entity's stand-alone selling prices of
the additional promised goods or services and any appropriate adjustments to that price to reflect the circumstances of
the particular contract. For example, an entity may adjust the stand-alone selling price of an additional good or service
for a discount that the customer receives, because it is not necessary for the entity to incur the selling-related costs that
it would incur when selling a similar good or service to a new customer.
21. If a contract modification is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 20, an entity shall
account for the promised goods or services not yet transferred at the date of the contract modification (ie the remaining
promised goods or services) in whichever of the following ways is applicable:
(a)
An entity shall account for the contract modification as if it were a termination of the existing contract and the creation of
a new contract, if the remaining goods or services are distinct from the goods or services transferred on or before the
date of the contract modification. The amount of consideration to be allocated to the remaining performance obligations
(or to the remaining distinct goods or services in a single performance obligation identified in accordance with paragraph
22(b)) is the sum of:
(i)
the consideration promised by the customer (including amounts already received from the customer) that was included
in the estimate of the transaction price and that had not been recognised as revenue; and
(ii)
the consideration promised as part of the contract modification.
(b)
An entity shall account for the contract modification as if it were a part of the existing contract if the remaining goods or
services are not distinct and, therefore, form part of a single performance obligation that is partially satisfied at the date
of the contract modification. The effect that the contract modification has on the transaction price, and on the entity's
measure of progress towards complete satisfaction of the performance obligation, is recognised as an adjustment to
revenue (either as an increase in or a reduction of revenue) at the date of the contract modification (ie the adjustment to
revenue is made on a cumulative catch-up basis).
(c)
If the remaining goods or services are a combination of items (a) and (b), then the entity shall account for the effects of
the modification on the unsatisfied (including partially unsatisfied) performance obligations in the modified contract in a
manner that is consistent with the objectives of this paragraph.
Identifying performance obligations
22. At contract inception, an entity shall assess the goods or services promised in a contract with a customer and shall
identify as a performance obligation each promise to transfer to the customer either:
(a)
Page 360/765
----- PAGE 361 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
a good or service (or a bundle of goods or services) that is distinct; or
(b)
a series of distinct goods or services that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer to the
customer (see paragraph 23).
23. A series of distinct goods or services has the same pattern of transfer to the customer if both of the following criteria
are met:
(a)
each distinct good or service in the series that the entity promises to transfer to the customer would meet the criteria in
paragraph 35 to be a performance obligation satisfied over time; and
(b)
in accordance with paragraphs 39-40, the same method would be used to measure the entity's progress towards
complete satisfaction of the performance obligation to transfer each distinct good or service in the series to the
customer.
Promises in contracts with customers
24. A contract with a customer generally explicitly states the goods or services that an entity promises to transfer to a
customer. However, the performance obligations identified in a contract with a customer may not be limited to the goods
or services that are explicitly stated in that contract. This is because a contract with a customer may also include
promises that are implied by an entity's customary business practices, published policies or specific statements if, at the
time of entering into the contract, those promises create a valid expectation of the customer that the entity will transfer a
good or service to the customer.
25. Performance obligations do not include activities that an entity must undertake to fulfil a contract unless those
activities transfer a good or service to a customer. For example, a services provider may need to perform various
administrative tasks to set up a contract. The performance of those tasks does not transfer a service to the customer as
the tasks are performed. Therefore, those setup activities are not a performance obligation.
Distinct goods or services
26. Depending on the contract, promised goods or services may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a)
sale of goods produced by an entity (for example, inventory of a manufacturer);
(b)
resale of goods purchased by an entity (for example, merchandise of a retailer);
(c)
resale of rights to goods or services purchased by an entity (for example, a ticket resold by an entity acting as a
principal, as described in paragraphs B34-B38);
(d)
performing a contractually agreed-upon task (or tasks) for a customer;
(e)
providing a service of standing ready to provide goods or services (for example, unspecified updates to software that are
provided on a when-and-if-available basis) or of making goods or services available for a customer to use as and when
the customer decides;
(f)
providing a service of arranging for another party to transfer goods or services to a customer (for example, acting as an
agent of another party, as described in paragraphs B34-B38);
(g)
granting rights to goods or services to be provided in the future that a customer can resell or provide to its customer (for
example, an entity selling a product to a retailer promises to transfer an additional good or service to an individual who
purchases the product from the retailer);
(h)
constructing, manufacturing or developing an asset on behalf of a customer;
(i)
granting licences (see paragraphs B52-B63B); and
(j)
Page 361/765
----- PAGE 362 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
granting options to purchase additional goods or services (when those options provide a customer with a material right,
as described in paragraphs B39-B43).
27. A good or service that is promised to a customer is distinct if both of the following criteria are met:
(a)
the customer can benefit from the good or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily
available to the customer (ie the good or service is capable of being distinct); and
(b)
the entity's promise to transfer the good or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other promises in the
contract (ie the promise to transfer the good or service is distinct within the context of the contract).
28. A customer can benefit from a good or service in accordance with paragraph 27(a) if the good or service could be
used, consumed, sold for an amount that is greater than scrap value or otherwise held in a way that generates economic
benefits. For some goods or services, a customer may be able to benefit from a good or service on its own. For other
goods or services, a customer may be able to benefit from the good or service only in conjunction with other readily
available resources. A readily available resource is a good or service that is sold separately (by the entity or another
entity) or a resource that the customer has already obtained from the entity (including goods or services that the entity
will have already transferred to the customer under the contract) or from other transactions or events. Various factors
may provide evidence that the customer can benefit from a good or service either on its own or in conjunction with other
readily available resources. For example, the fact that the entity regularly sells a good or service separately would
indicate that a customer can benefit from the good or service on its own or with other readily available resources.
29. In assessing whether an entity's promises to transfer goods or services to the customer are separately identifiable in
accordance with paragraph 27(b), the objective is to determine whether the nature of the promise, within the context of
the contract, is to transfer each of those goods or services individually or, instead, to transfer a combined item or items
to which the promised goods or services are inputs. Factors that indicate that two or more promises to transfer goods or
services to a customer are not separately identifiable include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a)
the entity provides a significant service of integrating the goods or services with other goods or services promised in the
contract into a bundle of goods or services that represent the combined output or outputs for which the customer has
contracted. In other words, the entity is using the goods or services as inputs to produce or deliver the combined output
or outputs specified by the customer. A combined output or outputs might include more than one phase, element or unit.
(b)
one or more of the goods or services significantly modifies or customises, or are significantly modified or customised by,
one or more of the other goods or services promised in the contract.
(c)
the goods or services are highly interdependent or highly interrelated. In other words, each of the goods or services is
significantly affected by one or more of the other goods or services in the contract. For example, in some cases, two or
more goods or services are significantly affected by each other because the entity would not be able to fulfil its promise
by transferring each of the goods or services independently.
30. If a promised good or service is not distinct, an entity shall combine that good or service with other promised goods
or services until it identifies a bundle of goods or services that is distinct. In some cases, that would result in the entity
accounting for all the goods or services promised in a contract as a single performance obligation.
Satisfaction of performance obligations
31. An entity shall recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation by transferring a
promised good or service (ie an asset) to a customer. An asset is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control
of that asset.
32. For each performance obligation identified in accordance with paragraphs 22-30, an entity shall determine at
contract inception whether it satisfies the performance obligation over time (in accordance with paragraphs 35- 37) or
satisfies the performance obligation at a point in time (in accordance with paragraph 38). If an entity does not satisfy a
performance obligation over time, the performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time.
33. Goods and services are assets, even if only momentarily, when they are received and used (as in the case of many
services). Control of an asset refers to the ability to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of the remaining
benefits from, the asset. Control includes the ability to prevent other entities from directing the use of, and obtaining the
Page 362/765
----- PAGE 363 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
benefits from, an asset. The benefits of an asset are the potential cash flows (inflows or savings in outflows) that can be
obtained directly or indirectly in many ways, such as by:
(a)
using the asset to produce goods or provide services (including public services);
(b)
using the asset to enhance the value of other assets;
(c)
using the asset to settle liabilities or reduce expenses;
(d)
selling or exchanging the asset;
(e)
pledging the asset to secure a loan; and
(f)
holding the asset.
34. When evaluating whether a customer obtains control of an asset, an entity shall consider any agreement to
repurchase the asset (see paragraphs B64-B76).
Performance obligations satisfied over time
35. An entity transfers control of a good or service over time and, therefore, satisfies a performance obligation and
recognises revenue over time, if one of the following criteria is met:
(a)
the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the entity's performance as the entity
performs (see paragraphs B3-B4);
(b)
the entity's performance creates or enhances an asset (for example, work in progress) that the customer controls as the
asset is created or enhanced (see paragraph B5); or
(c)
the entity's performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the entity (see paragraph 36) and the entity
has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date (see paragraph 37).
36. An asset created by an entity's performance does not have an alternative use to an entity if the entity is either
restricted contractually from readily directing the asset for another use during the creation or enhancement of that asset
or limited practically from readily directing the asset in its completed state for another use. The assessment of whether
an asset has an alternative use to the entity is made at contract inception. After contract inception, an entity shall not
update the assessment of the alternative use of an asset unless the parties to the contract approve a contract
modification that substantively changes the performance obligation. Paragraphs B6- B8 provide guidance for assessing
whether an asset has an alternative use to an entity.
37. An entity shall consider the terms of the contract, as well as any laws that apply to the contract, when evaluating
whether it has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date in accordance with paragraph 35(c).
The right to payment for performance completed to date does not need to be for a fixed amount. However, at all times
throughout the duration of the contract, the entity must be entitled to an amount that at least compensates the entity for
performance completed to date if the contract is terminated by the customer or another party for reasons other than the
entity's failure to perform as promised. Paragraphs B9-B13 provide guidance for assessing the existence and
enforceability of a right to payment and whether an entity's right to payment would entitle the entity to be paid for its
performance completed to date.
Performance obligations satisfied at a point in time
38. If a performance obligation is not satisfied over time in accordance with paragraphs 35-37, an entity satisfies the
performance obligation at a point in time. To determine the point in time at which a customer obtains control of a
promised asset and the entity satisfies a performance obligation, the entity shall consider the requirements for control in
paragraphs 31-34. In addition, an entity shall consider indicators of the transfer of control, which include, but are not
limited to, the following:
(a)
The entity has a present right to payment for the asset-if a customer is presently obliged to pay for an asset, then that
Page 363/765
----- PAGE 364 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
may indicate that the customer has obtained the ability to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of the remaining
benefits from, the asset in exchange.
(b)
The customer has legal title to the asset-legal title may indicate which party to a contract has the ability to direct the use
of, and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from, an asset or to restrict the access of other entities to those
benefits. Therefore, the transfer of legal title of an asset may indicate that the customer has obtained control of the
asset. If an entity retains legal title solely as protection against the customer's failure to pay, those rights of the entity
would not preclude the customer from obtaining control of an asset.
(c)
The entity has transferred physical possession of the asset-the customer's physical possession of an asset may indicate
that the customer has the ability to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from, the asset
or to restrict the access of other entities to those benefits. However, physical possession may not coincide with control of
an asset. For example, in some repurchase agreements and in some consignment arrangements, a customer or
consignee may have physical possession of an asset that the entity controls. Conversely, in some bill-and-hold
arrangements, the entity may have physical possession of an asset that the customer controls. Paragraphs B64-B76,
B77-B78 and B79-B82 provide guidance on accounting for repurchase agreements, consignment arrangements and
bill-and-hold arrangements, respectively.
(d)
The customer has the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset-the transfer of the significant risks and
rewards of ownership of an asset to the customer may indicate that the customer has obtained the ability to direct the
use of, and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from, the asset. However, when evaluating the risks and
rewards of ownership of a promised asset, an entity shall exclude any risks that give rise to a separate performance
obligation in addition to the performance obligation to transfer the asset. For example, an entity may have transferred
control of an asset to a customer but not yet satisfied an additional performance obligation to provide maintenance
services related to the transferred asset.
(e)
The customer has accepted the asset-the customer's acceptance of an asset may indicate that it has obtained the ability
to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from, the asset. To evaluate the effect of a
contractual customer acceptance clause on when control of an asset is transferred, an entity shall consider the guidance
in paragraphs B83-B86. Measuring progress towards complete satisfaction of a performance obligation
39. For each performance obligation satisfied over time in accordance with paragraphs 35-37, an entity shall recognise
revenue over time by measuring the progress towards complete satisfaction of that performance obligation. The
objective when measuring progress is to depict an entity's performance in transferring control of goods or services
promised to a customer (ie the satisfaction of an entity's performance obligation).
40. An entity shall apply a single method of measuring progress for each performance obligation satisfied over time and
the entity shall apply that method consistently to similar performance obligations and in similar circumstances. At the
end of each reporting period, an entity shall remeasure its progress towards complete satisfaction of a performance
obligation satisfied over time.
Methods for measuring progress
41. Appropriate methods of measuring progress include output methods and input methods. Paragraphs B14-B19
provide guidance for using output methods and input methods to measure an entity's progress towards complete
satisfaction of a performance obligation. In determining the appropriate method for measuring progress, an entity shall
consider the nature of the good or service that the entity promised to transfer to the customer.
42. When applying a method for measuring progress, an entity shall exclude from the measure of progress any goods or
services for which the entity does not transfer control to a customer. Conversely, an entity shall include in the measure
of progress any goods or services for which the entity does transfer control to a customer when satisfying that
performance obligation.
43. As circumstances change over time, an entity shall update its measure of progress to reflect any changes in the
outcome of the performance obligation. Such changes to an entity's measure of progress shall be accounted for as a
change in accounting estimate in accordance with Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and
Errors.
Page 364/765
----- PAGE 365 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Reasonable measures of progress
44. An entity shall recognise revenue for a performance obligation satisfied over time only if the entity can reasonably
measure its progress towards complete satisfaction of the performance obligation. An entity would not be able to
reasonably measure its progress towards complete satisfaction of a performance obligation if it lacks reliable information
that would be required to apply an appropriate method of measuring progress.
45. In some circumstances (for example, in the early stages of a contract), an entity may not be able to reasonably
measure the outcome of a performance obligation, but the entity expects to recover the costs incurred in satisfying the
performance obligation. In those circumstances, the entity shall recognise revenue only to the extent of the costs
incurred until such time that it can reasonably measure the outcome of the performance obligation.
Measurement
46. When (or as) a performance obligation is satisfied, an entity shall recognise as revenue the amount of the
transaction price (which excludes estimates of variable consideration that are constrained in accordance with
paragraphs 56-58) that is allocated to that performance obligation.
Determining the transaction price
47. An entity shall consider the terms of the contract and its customary business practices to determine the transaction
price. The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for
transferring promised goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties (for
example, some sales taxes). The consideration promised in a contract with a customer may include fixed amounts,
variable amounts, or both.
48. The nature, timing and amount of consideration promised by a customer affect the estimate of the transaction price.
When determining the transaction price, an entity shall consider the effects of all of the following:
(a)
variable consideration (see paragraphs 50-55 and 59);
(b)
constraining estimates of variable consideration (see paragraphs 56-58);
(c)
the existence of a significant financing component in the contract (see paragraphs 60-65);
(d)
non-cash consideration (see paragraphs 66-69); and
(e)
consideration payable to a customer (see paragraphs 70-72).
49. For the purpose of determining the transaction price, an entity shall assume that the goods or services will be
transferred to the customer as promised in accordance with the existing contract and that the contract will not be
cancelled, renewed or modified.
Variable consideration
50. If the consideration promised in a contract includes a variable amount, an entity shall estimate the amount of
consideration to which the entity will be entitled in exchange for transferring the promised goods or services to a
customer.
51. An amount of consideration can vary because of discounts, rebates, refunds, credits, price concessions, incentives,
performance bonuses, or other similar items. The promised consideration can also vary if an entity's entitlement to the
consideration is contingent on the occurrence or non-occurrence of a future event. For example, an amount of
consideration would be variable if either a product was sold with a right of return or a fixed amount is promised as a
performance bonus on achievement of a specified milestone.
51AA.
In some contracts, penalties are specified. In such cases, penalties shall be accounted for as per the substance of the
contract. Where the penalty is inherent in determination of transaction price, it shall form part of variable consideration.
For example, where an entity agrees to transfer control of a good or service in a contact with customer at the end of 30
days for Rs. 1,00,000 and if it exceeds 30 days, the entity is entitled to receive only Rs. 95,000, the reduction of Rs.
5,000 shall be regarded as variable consideration. In other cases, the transaction price shall be considered as fixed.
52. The variability relating to the consideration promised by a customer may be explicitly stated in the contract. In
addition to the terms of the contract, the promised consideration is variable if either of the following circumstances
Page 365/765
----- PAGE 366 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
exists:
(a)
the customer has a valid expectation arising from an entity's customary business practices, published policies or specific
statements that the entity will accept an amount of consideration that is less than the price stated in the contract. That is,
it is expected that the entity will offer a price concession. Depending on the jurisdiction, industry or customer this offer
may be referred to as a discount, rebate, refund or credit.
(b)
other facts and circumstances indicate that the entity's intention, when entering into the contract with the customer, is to
offer a price concession to the customer.
53. An entity shall estimate an amount of variable consideration by using either of the following methods, depending on
which method the entity expects to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled:
(a)
The expected value - the expected value is the sum of probability-weighted amounts in a range of possible consideration
amounts. An expected value may be an appropriate estimate of the amount of variable consideration if an entity has a
large number of contracts with similar characteristics.
(b)
The most likely amount - the most likely amount is the single most likely amount in a range of possible consideration
amounts (ie the single most likely outcome of the contract). The most likely amount may be an appropriate estimate of
the amount of variable consideration if the contract has only two possible outcomes (for example, an entity either
achieves a performance bonus or does not).
54. An entity shall apply one method consistently throughout the contract when estimating the effect of an uncertainty on
an amount of variable consideration to which the entity will be entitled. In addition, an entity shall consider all the
information (historical, current and forecast) that is reasonably available to the entity and shall identify a reasonable
number of possible consideration amounts. The information that an entity uses to estimate the amount of variable
consideration would typically be similar to the information that the entity's management uses during the bid-and-proposal
process and in establishing prices for promised goods or services.
Refund liabilities
55. An entity shall recognise a refund liability if the entity receives consideration from a customer and expects to refund
some or all of that consideration to the customer. A refund liability is measured at the amount of consideration received
(or receivable) for which the entity does not expect to be entitled (ie amounts not included in the transaction price). The
refund liability (and corresponding change in the transaction price and, therefore, the contract liability) shall be updated
at the end of each reporting period for changes in circumstances. To account for a refund liability relating to a sale with a
right of return, an entity shall apply the guidance in paragraphs B20-B27.
Constraining estimates of variable consideration
56. An entity shall include in the transaction price some or all of an amount of variable consideration estimated in
accordance with paragraph 53 only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of
cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is
subsequently resolved.
57. In assessing whether it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised
will not occur once the uncertainty related to the variable consideration is subsequently resolved, an entity shall consider
both the likelihood and the magnitude of the revenue reversal. Factors that could increase the likelihood or the
magnitude of a revenue reversal include, but are not limited to, any of the following:
(a)
the amount of consideration is highly susceptible to factors outside the entity's influence. Those factors may include
volatility in a market, the judgement or actions of third parties, weather conditions and a high risk of obsolescence of the
promised good or service.
(b)
the uncertainty about the amount of consideration is not expected to be resolved for a long period of time.
(c)
the entity's experience (or other evidence) with similar types of contracts is limited, or that experience (or other
evidence) has limited predictive value.
Page 366/765
----- PAGE 367 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(d)
the entity has a practice of either offering a broad range of price concessions or changing the payment terms and
conditions of similar contracts in similar circumstances.
(e)
the contract has a large number and broad range of possible consideration amounts.
58. An entity shall apply paragraph B63 to account for consideration in the form of a sales-based or usage-based royalty
that is promised in exchange for a licence of intellectual property.
Reassessment of variable consideration
59. At the end of each reporting period, an entity shall update the estimated transaction price (including updating its
assessment of whether an estimate of variable consideration is constrained) to represent faithfully the circumstances
present at the end of the reporting period and the changes in circumstances during the reporting period. The entity shall
account for changes in the transaction price in accordance with paragraphs 87-90.
The existence of a significant financing component in the contract
60. In determining the transaction price, an entity shall adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of the
time value of money if the timing of payments agreed to by the parties to the contract (either explicitly or implicitly)
provides the customer or the entity with a significant benefit of financing the transfer of goods or services to the
customer. In those circumstances, the contract contains a significant financing component. A significant financing
component may exist regardless of whether the promise of financing is explicitly stated in the contract or implied by the
payment terms agreed to by the parties to the contract.
61. The objective when adjusting the promised amount of consideration for a significant financing component is for an
entity to recognise revenue at an amount that reflects the price that a customer would have paid for the promised goods
or services if the customer had paid cash for those goods or services when (or as) they transfer to the customer (ie the
cash selling price). An entity shall consider all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether a contract contains
a financing component and whether that financing component is significant to the contract, including both of the
following:
(a)
the difference, if any, between the amount of promised consideration and the cash selling price of the promised goods or
services; and
(b)
the combined effect of both of the following:
(i)
the expected length of time between when the entity transfers the promised goods or services to the customer and when
the customer pays for those goods or services; and
(ii)
the prevailing interest rates in the relevant market.
62. Notwithstanding the assessment in paragraph 61, a contract with a customer would not have a significant financing
component if any of the following factors exist:
(a)
the customer paid for the goods or services in advance and the timing of the transfer of those goods or services is at the
discretion of the customer.
(b)
a substantial amount of the consideration promised by the customer is variable and the amount or timing of that
consideration varies on the basis of the occurrence or non-occurrence of a future event that is not substantially within
the control of the customer or the entity (for example, if the consideration is a sales-based royalty).
(c)
the difference between the promised consideration and the cash selling price of the good or service (as described in
paragraph 61) arises for reasons other than the provision of finance to either the customer or the entity, and the
difference between those amounts is proportional to the reason for the difference. For example, the payment terms
might provide the entity or the customer with protection from the other party failing to adequately complete some or all of
its obligations under the contract.
63. As a practical expedient, an entity need not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a
Page 367/765
----- PAGE 368 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
significant financing component if the entity expects, at contract inception, that the period between when the entity
transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one
year or less.
64. To meet the objective in paragraph 61 when adjusting the promised amount of consideration for a significant
financing component, an entity shall use the discount rate that would be reflected in a separate financing transaction
between the entity and its customer at contract inception. That rate would reflect the credit characteristics of the party
receiving financing in the contract, as well as any collateral or security provided by the customer or the entity, including
assets transferred in the contract. An entity may be able to determine that rate by identifying the rate that discounts the
nominal amount of the promised consideration to the price that the customer would pay in cash for the goods or services
when (or as) they transfer to the customer. After contract inception, an entity shall not update the discount rate for
changes in interest rates or other circumstances (such as a change in the assessment of the customer's credit risk).
65. An entity shall present the effects of financing (interest revenue or interest expense) separately from revenue from
contracts with customers in the statement of profit and loss. Interest revenue or interest expense is recognised only to
the extent that a contract asset (or receivable) or a contract liability is recognised in accounting for a contract with a
customer.
Non-cash consideration
66. To determine the transaction price for contracts in which a customer promises consideration in a form other than
cash, an entity shall measure the non-cash consideration (or promise of non-cash consideration) at fair value.
67. If an entity cannot reasonably estimate the fair value of the non-cash consideration, the entity shall measure the
consideration indirectly by reference to the stand-alone selling price of the goods or services promised to the customer
(or class of customer) in exchange for the consideration.
68. The fair value of the non-cash consideration may vary because of the form of the consideration (for example, a
change in the price of a share to which an entity is entitled to receive from a customer). If the fair value of the non-cash
consideration promised by a customer varies for reasons other than only the form of the consideration (for example, the
fair value could vary because of the entity's performance), an entity shall apply the requirements in paragraphs 56-58.
69. If a customer contributes goods or services (for example, materials, equipment or labour) to facilitate an entity's
fulfilment of the contract, the entity shall assess whether it obtains control of those contributed goods or services. If so,
the entity shall account for the contributed goods or services as non-cash consideration received from the customer.
Consideration payable to a customer
70. Consideration payable to a customer includes cash amounts that an entity pays, or expects to pay, to the customer
(or to other parties that purchase the entity's goods or services from the customer). Consideration payable to a customer
also includes credit or other items (for example, a coupon or voucher) that can be applied against amounts owed to the
entity (or to other parties that purchase the entity's goods or services from the customer). An entity shall account for
consideration payable to a customer as a reduction of the transaction price and, therefore, of revenue unless the
payment to the customer is in exchange for a distinct good or service (as described in paragraphs 26-30) that the
customer transfers to the entity. If the consideration payable to a customer includes a variable amount, an entity shall
estimate the transaction price (including assessing whether the estimate of variable consideration is constrained) in
accordance with paragraphs 50-58.
71. If consideration payable to a customer is a payment for a distinct good or service from the customer, then an entity
shall account for the purchase of the good or service in the same way that it accounts for other purchases from
suppliers. If the amount of consideration payable to the customer exceeds the fair value of the distinct good or service
that the entity receives from the customer, then the entity shall account for such an excess as a reduction of the
transaction price. If the entity cannot reasonably estimate the fair value of the good or service received from the
customer, it shall account for all of the consideration payable to the customer as a reduction of the transaction price.
72. Accordingly, if consideration payable to a customer is accounted for as a reduction of the transaction price, an entity
shall recognise the reduction of revenue when (or as) the later of either of the following events occurs:
(a)
the entity recognises revenue for the transfer of the related goods or services to the customer; and
(b)
the entity pays or promises to pay the consideration (even if the payment is conditional on a future event). That promise
might be implied by the entity's customary business practices.
Page 368/765
----- PAGE 369 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Allocating the transaction price to performance obligations
73. The objective when allocating the transaction price is for an entity to allocate the transaction price to each
performance obligation (or distinct good or service) in an amount that depicts the amount of consideration to which the
entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring the promised goods or services to the customer.
74. To meet the allocation objective, an entity shall allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation
identified in the contract on a relative stand-alone selling price basis in accordance with paragraphs 76-80, except as
specified in paragraphs 81-83 (for allocating discounts) and paragraphs 84-86 (for allocating consideration that includes
variable amounts).
75. Paragraphs 76-86 do not apply if a contract has only one performance obligation. However, paragraphs 84-86 may
apply if an entity promises to transfer a series of distinct goods or services identified as a single performance obligation
in accordance with paragraph 22(b) and the promised consideration includes variable amounts.
Allocation based on stand-alone selling prices
76. To allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation on a relative stand-alone selling price basis, an
entity shall determine the stand-alone selling price at contract inception of the distinct good or service underlying each
performance obligation in the contract and allocate the transaction price in proportion to those stand-alone selling prices.
77. The stand-alone selling price is the price at which an entity would sell a promised good or service separately to a
customer. The best evidence of a stand-alone selling price is the observable price of a good or service when the entity
sells that good or service separately in similar circumstances and to similar customers. A contractually stated price or a
list price for a good or service may be (but shall not be presumed to be) the stand-alone selling price of that good or
service.
78. If a stand-alone selling price is not directly observable, an entity shall estimate the stand-alone selling price at an
amount that would result in the allocation of the transaction price meeting the allocation objective in paragraph 73. When
estimating a stand-alone selling price, an entity shall consider all information (including market conditions, entity-specific
factors and information about the customer or class of customer) that is reasonably available to the entity. In doing so,
an entity shall maximise the use of observable inputs and apply estimation methods consistently in similar
circumstances.
79. Suitable methods for estimating the stand-alone selling price of a good or service include, but are not limited to, the
following:
(a)
Adjusted market assessment approach-an entity could evaluate the market in which it sells goods or services and
estimate the price that a customer in that market would be willing to pay for those goods or services. That approach
might also include referring to prices from the entity's competitors for similar goods or services and adjusting those
prices as necessary to reflect the entity's costs and margins.
(b)
Expected cost plus a margin approach-an entity could forecast its expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation
and then add an appropriate margin for that good or service.
(c)
Residual approach-an entity may estimate the stand-alone selling price by reference to the total transaction price less
the sum of the observable stand-alone selling prices of other goods or services promised in the contract. However, an
entity may use a residual approach to estimate, in accordance with paragraph 78, the stand-alone selling price of a good
or service only if one of the following criteria is met:
(i)
the entity sells the same good or service to different customers (at or near the same time) for a broad range of amounts
(ie the selling price is highly variable because a representative standalone selling price is not discernible from past
transactions or other observable evidence); or
(ii)
the entity has not yet established a price for that good or service and the good or service has not previously been sold
on a stand-alone basis (ie the selling price is uncertain).
80. A combination of methods may need to be used to estimate the stand-alone selling prices of the goods or services
promised in the contract if two or more of those goods or services have highly variable or uncertain stand-alone selling
prices. For example, an entity may use a residual approach to estimate the aggregate standalone selling price for those
Page 369/765
----- PAGE 370 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
promised goods or services with highly variable or uncertain stand-alone selling prices and then use another method to
estimate the stand-alone selling prices of the individual goods or services relative to that estimated aggregate
stand-alone selling price determined by the residual approach. When an entity uses a combination of methods to
estimate the stand-alone selling price of each promised good or service in the contract, the entity shall evaluate whether
allocating the transaction price at those estimated stand-alone selling prices would be consistent with the allocation
objective in paragraph 73 and the requirements for estimating stand-alone selling prices in paragraph 78.
Allocation of a discount
81. A customer receives a discount for purchasing a bundle of goods or services if the sum of the stand-alone selling
prices of those promised goods or services in the contract exceeds the promised consideration in a contract. Except
when an entity has observable evidence in accordance with paragraph 82 that the entire discount relates to only one or
more, but not all, performance obligations in a contract, the entity shall allocate a discount proportionately to all
performance obligations in the contract. The proportionate allocation of the discount in those circumstances is a
consequence of the entity allocating the transaction price to each performance obligation on the basis of the relative
stand-alone selling prices of the underlying distinct goods or services.
82. An entity shall allocate a discount entirely to one or more, but not all, performance obligations in the contract if all of
the following criteria are met:
(a)
the entity regularly sells each distinct good or service (or each bundle of distinct goods or services) in the contract on a
stand-alone basis;
(b)
the entity also regularly sells on a stand-alone basis a bundle (or bundles) of some of those distinct goods or services at
a discount to the stand-alone selling prices of the goods or services in each bundle; and
(c)
the discount attributable to each bundle of goods or services described in paragraph 82(b) is substantially the same as
the discount in the contract and an analysis of the goods or services in each bundle provides observable evidence of the
performance obligation (or performance obligations) to which the entire discount in the contract belongs.
83. If a discount is allocated entirely to one or more performance obligations in the contract in accordance with
paragraph 82, an entity shall allocate the discount before using the residual approach to estimate the stand-alone selling
price of a good or service in accordance with paragraph 79(c).
Allocation of variable consideration
84. Variable consideration that is promised in a contract may be attributable to the entire contract or to a specific part of
the contract, such as either of the following:
(a)
one or more, but not all, performance obligations in the contract (for example, a bonus may be contingent on an entity
transferring a promised good or service within a specified period of time); or
(b)
one or more, but not all, distinct goods or services promised in a series of distinct goods or services that forms part of a
single performance obligation in accordance with paragraph 22(b) (for example, the consideration promised for the
second year of a two-year cleaning service contract will increase on the basis of movements in a specified inflation
index).
85. An entity shall allocate a variable amount (and subsequent changes to that amount) entirely to a performance
obligation or to a distinct good or service that forms part of a single performance obligation in accordance with
paragraph 22(b) if both of the following criteria are met:
(a)
the terms of a variable payment relate specifically to the entity's efforts to satisfy the performance obligation or transfer
the distinct good or service (or to a specific outcome from satisfying the performance obligation or transferring the
distinct good or service); and
(b)
allocating the variable amount of consideration entirely to the performance obligation or the distinct good or service is
consistent with the allocation objective in paragraph 73 when considering all of the performance obligations and
payment terms in the contract.
Page 370/765
----- PAGE 371 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
86. The allocation requirements in paragraphs 73-83 shall be applied to allocate the remaining amount of the transaction
price that does not meet the criteria in paragraph 85.
Changes in the transaction price
87. After contract inception, the transaction price can change for various reasons, including the resolution of uncertain
events or other changes in circumstances that change the amount of consideration to which an entity expects to be
entitled in exchange for the promised goods or services.
88. An entity shall allocate to the performance obligations in the contract any subsequent changes in the transaction
price on the same basis as at contract inception. Consequently, an entity shall not reallocate the transaction price to
reflect changes in stand-alone selling prices after contract inception. Amounts allocated to a satisfied performance
obligation shall be recognised as revenue, or as a reduction of revenue, in the period in which the transaction price
changes.
89. An entity shall allocate a change in the transaction price entirely to one or more, but not all, performance obligations
or distinct goods or services promised in a series that forms part of a single performance obligation in accordance with
paragraph 22(b) only if the criteria in paragraph 85 on allocating variable consideration are met.
90. An entity shall account for a change in the transaction price that arises as a result of a contract modification in
accordance with paragraphs 18-21. However, for a change in the transaction price that occurs after a contract
modification, an entity shall apply paragraphs 87-89 to allocate the change in the transaction price in whichever of the
following ways is applicable:
(a)
An entity shall allocate the change in the transaction price to the performance obligations identified in the contract before
the modification if, and to the extent that, the change in the transaction price is attributable to an amount of variable
consideration promised before the modification and the modification is accounted for in accordance with paragraph
21(a).
(b)
In all other cases in which the modification was not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph
20, an entity shall allocate the change in the transaction price to the performance obligations in the modified contract (ie
the performance obligations that were unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied immediately after the modification).
Contract costs
Incremental costs of obtaining a contract
91. An entity shall recognise as an asset the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer if the entity
expects to recover those costs.
92. The incremental costs of obtaining a contract are those costs that an entity incurs to obtain a contract with a
customer that it would not have incurred if the contract had not been obtained (for example, a sales commission).
93. Costs to obtain a contract that would have been incurred regardless of whether the contract was obtained shall be
recognised as an expense when incurred, unless those costs are explicitly chargeable to the customer regardless of
whether the contract is obtained.
94. As a practical expedient, an entity may recognise the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when
incurred if the amortisation period of the asset that the entity otherwise would have recognised is one year or less.
Costs to fulfil a contract
95. If the costs incurred in fulfilling a contract with a customer are not within the scope of another Standard (for example,
Ind AS 2, Inventories, Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment or Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets), an entity shall
recognise an asset from the costs incurred to fulfil a contract only if those costs meet all of the following criteria:
(a)
the costs relate directly to a contract or to an anticipated contract that the entity can specifically identify (for example,
costs relating to services to be provided under renewal of an existing contract or costs of designing an asset to be
transferred under a specific contract that has not yet been approved);
(b)
the costs generate or enhance resources of the entity that will be used in satisfying (or in continuing to satisfy)
performance obligations in the future; and
(c)
the costs are expected to be recovered.
Page 371/765
----- PAGE 372 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
96. For costs incurred in fulfilling a contract with a customer that are within the scope of another Standard, an entity shall
account for those costs in accordance with those other Standards.
97. Costs that relate directly to a contract (or a specific anticipated contract) include any of the following:
(a)
direct labour (for example, salaries and wages of employees who provide the promised services directly to the
customer);
(b)
direct materials (for example, supplies used in providing the promised services to a customer);
(c)
[ allocations of costs that relate directly to the contract or to contract activities (for example, costs of contract
management and supervision, insurance and depreciation of tools, equipment and right-of-use assets used in fulfilling
the contract);]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(d)
costs that are explicitly chargeable to the customer under the contract; and
(e)
other costs that are incurred only because an entity entered into the contract (for example, payments to subcontractors).
98. An entity shall recognise the following costs as expenses when incurred:
(a)
general and administrative costs (unless those costs are explicitly chargeable to the customer under the contract, in
which case an entity shall evaluate those costs in accordance with paragraph 97);
(b)
costs of wasted materials, labour or other resources to fulfil the contract that were not reflected in the price of the
contract;
(c)
costs that relate to satisfied performance obligations (or partially satisfied performance obligations) in the contract (ie
costs that relate to past performance); and
(d)
costs for which an entity cannot distinguish whether the costs relate to unsatisfied performance obligations or to satisfied
performance obligations (or partially satisfied performance obligations).
Amortisation and impairment
99. An asset recognised in accordance with paragraph 91 or 95 shall be amortised on a systematic basis that is
consistent with the transfer to the customer of the goods or services to which the asset relates. The asset may relate to
goods or services to be transferred under a specific anticipated contract (as described in paragraph 95(a)).
100.
An entity shall update the amortisation to reflect a significant change in the entity's expected timing of transfer to the
customer of the goods or services to which the asset relates. Such a change shall be accounted for as a change in
accounting estimate in accordance with Ind AS 8.
101.
An entity shall recognise an impairment loss in profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of an asset
recognised in accordance with paragraph 91 or 95 exceeds:
(a)
the remaining amount of consideration that the entity expects to receive in exchange for the goods or services to which
the asset relates; less
(b)
the costs that relate directly to providing those goods or services and that have not been recognised as expenses (see
paragraph 97).
102.
For the purposes of applying paragraph 101 to determine the amount of consideration that an entity expects to receive,
an entity shall use the principles for determining the transaction price (except for the requirements in paragraphs 56-58
on constraining estimates of variable consideration) and adjust that amount to reflect the effects of the customer's credit
Page 372/765
----- PAGE 373 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
risk.
103.
Before an entity recognises an impairment loss for an asset recognised in accordance with paragraph 91 or 95, the
entity shall recognise any impairment loss for assets related to the contract that are recognised in accordance with
another Standard (for example, Ind AS 2, Ind AS 16 and Ind AS 38). After applying the impairment test in paragraph
101, an entity shall include the resulting carrying amount of the asset recognised in accordance with paragraph 91 or 95
in the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit to which it belongs for the purpose of applying Ind AS 36, Impairment
of Assets, to that cash-generating unit.
104.
An entity shall recognise in profit or loss a reversal of some or all of an impairment loss previously recognised in
accordance with paragraph 101 when the impairment conditions no longer exist or have improved. The increased
carrying amount of the asset shall not exceed the amount that would have been determined (net of amortisation) if no
impairment loss had been recognised previously.
Presentation
105.
When either party to a contract has performed, an entity shall present the contract in the balance sheet as a contract
asset or a contract liability, depending on the relationship between the entity's performance and the customer's payment.
An entity shall present any unconditional rights to consideration separately as a receivable.
106.
If a customer pays consideration, or an entity has a right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional (ie a
receivable), before the entity transfers a good or service to the customer, the entity shall present the contract as a
contract liability when the payment is made or the payment is due (whichever is earlier). A contract liability is an entity's
obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the entity has received consideration (or an amount of
consideration is due) from the customer.
107.
If an entity performs by transferring goods or services to a customer before the customer pays consideration or before
payment is due, the entity shall present the contract as a contract asset, excluding any amounts presented as a
receivable. A contract asset is an entity's right to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the entity has
transferred to a customer. An entity shall assess a contract asset for impairment in accordance with Ind AS 109. An
impairment of a contract asset shall be measured, presented and disclosed on the same basis as a financial asset that
is within the scope of Ind AS 109 (see also paragraph 113(b)).
108.
A receivable is an entity's right to consideration that is unconditional. A right to consideration is unconditional if only the
passage of time is required before payment of that consideration is due. For example, an entity would recognise a
receivable if it has a present right to payment even though that amount may be subject to refund in the future. An entity
shall account for a receivable in accordance with Ind AS 109. Upon initial recognition of a receivable from a contract with
a customer, any difference between the measurement of the receivable in accordance with Ind AS 109 and the
corresponding amount of revenue recognised shall be presented as an expense (for example, as an impairment loss).
109.
This Standard uses the terms `contract asset' and `contract liability' but does not prohibit an entity from using alternative
descriptions in the balance sheet for those items. If an entity uses an alternative description for a contract asset, the
entity shall provide sufficient information for a user of the financial statements to distinguish between receivables and
contract assets.
109AA.
An entity shall present separately the amount of excise duty included in the revenue recognised in the statement of profit
and loss.
Disclosure
110.
The objective of the disclosure requirements is for an entity to disclose sufficient information to enable users of financial
statements to understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts
with customers. To achieve that objective, an entity shall disclose qualitative and quantitative information about all of the
Page 373/765
----- PAGE 374 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
following:
(a)
its contracts with customers (see paragraphs 113-122);
(b)
the significant judgements, and changes in the judgements, made in applying this Standard to those contracts (see
paragraphs 123-126); and
(c)
any assets recognised from the costs to obtain or fulfil a contract with a customer in accordance with paragraph 91 or 95
(see paragraphs 127-128).
111.
An entity shall consider the level of detail necessary to satisfy the disclosure objective and how much emphasis to place
on each of the various requirements. An entity shall aggregate or dis-aggregate disclosures so that useful information is
not obscured by either the inclusion of a large amount of insignificant detail or the aggregation of items that have
substantially different characteristics.
112.
An entity need not disclose information in accordance with this Standard if it has provided the information in accordance
with another Standard.
Contracts with customers
113.
An entity shall disclose all of the following amounts for the reporting period unless those amounts are presented
separately in the statement of profit and loss in accordance with other Standards:
(a)
revenue recognised from contracts with customers, which the entity shall disclose separately from its other sources of
revenue; and
(b)
any impairment losses recognised (in accordance with Ind AS 109) on any receivables or contract assets arising from an
entity's contracts with customers, which the entity shall disclose separately from impairment losses from other contracts.
Disaggregation of revenue
114.
An entity shall disaggregate revenue recognised from contracts with customers into categories that depict how the
nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors. An entity shall apply
the guidance in paragraphs B87-B89 when selecting the categories to use to disaggregate revenue.
115.
In addition, an entity shall disclose sufficient information to enable users of financial statements to understand the
relationship between the disclosure of disaggregated revenue (in accordance with paragraph 114) and revenue
information that is disclosed for each reportable segment, if the entity applies Ind AS 108, Operating Segments.
Contract balances
116.
An entity shall disclose all of the following:
(a)
the opening and closing balances of receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities from contracts with customers, if
not otherwise separately presented or disclosed;
(b)
revenue recognised in the reporting period that was included in the contract liability balance at the beginning of the
period; and
(c)
revenue recognised in the reporting period from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous
periods (for example, changes in transaction price).
117.
An entity shall explain how the timing of satisfaction of its performance obligations (see paragraph 119(a)) relates to the
typical timing of payment (see paragraph 119(b)) and the effect that those factors have on the contract asset and the
Page 374/765
----- PAGE 375 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
contract liability balances. The explanation provided may use qualitative information.
118.
An entity shall provide an explanation of the significant changes in the contract asset and the contract liability balances
during the reporting period. The explanation shall include qualitative and quantitative information. Examples of changes
in the entity's balances of contract assets and contract liabilities include any of the following:
(a)
changes due to business combinations;
(b)
cumulative catch-up adjustments to revenue that affect the corresponding contract asset or contract liability, including
adjustments arising from a change in the measure of progress, a change in an estimate of the transaction price
(including any changes in the assessment of whether an estimate of variable consideration is constrained) or a contract
modification;
(c)
impairment of a contract asset;
(d)
a change in the time frame for a right to consideration to become unconditional (ie for a contract asset to be reclassified
to a receivable); and
(e)
a change in the time frame for a performance obligation to be satisfied (ie for the recognition of revenue arising from a
contract liability).
Performance obligations
119.
An entity shall disclose information about its performance obligations in contracts with customers, including a description
of all of the following:
(a)
when the entity typically satisfies its performance obligations (for example, upon shipment, upon delivery, as services
are rendered or upon completion of service), including when performance obligations are satisfied in a bill-and-hold
arrangement;
(b)
the significant payment terms (for example, when payment is typically due, whether the contract has a significant
financing component, whether the consideration amount is variable and whether the estimate of variable consideration is
typically constrained in accordance with paragraphs 56-58);
(c)
the nature of the goods or services that the entity has promised to transfer, highlighting any performance obligations to
arrange for another party to transfer goods or services (ie if the entity is acting as an agent);
(d)
obligations for returns, refunds and other similar obligations; and
(e)
types of warranties and related obligations.
Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations
120.
An entity shall disclose the following information about its remaining performance obligations:
(a)
the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to the performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially
unsatisfied) as of the end of the reporting period; and
(b)
an explanation of when the entity expects to recognise as revenue the amount disclosed in accordance with paragraph
120(a), which the entity shall disclose in either of the following ways:
(i)
on a quantitative basis using the time bands that would be most appropriate for the duration of the remaining
performance obligations; or
Page 375/765
----- PAGE 376 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(ii)
by using qualitative information.
121.
As a practical expedient, an entity need not disclose the information in paragraph 120 for a performance obligation if
either of the following conditions is met:
(a)
the performance obligation is part of a contract that has an original expected duration of one year or less; or
(b)
the entity recognises revenue from the satisfaction of the performance obligation in accordance with paragraph B16.
122.
An entity shall explain qualitatively whether it is applying the practical expedient in paragraph 121 and whether any
consideration from contracts with customers is not included in the transaction price and, therefore, not included in the
information disclosed in accordance with paragraph
120. For example, an estimate of the transaction price would not include any estimated amounts of variable
consideration that are constrained (see paragraphs 56-58).
Significant judgements in the application of this Standard
123.
An entity shall disclose the judgements, and changes in the judgements, made in applying this Standard that
significantly affect the determination of the amount and timing of revenue from contracts with customers. In particular, an
entity shall explain the judgements, and changes in the judgements, used in determining both of the following:
(a)
the timing of satisfaction of performance obligations (see paragraphs 124-125); and
(b)
the transaction price and the amounts allocated to performance obligations (see paragraph 126).
Determining the timing of satisfaction of performance obligations
124.
For performance obligations that an entity satisfies over time, an entity shall disclose both of the following:
(a)
the methods used to recognise revenue (for example, a description of the output methods or input methods used and
how those methods are applied); and
(b)
an explanation of why the methods used provide a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods or services.
125.
For performance obligations satisfied at a point in time, an entity shall disclose the significant judgements made in
evaluating when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services.
Determining the transaction price and the amounts allocated to performance obligations
126.
An entity shall disclose information about the methods, inputs and assumptions used for all of the following:
(a)
determining the transaction price, which includes, but is not limited to, estimating variable consideration, adjusting the
consideration for the effects of the time value of money and measuring non-cash consideration;
(b)
assessing whether an estimate of variable consideration is constrained;
(c)
allocating the transaction price, including estimating stand-alone selling prices of promised goods or services and
allocating discounts and variable consideration to a specific part of the contract (if applicable); and
(d)
measuring obligations for returns, refunds and other similar obligations.
126AA.
An entity shall reconcile the amount of revenue recognised in the statement of profit and loss with the contracted price
showing separately each of the adjustments made to the contract price, for example, on account of discounts, rebates,
Page 376/765
----- PAGE 377 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
refunds, credits, price concessions, incentives, performance bonuses, etc., specifying the nature and amount of each
such adjustment separately.
Assets recognised from the costs to obtain or fulfil a contract with a customer
127.
An entity shall describe both of the following:
(a)
the judgements made in determining the amount of the costs incurred to obtain or fulfil a contract with a customer (in
accordance with paragraph 91 or 95); and
(b)
the method it uses to determine the amortisation for each reporting period.
128.
An entity shall disclose all of the following:
(a)
the closing balances of assets recognised from the costs incurred to obtain or fulfil a contract with a customer (in
accordance with paragraph 91 or 95), by main category of asset (for example, costs to obtain contracts with customers,
pre-contract costs and setup costs); and
(b)
the amount of amortisation and any impairment losses recognised in the reporting period.
Practical expedients
129.
If an entity elects to use the practical expedient in either paragraph 63 (about the existence of a significant financing
component) or paragraph 94 (about the incremental costs of obtaining a contract), the entity shall disclose that fact.
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard.
contract
An agreement between two or more parties that
creates enforceable rights and obligations.
contract asset
An entity's right to consideration in exchange
for goods or services that the entity has transferred to a
customer when that right is conditioned on something other than
the passage of time (for example, the entity's future
performance).
contract liability
An entity's obligation to transfer goods or
services to a customer for which the entity has received
consideration (or the amount is due) from the customer.
customer
A party that has contracted with an entity to
obtain goods or services that are an output of the entity's
ordinary activities in exchange for consideration.
income
Increases in economic benefits during the
accounting period in the form of inflows or enhancements of
assets or decreases of liabilities that result in an increase in
equity, other than those relating to contributions from equity
participants.
performance obligation
A promise in a contract with a customer to
transfer to the customer either:
Page 377/765
----- PAGE 378 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a) a good or service (or a bundle of goods or
services) that is distinct; or
(b) a series of distinct goods or services that
are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of
transfer to the customer.
revenue
Incomearising in the course of an
entity's ordinary activities.
stand-alone selling price(of
a good or service)
The price at which an entity would sell a
promised good or service separately to acustomer.
transaction price(for a contract with a customer)
The amount of consideration to which an entity
expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised
goods or services to acustomer, excluding amounts
collected on behalf of third parties.
Appendix B
Application Guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard. It describes the application of paragraphs 1- 129 and has the same
authority as the other parts of the Standard.
B1 This application guidance is organised into the following categories:
(a)
performance obligations satisfied over time (paragraphs B2-B13);
(b)
methods for measuring progress towards complete satisfaction of a performance obligation (paragraphs B14-B19);
(c)
sale with a right of return (paragraphs B20-B27);
(d)
warranties (paragraphs B28-B33);
(e)
principal versus agent considerations (paragraphs B34-B38);
(f)
customer options for additional goods or services (paragraphs B39-B43);
(g)
customers' unexercised rights (paragraphs B44-B47);
(h)
non-refundable upfront fees (and some related costs) (paragraphs B48-B51);
(i)
licensing (paragraphs B52-B63B);
(j)
repurchase agreements (paragraphs B64-B76);
(k)
consignment arrangements (paragraphs B77-B78);
(l)
bill-and-hold arrangements (paragraphs B79-B82);
(m)
customer acceptance (paragraphs B83-B86); and
(n)
disclosure of disaggregated revenue (paragraphs B87-B89).
Performance obligations satisfied over time
Page 378/765
----- PAGE 379 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B2 In accordance with paragraph 35, a performance obligation is satisfied over time if one of the following criteria is met:
(a)
the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the entity's performance as the entity
performs (see paragraphs B3-B4);
(b)
the entity's performance creates or enhances an asset (for example, work in progress) that the customer controls as the
asset is created or enhanced (see paragraph B5); or
(c)
the entity's performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the entity (see paragraphs B6-B8) and the
entity has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date (see paragraphs B9-B13).
Simultaneous receipt and consumption of the benefits of the entity's performance (paragraph 35(a))
B3 For some types of performance obligations, the assessment of whether a customer receives the benefits of an
entity's performance as the entity performs and simultaneously consumes those benefits as they are received will be
straightforward. Examples include routine or recurring services (such as a cleaning service) in which the receipt and
simultaneous consumption by the customer of the benefits of the entity's performance can be readily identified.
B4 For other types of performance obligations, an entity may not be able to readily identify whether a customer
simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits from the entity's performance as the entity performs. In those
circumstances, a performance obligation is satisfied over time if an entity determines that another entity would not need
to substantially re-perform the work that the entity has completed to date if that other entity were to fulfil the remaining
performance obligation to the customer. In determining whether another entity would not need to substantially
re-perform the work the entity has completed to date, an entity shall make both of the following assumptions:
(a)
disregard potential contractual restrictions or practical limitations that otherwise would prevent the entity from
transferring the remaining performance obligation to another entity; and
(b)
presume that another entity fulfilling the remainder of the performance obligation would not have the benefit of any asset
that is presently controlled by the entity and that would remain controlled by the entity if the performance obligation were
to transfer to another entity.
Customer controls the asset as it is created or enhanced (paragraph 35(b))
B5 In determining whether a customer controls an asset as it is created or enhanced in accordance with paragraph
35(b), an entity shall apply the requirements for control in paragraphs 31-34 and 38. The asset that is being created or
enhanced (for example, a work-in-progress asset) could be either tangible or intangible.
Entity's performance does not create an asset with an alternative use (paragraph 35(c))
B6 In assessing whether an asset has an alternative use to an entity in accordance with paragraph 36, an entity shall
consider the effects of contractual restrictions and practical limitations on the entity's ability to readily direct that asset for
another use, such as selling it to a different customer. The possibility of the contract with the customer being terminated
is not a relevant consideration in assessing whether the entity would be able to readily direct the asset for another use.
B7 A contractual restriction on an entity's ability to direct an asset for another use must be substantive for the asset not
to have an alternative use to the entity. A contractual restriction is substantive if a customer could enforce its rights to
the promised asset if the entity sought to direct the asset for another use. In contrast, a contractual restriction is not
substantive if, for example, an asset is largely interchangeable with other assets that the entity could transfer to another
customer without breaching the contract and without incurring significant costs that otherwise would not have been
incurred in relation to that contract.
B8 A practical limitation on an entity's ability to direct an asset for another use exists if an entity would incur significant
economic losses to direct the asset for another use. A significant economic loss could arise because the entity either
would incur significant costs to rework the asset or would only be able to sell the asset at a significant loss. For example,
an entity may be practically limited from redirecting assets that either have design specifications that are unique to a
customer or are located in remote areas.
Right to payment for performance completed to date (paragraph 35(c))
B9 In accordance with paragraph 37, an entity has a right to payment for performance completed to date if the entity
would be entitled to an amount that at least compensates the entity for its performance completed to date in the event
Page 379/765
----- PAGE 380 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
that the customer or another party terminates the contract for reasons other than the entity's failure to perform as
promised. An amount that would compensate an entity for performance completed to date would be an amount that
approximates the selling price of the goods or services transferred to date (for example, recovery of the costs incurred
by an entity in satisfying the performance obligation plus a reasonable profit margin) rather than compensation for only
the entity's potential loss of profit if the contract were to be terminated. Compensation for a reasonable profit margin
need not equal the profit margin expected if the contract was fulfilled as promised, but an entity should be entitled to
compensation for either of the following amounts:
(a)
a proportion of the expected profit margin in the contract that reasonably reflects the extent of the entity's performance
under the contract before termination by the customer (or another party); or
(b)
a reasonable return on the entity's cost of capital for similar contracts (or the entity's typical operating margin for similar
contracts) if the contract-specific margin is higher than the return the entity usually generates from similar contracts.
B10 An entity's right to payment for performance completed to date need not be a present unconditional right to
payment. In many cases, an entity will have an unconditional right to payment only at an agreed-upon milestone or upon
complete satisfaction of the performance obligation. In assessing whether it has a right to payment for performance
completed to date, an entity shall consider whether it would have an enforceable right to demand or retain payment for
performance completed to date if the contract were to be terminated before completion for reasons other than the
entity's failure to perform as promised.
B11 In some contracts, a customer may have a right to terminate the contract only at specified times during the life of
the contract or the customer might not have any right to terminate the contract. If a customer acts to terminate a contract
without having the right to terminate the contract at that time (including when a customer fails to perform its obligations
as promised), the contract (or other laws) might entitle the entity to continue to transfer to the customer the goods or
services promised in the contract and require the customer to pay the consideration promised in exchange for those
goods or services. In those circumstances, an entity has a right to payment for performance completed to date because
the entity has a right to continue to perform its obligations in accordance with the contract and to require the customer to
perform its obligations (which include paying the promised consideration).
B12 In assessing the existence and enforceability of a right to payment for performance completed to date, an entity
shall consider the contractual terms as well as any legislation or legal precedent that could supplement or override those
contractual terms. This would include an assessment of whether:
(a)
legislation, administrative practice or legal precedent confers upon the entity a right to payment for performance to date
even though that right is not specified in the contract with the customer;
(b)
relevant legal precedent indicates that similar rights to payment for performance completed to date in similar contracts
have no binding legal effect; or
(c)
an entity's customary business practices of choosing not to enforce a right to payment has resulted in the right being
rendered unenforceable in that legal environment. However, notwithstanding that an entity may choose to waive its right
to payment in similar contracts, an entity would continue to have a right to payment to date if, in the contract with the
customer, its right to payment for performance to date remains enforceable.
B13 The payment schedule specified in a contract does not necessarily indicate whether an entity has an enforceable
right to payment for performance completed to date. Although the payment schedule in a contract specifies the timing
and amount of consideration that is payable by a customer, the payment schedule might not necessarily provide
evidence of the entity's right to payment for performance completed to date. This is because, for example, the contract
could specify that the consideration received from the customer is refundable for reasons other than the entity failing to
perform as promised in the contract.
Methods for measuring progress towards complete satisfaction of a performance obligation
B14 Methods that can be used to measure an entity's progress towards complete satisfaction of a performance
obligation satisfied over time in accordance with paragraphs 35-37 include the following:
(a)
Page 380/765
----- PAGE 381 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
output methods (see paragraphs B15-B17); and
(b)
input methods (see paragraphs B18-B19).
Output methods
B15 Output methods recognise revenue on the basis of direct measurements of the value to the customer of the goods
or services transferred to date relative to the remaining goods or services promised under the contract. Output methods
include methods such as surveys of performance completed to date, appraisals of results achieved, milestones reached,
time elapsed and units produced or units delivered. When an entity evaluates whether to apply an output method to
measure its progress, the entity shall consider whether the output selected would faithfully depict the entity's
performance towards complete satisfaction of the performance obligation. An output method would not provide a faithful
depiction of the entity's performance if the output selected would fail to measure some of the goods or services for which
control has transferred to the customer. For example, output methods based on units produced or units delivered would
not faithfully depict an entity's performance in satisfying a performance obligation if, at the end of the reporting period,
the entity's performance has produced work in progress or finished goods controlled by the customer that are not
included in the measurement of the output.
B16 As a practical expedient, if an entity has a right to consideration from a customer in an amount that corresponds
directly with the value to the customer of the entity's performance completed to date (for example, a service contract in
which an entity bills a fixed amount for each hour of service provided), the entity may recognise revenue in the amount
to which the entity has a right to invoice.
B17 The disadvantages of output methods are that the outputs used to measure progress may not be directly
observable and the information required to apply them may not be available to an entity without undue cost. Therefore,
an input method may be necessary.
Input methods
B18 Input methods recognise revenue on the basis of the entity's efforts or inputs to the satisfaction of a performance
obligation (for example, resources consumed, labour hours expended, costs incurred, time elapsed or machine hours
used) relative to the total expected inputs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation. If the entity's efforts or inputs
are expended evenly throughout the performance period, it may be appropriate for the entity to recognise revenue on a
straight-line basis.
B19 A shortcoming of input methods is that there may not be a direct relationship between an entity's inputs and the
transfer of control of goods or services to a customer. Therefore, an entity shall exclude from an input method the effects
of any inputs that, in accordance with the objective of measuring progress in paragraph 39, do not depict the entity's
performance in transferring control of goods or services to the customer. For instance, when using a cost-based input
method, an adjustment to the measure of progress may be required in the following circumstances:
(a)
When a cost incurred does not contribute to an entity's progress in satisfying the performance obligation. For example,
an entity would not recognise revenue on the basis of costs incurred that are attributable to significant inefficiencies in
the entity's performance that were not reflected in the price of the contract (for example, the costs of unexpected
amounts of wasted materials, labour or other resources that were incurred to satisfy the performance obligation).
(b)
When a cost incurred is not proportionate to the entity's progress in satisfying the performance obligation. In those
circumstances, the best depiction of the entity's performance may be to adjust the input method to recognise revenue
only to the extent of that cost incurred. For example, a faithful depiction of an entity's performance might be to recognise
revenue at an amount equal to the cost of a good used to satisfy a performance obligation if the entity expects at
contract inception that all of the following conditions would be met:
(i)
the good is not distinct;
(ii)
the customer is expected to obtain control of the good significantly before receiving services related to the good;
(iii)
the cost of the transferred good is significant relative to the total expected costs to completely satisfy the performance
obligation; and
Page 381/765
----- PAGE 382 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(iv)
the entity procures the good from a third party and is not significantly involved in designing and manufacturing the good
(but the entity is acting as a principal in accordance with paragraphs B34-B38).
Sale with a right of return
B20 In some contracts, an entity transfers control of a product to a customer and also grants the customer the right to
return the product for various reasons (such as dissatisfaction with the product) and receive any combination of the
following:
(a)
a full or partial refund of any consideration paid;
(b)
a credit that can be applied against amounts owed, or that will be owed, to the entity; and
(c)
another product in exchange.
B20AA In some contracts, an entity transfers control of a product to a customer with an unconditional right of return. In
such cases, the recognition of revenue shall be as per the substance of the arrangement. Where the substance is that of
a consignment sale, the entity shall account for such a contract as per the provisions of paragraph B77 of this Appendix.
In other cases, the accounting for contracts with customers shall be as per paragraphs B21-B27.
B21 To account for the transfer of products with a right of return (and for some services that are provided subject to a
refund), an entity shall recognise all of the following:
(a)
revenue for the transferred products in the amount of consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled (therefore,
revenue would not be recognised for the products expected to be returned);
(b)
a refund liability; and
(c)
an asset (and corresponding adjustment to cost of sales) for its right to recover products from customers on settling the
refund liability.
B22 An entity's promise to stand ready to accept a returned product during the return period shall not be accounted for
as a performance obligation in addition to the obligation to provide a refund.
B23 An entity shall apply the requirements in paragraphs 47-72 (including the requirements for constraining estimates of
variable consideration in paragraphs 56-58) to determine the amount of consideration to which the entity expects to be
entitled (ie excluding the products expected to be returned). For any amounts received (or receivable) for which an entity
does not expect to be entitled, the entity shall not recognise revenue when it transfers products to customers but shall
recognise those amounts received (or receivable) as a refund liability. Subsequently, at the end of each reporting period,
the entity shall update its assessment of amounts for which it expects to be entitled in exchange for the transferred
products and make a corresponding change to the transaction price and, therefore, in the amount of revenue
recognised.
B24 An entity shall update the measurement of the refund liability at the end of each reporting period for changes in
expectations about the amount of refunds. An entity shall recognise corresponding adjustments as revenue (or
reductions of revenue).
B25 An asset recognised for an entity's right to recover products from a customer on settling a refund liability shall
initially be measured by reference to the former carrying amount of the product (for example, inventory) less any
expected costs to recover those products (including potential decreases in the value to the entity of returned products).
At the end of each reporting period, an entity shall update the measurement of the asset arising from changes in
expectations about products to be returned. An entity shall present the asset separately from the refund liability.
B26 Exchanges by customers of one product for another of the same type, quality, condition and price (for example, one
colour or size for another) are not considered returns for the purposes of applying this Standard.
B27 Contracts in which a customer may return a defective product in exchange for a functioning product shall be
evaluated in accordance with the guidance on warranties in paragraphs B28-B33.
Warranties
B28 It is common for an entity to provide (in accordance with the contract, the law or the entity's customary business
Page 382/765
----- PAGE 383 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
practices) a warranty in connection with the sale of a product (whether a good or service). The nature of a warranty can
vary significantly across industries and contracts. Some warranties provide a customer with assurance that the related
product will function as the parties intended because it complies with agreed-upon specifications. Other warranties
provide the customer with a service in addition to the assurance that the product complies with agreed-upon
specifications.
B29 If a customer has the option to purchase a warranty separately (for example, because the warranty is priced or
negotiated separately), the warranty is a distinct service because the entity promises to provide the service to the
customer in addition to the product that has the functionality described in the contract. In those circumstances, an entity
shall account for the promised warranty as a performance obligation in accordance with paragraphs 22-30 and allocate
a portion of the transaction price to that performance obligation in accordance with paragraphs 73-86.
B30 If a customer does not have the option to purchase a warranty separately, an entity shall account for the warranty in
accordance with Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, unless the promised  warranty, or
a part of the promised warranty, provides the customer with a service in addition to the assurance that the product
complies with agreed-upon specifications.
B31 In assessing whether a warranty provides a customer with a service in addition to the assurance that the product
complies with agreed-upon specifications, an entity shall consider factors such as:
(a)
Whether the warranty is required by law-if the entity is required by law to provide a warranty, the existence of that law
indicates that the promised warranty is not a performance obligation because such requirements typically exist to protect
customers from the risk of purchasing defective products.
(b)
The length of the warranty coverage period-the longer the coverage period, the more likely it is that the promised
warranty is a performance obligation because it is more likely to provide a service in addition to the assurance that the
product complies with agreed-upon specifications.
(c)
The nature of the tasks that the entity promises to perform-if it is necessary for an entity to perform specified tasks to
provide the assurance that a product complies with agreed-upon specifications (for example, a return shipping service
for a defective product), then those tasks likely do not give rise to a performance obligation.
B32 If a warranty, or a part of a warranty, provides a customer with a service in addition to the assurance that the
product complies with agreed-upon specifications, the promised service is a performance obligation. Therefore, an entity
shall allocate the transaction price to the product and the service. If an entity promises both an assurance-type warranty
and a service-type warranty but cannot reasonably account for them separately, the entity shall account for both of the
warranties together as a single performance obligation.
B33 A law that requires an entity to pay compensation if its products cause harm or damage does not give rise to a
performance obligation. For example, a manufacturer might sell products in a jurisdiction in which the law holds the
manufacturer liable for any damages (for example, to personal property) that might be caused by a consumer using a
product for its intended purpose. Similarly, an entity's promise to indemnify the customer for liabilities and damages
arising from claims of patent, copyright, trademark or other infringement by the entity's products does not give rise to a
performance obligation. The entity shall account for such obligations in accordance with Ind AS 37.
Principal versus agent considerations
B34 When another party is involved in providing goods or services to a customer, the entity shall determine whether the
nature of its promise is a performance obligation to provide the specified goods or services itself (ie the entity is a
principal) or to arrange for those goods or services to be provided by the other party (ie the entity is an agent). An entity
determines whether it is a principal or an agent for each specified good or service promised to the customer. A specified
good or service is a distinct good or service (or a distinct bundle of goods or services) to be provided to the customer
(see paragraphs 27-30). If a contract with a customer includes more than one specified good or service, an entity could
be a principal for some specified goods or services and an agent for others.
B34A To determine the nature of its promise (as described in paragraph B34), the entity shall:
(a)
identify the specified goods or services to be provided to the customer (which, for example, could be a right to a good or
service to be provided by another party (see paragraph 26)); and
Page 383/765
----- PAGE 384 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
assess whether it controls (as described in paragraph 33) each specified good or service before that good or service is
transferred to the customer.
B35 An entity is a principal if it controls the specified good or service before that good or service is transferred to a
customer. However, an entity does not necessarily control a specified good if the entity obtains legal title to that good
only momentarily before legal title is transferred to a customer. An entity that is a principal may satisfy its performance
obligation to provide the specified good or service itself or it may engage another party (for example, a subcontractor) to
satisfy some or all of the performance obligation on its behalf.
B35A When another party is involved in providing goods or services to a customer, an entity that is a principal obtains
control of any one of the following:
(a)
a good or another asset from the other party that it then transfers to the customer.
(b)
a right to a service to be performed by the other party, which gives the entity the ability to direct that party to provide the
service to the customer on the entity's behalf.
(c)
a good or service from the other party that it then combines with other goods or services in providing the specified good
or service to the customer. For example, if an entity provides a significant service of integrating goods or services (see
paragraph 29(a)) provided by another party into the specified good or service for which the customer has contracted, the
entity controls the specified good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer. This is because
the entity first obtains control of the inputs to the specified good or service (which includes goods or services from other
parties) and directs their use to create the combined output that is the specified good or service.
B35B When (or as) an entity that is a principal satisfies a performance obligation, the entity recognises revenue in the
gross amount of consideration to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for the specified good or service
transferred.
B36 An entity is an agent if the entity's performance obligation is to arrange for the provision of the specified good or
service by another party. An entity that is an agent does not control the specified good or service provided by another
party before that good or service is transferred to the customer. When (or as) an entity that is an agent satisfies a
performance obligation, the entity recognises revenue in the amount of any fee or commission to which it expects to be
entitled in exchange for arranging for the specified goods or services to be provided by the other party. An entity's fee or
commission might be the net amount of consideration that the entity retains after paying the other party the
consideration received in exchange for the goods or services to be provided by that party.
B37 Indicators that an entity controls the specified good or service before it is transferred to the customer (and is
therefore a principal (see paragraph B35)) include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a)
the entity is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified good or service. This typically includes
responsibility for the acceptability of the specified good or service (for example, primary responsibility for the good or
service meeting customer specifications). If the entity is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the
specified good or service, this may indicate that the other party involved in providing the specified good or service is
acting on the entity's behalf.
(b)
the entity has inventory risk before the specified good or service has been transferred to a customer or after transfer of
control to the customer (for example, if the customer has a right of return). For example, if the entity obtains, or commits
itself to obtain, the specified good or service before obtaining a contract with a customer, that may indicate that the entity
has the ability to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from, the good or service before
it is transferred to the customer.
(c)
the entity has discretion in establishing the price for the specified good or service. Establishing the price that the
customer pays for the specified good or service may indicate that the entity has the ability to direct the use of that good
or service and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits. However, an agent can have discretion in establishing
prices in some cases. For example, an agent may have some flexibility in setting prices in order to generate additional
Page 384/765
----- PAGE 385 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
revenue from its service of arranging for goods or services to be provided by other parties to customers.
B37A The indicators in paragraph B37 may be more or less relevant to the assessment of control depending on the
nature of the specified good or service and the terms and conditions of the contract. In addition, different indicators may
provide more persuasive evidence in different contracts.
B38 If another entity assumes the entity's performance obligations and contractual rights in the contract so that the entity
is no longer obliged to satisfy the performance obligation to transfer the specified good or service to the customer (ie the
entity is no longer acting as the principal), the entity shall not recognise revenue for that performance obligation. Instead,
the entity shall evaluate whether to recognise revenue for satisfying a performance obligation to obtain a contract for the
other party (ie whether the entity is acting as an agent).
Customer options for additional goods or services
B39 Customer options to acquire additional goods or services for free or at a discount come in many forms, including
sales incentives, customer award credits (or points), contract renewal options or other discounts on future goods or
services.
B40 If, in a contract, an entity grants a customer the option to acquire additional goods or services, that option gives rise
to a performance obligation in the contract only if the option provides a material right to the customer that it would not
receive without entering into that contract (for example, a discount that is incremental to the range of discounts typically
given for those goods or services to that class of customer in that geographical area or market). If the option provides a
material right to the customer, the customer in effect pays the entity in advance for future goods or services and the
entity recognises revenue when those future goods or services are transferred or when the option expires.
B41 If a customer has the option to acquire an additional good or service at a price that would reflect the stand-alone
selling price for that good or service, that option does not provide the customer with a material right even if the option
can be exercised only by entering into a previous contract. In those cases, the entity has made a marketing offer that it
shall account for in accordance with this Standard only when the customer exercises the option to purchase the
additional goods or services.
B42 Paragraph 74 requires an entity to allocate the transaction price to performance obligations on a relative standalone
selling price basis. If the stand-alone selling price for a customer's option to acquire additional goods or services is not
directly observable, an entity shall estimate it. That estimate shall reflect the discount that the customer would obtain
when exercising the option, adjusted for both of the following:
(a)
any discount that the customer could receive without exercising the option; and
(b)
the likelihood that the option will be exercised.
B43 If a customer has a material right to acquire future goods or services and those goods or services are similar to the
original goods or services in the contract and are provided in accordance with the terms of the original contract, then an
entity may, as a practical alternative to estimating the stand-alone selling price of the option, allocate the transaction
price to the optional goods or services by reference to the goods or services expected to be provided and the
corresponding expected consideration. Typically, those types of options are for contract renewals.
Customers' unexercised rights
B44 In accordance with paragraph 106, upon receipt of a prepayment from a customer, an entity shall recognise a
contract liability in the amount of the prepayment for its performance obligation to transfer, or to stand ready to transfer,
goods or services in the future. An entity shall derecognise that contract liability (and recognise revenue) when it
transfers those goods or services and, therefore, satisfies its performance obligation.
B45 A customer's non-refundable prepayment to an entity gives the customer a right to receive a good or service in the
future (and obliges the entity to stand ready to transfer a good or service). However, customers may not exercise all of
their contractual rights. Those unexercised rights are often referred to as breakage.
B46 If an entity expects to be entitled to a breakage amount in a contract liability, the entity shall recognise the expected
breakage amount as revenue in proportion to the pattern of rights exercised by the customer. If an entity does not
expect to be entitled to a breakage amount, the entity shall recognise the expected breakage amount as revenue when
the likelihood of the customer exercising its remaining rights becomes remote. To determine whether an entity expects
to be entitled to a breakage amount, the entity shall consider the requirements in paragraphs 56-58 on constraining
estimates of variable consideration.
Page 385/765
----- PAGE 386 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B47 An entity shall recognise a liability (and not revenue) for any consideration received that is attributable to a
customer's unexercised rights for which the entity is required to remit to another party, for example, a government entity
in accordance with applicable unclaimed property laws.
Non-refundable upfront fees (and some related costs)
B48 In some contracts, an entity charges a customer a non-refundable upfront fee at or near contract inception.
Examples include joining fees in health club membership contracts, activation fees in telecommunication contracts,
setup fees in some services contracts and initial fees in some supply contracts.
B49 To identify performance obligations in such contracts, an entity shall assess whether the fee relates to the transfer
of a promised good or service. In many cases, even though a non-refundable upfront fee relates to an activity that the
entity is required to undertake at or near contract inception to fulfil the contract, that activity does not result in the
transfer of a promised good or service to the customer (see paragraph 25). Instead, the upfront fee is an advance
payment for future goods or services and, therefore, would be recognised as revenue when those future goods or
services are provided. The revenue recognition period would extend beyond the initial contractual period if the entity
grants the customer the option to renew the contract and that option provides the customer with a material right as
described in paragraph B40.
B50 If the non-refundable upfront fee relates to a good or service, the entity shall evaluate whether to account for the
good or service as a separate performance obligation in accordance with paragraphs 22-30.
B51 An entity may charge a non-refundable fee in part as compensation for costs incurred in setting up a contract (or
other administrative tasks as described in paragraph 25). If those setup activities do not satisfy a performance
obligation, the entity shall disregard those activities (and related costs) when measuring progress in accordance with
paragraph B19. That is because the costs of setup activities do not depict the transfer of services to the customer. The
entity shall assess whether costs incurred in setting up a contract have resulted in an asset that shall be recognised in
accordance with paragraph 95.
Licensing
B52 A licence establishes a customer's rights to the intellectual property of an entity. Licences of intellectual property
may include, but are not limited to, licences of any of the following:
(a)
software and technology;
(b)
motion pictures, music and other forms of media and entertainment;
(c)
franchises; and
(d)
patents, trademarks and copyrights.
B53 In addition to a promise to grant a licence (or licences) to a customer, an entity may also promise to transfer other
goods or services to the customer. Those promises may be explicitly stated in the contract or implied by an entity's
customary business practices, published policies or specific statements (see paragraph 24). As with other types of
contracts, when a contract with a customer includes a promise to grant a licence (or licences) in addition to other
promised goods or services, an entity applies paragraphs 22-30 to identify each of the performance obligations in the
contract.
B54 If the promise to grant a licence is not distinct from other promised goods or services in the contract in accordance
with paragraphs 26-30, an entity shall account for the promise to grant a licence and those other promised goods or
services together as a single performance obligation. Examples of licences that are not distinct from other goods or
services promised in the contract include the following:
(a)
a licence that forms a component of a tangible good and that is integral to the functionality of the good; and
(b)
a licence that the customer can benefit from only in conjunction with a related service (such as an online service
provided by the entity that enables, by granting a licence, the customer to access content).
B55 If the licence is not distinct, an entity shall apply paragraphs 31-38 to determine whether the performance obligation
(which includes the promised licence) is a performance obligation that is satisfied over time or satisfied at a point in time.
Page 386/765
----- PAGE 387 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
B56 If the promise to grant the licence is distinct from the other promised goods or services in the contract and,
therefore, the promise to grant the licence is a separate performance obligation, an entity shall determine whether the
licence transfers to a customer either at a point in time or over time. In making this determination, an entity shall
consider whether the nature of the entity's promise in granting the licence to a customer is to provide the customer with
either:
(a)
a right to access the entity's intellectual property as it exists throughout the licence period; or
(b)
a right to use the entity's intellectual property as it exists at the point in time at which the licence is granted.
Determining the nature of the entity's promise
B57 *
* Refer Appendix 1
B58 The nature of an entity's promise in granting a licence is a promise to provide a right to access the entity's
intellectual property if all of the following criteria are met:
(a)
the contract requires, or the customer reasonably expects, that the entity will undertake activities that significantly affect
the intellectual property to which the customer has rights (see paragraph B59 and B59A);
(b)
the rights granted by the licence directly expose the customer to any positive or negative effects of the entity's activities
identified in paragraph B58(a); and
(c)
those activities do not result in the transfer of a good or a service to the customer as those activities occur (see
paragraph 25).
B59 Factors that may indicate that a customer could reasonably expect that an entity will undertake activities that
significantly affect the intellectual property include the entity's customary business practices, published policies or
specific statements. Although not determinative, the existence of a shared economic interest (for example, a
sales-based royalty) between the entity and the customer related to the intellectual property to which the customer has
rights may also indicate that the customer could reasonably expect that the entity will undertake such activities.
B59A An entity's activities significantly affect the intellectual property to which the customer has rights when either:
(a)
those activities are expected to significantly change the form (for example, the design or content) or the functionality (for
example, the ability to perform a function or task) of the intellectual property; or
(b)
the ability of the customer to obtain benefit from the intellectual property is substantially derived from, or dependent
upon, those activities. For example, the benefit from a brand is often derived from, or dependent upon, the entity's
ongoing activities that support or maintain the value of the intellectual property.
Accordingly, if the intellectual property to which the customer has rights has significant stand-alone functionality, a
substantial portion of the benefit of that intellectual property is derived from that functionality. Consequently, the ability of
the customer to obtain benefit from that intellectual property would not be significantly affected by the entity's activities
unless those activities significantly change its form or functionality. Types of intellectual property that often have
significant stand-alone functionality include software, biological compounds or drug formulas, and completed media
content (for example, films, television shows and music recordings).
B60 If the criteria in paragraph B58 are met, an entity shall account for the promise to grant a licence as a performance
obligation satisfied over time because the customer will simultaneously receive and consume the benefit from the
entity's performance of providing access to its intellectual property as the performance occurs (see paragraph 35(a)). An
entity shall apply paragraphs 39-45 to select an appropriate method to measure its progress towards complete
satisfaction of that performance obligation to provide access.
B61 If the criteria in paragraph B58 are not met, the nature of an entity's promise is to provide a right to use the entity's
intellectual property as that intellectual property exists (in terms of form and functionality) at the point in time at which the
licence is granted to the customer. This means that the customer can direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of the
remaining benefits from, the licence at the point in time at which the licence transfers. An entity shall account for the
Page 387/765
----- PAGE 388 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
promise to provide a right to use the entity's intellectual property as a performance obligation satisfied at a point in time.
An entity shall apply paragraph 38 to determine the point in time at which the licence transfers to the customer.
However, revenue cannot be recognised for a licence that provides a right to use the entity's intellectual property before
the beginning of the period during which the customer is able to use and benefit from the licence. For example, if a
software licence period begins before an entity provides (or otherwise makes available) to the customer a code that
enables the customer to immediately use the software, the entity would not recognise revenue before that code has
been provided (or otherwise made available).
B62 An entity shall disregard the following factors when determining whether a licence provides a right to access the
entity's intellectual property or a right to use the entity's intellectual property:
(a)
Restrictions of time, geographical region or use-those restrictions define the attributes of the promised licence, rather
than define whether the entity satisfies its performance obligation at a point in time or over time.
(b)
Guarantees provided by the entity that it has a valid patent to intellectual property and that it will defend that patent from
unauthorised use-a promise to defend a patent right is not a performance obligation because the act of defending a
patent protects the value of the entity's intellectual property assets and provides assurance to the customer that the
licence transferred meets the specifications of the licence promised in the contract.
Sales-based or usage-based royalties
B63 Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraphs 56-59, an entity shall recognise revenue for a sales-based or
usage-based royalty promised in exchange for a licence of intellectual property only when (or as) the later of the
following events occurs:
(a)
the subsequent sale or usage occurs; and
(b)
the performance obligation to which some or all of the sales-based or usage-based royalty has been allocated has been
satisfied (or partially satisfied).
B63A The requirement for a sales-based or usage-based royalty in paragraph B63 applies when the royalty relates only
to a licence of intellectual property or when a licence of intellectual property is the predominant item to which the royalty
relates (for example, the licence of intellectual property may be the predominant item to which the royalty relates when
the entity has a reasonable expectation that the customer would ascribe significantly more value to the licence than to
the other goods or services to which the royalty relates).
B63B When the requirement in paragraph B63A is met, revenue from a sales-based or usage-based royalty shall be
recognised wholly in accordance with paragraph B63. When the requirement in paragraph B63A is not met, the
requirements on variable consideration in paragraphs 50-59 apply to the sales-based or usage-based royalty.
Repurchase agreements
B64 A repurchase agreement is a contract in which an entity sells an asset and also promises or has the option (either
in the same contract or in another contract) to repurchase the asset. The repurchased asset may be the asset that was
originally sold to the customer, an asset that is substantially the same as that asset, or another asset of which the asset
that was originally sold is a component.
B65 Repurchase agreements generally come in three forms:
(a)
an entity's obligation to repurchase the asset (a forward);
(b)
an entity's right to repurchase the asset (a call option); and
(c)
an entity's obligation to repurchase the asset at the customer's request (a put option).
A forward or a call option
B66 If an entity has an obligation or a right to repurchase the asset (a forward or a call option), a customer does not
obtain control of the asset because the customer is limited in its ability to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of
the remaining benefits from, the asset even though the customer may have physical possession of the asset.
Consequently, the entity shall account for the contract as either of the following:
Page 388/765
----- PAGE 389 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
[ a lease in accordance with Ind AS 116, Leases, if the entity can or must repurchase the asset for an amount that is
less than the original selling price of the asset, unless the contract is part of a sale and leaseback transaction. If the
contract is part of a sale and leaseback transaction, the entity shall continue to recognise the asset and shall recognise
a financial liability for any consideration received from the customer. The entity shall account for the financial liability in
accordance with Ind AS 109; or]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b)
a financing arrangement in accordance with paragraph B68 if the entity can or must repurchase the asset for an amount
that is equal to or more than the original selling price of the asset.
B67 When comparing the repurchase price with the selling price, an entity shall consider the time value of money.
B68 If the repurchase agreement is a financing arrangement, the entity shall continue to recognise the asset and also
recognise a financial liability for any consideration received from the customer. The entity shall recognise the difference
between the amount of consideration received from the customer and the amount of consideration to be paid to the
customer as interest and, if applicable, as processing or holding costs (for example, insurance).
B69 If the option lapses unexercised, an entity shall derecognise the liability and recognise revenue.
A put option
[B70 If an entity has an obligation to repurchase the asset at the customer's request (a put option) at a price that is lower
than the original selling price of the asset, the entity shall consider at contract inception whether the customer has a
significant economic incentive to exercise that right. The customer's exercising of that right results in the customer
effectively paying the entity consideration for the right to use a specified asset for a period of time. Therefore, if the
customer has a significant economic incentive to exercise that right, the entity shall account for the agreement as a
lease in accordance with Ind AS 116, unless the contract is part of a sale and leaseback transaction. If the contract is
part of a sale and leaseback transaction, the entity shall continue to recognise the asset and shall recognise a financial
liability for any consideration received from the customer. The entity shall account for the financial liability in accordance
with Ind AS 109.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
B71 To determine whether a customer has a significant economic incentive to exercise its right, an entity shall consider
various factors, including the relationship of the repurchase price to the expected market value of the asset at the date of
the repurchase and the amount of time until the right expires. For example, if the repurchase price is expected to
significantly exceed the market value of the asset, this may indicate that the customer has a significant economic
incentive to exercise the put option.
B72 If the customer does not have a significant economic incentive to exercise its right at a price that is lower than the
original selling price of the asset, the entity shall account for the agreement as if it were the sale of a product with a right
of return as described in paragraphs B20-B27.
B73 If the repurchase price of the asset is equal to or greater than the original selling price and is more than the
expected market value of the asset, the contract is in effect a financing arrangement and, therefore, shall be accounted
for as described in paragraph B68.
B74 If the repurchase price of the asset is equal to or greater than the original selling price and is less than or equal to
the expected market value of the asset, and the customer does not have a significant economic incentive to exercise its
right, then the entity shall account for the agreement as if it were the sale of a product with a right of return as described
in paragraphs B20-B27.
B75 When comparing the repurchase price with the selling price, an entity shall consider the time value of money.
B76 If the option lapses unexercised, an entity shall derecognise the liability and recognise revenue.
Consignment arrangements
B77 When an entity delivers a product to another party (such as a dealer or a distributor) for sale to end customers, the
entity shall evaluate whether that other party has obtained control of the product at that point in time. A product that has
been delivered to another party may be held in a consignment arrangement if that other party has not obtained control of
the product. Accordingly, an entity shall not recognise revenue upon delivery of a product to another party if the
delivered product is held on consignment.
B78 Indicators that an arrangement is a consignment arrangement include, but are not limited to, the following:
Page 389/765
----- PAGE 390 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
the product is controlled by the entity until a specified event occurs, such as the sale of the product to a customer of the
dealer or until a specified period expires;
(b)
the entity is able to require the return of the product or transfer the product to a third party (such as another dealer); and
(c)
the dealer does not have an unconditional obligation to pay for the product (although it might be required to pay a
deposit).
Bill-and-hold arrangements
B79 A bill-and-hold arrangement is a contract under which an entity bills a customer for a product but the entity retains
physical possession of the product until it is transferred to the customer at a point in time in the future. For example, a
customer may request an entity to enter into such a contract because of the customer's lack of available space for the
product or because of delays in the customer's production schedules.
B80 An entity shall determine when it has satisfied its performance obligation to transfer a product by evaluating when a
customer obtains control of that product (see paragraph 38). For some contracts, control is transferred either when the
product is delivered to the customer's site or when the product is shipped, depending on the terms of the contract
(including delivery and shipping terms). However, for some contracts, a customer may obtain control of a product even
though that product remains in an entity's physical possession. In that case, the customer has the ability to direct the use
of, and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from, the product even though it has decided not to exercise its
right to take physical possession of that product. Consequently, the entity does not control the product. Instead, the
entity provides custodial services to the customer over the customer's asset.
B81 In addition to applying the requirements in paragraph 38, for a customer to have obtained control of a product in a
bill-and-hold arrangement, all of the following criteria must be met:
(a)
the reason for the bill-and-hold arrangement must be substantive (for example, the customer has requested the
arrangement);
(b)
the product must be identified separately as belonging to the customer;
(c)
the product currently must be ready for physical transfer to the customer; and
(d)
the entity cannot have the ability to use the product or to direct it to another customer.
B82 If an entity recognises revenue for the sale of a product on a bill-and-hold basis, the entity shall consider whether it
has remaining performance obligations (for example, for custodial services) in accordance with paragraphs 22-30 to
which the entity shall allocate a portion of the transaction price in accordance with paragraphs 73-86.
Customer acceptance
B83 In accordance with paragraph 38(e), a customer's acceptance of an asset may indicate that the customer has
obtained control of the asset. Customer acceptance clauses allow a customer to cancel a contract or require an entity to
take remedial action if a good or service does not meet agreed-upon specifications. An entity shall consider such
clauses when evaluating when a customer obtains control of a good or service.
B84 If an entity can objectively determine that control of a good or service has been transferred to the customer in
accordance with the agreed-upon specifications in the contract, then customer acceptance is a formality that would not
affect the entity's determination of when the customer has obtained control of the good or service. For example, if the
customer acceptance clause is based on meeting specified size and weight characteristics, an entity would be able to
determine whether those criteria have been met before receiving confirmation of the customer's acceptance. The entity's
experience with contracts for similar goods or services may provide evidence that a good or service provided to the
customer is in accordance with the agreed-upon specifications in the contract. If revenue is recognised before customer
acceptance, the entity still must consider whether there are any remaining performance obligations (for example,
installation of equipment) and evaluate whether to account for them separately.
B85 However, if an entity cannot objectively determine that the good or service provided to the customer is in
accordance with the agreed-upon specifications in the contract, then the entity would not be able to conclude that the
Page 390/765
----- PAGE 391 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
customer has obtained control until the entity receives the customer's acceptance. That is because in that circumstance
the entity cannot determine that the customer has the ability to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of the
remaining benefits from, the good or service.
B86 If an entity delivers products to a customer for trial or evaluation purposes and the customer is not committed to pay
any consideration until the trial period lapses, control of the product is not transferred to the customer until either the
customer accepts the product or the trial period lapses.
Disclosure of disaggregated revenue
B87 Paragraph 114 requires an entity to disaggregate revenue from contracts with customers into categories that depict
how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors.
Consequently, the extent to which an entity's revenue is disaggregated for the purposes of this disclosure depends on
the facts and circumstances that pertain to the entity's contracts with customers. Some entities may need to use more
than one type of category to meet the objective in paragraph 114 for disaggregating revenue. Other entities may meet
the objective by using only one type of category to disaggregate revenue.
B88 When selecting the type of category (or categories) to use to disaggregate revenue, an entity shall consider how
information about the entity's revenue has been presented for other purposes, including all of the following:
(a)
disclosures presented outside the financial statements (for example, in earnings releases, annual reports or investor
presentations);
(b)
information regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker for evaluating the financial performance of
operating segments; and
(c)
other information that is similar to the types of information identified in paragraph B88(a) and (b) and that is used by the
entity or users of the entity's financial statements to evaluate the entity's financial performance or make resource
allocation decisions.
B89 Examples of categories that might be appropriate include, but are not limited to, all of the following:
(a)
type of good or service (for example, major product lines);
(b)
geographical region (for example, country or region);
(c)
market or type of customer (for example, government and non-government customers);
(d)
type of contract (for example, fixed-price and time-and-materials contracts);
(e)
contract duration (for example, short-term and long-term contracts);
(f)
timing of transfer of goods or services (for example, revenue from goods or services transferred to customers at a point
in time and revenue from goods or services transferred over time); and
(g)
sales channels (for example, goods sold directly to consumers and goods sold through intermediaries).
Appendix C
Effective date and transition
C1 An entity shall apply this Standard for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April, 2018.
[C1A Ind AS 116, Leases, amended paragraphs 5, 97, B66, B70, paragraph AG8 of Appendix D and paragraph 5 of
Appendix E. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 116.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
C1B *
* Refer Appendix 1
Transition
C2 For the purposes of the transition requirements in paragraphs C3-C8A:
Page 391/765
----- PAGE 392 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
the date of initial application is the start of the reporting period in which an entity first applies this Standard; and
(b)
a completed contract is a contract for which the entity has transferred all of the goods or services identified in
accordance with Ind AS 11, Construction Contracts and Ind AS 18, Revenue.
C3 An entity shall apply this Standard using one of the following two methods:
(a)
retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented in accordance with Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in
Accounting Estimates and Errors, subject to the expedients in paragraph C5; or
(b)
retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying this Standard recognised at the date of initial application in
accordance with paragraphs C7-C8.
C4 Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph 28 of Ind AS 8, when this Standard is first applied, an entity need
only present the quantitative information required by paragraph 28(f) of Ind AS 8 for the accounting period immediately
preceding the first annual period for which this Standard is applied (the `immediately preceding period') and only if the
entity applies this Standard retrospectively in accordance with paragraph C3(a). An entity may also present this
information for the current period or for earlier comparative periods, but is not required to do so.
C5 An entity may use one or more of the following practical expedients when applying this Standard retrospectively in
accordance with paragraph C3(a):
(a)
for completed contracts, an entity need not restate contracts that:
(i)
begin and end within the same accounting period; or
(ii)
are completed contracts at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
(b)
for completed contracts that have variable consideration, an entity may use the transaction price at the date the contract
was completed rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the comparative reporting periods.
(c)
for contracts that were modified before the beginning of the earliest period presented, an entity need not retrospectively
restate the contract for those contract modifications in accordance with paragraphs 20-21. Instead, an entity shall reflect
the aggregate effect of all of the modifications that occur before the beginning of the earliest period presented when:
(i)
identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations;
(ii)
determining the transaction price; and
(iii)
allocating the transaction price to the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations.
(d)
for all reporting periods presented before the date of initial application, an entity need not disclose the amount of the
transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when the entity expects to
recognise that amount as revenue (see paragraph 120).
C6 For any of the practical expedients in paragraph C5 that an entity uses, the entity shall apply that expedient
consistently to all contracts within all reporting periods presented. In addition, the entity shall disclose all of the following
information:
(a)
the expedients that have been used; and
(b)
to the extent reasonably possible, a qualitative assessment of the estimated effect of applying each of those expedients.
C7 If an entity elects to apply this Standard retrospectively in accordance with paragraph C3(b), the entity shall
recognise the cumulative effect of initially applying this Standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained
Page 392/765
----- PAGE 393 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) of the accounting period that includes the date of initial
application. Under this transition method, an entity may elect to apply this Standard retrospectively only to contracts that
are not completed contracts at the date of initial application (for example, 1 April, 2018 for an entity with a 31 March
year-end).
C7A An entity applying this Standard retrospectively in accordance with paragraph C3(b) may also use the practical
expedient described in paragraph C5(c), either:
(a)
for all contract modifications that occur before the beginning of the earliest period presented; or
(b)
for all contract modifications that occur before the date of initial application.
If an entity uses this practical expedient, the entity shall apply the expedient consistently to all contracts and disclose the
information required by paragraph C6.
C8 For reporting periods that include the date of initial application, an entity shall provide both of the following additional
disclosures if this Standard is applied retrospectively in accordance with paragraph C3(b):
(a)
the amount by which each financial statement line item is affected in the current reporting period by the application of
this Standard as compared to Ind AS 11 and Ind AS 18 ; and
(b)
an explanation of the reasons for significant changes identified in C8(a).
C8A *
C9 *
* Refer Appendix 1
Withdrawal of other Standards
C10 This Standard supersedes the following Standards:
(a)
Ind AS 11, Construction Contracts;
(b)
Ind AS 18, Revenue
Appendix D
Service Concession Arrangements
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard.
Background
1. Infrastructure for public services-such as roads, bridges, tunnels, prisons, hospitals, airports, water distribution
facilities, energy supply and telecommunication networks-has traditionally been constructed, operated and maintained
by the public sector and financed through public budget appropriation.
2. In recent times, governments have introduced contractual service arrangements to attract private sector participation
in the development, financing, operation and maintenance of such infrastructure. The infrastructure may already exist, or
may be constructed during the period of the service arrangement. An arrangement within the scope of this Appendix
typically involves a private sector entity (an operator) constructing the infrastructure used to provide the public service or
upgrading it (for example, by increasing its capacity) and operating and maintaining that infrastructure for a specified
period of time. The operator is paid for its services over the period of the arrangement. The arrangement is governed by
a contract that sets out performance standards, mechanisms for adjusting prices, and arrangements for arbitrating
disputes. Such an arrangement is often described as a `build-operate-transfer', a `rehabilitate-operate-transfer' or a
`public-to-private' service concession arrangement.
3. A feature of these service arrangements is the public service nature of the obligation undertaken by the operator.
Public policy is for the services related to the infrastructure to be provided to the public, irrespective of the identity of the
party that operates the services. The service arrangement contractually obliges the operator to provide the services to
the public on behalf of the public sector entity. Other common features are:
(a)
the party that grants the service arrangement (the grantor) is a public sector entity, including a governmental body, or a
private sector entity to which the responsibility for the service has been devolved.
Page 393/765
----- PAGE 394 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
the operator is responsible for at least some of the management of the infrastructure and related services and does not
merely act as an agent on behalf of the grantor.
(c)
the contract sets the initial prices to be levied by the operator and regulates price revisions over the period of the service
arrangement.
(d)
the operator is obliged to hand over the infrastructure to the grantor in a specified condition at the end of the period of
the arrangement, for little or no incremental consideration, irrespective of which party initially financed it.
Scope
4. This Appendix gives guidance on the accounting by operators for public-to-private service concession arrangements.
5. This Appendix applies to public-to-private service concession arrangements if:
(a)
the grantor controls or regulates what services the operator must provide with the infrastructure, to whom it must provide
them, and at what price; and
(b)
the grantor controls-through ownership, beneficial entitlement or otherwise-any significant residual interest in the
infrastructure at the end of the term of the arrangement.
6. Infrastructure used in a public-to-private service concession arrangement for its entire useful life (whole of life assets)
is within the scope of this Appendix if the conditions in paragraph 5(a) of this Appendix are met. Paragraphs AG1-AG8 of
the Application Guidance of this Appendix provide guidance on determining whether, and to what extent,
public-to-private service concession arrangements are within the scope of this Appendix.
7. This Appendix applies to both:
(a)
infrastructure that the operator constructs or acquires from a third party for the purpose of the service arrangement; and
(b)
existing infrastructure to which the grantor gives the operator access for the purpose of the service arrangement.
8. This Appendix does not specify the accounting for infrastructure that was held and recognised as property, plant and
equipment by the operator before entering the service arrangement. The derecognition requirements of Ind ASs (as set
out in Ind AS 16) apply to such infrastructure.
9. This Appendix does not specify the accounting by grantors.
Issues
10. This Appendix sets out general principles on recognising and measuring the obligations and related rights in service
concession arrangements. Requirements for disclosing information about service concession arrangements are in
Appendix E to this Indian Accounting Standard. The issues addressed in this Appendix are:
(a)
treatment of the operator's rights over the infrastructure;
(b)
recognition and measurement of arrangement consideration;
(c)
construction or upgrade services;
(d)
operation services;
(e)
borrowing costs;
(f)
subsequent accounting treatment of a financial asset and an intangible asset; and
(g)
items provided to the operator by the grantor.
Accounting Principles
Treatment of the operator's rights over the infrastructure
Page 394/765
----- PAGE 395 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
11. Infrastructure within the scope of this Appendix shall not be recognised as property, plant and equipment of the
operator because the contractual service arrangement does not convey the right to control the use of the public service
infrastructure to the operator. The operator has access to operate the infrastructure to provide the public service on
behalf of the grantor in accordance with the terms specified in the contract.
Recognition and measurement of arrangement consideration
12. Under the terms of contractual arrangements within the scope of this Appendix, the operator acts as a service
provider. The operator constructs or upgrades infrastructure (construction or upgrade services) used to provide a public
service and operates and maintains that infrastructure (operation services) for a specified period of time.
13. The operator shall recognise and measure revenue in accordance with Ind AS 115 for the services it performs. The
nature of the consideration determines its subsequent accounting treatment. The subsequent accounting for
consideration received as a financial asset and as an intangible asset is detailed in paragraphs 23-26 of this Appendix.
Construction or upgrade services
14. The operator shall account for construction or upgrade services in accordance with Ind AS 115.
Consideration given by the grantor to the operator
15. If the operator provides construction or upgrade services the consideration received or receivable by the operator
shall be recognised in accordance with Ind AS 115. The consideration may be rights to:
(a)
a financial asset, or
(b)
an intangible asset.
16. The operator shall recognise a financial asset to the extent that it has an unconditional contractual right to receive
cash or another financial asset from or at the direction of the grantor for the construction services; the grantor has little, if
any, discretion to avoid payment, usually because the agreement is enforceable by law. The operator has an
unconditional right to receive cash if the grantor contractually guarantees to pay the operator (a) specified or
determinable amounts or (b) the shortfall, if any, between amounts received from users of the public service and
specified or determinable amounts, even if payment is contingent on the operator ensuring that the infrastructure meets
specified quality or efficiency requirements.
17. The operator shall recognise an intangible asset to the extent that it receives a right (a licence) to charge users of
the public service. A right to charge users of the public service is not an unconditional right to receive cash because the
amounts are contingent on the extent that the public uses the service.
18. If the operator is paid for the construction services partly by a financial asset and partly by an intangible asset it is
necessary to account separately for each component of the operator's consideration. The consideration received or
receivable for both components shall be recognised initially in accordance with Ind AS 115.
19. The nature of the consideration given by the grantor to the operator shall be determined by reference to the contract
terms and, when it exists, relevant contract law. The nature of the consideration determines the subsequent accounting
as described in paragraphs 23-26 of this Appendix. However, both types of consideration are classified as a contract
asset during the construction or upgrade period in accordance with Ind AS 115.
Operation services
20. The operator shall account for operation services in accordance with Ind AS 115.
Contractual obligations to restore the infrastructure to a specified level of serviceability
21. The operator may have contractual obligations it must fulfil as a condition of its licence (a) to maintain the
infrastructure to a specified level of serviceability or (b) to restore the infrastructure to a specified condition before it is
handed over to the grantor at the end of the service arrangement. These contractual obligations to maintain or restore
infrastructure, except for any upgrade element (see paragraph 14 of this Appendix), shall be recognised and measured
in accordance with Ind AS 37, ie at the best estimate of the expenditure that would be required to settle the present
obligation at the end of the reporting period.
Borrowing costs incurred by the operator
22. In accordance with Ind AS 23, borrowing costs attributable to the arrangement shall be recognised as an expense in
the period in which they are incurred unless the operator has a contractual right to receive an intangible asset (a right to
charge users of the public service). In this case borrowing costs attributable to the arrangement shall be capitalised
during the construction phase of the arrangement in accordance with that Standard.
Page 395/765
----- PAGE 396 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Financial asset
23. Ind ASs 32,107 and 109 apply to the financial asset recognised under paragraphs 16 and 18 of this Appendix.
24. The amount due from or at the direction of the grantor is accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 109 as measured
at:
(a)
amortised cost;
(b)
fair value through other comprehensive income; or
(c)
fair value through profit or loss.
25. If the amount due from the grantor is measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income,
Ind AS 109 requires interest calculated using the effective interest method to be recognised in profit or loss.
Intangible asset
26. Ind AS 38 applies to the intangible asset recognised in accordance with paragraphs 17 and 18 of this Appendix.
Paragraphs 45-47 of Ind AS 38 provide guidance on measuring intangible assets acquired in exchange for a
non-monetary asset or assets or a combination of monetary and non-monetary assets.
Items provided to the operator by the grantor
27. In accordance with paragraph 11 of this Appendix, infrastructure items to which the operator is given access by the
grantor for the purposes of the service arrangement are not recognised as property, plant and equipment of the
operator. The grantor may also provide other items to the operator that the operator can keep or deal with as it wishes. If
such assets form part of the consideration payable by the grantor for the services, they are not government grants as
defined in Ind AS 20.Instead, they are accounted for as part of the transaction price as defined in Ind AS 115.
Application Guidance on Appendix D
This Application Guidance is an integral part of Appendix D
Scope (paragraph 5 of Appendix D)
AG1 Paragraph 5 of Appendix D specifies that infrastructure is within the scope of the Appendix when the following
conditions apply:
(a)
the grantor controls or regulates what services the operator must provide with the infrastructure, to whom it must provide
them, and at what price; and
(b)
the grantor controls-through ownership, beneficial entitlement or otherwise-any significant residual interest in the
infrastructure at the end of the term of the arrangement.
AG2 The control or regulation referred to in condition (a) could be by contract or otherwise (such as through a regulator),
and includes circumstances in which the grantor buys all of the output as well as those in which some or all of the output
is bought by other users. In applying this condition, the grantor and any related parties shall be considered together. If
the grantor is a public sector entity, the public sector as a whole, together with any regulators acting in the public
interest, shall be regarded as related to the grantor for the purposes of this Appendix D.
AG3 For the purpose of condition (a), the grantor does not need to have complete control of the price: it is sufficient for
the price to be regulated by the grantor, contract or regulator, for example by a capping mechanism. However, the
condition shall be applied to the substance of the agreement. Non-substantive features, such as a cap that will apply
only in remote circumstances, shall be ignored. Conversely, if for example, a contract purports to give the operator
freedom to set prices, but any excess profit is returned to the grantor, the operator's return is capped and the price
element of the control test is met.
AG4 For the purpose of condition (b), the grantor's control over any significant residual interest should both restrict the
operator's practical ability to sell or pledge the infrastructure and give the grantor a continuing right of use throughout the
period of the arrangement. The residual interest in the infrastructure is the estimated current value of the infrastructure
as if it were already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of the period of the arrangement.
AG5 Control should be distinguished from management. If the grantor retains both the degree of control described in
paragraph 5(a) of Appendix D and any significant residual interest in the infrastructure, the operator is only managing
the infrastructure on the grantor's behalf-even though, in many cases, it may have wide managerial discretion.
Page 396/765
----- PAGE 397 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
AG6 Conditions (a) and (b) together identify when the infrastructure, including any replacements required (see
paragraph 21 of Appendix D), is controlled by the grantor for the whole of its economic life. For example, if the operator
has to replace part of an item of infrastructure during the period of the arrangement (eg the top layer of a road or the roof
of a building), the item of infrastructure shall be considered as a whole. Thus condition (b) is met for the whole of the
infrastructure, including the part that is replaced, if the grantor controls any significant residual interest in the final
replacement of that part.
AG7 Sometimes the use of infrastructure is partly regulated in the manner described in paragraph 5(a) of Appendix D
and partly unregulated. However, these arrangements take a variety of forms:
(a)
any infrastructure that is physically separable and capable of being operated independently and meets the definition of a
cash-generating unit as defined in Ind AS 36 shall be analysed separately if it is used wholly for unregulated purposes.
For example, this might apply to a private wing of a hospital, where the remainder of the hospital is used by the grantor
to treat public patients.
(b)
when purely ancillary activities (such as a hospital shop) are unregulated, the control tests shall be applied as if those
services did not exist, because in cases in which the grantor controls the services in the manner described in paragraph
5 of Appendix D, the existence of ancillary activities does not detract from the grantor's control of the infrastructure.
[AG8 The operator may have a right to use the separable infrastructure described in paragraph AG7(a), or the facilities
used to provide ancillary unregulated services described in paragraph AG7(b). In either case, there may in substance be
a lease from the grantor to the operator; if so, it shall be accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 116.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Information note 1
Accounting framework for public-to-private service arrangements
This note accompanies, but is not part of, Appendix D
The diagram below summarises the accounting for service arrangements established by Appendix A
Information note 2
References to Indian Accounting Standards that apply to typical types of public-to-private arrangements
This note accompanies, but is not part of, Appendix D.
The table sets out the typical types of arrangements for private sector participation in the provision of public sector
services and provides references to Indian Accounting Standards that apply to those arrangements. The list of
arrangements types is not exhaustive. The purpose of the table is to highlight the continuum of arrangements. It is not
Appendix D's intention to convey the impression that bright lines exist between the accounting requirements for
public-to- private arrangements
Category
Lessee
Service provider
Owner
Typical arrangement types
Lease (eg Operator leases asset from grantor)
Service and/or maintenance contract (specific
tasks eg debt collection)
Rehabilitate - operate - transfer
Build -operate transfer
Build -own - operate
100% Divestment/Privatisation/Corporation
Asset ownership
Grantor
Operator
Capital investment
Grantor
Operator
Page 397/765
----- PAGE 398 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Demand risk
Shared
Grantor
Operator and/or Grantor
Operator
Typical duration
8-20 years
1-5 years
25-30 years
Indefinite (or may be limited by licence)
Residual interest
Grantor
Operator
Relevant Indian Accounting Standards
Ind AS 17
Ind AS 18
This Appendix A
Ind AS 16
Appendix E
Service Concession Arrangements: Disclosures
This Appendix is an integral part of the Standard.
Issue
1. An entity (the operator) may enter into an arrangement with another entity (the grantor) to provide services that give
the public access to major economic and social facilities. The grantor may be a public or private sector entity, including a
governmental body. Examples of service concession arrangements involve water treatment and supply facilities,
motorways, car parks, tunnels, bridges, airports and telecommunication networks. Examples of arrangements that are
not service concession arrangements include an entity outsourcing the operation of its internal services (eg employee
cafeteria, building maintenance, and accounting or information technology functions).
2. A service concession arrangement generally involves the grantor conveying for the period of the concession to the
operator:
(a)
the right to provide services that give the public access to major economic and social facilities, and
(b)
in some cases, the right to use specified tangible assets, intangible assets, or financial assets, in exchange for the
operator:
(c)
committing to provide the services according to certain terms and conditions during the concession period, and
(d)
when applicable, committing to return at the end of the concession period the rights received at the beginning of the
concession period and/or acquired during the concession period.
3. The common characteristic of all service concession arrangements is that the operator both receives a right and
incurs an obligation to provide public services.
4. The issue is what information should be disclosed in the notes in the financial statements of an operator and a
grantor.
5. [ Certain aspects and disclosures relating to some service concession arrangements are addressed by Indian
Accounting Standards (eg Ind AS 16 applies to acquisitions of items of property, plant and equipment, Ind AS 116
applies to leases of assets, and Ind AS 38 applies to acquisitions of intangible assets). However, a service concession
arrangement may involve executory contracts that are not addressed in Indian Accounting Standards, unless the
contracts are onerous, in which case Ind AS 37 applies. Therefore, this Appendix addresses additional disclosures of
service concession arrangements.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Page 398/765
----- PAGE 399 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Accounting Principles
6. All aspects of a service concession arrangement shall be considered in determining the appropriate disclosures in the
notes. An operator and a grantor shall disclose the following in each period:
(a)
a description of the arrangement;
(b)
significant terms of the arrangement that may affect the amount, timing and certainty of future cash flows (eg the period
of the concession, re-pricing dates and the basis upon which re-pricing or renegotiation is determined);
(c)
the nature and extent (eg quantity, time period or amount as appropriate) of:
(i)
rights to use specified assets;
(ii)
obligations to provide or rights to expect provision of services;
(iii)
obligations to acquire or build items of property, plant and equipment;
(iv)
obligations to deliver or rights to receive specified assets at the end of the concession period;
(v)
renewal and termination options; and
(vi)
other rights and obligations (eg major overhauls);
(d)
changes in the arrangement occurring during the period; and
(e)
how the service arrangement has been classified.
6A. An operator shall disclose the amount of revenue and profits or losses recognized in the period on exchanging
construction services for a financial asset or an intangible asset.
7. The disclosures required in accordance with paragraph 6 of this Appendix shall be provided individually for each
service concession arrangement or in aggregate for each class of service concession arrangements. A class is a
grouping of service concession arrangements involving services of a similar nature (eg toll collections,
telecommunications and water treatment services).
Appendix F
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
This appendix lists the appendices which are part of other Indian Accounting Standards and make reference to Ind AS
115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
[***]
[Omitted '1. Appendix B, Evaluating the Substance of Transactions involving the Legal Form of a Lease contained in Ind
AS 17, Leases.' by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
2. Appendix A, Intangible Assets - Web Site Costs contained in Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets.
Appendix 1
Note: This appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this appendix is only to bring out the
major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 115 and the corresponding International
Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, IFRIC 12, Service Concession
Arrangements and SIC 29 Service Concession Arrangements: Disclosures, issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board.
Comparison with IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, IFRIC 12 and SIC 29
1. Different terminology is used in Ind AS 115 eg the term `balance sheet' is used instead of `statement of financial
position' and `statement of profit and loss' is used instead of `statement of comprehensive income'.
2. As per paragraph of 15 of IFRS 15, an amount of consideration, among other things, can vary because of penalties.
Page 399/765
----- PAGE 400 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
However, paragraph 51 of Ind AS 115 has been amended to exclude `penalties' from the list of examples given in the
paragraph 51 due to which an amount of consideration can vary. However, paragraph 51AA has been inserted to
explain the accounting treatment of `penalties'.
3. Paragraph 109AA has been inserted to require an entity to present separately the amount of excise duty included in
the revenue recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
4. Paragraph 126AA has been inserted to present reconciliation of the amount of revenue recognised in the statement of
profit and loss with the contracted price showing separately each of the adjustments made to the contract price
specifying the nature and amount of each such adjustment separately.
5. In Appendix D - Application Guidance, paragraph B20AA has been inserted to explain the accounting treatment in
case of transfers of control of a product to a customer with an unconditional right of return.
6. [ Paragraphs C1B, C8A and C9 related to effective date and transition have been deleted due to following reasons:
(a)
Paragraphs C1B and C8A are not relevant in Indian context as the same refer to application of these amendments in
case where IFRS 15 was initially applied before issuance of amendments to the standard.
(b)
Paragraph C9 refers to application of IAS 39, Financial Instruments, which is not relevant in Indian context.]
[Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 116,]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Leases
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles)
Objective
1. This Standard sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. The
objective is to ensure that lessees and lessors provide relevant information in a manner that faithfully represents those
transactions. This information gives a basis for users of financial statements to assess the effect that leases have on the
financial position, financial performance and cash flows of an entity.
2. An entity shall consider the terms and conditions of contracts and all relevant facts and circumstances when applying
this Standard. An entity shall apply this Standard consistently to contracts with similar characteristics and in similar
circumstances.
Scope
3. An entity shall apply this Standard to all leases, including leases of right-of-use assets in a sublease, except for:
(a)
leases to explore for or use minerals, oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative resources;
(b)
leases of biological assets within the scope of Ind AS 41, Agriculture, held by a lessee;
(c)
service concession arrangements within the scope of Appendix D, Service Concession Arrangements, of Ind AS 115,
Revenue from Contracts with Customer;
(d)
licences of intellectual property granted by a lessor within the scope of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with
Customers; and
(e)
rights held by a lessee under licensing agreements within the scope of Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets, for such items as
motion picture films, video recordings, plays, manuscripts, patents and copyrights.
4. A lessee may, but is not required to, apply this Standard to leases of intangible assets other than those described in
paragraph 3(e).
Recognition exemptions (paragraphs B3-B8)
5. A lessee may elect not to apply the requirements in paragraphs 22-49 to:
(a)
short-term leases; and
(b)
Page 400/765
----- PAGE 401 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
leases for which the underlying asset is of low value (as described in paragraphs B3-B8).
6. If a lessee elects not to apply the requirements in paragraphs 22-49 to either short-term leases or leases for which the
underlying asset is of low value, the lessee shall recognise the lease payments associated with those leases as an
expense on either a straight-line basis over the lease term or another systematic basis. The lessee shall apply another
systematic basis if that basis is more representative of the pattern of the lessee's benefit.
7. If a lessee accounts for short-term leases applying paragraph 6, the lessee shall consider the lease to be a new lease
for the purposes of this Standard if:
(a)
there is a lease modification; or
(b)
there is any change in the lease term (for example, the lessee exercises an option not previously included in its
determination of the lease term).
8. The election for short-term leases shall be made by class of underlying asset to which the right of use relates. A class
of underlying asset is a grouping of underlying assets of a similar nature and use in an entity's operations. The election
for leases for which the underlying asset is of low value can be made on a lease-by-lease basis.
Identifying a lease (paragraphs B9-B33)
9. At inception of a contract, an entity shall assess whether the contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or
contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in
exchange for consideration. Paragraphs B9-B31 set out guidance on the assessment of whether a contract is, or
contains, a lease.
10. A period of time may be described in terms of the amount of use of an identified asset (for example, the number of
production units that an item of equipment will be used to produce).
11. An entity shall reassess whether a contract is, or contains, a lease only if the terms and conditions of the contract
are changed.
Separating components of a contract
12. For a contract that is, or contains, a lease, an entity shall account for each lease component within the contract as a
lease separately from non-lease components of the contract, unless the entity applies the practical expedient in
paragraph 15. Paragraphs B32-B33 set out guidance on separating components of a contract.
Lessee
13. For a contract that contains a lease component and one or more additional lease or non-lease components, a lessee
shall allocate the consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of the relative stand-alone price of
the lease component and the aggregate stand-alone price of the non-lease components.
14. The relative stand-alone price of lease and non-lease components shall be determined on the basis of the price the
lessor, or a similar supplier, would charge an entity for that component, or a similar component, separately. If an
observable stand-alone price is not readily available, the lessee shall estimate the stand-alone price, maximising the use
of observable information.
15. As a practical expedient, a lessee may elect, by class of underlying asset, not to separate non-lease components
from lease components, and instead account for each lease component and any associated non-lease components as a
single lease component. A lessee shall not apply this practical expedient to embedded derivatives that meet the criteria
in paragraph 4.3.3 of Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments.
16. Unless the practical expedient in paragraph 15 is applied, a lessee shall account for non-lease components applying
other applicable Standards.
Lessor
17. For a contract that contains a lease component and one or more additional lease or non-lease components, a lessor
shall allocate the consideration in the contract applying paragraphs 73-90 of Ind AS 115.
Lease term (paragraphs B34-B41)
__________________________________________________________________________________
18. An entity shall determine the lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease, together with both:
(a)
periods covered by an option to extend the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option; and
(b)
Page 401/765
----- PAGE 402 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
periods covered by an option to terminate the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain not to exercise that option.
19. In assessing whether a lessee is reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend a lease, or not to exercise an
option to terminate a lease, an entity shall consider all relevant facts and circumstances that create an economic
incentive for the lessee to exercise the option to extend the lease, or not to exercise the option to terminate the lease, as
described in paragraphs B37- B40.
20. A lessee shall reassess whether it is reasonably certain to exercise an extension option, or not to exercise a
termination option, upon the occurrence of either a significant event or a significant change in circumstances that:
(a)
is within the control of the lessee; and
(b)
affects whether the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise an option not previously included in its determination of the
lease term, or not to exercise an option previously included in its determination of the lease term (as described in
paragraph B41).
21. An entity shall revise the lease term if there is a change in the non-cancellable period of a lease. For example, the
non-cancellable period of a lease will change if:
(a)
the lessee exercises an option not previously included in the entity's determination of the lease term;
(b)
the lessee does not exercise an option previously included in the entity's determination of the lease term;
(c)
an event occurs that contractually obliges the lessee to exercise an option not previously included in the entity's
determination of the lease term; or
(d)
an event occurs that contractually prohibits the lessee from exercising an option previously included in the entity's
determination of the lease term.
Lessee
______________________________________________________________________________________
Recognition
22. At the commencement date, a lessee shall recognise a right-of-use asset and a lease liability.
Measurement
Initial measurement
Initial measurement of the right-of-use asset
23. At the commencement date, a lessee shall measure the right-of-use asset at cost.
24. The cost of the right-of-use asset shall comprise:
(a)
the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability, as described in paragraph 26;
(b)
any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, less any lease incentives received;
(c)
any initial direct costs incurred by the lessee; and
(d)
an estimate of costs to be incurred by the lessee in dismantling and removing the underlying asset, restoring the site on
which it is located or restoring the underlying asset to the condition required by the terms and conditions of the lease,
unless those costs are incurred to produce inventories. The lessee incurs the obligation for those costs either at the
commencement date or as a consequence of having used the underlying asset during a particular period.
25. A lessee shall recognise the costs described in paragraph 24(d) as part of the cost of the right-of-use asset when it
incurs an obligation for those costs. A lessee applies Ind AS 2, Inventories, to costs that are incurred during a particular
period as a consequence of having used the right-of-use asset to produce inventories during that period. The obligations
for such costs accounted for applying this Standard or Ind AS 2 are recognised and measured applying Ind AS 37,
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Initial measurement of the lease liability
Page 402/765
----- PAGE 403 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
26. At the commencement date, a lessee shall measure the lease liability at the present value of the lease payments
that are not paid at that date. The lease payments shall be discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that
rate can be readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the lessee shall use the lessee's incremental
borrowing rate.
27. At the commencement date, the lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise the
following payments for the right to use the underlying asset during the lease term that are not paid at the
commencement date:
(a)
fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments as described in paragraph B42), less any lease incentives
receivable;
(b)
variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured using the index or rate as at the
commencement date (as described in paragraph 28);
(c)
amounts expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees;
the exercise price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option (assessed considering
the factors described in paragraphs B37-B40); and
(e)
payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising an option to terminate the
lease.
28. Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate described in paragraph 27(b) include, for example,
payments linked to a consumer price index, payments linked to a benchmark interest rate (such as LIBOR) or payments
that vary to reflect changes in market rental rates.
Subsequent measurement
Subsequent measurement of the right-of-use asset
29. After the commencement date, a lessee shall measure the right-of-use asset applying a cost model, unless it applies
the measurement model described in paragraph 35.
Cost model
30. To apply a cost model, a lessee shall measure the right-of-use asset at cost:
(a)
less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses; and
(b)
adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability specified in paragraph 36(c).
31. A lessee shall apply the depreciation requirements in Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment, in depreciating the
right-of-use asset, subject to the requirements in paragraph 32.
32. If the lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset to the lessee by the end of the lease term or if the cost of the
right-of-use asset reflects that the lessee will exercise a purchase option, the lessee shall depreciate the right-of-use
asset from the commencement date to the end of the useful life of the underlying asset. Otherwise, the lessee shall
depreciate the right-of-use asset from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the
right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term.
33. A lessee shall apply Ind AS 36, Impairment of Assets, to determine whether the right-of-use asset is impaired and to
account for any impairment loss identified.
Other measurement models
34. [Refer Appendix 1].
35. If right-of-use assets relate to a class of property, plant and equipment to which the lessee applies the revaluation
model in Ind AS 16, a lessee may elect to apply that revaluation model to all of the rightof- use assets that relate to that
class of property, plant and equipment.
Subsequent measurement of the lease liability
36. After the commencement date, a lessee shall measure the lease liability by:
(a)
increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability;
Page 403/765
----- PAGE 404 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made; and
(c)
remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect any reassessment or lease modifications specified in paragraphs 39-46, or to
reflect revised in-substance fixed lease payments (see paragraph B42).
37. Interest on the lease liability in each period during the lease term shall be the amount that produces a constant
periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the lease liability. The periodic rate of interest is the discount rate
described in paragraph 26, or if applicable the revised discount rate described in paragraph 41, paragraph 43 or
paragraph 45(c).
38. After the commencement date, a lessee shall recognise in profit or loss, unless the costs are included in the carrying
amount of another asset applying other applicable Standards, both:
(a)
interest on the lease liability; and
(b)
variable lease payments not included in the measurement of the lease liability in the period in which the event or
condition that triggers those payments occurs.
Reassessment of the lease liability
39. After the commencement date, a lessee shall apply paragraphs 40-43 to remeasure the lease liability to reflect
changes to the lease payments. A lessee shall recognise the amount of the remeasurement of the lease liability as an
adjustment to the right-of-use asset. However, if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is reduced to zero and
there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease liability, a lessee shall recognise any remaining amount of
the remeasurement in profit or loss.
40. A lessee shall remeasure the lease liability by discounting the revised lease payments using a revised discount rate,
if either:
(a)
there is a change in the lease term, as described in paragraphs 20-21. A lessee shall determine the revised lease
payments on the basis of the revised lease term; or
(b)
there is a change in the assessment of an option to purchase the underlying asset, assessed considering the events and
circumstances described in paragraphs 20-21 in the context of a purchase option. A lessee shall determine the revised
lease payments to reflect the change in amounts payable under the purchase option.
41. In applying paragraph 40, a lessee shall determine the revised discount rate as the interest rate implicit in the lease
for the remainder of the lease term, if that rate can be readily determined, or the lessee's incremental borrowing rate at
the date of reassessment, if the interest rate implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined.
42. A lessee shall remeasure the lease liability by discounting the revised lease payments, if either:
(a)
there is a change in the amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee. A lessee shall determine the
revised lease payments to reflect the change in amounts expected to be payable under the residual value guarantee.
(b)
there is a change in future lease payments resulting from a change in an index or a rate used to determine those
payments, including for example a change to reflect changes in market rental rates following a market rent review. The
lessee shall remeasure the lease liability to reflect those revised lease payments only when there is a change in the
cash flows (ie when the adjustment to the lease payments takes effect). A lessee shall determine the revised lease
payments for the remainder of the lease term based on the revised contractual payments.
43. In applying paragraph 42, a lessee shall use an unchanged discount rate, unless the change in lease payments
results from a change in floating interest rates. In that case, the lessee shall use a revised discount rate that reflects
changes in the interest rate.
Lease modifications
44. A lessee shall account for a lease modification as a separate lease if both:
(a)
the modification increases the scope of the lease by adding the right to use one or more underlying assets; and
Page 404/765
----- PAGE 405 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
the consideration for the lease increases by an amount commensurate with the stand-alone price for the increase in
scope and any appropriate adjustments to that stand-alone price to reflect the circumstances of the particular contract.
45. For a lease modification that is not accounted for as a separate lease, at the effective date of the lease modification
a lessee shall:
(a)
allocate the consideration in the modified contract applying paragraphs 13-16;
(b)
determine the lease term of the modified lease applying paragraphs 18-19; and
(c)
remeasure the lease liability by discounting the revised lease payments using a revised discount rate. The revised
discount rate is determined as the interest rate implicit in the lease for the remainder of the lease term, if that rate can be
readily determined, or the lessee's incremental borrowing rate at the effective date of the modification, if the interest rate
implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined.
46. For a lease modification that is not accounted for as a separate lease, the lessee shall account for the
remeasurement of the lease liability by:
(a)
decreasing the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset to reflect the partial or full termination of the lease for lease
modifications that decrease the scope of the lease. The lessee shall recognise in profit or loss any gain or loss relating
to the partial or full termination of the lease.
(b)
making a corresponding adjustment to the right-of-use asset for all other lease modifications.
Presentation
47. A lessee shall either present in the balance sheet, or disclose in the notes:
(a)
right-of-use assets separately from other assets. If a lessee does not present right-of-use assets separately in the
balance sheet, the lessee shall:
(i)
include right-of-use assets within the same line item as that within which the corresponding underlying assets would be
presented if they were owned; and
(ii)
disclose which line items in the balance sheet include those right-of-use assets.
(b)
lease liabilities separately from other liabilities. If a lessee does not present lease liabilities separately in the balance
sheet, the lessee shall disclose which line items in the balance sheet include those liabilities.
48. The requirement in paragraph 47(a) does not apply to right-of-use assets that meet the definition of investment
property, which shall be presented in the balance sheet as investment property.
49. In the statement of profit and loss, a lessee shall present interest expense on the lease liability separately from the
depreciation charge for the right-of-use asset. Interest expense on the lease liability is a component of finance costs,
which paragraph 82(b) of Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, requires to be presented separately in the
statement of profit and loss.
50. In the statement of cash flows, a lessee shall classify:
(a)
cash payments for the principal portion of the lease liability within financing activities;
(b)
cash payments for the interest portion of the lease liability within financing activities applying the requirements in Ind AS
7, Statement of Cash Flows, for interest paid; and
(c)
short-term lease payments, payments for leases of low-value assets and variable lease payments not included in the
measurement of the lease liability within operating activities.
Disclosure
Page 405/765
----- PAGE 406 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
51. The objective of the disclosures is for lessees to disclose information in the notes that, together with the information
provided in the balance sheet, statement of profit and loss and statement of cash flows, gives a basis for users of
financial statements to assess the effect that leases have on the financial position, financial performance and cash flows
of the lessee. Paragraphs 52-60 specify requirements on how to meet this objective.
52. A lessee shall disclose information about its leases for which it is a lessee in a single note or separate section in its
financial statements. However, a lessee need not duplicate information that is already presented elsewhere in the
financial statements, provided that the information is incorporated by cross-reference in the single note or separate
section about leases.
53. A lessee shall disclose the following amounts for the reporting period:
(a)
depreciation charge for right-of-use assets by class of underlying asset;
(b)
interest expense on lease liabilities;
(c)
the expense relating to short-term leases accounted for applying paragraph 6. This expense need not include the
expense relating to leases with a lease term of one month or less;
(d)
the expense relating to leases of low-value assets accounted for applying paragraph 6. This expense shall not include
the expense relating to short-term leases of low-value assets included in paragraph 53(c);
(e)
the expense relating to variable lease payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities;
(f)
income from subleasing right-of-use assets;
(g)
total cash outflow for leases;
(h)
additions to right-of-use assets;
(i)
gains or losses arising from sale and leaseback transactions; and
(j)
the carrying amount of right-of-use assets at the end of the reporting period by class of underlying asset.
54. A lessee shall provide the disclosures specified in paragraph 53 in a tabular format, unless another format is more
appropriate. The amounts disclosed shall include costs that a lessee has included in the carrying amount of another
asset during the reporting period.
55. A lessee shall disclose the amount of its lease commitments for short-term leases accounted for applying paragraph
6 if the portfolio of short-term leases to which it is committed at the end of the reporting period is dissimilar to the
portfolio of short-term leases to which the short-term lease expense disclosed applying paragraph 53(c) relates.
56. If right-of-use assets meet the definition of investment property, a lessee shall apply the disclosure requirements in
Ind AS 40. In that case, a lessee is not required to provide the disclosures in paragraph 53(a), (f), (h) or (j) for those
right-of-use assets.
57. If a lessee measures right-of-use assets at revalued amounts applying Ind AS 16, the lessee shall disclose the
information required by paragraph 77 of Ind AS 16 for those right-of-use assets.
58. A lessee shall disclose a maturity analysis of lease liabilities applying paragraphs 39 and B11 of Ind AS 107,
Financial Instruments: Disclosures, separately from the maturity analyses of other financial liabilities.
59. In addition to the disclosures required in paragraphs 53-58, a lessee shall disclose additional qualitative and
quantitative information about its leasing activities necessary to meet the disclosure objective in paragraph 51 (as
described in paragraph B48). This additional information may include, but is not limited to, information that helps users
of financial statements to assess:
(a)
the nature of the lessee's leasing activities;
(b)
Page 406/765
----- PAGE 407 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
future cash outflows to which the lessee is potentially exposed that are not reflected in the measurement of lease
liabilities. This includes exposure arising from:
(i)
variable lease payments (as described in paragraph B49);
(ii)
extension options and termination options (as described in paragraph B50);
(iii)
residual value guarantees (as described in paragraph B51); and
(iv)
leases not yet commenced to which the lessee is committed.
(c)
restrictions or covenants imposed by leases; and
(d)
sale and leaseback transactions (as described in paragraph B52).
60. A lessee that accounts for short-term leases or leases of low-value assets applying paragraph 6 shall disclose that
fact.
Lessor
___________________________________________________________________________________
Classification of leases (paragraphs B53-B58)
61. A lessor shall classify each of its leases as either an operating lease or a finance lease.
62. A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of
an underlying asset. A lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not transfer substantially all the risks and
rewards incidental to ownership of an underlying asset.
63. Whether a lease is a finance lease or an operating lease depends on the substance of the transaction rather than
the form of the contract. Examples of situations that individually or in combination would normally lead to a lease being
classified as a finance lease are:
(a)
the lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset to the lessee by the end of the lease term;
(b)
the lessee has the option to purchase the underlying asset at a price that is expected to be sufficiently lower than the fair
value at the date the option becomes exercisable for it to be reasonably certain, at the inception date, that the option will
be exercised;
(c)
the lease term is for the major part of the economic life of the underlying asset even if title is not transferred;
(d)
at the inception date, the present value of the lease payments amounts to at least substantially all of the fair value of the
underlying asset; and
(e)
the underlying asset is of such a specialised nature that only the lessee can use it without major modifications.
64. Indicators of situations that individually or in combination could also lead to a lease being classified as a finance
lease are:
(a)
if the lessee can cancel the lease, the lessor's losses associated with the cancellation are borne by the lessee;
(b)
gains or losses from the fluctuation in the fair value of the residual accrue to the lessee (for example, in the form of a
rent rebate equaling most of the sales proceeds at the end of the lease); and
(c)
the lessee has the ability to continue the lease for a secondary period at a rent that is substantially lower than market
rent.
65. The examples and indicators in paragraphs 63-64 are not always conclusive. If it is clear from other features that the
lease does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an underlying asset, the lease is
Page 407/765
----- PAGE 408 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
classified as an operating lease. For example, this may be the case if ownership of the underlying asset transfers at the
end of the lease for a variable payment equal to its then fair value, or if there are variable lease payments, as a result of
which the lessor does not transfer substantially all such risks and rewards.
66. Lease classification is made at the inception date and is reassessed only if there is a lease modification. Changes in
estimates (for example, changes in estimates of the economic life or of the residual value of the underlying asset), or
changes in circumstances (for example, default by the lessee), do not give rise to a new classification of a lease for
accounting purposes.
Finance leases
Recognition and measurement
67. At the commencement date, a lessor shall recognise assets held under a finance lease in its balance sheet and
present them as a receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease.
Initial measurement
68. The lessor shall use the interest rate implicit in the lease to measure the net investment in the lease. In the case of a
sublease, if the interest rate implicit in the sublease cannot be readily determined, an intermediate lessor may use the
discount rate used for the head lease (adjusted for any initial direct costs associated with the sublease) to measure the
net investment in the sublease.
69. Initial direct costs, other than those incurred by manufacturer or dealer lessors, are included in the initial
measurement of the net investment in the lease and reduce the amount of income recognised over the lease term. The
interest rate implicit in the lease is defined in such a way that the initial direct costs are included automatically in the net
investment in the lease; there is no need to add them separately.
Initial measurement of the lease payments included in the net investment in the lease
70. At the commencement date, the lease payments included in the measurement of the net investment in the lease
comprise the following payments for the right to use the underlying asset during the lease term that are not received at
the commencement date:
(a)
fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments as described in paragraph B42), less any lease incentives
payable;
(b)
variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured using the index or rate as at the
commencement date;
(c)
any residual value guarantees provided to the lessor by the lessee, a party related to the lessee or a third party
unrelated to the lessor that is financially capable of discharging the obligations under the guarantee;
(d)
the exercise price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option (assessed considering
the factors described in paragraph B37); and
(e)
payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising an option to terminate the
lease.
Manufacturer or dealer lessors
71. At the commencement date, a manufacturer or dealer lessor shall recognise the following for each of its finance
leases:
(a)
revenue being the fair value of the underlying asset, or, if lower, the present value of the lease payments accruing to the
lessor, discounted using a market rate of interest;
(b)
the cost of sale being the cost, or carrying amount if different, of the underlying asset less the present value of the
unguaranteed residual value; and
(c)
selling profit or loss (being the difference between revenue and the cost of sale) in accordance with its policy for outright
sales to which Ind AS 115 applies. A manufacturer or dealer lessor shall recognise selling profit or loss on a finance
Page 408/765
----- PAGE 409 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
lease at the commencement date, regardless of whether the lessor transfers the underlying asset as described in Ind AS
115.
72. Manufacturers or dealers often offer to customers the choice of either buying or leasing an asset. A finance lease of
an asset by a manufacturer or dealer lessor gives rise to profit or loss equivalent to the profit or loss resulting from an
outright sale of the underlying asset, at normal selling prices, reflecting any applicable volume or trade discounts.
73. Manufacturer or dealer lessors sometimes quote artificially low rates of interest in order to attract customers. The
use of such a rate would result in a lessor recognising an excessive portion of the total income from the transaction at
the commencement date. If artificially low rates of interest are quoted, a manufacturer or dealer lessor shall restrict
selling profit to that which would apply if a market rate of interest were charged.
74. A manufacturer or dealer lessor shall recognise as an expense costs incurred in connection with obtaining a finance
lease at the commencement date because they are mainly related to earning the manufacturer or dealer's selling profit.
Costs incurred by manufacturer or dealer lessors in connection with obtaining a finance lease are excluded from the
definition of initial direct costs and, thus, are excluded from the net investment in the lease.
Subsequent measurement
75. A lessor shall recognise finance income over the lease term, based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of
return on the lessor's net investment in the lease.
76. A lessor aims to allocate finance income over the lease term on a systematic and rational basis. A lessor shall apply
the lease payments relating to the period against the gross investment in the lease to reduce both the principal and the
unearned finance income.
77. A lessor shall apply the derecognition and impairment requirements in Ind AS 109 to the net investment in the lease.
A lessor shall review regularly estimated unguaranteed residual values used in computing the gross investment in the
lease. If there has been a reduction in the estimated unguaranteed residual value, the lessor shall revise the income
allocation over the lease term and recognise immediately any reduction in respect of amounts accrued.
78. A lessor that classifies an asset under a finance lease as held for sale (or includes it in a disposal group that is
classified as held for sale) applying Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, shall
account for the asset in accordance with that Standard.
Lease modifications
79. A lessor shall account for a modification to a finance lease as a separate lease if both:
(a)
the modification increases the scope of the lease by adding the right to use one or more underlying assets; and
(b)
the consideration for the lease increases by an amount commensurate with the stand-alone price for the increase in
scope and any appropriate adjustments to that stand-alone price to reflect the circumstances of the particular contract.
80. For a modification to a finance lease that is not accounted for as a separate lease, a lessor shall account for the
modification as follows:
(a)
if the lease would have been classified as an operating lease had the modification been in effect at the inception date,
the lessor shall:
(i)
account for the lease modification as a new lease from the effective date of the modification; and
(ii)
measure the carrying amount of the underlying asset as the net investment in the lease immediately before the effective
date of the lease modification.
(b)
otherwise, the lessor shall apply the requirements of Ind AS 109.
Operating leases
Recognition and measurement
81. A lessor shall recognise lease payments from operating leases as income on either a straight-line basis or another
systematic basis. The lessor shall apply another systematic basis if that basis is more representative of the pattern in
which benefit from the use of the underlying asset is diminished.
82. A lessor shall recognise costs, including depreciation, incurred in earning the lease income as an expense.
Page 409/765
----- PAGE 410 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
83. A lessor shall add initial direct costs incurred in obtaining an operating lease to the carrying amount of the underlying
asset and recognise those costs as an expense over the lease term on the same basis as the lease income.
84. The depreciation policy for depreciable underlying assets subject to operating leases shall be consistent with the
lessor's normal depreciation policy for similar assets. A lessor shall calculate depreciation in accordance with Ind AS 16
and Ind AS 38.
85. A lessor shall apply Ind AS 36 to determine whether an underlying asset subject to an operating lease is impaired
and to account for any impairment loss identified.
86. A manufacturer or dealer lessor does not recognise any selling profit on entering into an operating lease because it
is not the equivalent of a sale.
Lease modifications
87. A lessor shall account for a modification to an operating lease as a new lease from the effective date of the
modification, considering any prepaid or accrued lease payments relating to the original lease as part of the lease
payments for the new lease.
Presentation
88. A lessor shall present underlying assets subject to operating leases in its balance sheet according to the nature of
the underlying asset.
Disclosure
89. The objective of the disclosures is for lessors to disclose information in the notes that, together with the information
provided in the balance sheet, statement of profit or loss and statement of cash flows, gives a basis for users of financial
statements to assess the effect that leases have on the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the
lessor. Paragraphs 90-97 specify requirements on how to meet this objective.
90. A lessor shall disclose the following amounts for the reporting period:
(a)
for finance leases:
(i)
selling profit or loss;
(ii)
finance income on the net investment in the lease; and
(iii)
income relating to variable lease payments not included in the measurement of the net investment in the lease.
(b)
for operating leases, lease income, separately disclosing income relating to variable lease payments that do not depend
on an index or a rate.
91. A lessor shall provide the disclosures specified in paragraph 90 in a tabular format, unless another format is more
appropriate.
92. A lessor shall disclose additional qualitative and quantitative information about its leasing activities necessary to
meet the disclosure objective in paragraph 89. This additional information includes, but is not limited to, information that
helps users of financial statements to assess:
(a)
the nature of the lessor's leasing activities; and
(b)
how the lessor manages the risk associated with any rights it retains in underlying assets. In particular, a lessor shall
disclose its risk management strategy for the rights it retains in underlying assets, including any means by which the
lessor reduces that risk. Such means may include, for example, buy-back agreements, residual value guarantees or
variable lease payments for use in excess of specified limits.
Finance leases
93. A lessor shall provide a qualitative and quantitative explanation of the significant changes in the carrying amount of
the net investment in finance leases.
94. A lessor shall disclose a maturity analysis of the lease payments receivable, showing the undiscounted lease
payments to be received on an annual basis for a minimum of each of the first five years and a total of the amounts for
the remaining years. A lessor shall reconcile the undiscounted lease payments to the net investment in the lease. The
Page 410/765
----- PAGE 411 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
reconciliation shall identify the unearned finance income relating to the lease payments receivable and any discounted
unguaranteed residual value.
Operating leases
95. For items of property, plant and equipment subject to an operating lease, a lessor shall apply the disclosure
requirements of Ind AS 16. In applying the disclosure requirements in Ind AS 16, a lessor shall disaggregate each class
of property, plant and equipment into assets subject to operating leases and assets not subject to operating leases.
Accordingly, a lessor shall provide the disclosures required by Ind AS 16 for assets subject to an operating lease (by
class of underlying asset) separately from owned assets held and used by the lessor.
96. A lessor shall apply the disclosure requirements in Ind AS 36, Ind AS 38, Ind AS 40 and Ind AS 41 for assets subject
to operating leases.
97. A lessor shall disclose a maturity analysis of lease payments, showing the undiscounted lease payments to be
received on an annual basis for a minimum of each of the first five years and a total of the amounts for the remaining
years.
Sale and leaseback transactions
__________________________________________________________________________________
98. If an entity (the seller-lessee) transfers an asset to another entity (the buyer-lessor) and leases that asset back from
the buyer-lessor, both the seller-lessee and the buyer-lessor shall account for the transfer contract and the lease
applying paragraphs 99-103.
Assessing whether the transfer of the asset is a sale
99. An entity shall apply the requirements for determining when a performance obligation is satisfied in Ind AS 115 to
determine whether the transfer of an asset is accounted for as a sale of that asset.
Transfer of the asset is a sale
100. If the transfer of an asset by the seller-lessee satisfies the requirements of Ind AS 115 to be accounted for as a
sale of the asset:
(a)
the seller-lessee shall measure the right-of-use asset arising from the leaseback at the proportion of the previous
carrying amount of the asset that relates to the right of use retained by the seller-lessee. Accordingly, the seller-lessee
shall recognise only the amount of any gain or loss that relates to the rights transferred to the buyer-lessor.
(b)
the buyer-lessor shall account for the purchase of the asset applying applicable Standards, and for the lease applying
the lessor accounting requirements in this Standard.
101. If the fair value of the consideration for the sale of an asset does not equal the fair value of the asset, or if the
payments for the lease are not at market rates, an entity shall make the following adjustments to measure the sale
proceeds at fair value:
(a)
any below-market terms shall be accounted for as a prepayment of lease payments; and
(b)
any above-market terms shall be accounted for as additional financing provided by the buyer-lessor to the seller-lessee.
102. The entity shall measure any potential adjustment required by paragraph 101 on the basis of the more readily
determinable of:
(a)
the difference between the fair value of the consideration for the sale and the fair value of the asset; and
(b)
the difference between the present value of the contractual payments for the lease and the present value of payments
for the lease at market rates.
Transfer of the asset is not a sale
103. If the transfer of an asset by the seller-lessee does not satisfy the requirements of Ind AS 115 to be accounted for
as a sale of the asset:
(a)
the seller-lessee shall continue to recognise the transferred asset and shall recognise a financial liability equal to the
transfer proceeds. It shall account for the financial liability applying Ind AS 109.
Page 411/765
----- PAGE 412 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
the buyer-lessor shall not recognise the transferred asset and shall recognise a financial asset equal to the transfer
proceeds. It shall account for the financial asset applying Ind AS 109.
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard.
Commencement date of the lease (commencement
date)
The date on which a lessor makes an underlying
asset available for use by a lessee
Economic life
Either the period over which an asset is
expected to be economically usable by one or more users or the
number of production or similar units expected to be obtained
from an asset by one or more users.
Effective date of the modification
The date when both parties agree to a lease
modification.
Fair value
For the purpose of applying thelessoraccounting requirements in this Standard, the amount for which an
asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between
knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm?s length
transaction.
Finance lease
Aleasethat transfers substantially all
the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of anunderlying
asset.
Fixed payments
Payments made by alesseeto alessorfor the right to use an underlying asset during thelease
term, excluding variable lease payments.
Gross investment in the lease
The sum of:
(a) thelease
paymentsreceivable by alessorunder afinance
lease;and
(b) any unguaranteed residual value accruing to
the lessor.
Inception date of the lease (inception date)
The earlier of the date of aleaseagreement and the date of commitment by the parties to the
principal terms and conditions of the lease.
Initial direct costs
Incremental costs of obtaining a lease that
would not have been incurred if the lease had not been obtained,
except for such costs incurred by a manufacturer or dealer lessor
in connection with afinance lease.
Interest rate implicit in the lease
The rate of interest
that causes the present value of
(a) thelease paymentsand (b) theunguaranteed residual valueto equal the sum of (i) thefair valueof theunderlying
assetand (ii) anyinitial direct costsof the lessor.
Lease
Page 412/765
----- PAGE 413 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
A contract, or part of a contract, that conveys
the right to use an asset (theunderlying asset) for a
period of time in exchange for consideration.
Lease incentives
Payments made by a lessor to a lessee associated
with a lease, or the reimbursement or assumption by a lessor of
costs of a lessee.
Lease Modification
A change in the scope of a lease, or the
consideration for a lease, that was not part of the original
terms and conditions of the lease(for example, adding or
terminating the right to use one or more underlying assets, or
extending or shortening the contractual lease term).
Lease payments
Payments made by a
lessee to a lessor relating to the right to use an underlying
asset during the lease term, comprising the following:
(a) fixed payments(including in-substance fixed payments), less anylease
incentives;
(b) variable lease
paymentsthat depend on an index or a rate;
(c) the exercise
price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to
exercise that option; and
(d) payments of
penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects
the lessee exercising an option to terminate the lease.
For the lessee, lease
payments also include amounts expected to be payable by the
lessee under residual value guarantees. Lease payments do not
include payments allocated to non-lease components of a contract,
unless the lessee elects to combine non-lease components with a
lease component and to account for them as a single lease
component.
For the lessor, lease payments also include any
residual value guarantees provided to the lessor by the lessee, a
party related to the lessee or a third party unrelated to the
lessor that is financially capable of discharging the obligations
under the guarantee. Lease payments do not include payments
allocated to non-lease components.
Lease term
The non-cancellable
period for which a lessee has the right to use an underlying
asset, together with both:
(a) periods covered
by an option to extend the lease if the lessee is reasonably
certain to exercise that option; and
(b) periods covered by an option to terminate
the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain not to exercise
that option.
Lessee
Page 413/765
----- PAGE 414 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
An entity that obtains the right to use anunderlying assetfor a period of time in exchange for
consideration.
Lessee's incremental borrowing rate
The rate of interest that a lessee would have to
pay to borrow over a similar term, and with a similar security,
the funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar value to the
right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment.
Lessor
An entity that provides the right to use an
underlying asset for a period of time in exchange for
consideration.
Net investment in the lease
Thegross investment in the leasediscounted at theinterest rate implicit in the lease.
Operating lease
Aleasethat does not transfer
substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership
of anunderlying asset.
Optional lease Payments
Payments to be made by alesseeto alessorfor the right to use anunderlying assetduring periods covered by an option to
extend or terminate a
lease that are not included in thelease term.
Period of use
The total period of time that an asset is used
to fulfil a contract with a customer (including any
non-consecutive periods of time).
Residual value Guarantee
A guarantee made to alessorby a party
unrelated to the lessor that the value (or part of the value) of
anunderlying assetat the end of aleasewill be
at least a specified amount.
Right-of-use asset
An asset that represents alessee?sright to use anunderlying assetfor the lease term.
Short-term lease
A lease that, at thecommencement date,hasa lease termof 12 months or less. A lease that
contains a purchase option is not a short-term lease.
Sublease
A transaction for which anunderlying assetis re-leased by alessee(?intermediate lessor?)
to a third party, and the lease(?head lease?) between
the head lessor and lessee remains in effect.
Underlying asset
An asset that is the subject of a lease, for
which the right to use that asset has been provided by a lessor
to a lessee.
Unearned finance income
The difference
between:
(a) thegross
investment in the lease; and
(b) thenet investment in the lease.
Unguaranteed residual value
That portion of the residual value of the
Page 414/765
----- PAGE 415 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
underlying asset, the realisation of which by a lessor is not
assured or is guaranteed solely by a party related to the lessor.
Variable lease payments
The portion of payments made by a lessee to a
lessor for the right to use an underlying asset during the lease
term that varies because of changes in facts or circumstances
occurring after thecommencement date, other than the
passage of time.
Terms defined in other Standards and used in
this Standard with the same meaning
{|
Contract
An agreement between two or more parties that
creates enforceable rights and obligations.
Useful life
The period over which an asset is expected to be
available for use by an entity; or the number of production or
similar units expected to be obtained from an asset by an entity.
|}
Appendix B
Application guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard. It describes the application of paragraphs 1-103 and has the same
authority as the other parts of the Standard.
Portfolio application
B1 This Standard specifies the accounting for an individual lease. However, as a practical expedient, an entity may
apply this Standard to a portfolio of leases with similar characteristics if the entity reasonably expects that the effects on
the financial statements of applying this Standard to the portfolio would not differ materially from applying this Standard
to the individual leases within that portfolio. If accounting for a portfolio, an entity shall use estimates and assumptions
that reflect the size and composition of the portfolio.
Combination of contracts
B2 In applying this Standard, an entity shall combine two or more contracts entered into at or near the same time with
the same counterparty (or related parties of the counterparty), and account for the contracts as a single contract if one or
more of the following criteria are met:
(a)
the contracts are negotiated as a package with an overall commercial objective that cannot be understood without
considering the contracts together;
(b)
the amount of consideration to be paid in one contract depends on the price or performance of the other contract; or
(c)
the rights to use underlying assets conveyed in the contracts (or some rights to use underlying assets conveyed in each
of the contracts) form a single lease component as described in paragraph B32.
Recognition exemption: leases for which the underlying asset is of low value (paragraphs 5-8)
B3 Except as specified in paragraph B7, this Standard permits a lessee to apply paragraph 6 to account for leases for
which the underlying asset is of low value. A lessee shall assess the value of an underlying asset based on the value of
the asset when it is new, regardless of the age of the asset being leased.
B4 The assessment of whether an underlying asset is of low value is performed on an absolute basis. Leases of
low-value assets qualify for the accounting treatment in paragraph 6 regardless of whether those leases are material to
the lessee. The assessment is not affected by the size, nature or circumstances of the lessee. Accordingly, different
lessees are expected to reach the same conclusions about whether a particular underlying asset is of low value.
B5 An underlying asset can be of low value only if:
(a)
Page 415/765
----- PAGE 416 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the lessee can benefit from use of the underlying asset on its own or together with other resources that are readily
available to the lessee; and
(b)
the underlying asset is not highly dependent on, or highly interrelated with, other assets.
B6 A lease of an underlying asset does not qualify as a lease of a low-value asset if the nature of the asset is such that,
when new, the asset is typically not of low value. For example, leases of cars would not qualify as leases of low-value
assets because a new car would typically not be of low value.
B7 If a lessee subleases an asset, or expects to sublease an asset, the head lease does not qualify as a lease of a
low-value asset.
B8 Examples of low-value underlying assets can include tablet and personal computers, small items of office furniture
and telephones.
Identifying a lease (paragraphs 9-11)
B9 To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset (see paragraphs B13-B20)
for a period of time, an entity shall assess whether, throughout the period of use, the customer has both of the following:
(a)
the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the identified asset (as described in paragraphs
B21-B23); and
(b)
the right to direct the use of the identified asset (as described in paragraphs B24-B30).
B10 If the customer has the right to control the use of an identified asset for only a portion of the term of the contract, the
contract contains a lease for that portion of the term.
B11 A contract to receive goods or services may be entered into by a joint arrangement, or on behalf of a joint
arrangement, as defined in Ind AS 111, Joint Arrangements. In this case, the joint arrangement is considered to be the
customer in the contract. Accordingly, in assessing whether such a contract contains a lease, an entity shall assess
whether the joint arrangement has the right to control the use of an identified asset throughout the period of use.
B12 An entity shall assess whether a contract contains a lease for each potential separate lease component. Refer to
paragraph B32 for guidance on separate lease components.
Identified asset
B13 An asset is typically identified by being explicitly specified in a contract. However, an asset can also be identified by
being implicitly specified at the time that the asset is made available for use by the customer.
Substantive substitution rights
B14 Even if an asset is specified, a customer does not have the right to use an identified asset if the supplier has the
substantive right to substitute the asset throughout the period of use. A supplier's right to substitute an asset is
substantive only if both of the following conditions exist:
(a)
the supplier has the practical ability to substitute alternative assets throughout the period of use (for example, the
customer cannot prevent the supplier from substituting the asset and alternative assets are readily available to the
supplier or could be sourced by the supplier within a reasonable period of time); and
(b)
the supplier would benefit economically from the exercise of its right to substitute the asset (ie the economic benefits
associated with substituting the asset are expected to exceed the costs associated with substituting the asset).
B15 If the supplier has a right or an obligation to substitute the asset only on or after either a particular date or the
occurrence of a specified event, the supplier's substitution right is not substantive because the supplier does not have
the practical ability to substitute alternative assets throughout the period of use.
B16 An entity's evaluation of whether a supplier's substitution right is substantive is based on facts and circumstances at
inception of the contract and shall exclude consideration of future events that, at inception of the contract, are not
considered likely to occur. Examples of future events that, at inception of the contract, would not be considered likely to
occur and, thus, should be excluded from the evaluation include:
(a)
an agreement by a future customer to pay an above market rate for use of the asset;
(b)
Page 416/765
----- PAGE 417 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the introduction of new technology that is not substantially developed at inception of the contract;
(c)
a substantial difference between the customer's use of the asset, or the performance of the asset, and the use or
performance considered likely at inception of the contract; and
(d)
a substantial difference between the market price of the asset during the period of use, and the market price considered
likely at inception of the contract.
B17 If the asset is located at the customer's premises or elsewhere, the costs associated with substitution are generally
higher than when located at the supplier's premises and, therefore, are more likely to exceed the benefits associated
with substituting the asset.
B18 The supplier's right or obligation to substitute the asset for repairs and maintenance, if the asset is not operating
properly or if a technical upgrade becomes available does not preclude the customer from having the right to use an
identified asset.
B19 If the customer cannot readily determine whether the supplier has a substantive substitution right, the customer
shall presume that any substitution right is not substantive.
Portions of assets
B20 A capacity portion of an asset is an identified asset if it is physically distinct (for example, a floor of a building). A
capacity or other portion of an asset that is not physically distinct (for example, a capacity portion of a fibre optic cable)
is not an identified asset, unless it represents substantially all of the capacity of the asset and thereby provides the
customer with the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the asset.
Right to obtain economic benefits from use
B21 To control the use of an identified asset, a customer is required to have the right to obtain substantially all of the
economic benefits from use of the asset throughout the period of use (for example, by having exclusive use of the asset
throughout that period). A customer can obtain economic benefits from use of an asset directly or indirectly in many
ways, such as by using, holding or sub-leasing the asset. The economic benefits from use of an asset include its primary
output and by-products (including potential cash flows derived from these items), and other economic benefits from
using the asset that could be realised from a commercial transaction with a third party.
B22 When assessing the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of an asset, an entity shall
consider the economic benefits that result from use of the asset within the defined scope of a customer's right to use the
asset (see paragraph B30). For example:
(a)
if a contract limits the use of a motor vehicle to only one particular territory during the period of use, an entity shall
consider only the economic benefits from use of the motor vehicle within that territory, and not beyond.
(b)
if a contract specifies that a customer can drive a motor vehicle only up to a particular number of miles during the period
of use, an entity shall consider only the economic benefits from use of the motor vehicle for the permitted mileage, and
not beyond.
B23 If a contract requires a customer to pay the supplier or another party a portion of the cash flows derived from use of
an asset as consideration, those cash flows paid as consideration shall be considered to be part of the economic
benefits that the customer obtains from use of the asset. For example, if the customer is required to pay the supplier a
percentage of sales from use of retail space as consideration for that use, that requirement does not prevent the
customer from having the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the retail space. This is
because the cash flows arising from those sales are considered to be economic benefits that the customer obtains from
use of the retail space, a portion of which it then pays to the supplier as consideration for the right to use that space.
Right to direct the use
B24 A customer has the right to direct the use of an identified asset throughout the period of use only if either:
(a)
the customer has the right to direct how and for what purpose the asset is used throughout the period of use (as
described in paragraphs B25-B30); or
(b)
the relevant decisions about how and for what purpose the asset is used are predetermined and:
Page 417/765
----- PAGE 418 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(i)
the customer has the right to operate the asset (or to direct others to operate the asset in a manner that it determines)
throughout the period of use, without the supplier having the right to change those operating instructions; or
(ii)
the customer designed the asset (or specific aspects of the asset) in a way that predetermines how and for what
purpose the asset will be used throughout the period of use.
How and for what purpose the asset is used
B25 A customer has the right to direct how and for what purpose the asset is used if, within the scope of its right of use
defined in the contract, it can change how and for what purpose the asset is used throughout the period of use. In
making this assessment, an entity considers the decision-making rights that are most relevant to changing how and for
what purpose the asset is used throughout the period of use. Decisionmaking rights are relevant when they affect the
economic benefits to be derived from use. The decisionmaking rights that are most relevant are likely to be different for
different contracts, depending on the nature of the asset and the terms and conditions of the contract.
B26 Examples of decision-making rights that, depending on the circumstances, grant the right to change how and for
what purpose the asset is used, within the defined scope of the customer's right of use, include:
(a)
rights to change the type of output that is produced by the asset (for example, to decide whether to use a shipping
container to transport goods or for storage, or to decide upon the mix of products sold from retail space);
(b)
rights to change when the output is produced (for example, to decide when an item of machinery or a power plant will be
used);
(c)
rights to change where the output is produced (for example, to decide upon the destination of a truck or a ship, or to
decide where an item of equipment is used); and
(d)
rights to change whether the output is produced, and the quantity of that output (for example, to decide whether to
produce energy from a power plant and how much energy to produce from that power plant).
B27 Examples of decision-making rights that do not grant the right to change how and for what purpose the asset is
used include rights that are limited to operating or maintaining the asset. Such rights can be held by the customer or the
supplier. Although rights such as those to operate or maintain an asset are often essential to the efficient use of an
asset, they are not rights to direct how and for what purpose the asset is used and are often dependent on the decisions
about how and for what purpose the asset is used. However, rights to operate an asset may grant the customer the right
to direct the use of the asset if the relevant decisions about how and for what purpose the asset is used are
predetermined (see paragraph B24(b)(i)).
Decisions determined during and before the period of use
B28 The relevant decisions about how and for what purpose the asset is used can be predetermined in a number of
ways. For example, the relevant decisions can be predetermined by the design of the asset or by contractual restrictions
on the use of the asset.
B29 In assessing whether a customer has the right to direct the use of an asset, an entity shall consider only rights to
make decisions about the use of the asset during the period of use, unless the customer designed the asset (or specific
aspects of the asset) as described in paragraph B24(b)(ii). Consequently, unless the conditions in paragraph B24(b)(ii)
exist, an entity shall not consider decisions that are predetermined before the period of use. For example, if a customer
is able only to specify the output of an asset before the period of use, the customer does not have the right to direct the
use of that asset. The ability to specify the output in a contract before the period of use, without any other
decision-making rights relating to the use of the asset, gives a customer the same rights as any customer that
purchases goods or services.
Protective rights
B30 A contract may include terms and conditions designed to protect the supplier's interest in the asset or other assets,
to protect its personnel, or to ensure the supplier's compliance with laws or regulations. These are examples of
protective rights. For example, a contract may (i) specify the maximum amount of use of an asset or limit where or when
the customer can use the asset, (ii) require a customer to follow particular operating practices, or (iii) require a customer
Page 418/765
----- PAGE 419 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
to inform the supplier of changes in how an asset will be used. Protective rights typically define the scope of the
customer's right of use but do not, in isolation, prevent the customer from having the right to direct the use of an asset.
B31 The following flowchart may assist entities in making the assessment of whether a contract is, or contains, a lease.
Separating components of a contract (paragraphs 12-17)
B32 The right to use an underlying asset is a separate lease component if both:
(a)
the lessee can benefit from use of the underlying asset either on its own or together with other resources that are readily
available to the lessee. Readily available resources are goods or services that are sold or leased separately (by the
lessor or other suppliers) or resources that the lessee has already obtained (from the lessor or from other transactions or
events); and
(b)
the underlying asset is neither highly dependent on, nor highly interrelated with, the other underlying assets in the
contract. For example, the fact that a lessee could decide not to lease the underlying asset without significantly affecting
its rights to use other underlying assets in the contract might indicate that the underlying asset is not highly dependent
on, or highly interrelated with, those other underlying assets.
B33 A contract may include an amount payable by the lessee for activities and costs that do not transfer a good or
service to the lessee. For example, a lessor may include in the total amount payable a charge for administrative tasks,
or other costs it incurs associated with the lease, that do not transfer a good or service to the lessee. Such amounts
payable do not give rise to a separate component of the contract, but are considered to be part of the total consideration
that is allocated to the separately identified components of the contract.
Lease term (paragraphs 18-21)
B34 In determining the lease term and assessing the length of the non-cancellable period of a lease, an entity shall
apply the definition of a contract and determine the period for which the contract is enforceable. A lease is no longer
enforceable when the lessee and the lessor each has the right to terminate the lease without permission from the other
party with no more than an insignificant penalty.
B35 If only a lessee has the right to terminate a lease, that right is considered to be an option to terminate the lease
available to the lessee that an entity considers when determining the lease term. If only a lessor has the right to
terminate a lease, the non-cancellable period of the lease includes the period covered by the option to terminate the
lease.
B36 The lease term begins at the commencement date and includes any rent-free periods provided to the lessee by the
lessor.
B37 At the commencement date, an entity assesses whether the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise an option to
extend the lease or to purchase the underlying asset, or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease. The entity
considers all relevant facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive for the lessee to exercise, or not to
exercise, the option, including any expected changes in facts and circumstances from the commencement date until the
exercise date of the option. Examples of factors to consider include, but are not limited to:
(a)
contractual terms and conditions for the optional periods compared with market rates, such as:
(i)
the amount of payments for the lease in any optional period;
(ii)
the amount of any variable payments for the lease or other contingent payments, such as payments resulting from
termination penalties and residual value guarantees; and
(iii)
the terms and conditions of any options that are exercisable after initial optional periods (for example, a purchase option
that is exercisable at the end of an extension period at a rate that is currently below market rates).
(b)
significant leasehold improvements undertaken (or expected to be undertaken) over the term of the contract that are
expected to have significant economic benefit for the lessee when the option to extend or terminate the lease, or to
purchase the underlying asset, becomes exercisable;
(c)
Page 419/765
----- PAGE 420 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
costs relating to the termination of the lease, such as negotiation costs, relocation costs, costs of identifying another
underlying asset suitable for the lessee's needs, costs of integrating a new asset into the lessee's operations, or
termination penalties and similar costs, including costs associated with returning the underlying asset in a contractually
specified condition or to a contractually specified location;
(d)
the importance of that underlying asset to the lessee's operations, considering, for example, whether the underlying
asset is a specialised asset, the location of the underlying asset and the availability of suitable alternatives; and
(e)
conditionality associated with exercising the option (ie when the option can be exercised only if one or more conditions
are met), and the likelihood that those conditions will exist.
B38 An option to extend or terminate a lease may be combined with one or more other contractual features (for
example, a residual value guarantee) such that the lessee guarantees the lessor a minimum or fixed cash return that is
substantially the same regardless of whether the option is exercised. In such cases, and notwithstanding the guidance
on in-substance fixed payments in paragraph B42, an entity shall assume that the lessee is reasonably certain to
exercise the option to extend the lease, or not to exercise the option to terminate the lease.
B39 The shorter the non-cancellable period of a lease, the more likely a lessee is to exercise an option to extend the
lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease. This is because the costs associated with obtaining a
replacement asset are likely to be proportionately higher the shorter the non-cancellable period.
B40 A lessee's past practice regarding the period over which it has typically used particular types of assets (whether
leased or owned), and its economic reasons for doing so, may provide information that is helpful in assessing whether
the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise, or not to exercise, an option. For example, if a lessee has typically used
particular types of assets for a particular period of time or if the lessee has a practice of frequently exercising options on
leases of particular types of underlying assets, the lessee shall consider the economic reasons for that past practice in
assessing whether it is reasonably certain to exercise an option on leases of those assets.
B41 Paragraph 20 specifies that, after the commencement date, a lessee reassesses the lease term upon the
occurrence of a significant event or a significant change in circumstances that is within the control of the lessee and
affects whether the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise an option not previously included in its determination of the
lease term, or not to exercise an option previously included in its determination of the lease term. Examples of significant
events or changes in circumstances include:
(a)
significant leasehold improvements not anticipated at the commencement date that are expected to have significant
economic benefit for the lessee when the option to extend or terminate the lease, or to purchase the underlying asset,
becomes exercisable;
(b)
a significant modification to, or customisation of, the underlying asset that was not anticipated at the commencement
date;
(c)
the inception of a sublease of the underlying asset for a period beyond the end of the previously determined lease term;
and
(d)
a business decision of the lessee that is directly relevant to exercising, or not exercising, an option (for example, a
decision to extend the lease of a complementary asset, to dispose of an alternative asset or to dispose of a business
unit within which the right-of-use asset is employed).
In-substance fixed lease payments [paragraphs 27(a), 36(c) and 70(a)]
B42 Lease payments include any in-substance fixed lease payments. In-substance fixed lease payments are payments
that may, in form, contain variability but that, in substance, are unavoidable. In-substance fixed lease payments exist, for
example, if:
(a)
payments are structured as variable lease payments, but there is no genuine variability in those payments. Those
payments contain variable clauses that do not have real economic substance. Examples of those types of payments
include:
Page 420/765
----- PAGE 421 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(i)
payments that must be made only if an asset is proven to be capable of operating during the lease, or only if an event
occurs that has no genuine possibility of not occurring; or
(ii)
payments that are initially structured as variable lease for which the variability will be resolved at some point after the
commencement date so that the payments become fixed for the remainder of the lease term. Those payments become
in-substance fixed payments when the variability is resolved.
(b)
there is more than one set of payments that a lessee could make, but only one of those sets of payments is realistic. In
this case, an entity shall consider the realistic set of payments to be lease payments.
(c)
there is more than one realistic set of payments that a lessee could make, but it must make at least one of those sets of
payments. In this case, an entity shall consider the set of payments that aggregates to the lowest amount (on a
discounted basis) to be lease payments.
Lessee involvement with the underlying asset before the commencement date
Costs of the lessee relating to the construction or design of the underlying asset
B43 An entity may negotiate a lease before the underlying asset is available for use by the lessee. For some leases, the
underlying asset may need to be constructed or redesigned for use by the lessee. Depending on the terms and
conditions of the contract, a lessee may be required to make payments relating to the construction or design of the
asset.
B44 If a lessee incurs costs relating to the construction or design of an underlying asset, the lessee shall account for
those costs applying other applicable Standards, such as Ind AS 16. Costs relating to the construction or design of an
underlying asset do not include payments made by the lessee for the right to use the underlying asset. Payments for the
right to use an underlying asset are payments for a lease, regardless of the timing of those payments.
Legal title to the underlying asset
B45 A lessee may obtain legal title to an underlying asset before that legal title is transferred to the lessor and the asset
is leased to the lessee. Obtaining legal title does not in itself determine how to account for the transaction.
B46 If the lessee controls (or obtains control of) the underlying asset before that asset is transferred to the lessor, the
transaction is a sale and leaseback transaction that is accounted for applying paragraphs 98- 103.
B47 However, if the lessee does not obtain control of the underlying asset before the asset is transferred to the lessor,
the transaction is not a sale and leaseback transaction. For example, this may be the case if a manufacturer, a lessor
and a lessee negotiate a transaction for the purchase of an asset from the manufacturer by the lessor, which is in turn
leased to the lessee. The lessee may obtain legal title to the underlying asset before legal title transfers to the lessor. In
this case, if the lessee obtains legal title to the underlying asset but does not obtain control of the asset before it is
transferred to the lessor, the transaction is not accounted for as a sale and leaseback transaction, but as a lease.
Lessee disclosures (paragraph 59)
B48 In determining whether additional information about leasing activities is necessary to meet the disclosure objective
in paragraph 51, a lessee shall consider:
(a)
whether that information is relevant to users of financial statements. A lessee shall provide additional information
specified in paragraph 59 only if that information is expected to be relevant to users of financial statements. In this
context, this is likely to be the case if it helps those users to understand:
(i)
the flexibility provided by leases. Leases may provide flexibility if, for example, a lessee can reduce its exposure by
exercising termination options or renewing leases with favourable terms and conditions.
(ii)
restrictions imposed by leases. Leases may impose restrictions, for example, by requiring the lessee to maintain
particular financial ratios.
(iii)
sensitivity of reported information to key variables. Reported information may be sensitive to, for example, future
variable lease payments.
Page 421/765
----- PAGE 422 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(iv)
exposure to other risks arising from leases.
(v)
deviations from industry practice. Such deviations may include, for example, unusual or unique lease terms and
conditions that affect a lessee's lease portfolio.
(b)
whether that information is apparent from information either presented in the primary financial statements or disclosed in
the notes. A lessee need not duplicate information that is already presented elsewhere in the financial statements.
B49 Additional information relating to variable lease payments that, depending on the circumstances, may be needed to
satisfy the disclosure objective in paragraph 51 could include information that helps users of financial statements to
assess, for example:
(a)
the lessee's reasons for using variable lease payments and the prevalence of those payments;
(b)
the relative magnitude of variable lease payments to fixed payments;
(c)
key variables upon which variable lease payments depend and how payments are expected to vary in response to
changes in those key variables; and
(d)
other operational and financial effects of variable lease payments.
B50 Additional information relating to extension options or termination options that, depending on the circumstances,
may be needed to satisfy the disclosure objective in paragraph 51 could include information that helps users of financial
statements to assess, for example:
(a)
the lessee's reasons for using extension options or termination options and the prevalence of those options;
(b)
the relative magnitude of optional lease payments to lease payments;
(c)
the prevalence of the exercise of options that were not included in the measurement of lease liabilities; and
(d)
other operational and financial effects of those options.
B51 Additional information relating to residual value guarantees that, depending on the circumstances, may be needed
to satisfy the disclosure objective in paragraph 51 could include information that helps users of financial statements to
assess, for example:
(a)
the lessee's reasons for providing residual value guarantees and the prevalence of those guarantees;
(b)
the magnitude of a lessee's exposure to residual value risk;
(c)
the nature of underlying assets for which those guarantees are provided; and
(d)
other operational and financial effects of those guarantees.
B52 Additional information relating to sale and leaseback transactions that, depending on the circumstances, may be
needed to satisfy the disclosure objective in paragraph 51 could include information that helps users of financial
statements to assess, for example:
(a)
the lessee's reasons for sale and leaseback transactions and the prevalence of those transactions;
(b)
key terms and conditions of individual sale and leaseback transactions;
(c)
payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities; and
Page 422/765
----- PAGE 423 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(d)
the cash flow effect of sale and leaseback transactions in the reporting period.
Lessor lease classification (paragraphs 61-66)
B53 The classification of leases for lessors in this Standard is based on the extent to which the lease transfers the risks
and rewards incidental to ownership of an underlying asset. Risks include the possibilities of losses from idle capacity or
technological obsolescence and of variations in return because of changing economic conditions. Rewards may be
represented by the expectation of profitable operation over the underlying asset's economic life and of gain from
appreciation in value or realisation of a residual value.
B54 A lease contract may include terms and conditions to adjust the lease payments for particular changes that occur
between the inception date and the commencement date (such as a change in the lessor's cost of the underlying asset
or a change in the lessor's cost of financing the lease). In that case, for the purposes of classifying the lease, the effect
of any such changes shall be deemed to have taken place at the inception date.
B55 When a lease includes both land and buildings elements, a lessor shall assess the classification of each element as
a finance lease or an operating lease separately applying paragraphs 62-66 and B53- B54. In determining whether the
land element is an operating lease or a finance lease, an important consideration is that land normally has an indefinite
economic life.
B56 Whenever necessary in order to classify and account for a lease of land and buildings, a lessor shall allocate lease
payments (including any lump-sum upfront payments) between the land and the buildings elements in proportion to the
relative fair values of the leasehold interests in the land element and buildings element of the lease at the inception date.
If the lease payments cannot be allocated reliably between these two elements, the entire lease is classified as a
finance lease, unless it is clear that both elements are operating leases, in which case the entire lease is classified as an
operating lease.
B57 For a lease of land and buildings in which the amount for the land element is immaterial to the lease, a lessor may
treat the land and buildings as a single unit for the purpose of lease classification and classify it as a finance lease or an
operating lease applying paragraphs 62-66 and B53-B54. In such a case, a lessor shall regard the economic life of the
buildings as the economic life of the entire underlying asset.
Sublease classification
B58 In classifying a sublease, an intermediate lessor shall classify the sublease as a finance lease or an operating lease
as follows:
(a)
if the head lease is a short-term lease that the entity, as a lessee, has accounted for applying paragraph 6, the sublease
shall be classified as an operating lease.
(b)
otherwise, the sublease shall be classified by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease, rather than
by reference to the underlying asset (for example, the item of property, plant or equipment that is the subject of the
lease).
Appendix C
Effective date and transition
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard and has the same authority as the other parts of the Standard.
Effective date
C1 An entity shall apply this Standard for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1st April, 2019.
Transition
C2 For the purposes of the requirements in paragraphs C1-C19, the date of initial application is the beginning of the
annual reporting period in which an entity first applies this Standard.
Definition of a lease
C3 As a practical expedient, an entity is not required to reassess whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at the date
of initial application. Instead, the entity is permitted:
(a)
to apply this Standard to contracts that were previously identified as leases applying Ind AS 17, Leases. The entity shall
apply the transition requirements in paragraphs C5-C18 to those leases.
(b)
Page 423/765
----- PAGE 424 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
not to apply this Standard to contracts that were not previously identified as containing a lease applying Ind AS 17.
C4 If an entity chooses the practical expedient in paragraph C3, it shall disclose that fact and apply the practical
expedient to all of its contracts. As a result, the entity shall apply the requirements in paragraphs 9-11 only to contracts
entered into (or changed) on or after the date of initial application.
Lessees
C5 A lessee shall apply this Standard to its leases either:
(a)
retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented applying Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting
Estimates and Errors; or
(b)
retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the Standard recognised at the date of initial application in
accordance with paragraphs C7-C13.
C6 A lessee shall apply the election described in paragraph C5 consistently to all of its leases in which it is a lessee.
C7 If a lessee elects to apply this Standard in accordance with paragraph C5(b), the lessee shall not restate
comparative information. Instead, the lessee shall recognise the cumulative effect of initially applying this Standard as
an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) at the date of
initial application.
Leases previously classified as operating leases
C8 If a lessee elects to apply this Standard in accordance with paragraph C5(b), the lessee shall:
(b)
recognise a lease liability at the date of initial application for leases previously classified as an operating lease applying
Ind AS 17. The lessee shall measure that lease liability at the present value of the remaining lease payments,
discounted using the lessee's incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application.
(c)
recognise a right-of-use asset at the date of initial application for leases previously classified as an operating lease
applying Ind AS 17. The lessee shall choose, on a lease-by-lease basis, to measure that right-of-use asset at either:
(i)
its carrying amount as if the Standard had been applied since the commencement date, but discounted using the
lessee's incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application; or
(ii)
an amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments relating to that
lease recognised in the balance sheet immediately before the date of initial application.
(d)
apply Ind AS 36, Impairment of Assets, to right-of-use assets at the date of initial application, unless the lessee applies
the practical expedient in paragraph C10(b).
C9 Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraph C8, for leases previously classified as operating leases applying Ind
AS 17, a lessee:
(a)
is not required to make any adjustments on transition for leases for which the underlying asset is of low value (as
described in paragraphs B3-B8) that will be accounted for applying paragraph 6. The lessee shall account for those
leases applying this Standard from the date of initial application.
(b)
[Refer Appendix 1].
(c)
[Refer Appendix 1].
C10 A lessee may use one or more of the following practical expedients when applying this Standard retrospectively in
accordance with paragraph C5(b) to leases previously classified as operating leases applying Ind AS 17. A lessee is
permitted to apply these practical expedients on a lease-by-lease basis:
(a)
a lessee may apply a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics (such as leases
with a similar remaining lease term for a similar class of underlying asset in a similar economic environment).
Page 424/765
----- PAGE 425 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
a lessee may rely on its assessment of whether leases are onerous applying Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent
Liabilities and Contingent Assets, immediately before the date of initial application as an alternative to performing an
impairment review. If a lessee chooses this practical expedient, the lessee shall adjust the right-of-use asset at the date
of initial application by the amount of any provision for onerous leases recognised in the balance sheet immediately
before the date of initial application.
(c)
a lessee may elect not to apply the requirements in paragraph C8 to leases for which the lease term ends within 12
months of the date of initial application. In this case, a lessee shall:
(i)
account for those leases in the same way as short-term leases as described in paragraph 6; and
(ii)
include the cost associated with those leases within the disclosure of short-term lease expense in the annual reporting
period that includes the date of initial application.
(d)
a lessee may exclude initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of initial application.
(e)
a lessee may use hindsight, such as in determining the lease term if the contract contains options to extend or terminate
the lease.
Leases previously classified as finance leases
C11 If a lessee elects to apply this Standard in accordance with paragraph C5(b), for leases that were classified as
finance leases applying Ind AS 17, the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset and the lease liability at the date of
initial application shall be the carrying amount of the lease asset and lease liability immediately before that date
measured applying Ind AS 17. For those leases, a lessee shall account for the right-of-use asset and the lease liability
applying this Standard from the date of initial application.
Disclosure
C12 If a lessee elects to apply this Standard in accordance with paragraph C5(b), the lessee shall disclose information
about initial application required by paragraph 28 of Ind AS 8, except for the information specified in paragraph 28(f) of
Ind AS 8. Instead of the information specified in paragraph 28(f) of Ind AS 8, the lessee shall disclose:
(a)
the weighted average lessee's incremental borrowing rate applied to lease liabilities recognised in the balance sheet at
the date of initial application; and
(b)
an explanation of any difference between:
(i)
operating lease commitments disclosed applying Ind AS 17 at the end of the annual reporting period immediately
preceding the date of initial application, discounted using the incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application
as described in paragraph C8(a); and
(ii)
lease liabilities recognised in the balance sheet at the date of initial application.
C13 If a lessee uses one or more of the specified practical expedients in paragraph C10, it shall disclose that fact.
Lessors
C14 Except as described in paragraph C15, a lessor is not required to make any adjustments on transition for leases in
which it is a lessor and shall account for those leases applying this Standard from the date of initial application.
C15 An intermediate lessor shall:
(a)
reassess subleases that were classified as operating leases applying Ind AS 17 and are ongoing at the date of initial
application, to determine whether each sublease should be classified as an operating lease or a finance lease applying
this Standard. The intermediate lessor shall perform this assessment at the date of initial application on the basis of the
remaining contractual terms and conditions of the head lease and sublease at that date.
(b)
Page 425/765
----- PAGE 426 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
for subleases that were classified as operating leases applying Ind AS 17 but finance leases applying this Standard,
account for the sublease as a new finance lease entered into at the date of initial application.
Sale and leaseback transactions before the date of initial application
C16 An entity shall not reassess sale and leaseback transactions entered into before the date of initial application to
determine whether the transfer of the underlying asset satisfies the requirements in Ind AS 115 to be accounted for as a
sale.
C17 If a sale and leaseback transaction was accounted for as a sale and a finance lease applying Ind AS 17, the
seller-lessee shall:
(a)
account for the leaseback in the same way as it accounts for any other finance lease that exists at the date of initial
application; and
(b)
continue to amortise any gain on sale over the lease term.
C18 If a sale and leaseback transaction was accounted for as a sale and operating lease applying Ind AS 17, the
seller-lessee shall:
(a)
account for the leaseback in the same way as it accounts for any other operating lease that exists at the date of initial
application; and
(b)
adjust the leaseback right-of-use asset for any deferred gains or losses that relate to off-market terms recognised in the
balance sheet immediately before the date of initial application.
Amounts previously recognised in respect of business combinations
C19 If a lessee previously recognised an asset or a liability applying Ind AS 103, Business Combinations, relating to
favourable or unfavourable terms of an operating lease acquired as part of a business combination, the lessee shall
derecognise that asset or liability and adjust the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset by a corresponding amount at
the date of initial application.
C20 [Refer Appendix 1]
Withdrawal of other Standards
C21 This Standard supersedes Ind AS 17, Leases.
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 116 and the corresponding International
Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 16, Leases, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IFRS 16, Leases
1. With regard to subsequent measurement, paragraph 34 of IFRS 16 provides that if lessee applies fair value model in
IAS 40 to its investment property, it shall apply that fair value model to the right-of-use assets that meet the definition of
investment property. Since Ind AS 40, Investment Property, does not allow the use of fair value model, paragraph 34
has been deleted in Ind AS 116. Accordingly, reference to paragraph 34 has been deleted in paragraph 29. Paragraph
C9(b) and paragraph C9(c) of Appendix C, Effective Date and Transition, given in context of fair value model of
investment property have been deleted. However, paragraph numbers have been retained in Ind AS 116 to maintain
consistency with paragraph numbers of IFRS 16.
2. Paragraph 50(b) of IFRS 16 requires to classify cash payments for interest portion of lease liability applying
requirements of IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows. IAS 7 provides option of treating interest paid as operating or financing
activity. However, Ind AS 7 requires interest paid to be treated as financing activity only. Accordingly, paragraph 50(b)
has been modified in Ind AS 116 to specify that cash payments for interest portion of lease liability will be classified as
financing activities applying Ind AS 7.
3. Different terminology is used in this standard, eg, the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'.
4. Paragraph C20 of Appendix C, Effective Date and Transition, dealing with interchange of reference of IFRS 9 to IAS
39 if entity does not apply IFRS 9 has been deleted since India has early adopted Ind AS 109, corresponding to IFRS 9.
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 1
Page 426/765
----- PAGE 427 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Presentation of Financial Statements
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles).
Objective
1. This Standard prescribes the basis for presentation of general purpose financial statements to ensure comparability
both with the entity's financial statements of previous periods and with the financial statements of other entities. It sets
out overall requirements for the presentation of financial statements, guidelines for their structure and minimum
requirements for their content.
Scope
2. An entity shall apply this Standard in preparing and presenting general purpose financial statements in accordance
with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind ASs).
3. Other Ind ASs set out the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements for specific transactions and other
events.
4. This Standard does not apply to the structure and content of condensed interim financial statements prepared in
accordance with Ind AS 34, Interim Financial Reporting. However, paragraphs 15-35 apply to such financial statements.
This Standard applies equally to all entities, including those that present consolidated financial statements in accordance
with Ind AS 110, Consolidated Financial Statements, and those that present separate financial statements in
accordance with Ind AS 27, Separate Financial Statements.
5. This Standard uses terminology that is suitable for profit-oriented entities, including public sector business entities. If
entities with not-for-profit activities in the private sector or the public sector apply this Standard, they may need to amend
the descriptions used for particular line items in the financial statements and for the financial statements themselves.
6. Similarly, entities whose share capital is not equity may need to adapt the financial statement presentation of
members' interests.
Definitions
7. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
General purpose financial statements (referred to as 'financial statements') are those intended to meet the needs of
users who are not in a position to require an entity to prepare reports tailored to their particular information needs.
Impracticable Applying a requirement is impracticable when the entity cannot apply it after making every reasonable
effort to do so.
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind ASs) are Standards prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Material Omissions or misstatements of items are material if they could, individually or collectively, influence the
economic decisions that users make on the basis of the financial statements. Materiality depends on the size and nature
of the omission or misstatement judged in the surrounding circumstances. The size or nature of the item, or a
combination of both, could be the determining factor.
Assessing whether an omission or misstatement could influence economic decisions of users, and so be material,
requires consideration of the characteristics of those users. The Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of
Financial Statements issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India states in paragraph 25 that 'users are
assumed to have a reasonable knowledge of business and economic activities and accounting and a willingness to
study the information with reasonable diligence.' Therefore, the assessment needs to take into account how users with
such attributes could reasonably be expected to be influenced in making economic decisions.
Notes contain information in addition to that presented in the balance sheet), statement of profit and loss, statement of
changes in equity and statement of cash flows. Notes provide narrative descriptions or disaggregations of items
presented in those statements and information about items that do not qualify for recognition in those statements.
Other comprehensive income comprises items of income and expense (including reclassification adjustments) that are
not recognized in profit or loss as required or permitted by other Ind ASs.
The components of other comprehensive income include:
(a)
changes in revaluation surplus (see Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment and Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets);
(b)
reameasurements of defined benefit plans (see Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits);
(c)
Page 427/765
----- PAGE 428 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
gains and losses arising from translating the financial statements of a foreign operation (see Ind AS 21, The Effects of
Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates);
(d)
gains and losses from investments in equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensive income in
accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments;
(da)
gains and losses on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with
paragraph 4.1.2A of Ind AS 109.
(e)
the effective portion of gains and losses on hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge and the gains and losses on
hedging instruments that hedge investments in equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of Ind AS 109 (see Chapter 6 of Ind AS 109);
(f)
for particular liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss, the amount of the change in fair value that is
attributable to changes in the liability's credit risk (see paragraph 5.7.7 of Ind AS 109);
(g)
changes in the value of the time value of options when separating the intrinsic value and time value of an option contract
and designating as the hedging instrument only the changes in the intrinsic value (see Chapter 6 of Ind AS 109);
(h)
changes in the value of the forward elements of forward contracts when separating the forward element and spot
element of a forward contract and designating as the hedging instrument only the changes in the spot element, and
changes in the value of the foreign currency basis spread of a financial instrument when excluding it from the
designation of that financial instrument as the hedging instrument (see Chapter 6 of Ind AS 109).
Owners are holders of instruments classified as equity.
Profit or loss is the total of income less expenses, excluding the components of other comprehensive income.
Reclassification adjustments are amounts reclassified to profit or loss in the current period that were recognized in other
comprehensive income in the current or previous periods.
Total comprehensive income is the change in equity during a period resulting from transactions and other events, other
than those changes resulting from transactions with owners in their capacity as owners.
Total comprehensive income comprises all components of 'profit or loss' and of 'other comprehensive income'.
8. [Refer Appendix 1]
8A. The following terms are described in Ind AS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, and are used in this Standard
with the meaning specified in Ind AS 32:
(a)
puttable financial instrument classified as an equity instrument (described in paragraphs 16A and 16B of Ind AS 32)
(b)
an instrument that imposes on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the
entity only on liquidation and is classified as an equity instrument (described in paragraphs 16C and 16D of Ind AS 32).
Financial statements
Purpose of financial statements
9. Financial statements are a structured representation of the financial position and financial performance of an entity.
The objective of financial statements is to provide information about the financial position, financial performance and
cash flows of an entity that is useful to a wide range of users in making economic decisions. Financial statements also
show the results of the management's stewardship of the resources entrusted to it. To meet this objective, financial
statements provide information about an entity's:
(a)
assets;
(b)
liabilities;
(c)
equity;
Page 428/765
----- PAGE 429 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(d)
income and expenses, including gains and losses;
(e)
contributions by and distributions to owners in their capacity as owners; and
(f)
cash flows.
This information, along with other information in the notes, assists users of financial statements in predicting the entity's
future cash flows and, in particular, their timing and certainty.
Complete set of financial statements
10. A complete set of financial statements comprises:
(a)
a balance sheet as at the end of the period ;
(b)
a statement of profit and loss for the period;
(c)
Statement of changes in equity for the period;
(d)
a statement of cash flows for the period;
(e)
[ notes, comprising significant accounting policies and other explanatory information;]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(ea)
comparative information in respect of the preceding period as specified in paragraphs 38 and 38A; and
(f)
a balance sheet as at the beginning of the preceding period when an entity applies an accounting policy retrospectively
or makes a retrospective restatement of items in its financial statements, or when it reclassifies items in its financial
statements in accordance with paragraphs 40A-40D.
10A. An entity shall present a single statement of profit and loss, with profit or loss and other comprehensive income
presented in two sections. The sections shall be presented together, with the profit or loss section presented first
followed directly by the other comprehensive income section.
11. An entity shall present with equal prominence all of the financial statements in a complete set of financial
statements.
12. [Refer Appendix 1]
13. Many entities present, outside the financial statements, a financial review by management that describes and
explains the main features of the entity's financial performance and financial position, and the principal uncertainties it
faces. Such a report may include a review of:
(a)
the main factors and influences determining financial performance, including changes in the environment in which the
entity operates, the entity's response to those changes and their effect, and the entity's policy for investment to maintain
and enhance financial performance, including its dividend policy;
(b)
the entity's sources of funding and its targeted ratio of liabilities to equity; and
(c)
the entity's resources not recognized in the balance sheet in accordance with Ind ASs.
14. Many entities also present, outside the financial statements, reports and statements such as environmental reports
and value added statements, particularly in industries in which environmental factors are significant and when
employees are regarded as an important user group. Reports and statements presented outside financial statements
are outside the scope of Ind ASs.
General features
Presentation of True and Fair View and compliance with Ind ASs
15. Financial statements shall present a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance and cash flows
Page 429/765
----- PAGE 430 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
of an entity. Presentation of true and fair view requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other
events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and
expenses set out in the Framework. The application of Ind ASs, with additional disclosure when necessary, is presumed
to result in financial statements that present a true and fair view.
16. An entity whose financial statements comply with Ind ASs shall make an explicit and unreserved statement of such
compliance in the notes. An entity shall not describe financial statements as complying with Ind ASs unless they comply
with all the requirements of Ind ASs.
17. In virtually all circumstances, presentation of a true and fair view is achieved by compliance with applicable Ind ASs.
Presentation of a true and fair view also requires an entity:
(a)
to select and apply accounting policies in accordance with Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting
Estimates and Errors. Ind AS 8 sets out a hierarchy of authoritative guidance that management considers in the
absence of an Ind AS that specifically applies to an item.
(b)
to present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable information.
(c)
to provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in Ind ASs is insufficient to enable
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity's financial position
and financial performance.
18. An entity cannot rectify inappropriate accounting policies either by disclosure of the accounting policies used or by
notes or explanatory material.
19. In the extremely rare circumstances in which management concludes that compliance with a requirement in an Ind
AS would be so misleading that it would conflict with the objective of financial statements set out in the Framework, the
entity shall depart from that requirement in the manner set out in paragraph 20 if the relevant regulatory framework
requires, or otherwise does not prohibit, such a departure.
20. When an entity departs from a requirement of an Ind AS in accordance with paragraph 19, it shall disclose:
(a)
that management has concluded that the financial statements present a true and fair view of the entity's financial
position, financial performance and cash flows;
(b)
that it has complied with applicable Ind ASs, except that it has departed from a particular requirement to present a true
and fair view;
(c)
the title of the Ind AS from which the entity has departed, the nature of the departure, including the treatment that the Ind
AS would require, the reason why that treatment would be so misleading in the circumstances that it would conflict with
the objective of financial statements set out in the Framework, and the treatment adopted; and
(d)
for each period presented, the financial effect of the departure on each item in the financial statements that would have
been reported in complying with the requirement.
21. When an entity has departed from a requirement of an Ind AS in a prior period, and that departure affects the
amounts recognized in the financial statements for the current period, it shall make the disclosures set out in paragraph
20(c) and (d).
22. Paragraph 21 applies, for example, when an entity departed in a prior period from a requirement in an Ind AS for the
measurement of assets or liabilities and that departure affects the measurement of changes in assets and liabilities
recognized in the current period's financial statements.
23. In the extremely rare circumstances in which management concludes that compliance with a requirement in an Ind
AS would be so misleading that it would conflict with the objective of financial statements set out in the Framework, but
the relevant regulatory framework prohibits departure from the requirement, the entity shall, to the maximum extent
possible, reduce the perceived misleading aspects of compliance by disclosing:
(a)
Page 430/765
----- PAGE 431 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the title of the Ind AS in question, the nature of the requirement, and the reason why management has concluded that
complying with that requirement is so misleading in the circumstances that it conflicts with the objective of financial
statements set out in the Framework; and
(b)
for each period presented, the adjustments to each item in the financial statements that management has concluded
would be necessary to present a true and fair view.
24. For the purpose of paragraphs 19-23, an item of information would conflict with the objective of financial statements
when it does not represent faithfully the transactions, other events and conditions that it either purports to represent or
could reasonably be expected to represent and, consequently, it would be likely to influence economic decisions made
by users of financial statements. When assessing whether complying with a specific requirement in an Ind AS would be
so misleading that it would conflict with the objective of financial statements set out in the Framework, management
considers:
(a)
why the objective of financial statements is not achieved in the particular circumstances; and
(b)
how the entity's circumstances differ from those of other entities that comply with the requirement. If other entities in
similar circumstances comply with the requirement, there is a rebuttable presumption that the entity's compliance with
the requirement would not be so misleading that it would conflict with the objective of financial statements set out in the
Framework.
Going concern
25. When preparing financial statements, management shall make an assessment of an entity's ability to continue as a
going concern. An entity shall prepare financial statements on a going concern basis unless management either intends
to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. When management is aware, in
making its assessment, of material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt upon the
entity's ability to continue as a going concern, the entity shall disclose those uncertainties. When an entity does not
prepare financial statements on a going concern basis, it shall disclose that fact, together with the basis on which it
prepared the financial statements and the reason why the entity is not regarded as a going concern.
26. In assessing whether the going concern assumption is appropriate, management takes into account all available
information about the future, which is at least, but is not limited to, twelve months from the end of the reporting period.
The degree of consideration depends on the facts in each case. When an entity has a history of profitable operations
and ready access to financial resources, the entity may reach a conclusion that the going concern basis of accounting is
appropriate without detailed analysis. In other cases, management may need to consider a wide range of factors relating
to current and expected profitability, debt repayment schedules and potential sources of replacement financing before it
can satisfy itself that the going concern basis is appropriate.
Accrual basis of accounting
27. An entity shall prepare its financial statements, except for cash flow information, using the accrual basis of
accounting.
28. When the accrual basis of accounting is used, an entity recognises items as assets, liabilities, equity, income and
expenses (the elements of financial statements) when they satisfy the definitions and recognition criteria for those
elements in the Framework.
Materiality and aggregation
29. An entity shall present separately each material class of similar items. An entity shall present separately items of a
dissimilar nature or function unless they are immaterial except when required by law.
30. Financial statements result from processing large numbers of transactions or other events that are aggregated into
classes according to their nature or function. The final stage in the process of aggregation and classification is the
presentation of condensed and classified data, which form line items in the financial statements. If a line item is not
individually material, it is aggregated with other items either in those statements or in the notes. An item that is not
sufficiently material to warrant separate presentation in those statements may warrant separate presentation in the
notes.
30A.
[ When applying this and other Ind ASs an entity shall decide, taking into consideration all relevant facts and
Page 431/765
----- PAGE 432 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
circumstances, how it aggregates information in the financial statements, which include the notes. An entity shall not
reduce the understandability of its financial statements by obscuring material information with immaterial information or
by aggregating material items that have different natures or functions.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
31. [ Some Ind ASs specify information that is required to be included in the financial statements, which include the
notes. An entity need not provide a specific disclosure required by an Ind AS if the information resulting from that
disclosure is not material except when required by law. This is the case even if the Ind AS contains a list of specific
requirements or describes them as minimum requirements. An entity shall also consider whether to provide additional
disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in Ind AS is insufficient to enable users of financial
statements to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity's financial
position and financial performance.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Offsetting
32. An entity shall not offset assets and liabilities or income and expenses, unless required or permitted by an Ind AS.
33. An entity reports separately both assets and liabilities, and income and expenses. Offsetting in the statement of
profit and loss or balance sheet, except when offsetting reflects the substance of the transaction or other event, detracts
from the ability of users both to understand the transactions, other events and conditions that have occurred and to
assess the entity's future cash flows. Measuring assets net of valuation allowances-for example, obsolescence
allowances on inventories and doubtful debts allowances on receivables-is not offsetting.
34. [ Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, requires an entity to measure revenue from contracts with
customers at the amount of consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised
goods or services. For example, the amount of revenue recognized reflects any trade discounts and volume rebates the
entity allows. An entity undertakes, in the course of its ordinary activities, other transactions that do not generate
revenue but are incidental to the main revenue-generating activities. An entity presents the results of such transactions,
when this presentation reflects the substance of the transaction or other event, by netting any income with related
expenses arising on the same transaction. For example:
(a)
an entity presents gains and losses on the disposal of non-current assets, including investments and operating assets,
by deducting from the amount of consideration on disposal the carrying amount of the asset and related selling
expenses; and
(b)
an entity may net expenditure related to a provision that is recognised in accordance with Ind AS 37, Provisions,
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, and reimbursed under a contractual arrangement with a third party (for
example, a supplier's warranty agreement) against the related reimbursement.]
35. In addition, an entity presents on a net basis gains and losses arising from a group of similar transactions, for
example, foreign exchange gains and losses or gains and losses arising on financial instruments held for trading.
However, an entity presents such gains and losses separately if they are material.
Frequency of reporting
36. An entity shall present a complete set of financial statements (including comparative information) at least annually.
When an entity changes the end of its reporting period and presents financial statements for a period longer or shorter
than one year, an entity shall disclose, in addition to the period covered by the financial statements:
(a)
the reason for using a longer or shorter period, and
(b)
the fact that amounts presented in the financial statements are not entirely comparable.
37. [Refer Appendix 1]
Comparative information
Minimum comparative information
38. Except when Ind ASs permit or require otherwise, an entity shall present comparative information in respect of the
preceding period for all amounts reported in the current period's financial statements. An entity shall include comparative
information for narrative and descriptive information if it is relevant to understanding the current period's financial
Page 432/765
----- PAGE 433 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
statements.
38A.
An entity shall present, as a minimum, two balance sheets , two statements of profit and loss, two statements of cash
flows and two statements of changes in equity, and related notes.
38B.
In some cases, narrative information provided in the financial statements for the preceding period(s) continues to be
relevant in the current period. For example, an entity discloses in the current period details of a legal dispute, the
outcome of which was uncertain at the end of the preceding period and is yet to be resolved. Users may benefit from the
disclosure of information that the uncertainty existed at the end of the preceding period and from the disclosure of
information about the steps that have been taken during the period to resolve the uncertainty.
Additional comparative information
38C.
An entity may present comparative information in addition to the minimum comparative financial statements required by
Ind ASs, as long as that information is prepared in accordance with Ind ASs. This comparative information may consist
of one or more statements referred to in paragraph 10, but need not comprise a complete set of financial statements.
When this is the case, the entity shall present related note information for those additional statements.
38D.
For example, an entity may present a third statement of profit and loss (thereby presenting the current period, the
preceding period and one additional comparative period). However, the entity is not required to present a third balance
sheet, a third statement of cash flows or a third statement of changes in equity (i.e. an additional financial statement
comparative). The entity is required to present, in the notes to the financial statements, the comparative information
related to that additional statement of profit and loss.
39. [Refer Appendix 1]
Change in accounting policy, retrospective restatement or reclassification
40A.
An entity shall present a third balance sheet as at the beginning of the preceding period in addition to the minimum
comparative financial statements required in paragraph 38A if:
(a)
it applies an accounting policy retrospectively, makes a retrospective restatement of items in its financial statements or
reclassifies items in its financial statements; and
(b)
the retrospective application, retrospective restatement or the reclassification has a material effect on the information in
the balance sheet at the beginning of the preceding period.
40B.
In the circumstances described in paragraph 40A, an entity shall present three balance sheets as at:
(a)
the end of the current period;
(b)
the end of the preceding period; and
(c)
the beginning of the preceding period.
40C.
When an entity is required to present an additional balance sheet in accordance with paragraph 40A, it must disclose
the information required by paragraphs 41-44 and Ind AS 8. However, it need not present the related notes to the
opening balance sheet as at the beginning of the preceding period.
40D.
The date of that opening balance sheet shall be as at the beginning of the preceding period regardless of whether an
entity's financial statements present comparative information for earlier periods (as permitted in paragraph 38C).
41. If an entity changes the presentation or classification of items in its financial statements, it shall reclassify
comparative amounts unless reclassification is impracticable. When an entity reclassifies comparative amounts, it shall
disclose (including as at the beginning of the preceding period):
Page 433/765
----- PAGE 434 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
the nature of the reclassification;
(b)
the amount of each item or class of items that is reclassified; and
(c)
the reason for the reclassification.
42. When it is impracticable to reclassify comparative amounts, an entity shall disclose:
(a)
the reason for not reclassifying the amounts, and
(b)
the nature of the adjustments that would have been made if the amounts had been reclassified.
43. Enhancing the inter-period comparability of information assists users in making economic decisions, especially by
allowing the assessment of trends in financial information for predictive purposes. In some circumstances, it is
impracticable to reclassify comparative information for a particular prior period to achieve comparability with the current
period. For example, an entity may not have collected data in the prior period(s) in a way that allows reclassification, and
it may be impracticable to recreate the information.
44. Ind AS 8 sets out the adjustments to comparative information required when an entity changes an accounting policy
or corrects an error.
Consistency of presentation
45. An entity shall retain the presentation and classification of items in the financial statements from one period to the
next unless:
(a)
it is apparent, following a significant change in the nature of the entity's operations or a review of its financial statements,
that another presentation or classification would be more appropriate having regard to the criteria for the selection and
application of accounting policies in Ind AS 8; or
(b)
an Ind AS requires a change in presentation.
46. For example, a significant acquisition or disposal, or a review of the presentation of the financial statements, might
suggest that the financial statements need to be presented differently. An entity changes the presentation of its financial
statements only if the changed presentation provides information that is reliable and more relevant to users of the
financial statements and the revised structure is likely to continue, so that comparability is not impaired. When making
such changes in presentation, an entity reclassifies its comparative information in accordance with paragraphs 41 and
42.
Structure and content
Introduction
47. This Standard requires particular disclosures in the balance sheet or in the statement of profit and loss, or in the
statement of changes in equity and requires disclosure of other line items either in those statements or in the notes. Ind
AS 7, Statement of Cash Flows, sets out requirements for the presentation of cash flow information.
48. This Standard sometimes uses the term 'disclosure' in a broad sense, encompassing items presented in the financial
statements. Disclosures are also required by other Ind ASs. Unless specified to the contrary elsewhere in this Standard
or in another Ind AS, such disclosures may be made in the financial statements.
Identification of the financial statements
49. An entity shall clearly identify the financial statements and distinguish them from other information in the same
published document.
50. Ind ASs apply only to financial statements, and not necessarily to other information presented in an annual report, a
regulatory filing, or another document. Therefore, it is important that users can distinguish information that is prepared
using Ind ASs from other information that may be useful to users but is not the subject of those requirements.
51. An entity shall clearly identify each financial statement and the notes. In addition, an entity shall display the following
information prominently, and repeat it when necessary for the information presented to be understandable:
(a)
the name of the reporting entity or other means of identification, and any change in that information from the end of the
Page 434/765
----- PAGE 435 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
preceding reporting period;
(b)
whether the financial statements are of an individual entity or a group of entities;
(c)
the date of the end of the reporting period or the period covered by the set of financial statements or notes;
(d)
the presentation currency, as defined in Ind AS 21; and
(e)
the level of rounding used in presenting amounts in the financial statements.
52. An entity meets the requirements in paragraph 51 by presenting appropriate headings for pages, statements, notes,
columns and the like. Judgement is required in determining the best way of presenting such information. For example,
when an entity presents the financial statements electronically, separate pages are not always used; an entity then
presents the above items to ensure that the information included in the financial statements can be understood.
53. An entity often makes financial statements more understandable by presenting information in thousands, lakhs,
millions or crores of units of the presentation currency. This is acceptable as long as the entity discloses the level of
rounding and does not omit material information.
Balance Sheet
Information to be presented in the balance sheet
54. [ The balance sheet shall include line items that present the following amounts:]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(a)
property, plant and equipment;
(b)
investment property;
(c)
intangible assets;
(d)
financial assets [excluding amounts shown under (e), (h) and (i)];
(e)
investments accounted for using the equity method;
(f)
biological assets within the scope of Ind AS 41 Agriculture;
(g)
inventories;
(h)
trade and other receivables;
(i)
cash and cash equivalents;
(j)
the total of assets classified as held for sale and assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale in
accordance with Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations;
(k)
trade and other payables;
(l)
provisions;
(m)
financial liabilities (excluding amounts shown under (k) and (l));
(n)
liabilities and assets for current tax, as defined in Ind AS 12, Income Taxes;
(o)
deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets, as defined in Ind AS 12;
Page 435/765
----- PAGE 436 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(p)
liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale in accordance with Ind AS 105;
(q)
non-controlling interests, presented within equity; and
(r)
issued capital and reserves attributable to owners of the parent.
55. [ An entity shall present additional line items (including by disaggregating the line items listed in paragraph 54),
headings and subtotals in the balance sheet when such presentation is relevant to an understanding of the entity's
financial position.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
55A.
[ When an entity presents subtotals in accordance with paragraph 55, those subtotals shall:
(a)
be comprised of line items made up of amounts recognized and measured in accordance with Ind AS;
(b)
be presented and labelled in a manner that makes the line items that constitute the subtotal clear and understandable;
(c)
be consistent from period to period, in accordance with paragraph 45; and
(d)
not be displayed with more prominence than the subtotals and totals required in Ind AS for the balance sheet.]
56. When an entity presents current and non-current assets, and current and non-current liabilities, as separate
classifications in its balance sheet, it shall not classify deferred tax assets (liabilities) as current assets (liabilities).
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
57. This Standard does not prescribe the order or format in which an entity presents items. Paragraph 54 simply lists
items that are sufficiently different in nature or function to warrant separate presentation in the balance sheet. In
addition:
(a)
line items are included when the size, nature or function of an item or aggregation of similar items is such that separate
presentation is relevant to an understanding of the entity's financial position; and
(b)
the descriptions used and the ordering of items or aggregation of similar items may be amended according to the nature
of the entity and its transactions, to provide information that is relevant to an understanding of the entity's financial
position. For example, a financial institution may amend the above descriptions to provide information that is relevant to
the operations of a financial institution.
58. An entity makes the judgement about whether to present additional items separately on the basis of an assessment
of:
(a)
the nature and liquidity of assets;
(b)
the function of assets within the entity; and
(c)
the amounts, nature and timing of liabilities.
59. The use of different measurement bases for different classes of assets suggests that their nature or function differs
and, therefore, that an entity presents them as separate line items. For example, different classes of property, plant and
equipment can be carried at cost or at revalued amounts in accordance with Ind AS 16.
Current/non-current distinction
60. An entity shall present current and non-current assets, and current and non-current liabilities, as separate
classifications in its balance sheet in accordance with paragraphs 66-76 except when a presentation based on liquidity
provides information that is reliable and more relevant. When that exception applies, an entity shall present all assets
and liabilities in order of liquidity.
61. Whichever method of presentation is adopted, an entity shall disclose the amount expected to be recovered or
Page 436/765
----- PAGE 437 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
settled after more than twelve months for each asset and liability line item that combines amounts expected to be
recovered or settled:
(a)
no more than twelve months after the reporting period, and
(b)
more than twelve months after the reporting period.
62. When an entity supplies goods or services within a clearly identifiable operating cycle, separate classification of
current and non-current assets and liabilities in the balance sheet provides useful information by distinguishing the net
assets that are continuously circulating as working capital from those used in the entity's long-term operations. It also
highlights assets that are expected to be realised within the current operating cycle, and liabilities that are due for
settlement within the same period.
63. For some entities, such as financial institutions, a presentation of assets and liabilities in increasing or decreasing
order of liquidity provides information that is reliable and more relevant than a current/non-current presentation because
the entity does not supply goods or services within a clearly identifiable operating cycle.
64. In applying paragraph 60, an entity is permitted to present some of its assets and liabilities using a
current/non-current classification and others in order of liquidity when this provides information that is reliable and more
relevant. The need for a mixed basis of presentation might arise when an entity has diverse operations.
65. Information about expected dates of realisation of assets and liabilities is useful in assessing the liquidity and
solvency of an entity. Ind AS 107, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, requires disclosure of the maturity dates of
financial assets and financial liabilities. Financial assets include trade and other receivables, and financial liabilities
include trade and other payables. Information on the expected date of recovery of non-monetary assets such as
inventories and expected date of settlement for liabilities such as provisions is also useful, whether assets and liabilities
are classified as current or as non-current. For example, an entity discloses the amount of inventories that are expected
to be recovered more than twelve months after the reporting period.
Current assets
66. An entity shall classify an asset as current when:
(a)
it expects to realise the asset, or intends to sell or consume it, in its normal operating cycle;
(b)
it holds the asset primarily for the purpose of trading;
(c)
it expects to realise the asset within twelve months after the reporting period; or
(d)
the asset is cash or a cash equivalent (as defined in Ind AS 7) unless the asset is restricted from being exchanged or
used to settle a liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period.
An entity shall classify all other assets as non-current.
67. This Standard uses the term 'non-current' to include tangible, intangible and financial assets of a long-term nature. It
does not prohibit the use of alternative descriptions as long as the meaning is clear.
68. The operating cycle of an entity is the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in
cash or cash equivalents. When the entity's normal operating cycle is not clearly identifiable, it is assumed to be twelve
months. Current assets include assets (such as inventories and trade receivables) that are sold, consumed or realised
as part of the normal operating cycle even when they are not expected to be realised within twelve months after the
reporting period. Current assets also include assets held primarily for the purpose of trading (examples include some
financial assets that meet the definition of held for trading in Ind AS 109) and the current portion of non-current financial
assets.
Current liabilities
69. An entity shall classify a liability as current when:
(a)
it expects to settle the liability in its normal operating cycle;
(b)
it holds the liability primarily for the purpose of trading;
Page 437/765
----- PAGE 438 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(c)
the liability is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period; or
(d)
it does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting
period (see paragraph 73). Terms of a liability that could, at the option of the counter-party, result in its settlement by the
issue of equity instruments do not affect its classification.
An entity shall classify all other liabilities as non-current.
70. Some current liabilities, such as trade payables and some accruals for employee and other operating costs, are part
of the working capital used in the entity's normal operating cycle. An entity classifies such operating items as current
liabilities even if they are due to be settled more than twelve months after the reporting period. The same normal
operating cycle applies to the classification of an entity's assets and liabilities. When the entity's normal operating cycle
is not clearly identifiable, it is assumed to be twelve months.
71. Other current liabilities are not settled as part of the normal operating cycle, but are due for settlement within twelve
months after the reporting period or held primarily for the purpose of trading. Examples are some financial liabilities that
meet the definition of held for trading in Ind AS 109, bank overdrafts, and the current portion of non-current financial
liabilities, dividends payable, income taxes and other non-trade payables. Financial liabilities that provide financing on a
long-term basis (i.e. are not part of the working capital used in the entity's normal operating cycle) and are not due for
settlement within twelve months after the reporting period are non-current liabilities, subject to paragraphs 74 and 75.
72. An entity classifies its financial liabilities as current when they are due to be settled within twelve months after the
reporting period, even if:
(a)
the original term was for a period longer than twelve months, and
(b)
an agreement to refinance, or to reschedule payments, on a long-term basis is completed after the reporting period and
before the financial statements are approved for issue.
73. If an entity expects, and has the discretion, to refinance or roll over an obligation for at least twelve months after the
reporting period under an existing loan facility, it classifies the obligation as non-current, even if it would otherwise be
due within a shorter period. However, when refinancing or rolling over the obligation is not at the discretion of the entity
(for example, there is no arrangement for refinancing), the entity does not consider the potential to refinance the
obligation and classifies the obligation as current.
74. Where there is a breach of a material provision of a long-term loan arrangement on or before the end of the reporting
period with the effect that the liability becomes payable on demand on the reporting date, the entity does not classify the
liability as current, if the lender agreed, after the reporting period and before the approval of the financial statements for
issue, not to demand payment as a consequence of the breach.
75. However, an entity classifies the liability as non-current if the lender agreed by the end of the reporting period to
provide a period of grace ending at least twelve months after the reporting period, within which the entity can rectify the
breach and during which the lender cannot demand immediate repayment.
76. [Refer Appendix 1]
Information to be presented either in the balance sheet or in the notes
77. An entity shall disclose, either in the balance sheet or in the notes, further sub-classifications of the line items
presented, classified in a manner appropriate to the entity's operations.
78. The detail provided in sub-classifications depends on the requirements of Ind ASs and on the size, nature and
function of the amounts involved. An entity also uses the factors set out in paragraph 58 to decide the basis of
subclassification. The disclosures vary for each item, for example:
(a)
items of property, plant and equipment are disaggregated into classes in accordance with Ind AS 16;
(b)
receivables are disaggregated into amounts receivable from trade customers, receivables from related parties,
prepayments and other amounts;
(c)
inventories are disaggregated, in accordance with Ind AS 2, Inventories, into classifications such as merchandise,
Page 438/765
----- PAGE 439 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
production supplies, materials, work in progress and finished goods;
(d)
provisions are disaggregated into provisions for employee benefits and other items; and
(e)
equity capital and reserves are disaggregated into various classes, such as paid-in capital, share premium and reserves.
79. An entity shall disclose the following, either in the balance sheet or the statement of changes in equity, or in the
notes:
(a)
for each class of share capital:
(i)
the number of shares authorised;
(ii)
the number of shares issued and fully paid, and issued but not fully paid;
(iii)
par value per share, or that the shares have no par value;
(iv)
a reconciliation of the number of shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the period;
(v)
the rights, preferences and restrictions attaching to that class including restrictions on the distribution of dividends and
the repayment of capital;
(vi)
shares in the entity held by the entity or by its subsidiaries or associates; and
(vii)
shares reserved for issue under options and contracts for the sale of shares, including terms and amounts; and
(b)
a description of the nature and purpose of each reserve within equity.
80. An entity whose capital is not limited by shares e.g., a company limited by guarantee, shall disclose information
equivalent to that required by paragraph 79(a), showing changes during the period in each category of equity interest,
and the rights, preferences and restrictions attaching to each category of equity interest.
80A.
If an entity has reclassified
(a)
a puttable financial instrument classified as an equity instrument, or
(b)
an instrument that imposes on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the
entity only on liquidation and is classified as an equity instrument between financial liabilities and equity, it shall disclose
the amount reclassified into and out of each category (financial liabilities or equity), and the timing and reason for that
reclassification.
Statement of Profit and Loss
81. [Refer Appendix 1]
81A.
The statement of profit and loss shall present, in addition to the profit or loss and other comprehensive income sections:
(a)
profit or loss;
(b)
total other comprehensive income;
(c)
comprehensive income for the period, being the total of profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
81B.
An entity shall present the following items, in addition to the profit or loss and other comprehensive income sections, as
allocation of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for the period:
Page 439/765
----- PAGE 440 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
profit or loss for the period attributable to:
(i)
non-controlling interests, and
(ii)
owners of the parent.
(b)
comprehensive income for the period attributable to:
(i)
non-controlling interests, and
(ii)
owners of the parent.
Information to be presented in the profit or loss section of the statement of profit and loss
82. In addition to items required by other Ind ASs, the profit or loss section of the statement of profit and loss shall
include line items that present the following amounts for the period:
(a)
revenue, presenting separately interest revenue calculated using the effective interest method;
(aa)
gains and losses arising from the derecognition of financial assets measured at amortised cost;
(b)
finance costs;
(ba)
impairment losses (including reversals of impairment losses or impairment gains) determined in accordance with Section
5.5 of Ind AS 109;
(c)
share of the profit or loss of associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method;
(ca)
if a financial asset is reclassified out of the amortised cost measurement category so that it is measured at fair value
through profit or loss, any gain or loss arising from a difference between the previous amortised cost of the financial
asset and its fair value at the reclassification date (as defined in Ind AS 109);
(cb)
if a financial asset is reclassified out of the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement category so
that it is measured at fair value through profit or loss, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in other
comprehensive income that is reclassified to profit or loss;
(d)
tax expense;
(e)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(ea)
a single amount for the total of discontinued operations (see Ind AS 105).
(f)
-(i) [Refer Appendix 1]
Information to be presented in the other comprehensive income section
82A.
[ The other comprehensive income section shall present line items for the amounts for the period of:
(a)
items of other comprehensive income (excluding amounts in paragraph (b)), classified by nature and grouped into those
that, in accordance with other Ind ASs:
(i)
will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss; and
(ii)
Page 440/765
----- PAGE 441 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met.
(b)
the share of the other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method,
separated into the share of items that, in accordance with other Ind ASs:
(i)
will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss; and
(ii)
will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met.]
83. [Refer Appendix 1]
84. [Refer Appendix 1]
85. [ An entity shall present additional line items (including by disaggregating the line items listed in paragraph 82),
headings and subtotals in the statement of profit and loss, when such presentation is relevant to an understanding of the
entity's financial performance.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
85A.
[ When an entity presents subtotals in accordance with paragraph 85, those subtotals shall:
(a)
be comprised of line items made up of amounts recognized and measured in accordance with Ind AS;
(b)
be presented and labelled in a manner that makes the line items that constitute the subtotal clear and understandable;
(c)
be consistent from period to period, in accordance with paragraph 45; and
(d)
not be displayed with more prominence than the subtotals and totals required in Ind AS for the statement of profit and
loss.
85B.
An entity shall present the line items in the statement of profit and loss that reconcile any subtotals presented in
accordance with paragraph 85 with the subtotals or totals required in Ind AS for such statement.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
86. Because the effects of an entity's various activities, transactions and other events differ in frequency, potential for
gain or loss and predictability, disclosing the components of financial performance assists users in understanding the
financial performance achieved and in making projections of future financial performance. An entity includes additional
line items in the statement of profit and loss, and it amends the descriptions used and the ordering of items when this is
necessary to explain the elements of financial performance. An entity considers factors including materiality and the
nature and function of the items of income and expense. For example, a financial institution may amend the descriptions
to provide information that is relevant to the operations of a financial institution. An entity does not offset income and
expense items unless the criteria in paragraph 32 are met.
87. An entity shall not present any items of income or expense as extraordinary items, in the statement of profit and loss
or in the notes.
Profit or loss for the period
88. An entity shall recognise all items of income and expense in a period in profit or loss unless an Ind AS requires or
permits otherwise.
89. Some Ind ASs specify circumstances when an entity recognises particular items outside profit or loss in the current
period. Ind AS 8 specifies two such circumstances: the correction of errors and the effect of changes in accounting
policies. Other Ind ASs require or permit components of other comprehensive income that meet the Framework's
definition of income or expense to be excluded from profit or loss (see paragraph 7).
Other comprehensive income for the period
90. An entity shall disclose the amount of income tax relating to each item of other comprehensive income, including
reclassification adjustments, either in the statement of profit and loss or in the notes.
91. An entity may present items of other comprehensive income either:
Page 441/765
----- PAGE 442 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
net of related tax effects, or
(b)
before related tax effects with one amount shown for the aggregate amount of income tax relating to those items.
If an entity elects alternative (b), it shall allocate the tax between the items that might be reclassified subsequently to the
profit or loss section and those that will not be reclassified subsequently to the profit or loss section.
92. An entity shall disclose reclassification adjustments relating to components of other comprehensive income.
93. Other Ind ASs specify whether and when amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income are
reclassified to profit or loss. Such reclassifications are referred to in this Standard as reclassification adjustments. A
reclassification adjustment is included with the related component of other comprehensive income in the period that the
adjustment is reclassified to profit or loss. These amounts may have been recognized in other comprehensive income as
unrealised gains in the current or previous periods. Those unrealised gains must be deducted from other comprehensive
income in the period in which the realised gains are reclassified to profit or loss to avoid including them in total
comprehensive income twice.
94. An entity may present reclassification adjustments in the statement of profit and loss or in the notes. An entity
presenting reclassification adjustments in the notes presents the items of other comprehensive income after any related
reclassification adjustments.
95. Reclassification adjustments arise, for example, on disposal of a foreign operation (see Ind AS 21) and when some
hedged forecast cash flow affect profit or loss (see paragraph 6.5.11(d) of Ind AS109 in relation to cash flow hedges).
96. Reclassification adjustments do not arise on changes in revaluation surplus recognized in accordance with Ind AS
16 or Ind AS 38 or on reameasurements of defined benefit plans recognized in accordance with Ind AS 19. These
components are recognized in other comprehensive income and are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent
periods. Changes in revaluation surplus may be transferred to retained earnings in subsequent periods as the asset is
used or when it is derecognized (see Ind AS 16 and Ind AS 38). In accordance with Ind AS 109, reclassification
adjustments do not arise if a cash flow hedge or the accounting for the time value of an option (or the forward element of
a forward contract or the foreign currency basis spread of a financial instrument) result in amounts that are removed
from the cash flow hedge reserve or a separate component of equity, respectively, and included directly in the initial cost
or other carrying amount of an asset or a liability. These amounts are directly transferred to assets or liabilities.
Information to be presented in the statement of profit and loss or in the notes
97. When items of income or expense are material, an entity shall disclose their nature and amount separately.
98. Circumstances that would give rise to the separate disclosure of items of income and expense include:
(a)
write-downs of inventories to net realisable value or of property, plant and equipment to recoverable amount, as well as
reversals of such write-downs;
(b)
restructurings of the activities of an entity and reversals of any provisions for the costs of restructuring;
(c)
disposals of items of property, plant and equipment;
(d)
disposals of investments;
(e)
discontinued operations;
(f)
litigation settlements; and
(g)
other reversals of provisions.
99. An entity shall present an analysis of expenses recognized in profit or loss using a classification based on the nature
of expense method.
100. Entities are encouraged to present the analysis in paragraph 99 in the statement of profit and loss.
101. Expenses are subclassified to highlight components of financial performance that may differ in terms of frequency,
potential for gain or loss and predictability. This analysis is provided in the form as described in paragraph 102.
Page 442/765
----- PAGE 443 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
102. In the analysis based on the 'nature of expense' method, an entity aggregates expenses within profit or loss
according to their nature (for example, depreciation, purchases of materials, transport costs, employee benefits and
advertising costs), and does not reallocate them among functions within the entity. This method is simple to apply
because no allocations of expenses to functional classifications are necessary. An example of a classification using the
nature of expense method is as follows:
Revenue
X
Other income
X
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress
X
Raw materials and consumables used
X
Employee benefits expense
X
Depreciation and amortisation expense
X
Other expenses
X
Total expenses
(X)
Profit before tax
X
103. [Refer Appendix 1]
104. [Refer Appendix 1]
105. [Refer Appendix 1]
Statement of changes in equity
Information to be presented in the statement of changes in equity
106. An entity shall present a statement of changes in equity as required by paragraph 10. The statement of changes in
equity includes the following information:
(a)
total comprehensive income for the period, showing separately the total amounts attributable to owners of the parent
and to non-controlling interests;
(b)
for each component of equity, the effects of retrospective application or retrospective restatement recognized in
accordance with Ind AS 8;
(c)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(d)
for each component of equity, a reconciliation between the carrying amount at the beginning and the end of the period,
separately (as a minimum) disclosing changes resulting from:
(i)
profit or loss;
(ii)
other comprehensive income;
(iii)
transactions with owners in their capacity as owners, showing separately contributions by and distributions to owners
and changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control; and
(iv)
any item recognized directly in equity such as amount recognized directly in equity as capital reserve with paragraph
36A of Ind AS 103.
Page 443/765
----- PAGE 444 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Information to be presented in the statement of changes in equity or in the notes
106A.
For each component of equity an entity shall present, either in the statement of changes in equity or in the notes, an
analysis of other comprehensive income by item (see paragraph 106 (d) (ii)).
107. An entity shall present, either in the statement of changes in equity or in the notes, the amount of dividends
recognized as distributions to owners during the period, and the related amount of dividends per share.
108. In paragraph 106, the components of equity include, for example, each class of contributed equity, the accumulated
balance of each class of other comprehensive income and retained earnings.
109. Changes in an entity's equity between the beginning and the end of the reporting period reflect the increase or
decrease in its net assets during the period. Except for changes resulting from transactions with owners in their capacity
as owners (such as equity contributions, reacquisitions of the entity's own equity instruments and dividends) and
transaction costs directly related to such transactions, the overall change in equity during a period represents the total
amount of income and expense, including gains and losses, generated by the entity's activities during that period.
110. Ind AS 8 requires retrospective adjustments to effect changes in accounting policies, to the extent practicable,
except when the transition provisions in another Ind AS require otherwise. Ind AS 8 also requires restatements to correct
errors to be made retrospectively, to the extent practicable. Retrospective adjustments and retrospective restatements
are not changes in equity but they are adjustments to the opening balance of retained earnings, except when an Ind AS
requires retrospective adjustment of another component of equity. Paragraph 106(b) requires disclosure in the
statement of changes in equity of the total adjustment to each component of equity resulting from changes in accounting
policies and, separately, from corrections of errors. These adjustments are disclosed for each prior period and the
beginning of the period.
Statement of cash flows
111. Cash flow information provides users of financial statements with a basis to assess the ability of the entity to
generate cash and cash equivalents and the needs of the entity to utilise those cash flows. Ind AS 7 sets out
requirements for the presentation and disclosure of cash flow information.
Notes
Structure
112. The notes shall:
(a)
present information about the basis of preparation of the financial statements and the specific accounting policies used
in accordance with paragraphs 117-124;
(b)
disclose the information required by Ind ASs that is not presented elsewhere in the financial statements; and
(c)
provide information that is not presented elsewhere in the financial statements, but is relevant to an understanding of
any of them.
113. [ An entity shall present notes in a systematic manner. In determining a systematic manner, the entity shall
consider the effect on the understandability and comparability of its financial statements. An entity shall cross-reference
each item in the balance sheet and in the statement of profit and loss, and in the statements of changes in equity and of
cash flows to any related information in the notes.
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
114. Examples of systematic ordering or grouping of the notes include:
(a)
giving prominence to the areas of its activities that the entity considers to be most relevant to an understanding of its
financial performance and financial position, such as grouping together information about particular operating activities;
(b)
grouping together information about items measured similarly such as assets measured at fair value; or
(c)
following the order of the line items in the statement of profit and loss and the balance sheet, such as:
(i)
statement of compliance with Ind ASs (see paragraph 16);
Page 444/765
----- PAGE 445 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(ii)
significant accounting policies applied (see paragraph 117);
(iii)
supporting information for items presented in the balance sheet and in the statement of profit and loss, and in the
statements of changes in equity and of cash flows, in the order in which each statement and each line item is presented;
and
(iv)
other disclosures, including:
(1)
contingent liabilities (see Ind AS 37) and unrecognized contractual commitments; and
(2)
non-financial disclosures, eg the entity's financial risk management objectives and policies (see Ind AS 107).]
[Refer Appendix 1]
[Omitted '115. In some circumstances, it may be necessary or desirable to vary the order of specific items within the
notes. For example, an entity may combine information on changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss with
information on maturities of financial instruments, although the former disclosures relate to the statement of profit and
loss and the latter relate to the balance sheet. Nevertheless, an entity retains a systematic structure for the notes as far
as practicable.' by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
116. An entity may present notes providing information about the basis of preparation of the financial statements and
specific accounting policies as a separate section of the financial statements.
Disclosure of accounting policies
117. [ An entity shall disclose its significant accounting policies comprising:
(a)
the measurement basis (or bases) used in preparing the financial statements; and
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b) the other accounting policies used that are relevant to an understanding of the financial statements.]
118. It is important for an entity to inform users of the measurement basis or bases used in the financial statements (for
example, historical cost, current cost, net realisable value, fair value or recoverable amount) because the basis on which
an entity prepares the financial statements significantly affects users' analysis. When an entity uses more than one
measurement basis in the financial statements, for example when particular classes of assets are revalued, it is
sufficient to provide an indication of the categories of assets and liabilities to which each measurement basis is applied.
119. [ In deciding whether a particular accounting policy should be disclosed, management considers whether disclosure
would assist users in understanding how transactions, other events and conditions are reflected in reported financial
performance and financial position. Each entity considers the nature of its operations and the policies that the users of
its financial statements would expect to be disclosed for that type of entity. Disclosure of particular accounting policies is
especially useful to users when those policies are selected from alternatives allowed in Ind ASs. An example is
disclosure of a regular way purchase or sale of financial assets using either trade date accounting or settlement date
accounting (see Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments). Some Ind ASs specifically require disclosure of particular
accounting policies, including choices made by management between different policies they allow. For example, Ind AS
16 requires disclosure of the measurement bases used for classes of property, plant and equipment.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[Refer Appendix 1]
[Omitted '120. Each entity considers the nature of its operations and the policies that the users of its financial statements
would expect to be disclosed for that type of entity. For example, users would expect an entity subject to income taxes to
disclose its accounting policies for income taxes, including those applicable to deferred tax liabilities and assets. When
an entity has significant foreign operations or transactions in foreign currencies, users would expect disclosure of
accounting policies for the recognition of foreign exchange gains and losses.' by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated
30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
121. An accounting policy may be significant because of the nature of the entity's operations even if amounts for current
and prior periods are not material. It is also appropriate to disclose each significant accounting policy that is not
specifically required by Ind ASs but the entity selects and applies in accordance with Ind AS 8.
Page 445/765
----- PAGE 446 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
122. [ An entity shall disclose, along with its significant accounting policies or other notes, the judgements, apart from
those involving estimations (see paragraph 125), that management has made in the process of applying the entity's
accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
123. In the process of applying the entity's accounting policies, management makes various judgements, apart from
those involving estimations, that can significantly affect the amounts it recognises in the financial statements. For
example, management makes judgements in determining:
(a)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(b)
[ when substantially all the significant risks and rewards of ownership of financial assets and, for lessor, assets subject
to leases, are transferred to other entities;]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(c)
whether, in substance, particular sales of goods are financing arrangements and therefore do not give rise to revenue.
and
(d)
whether the contractual terms of a financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
124. Some of the disclosures made in accordance with paragraph 122 are required by other Ind ASs. For example, Ind
AS 112, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, requires an entity to disclose the judgements it has made in
determining whether it controls another entity. Ind AS 40, Investment Property, requires disclosure of the criteria
developed by the entity to distinguish investment property from owner-occupied property and from property held for sale
in the ordinary course of business, when classification of the property is difficult.
Sources of estimation uncertainty
125. An entity shall disclose information about the assumptions it makes about the future, and other major sources of
estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period, that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment
to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year. In respect of those assets and liabilities,
the notes shall include details of:
(a)
their nature, and
(b)
their carrying amount as at the end of the reporting period.
126. Determining the carrying amounts of some assets and liabilities requires estimation of the effects of uncertain
future events on those assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting period. For example, in the absence of recently
observed market prices, future-oriented estimates are necessary to measure the recoverable amount of classes of
property, plant and equipment, the effect of technological obsolescence on inventories, provisions subject to the future
outcome of litigation in progress, and long-term employee benefit liabilities such as pension obligations. These estimates
involve assumptions about such items as the risk adjustment to cash flows or discount rates, future changes in salaries
and future changes in prices affecting other costs.
127. The assumptions and other sources of estimation uncertainty disclosed in accordance with paragraph 125 relate to
the estimates that require management's most difficult, subjective or complex judgements. As the number of variables
and assumptions affecting the possible future resolution of the uncertainties increases, those judgements become more
subjective and complex, and the potential for a consequential material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities normally increases accordingly.
128. The disclosures in paragraph 125 are not required for assets and liabilities with a significant risk that their carrying
amounts might change materially within the next financial year if, at the end of the reporting period, they are measured
at fair value based on a quoted price in an active market for an identical asset or liability. Such fair values might change
materially within the next financial year but these changes would not arise from assumptions or other sources of
estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period.
129. An entity presents the disclosures in paragraph 125 in a manner that helps users of financial statements to
Page 446/765
----- PAGE 447 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
understand the judgements that management makes about the future and about other sources of estimation uncertainty.
The nature and extent of the information provided vary according to the nature of the assumption and other
circumstances. Examples of the types of disclosures an entity makes are:
(a)
the nature of the assumption or other estimation uncertainty;
(b)
the sensitivity of carrying amounts to the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying their calculation, including the
reasons for the sensitivity;
(c)
the expected resolution of an uncertainty and the range of reasonably possible outcomes within the next financial year in
respect of the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities affected; and
(d)
an explanation of changes made to past assumptions concerning those assets and liabilities, if the uncertainty remains
unresolved.
130.
This Standard does not require an entity to disclose budget information or forecasts in making the disclosures in
paragraph 125.
131.
Sometimes it is impracticable to disclose the extent of the possible effects of an assumption or another source of
estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period. In such cases, the entity discloses that it is reasonably
possible, on the basis of existing knowledge, that outcomes within the next financial year that are different from the
assumption could require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or liability affected. In all cases, the
entity discloses the nature and carrying amount of the specific asset or liability (or class of assets or liabilities) affected
by the assumption.
132.
The disclosures in paragraph 122 of particular judgements that management made in the process of applying the entity's
accounting policies do not relate to the disclosures of sources of estimation uncertainty in paragraph 125.
133.
Other Ind ASs require the disclosure of some of the assumptions that would otherwise be required in accordance with
paragraph 125. For example, Ind AS 37 requires disclosure, in specified circumstances, of major assumptions
concerning future events affecting classes of provisions. Ind AS 113, Fair Value Measurement, requires disclosure of
significant assumptions (including the valuation technique(s) and inputs) the entity uses when measuring the fair values
of assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value.
Capital
134.
An entity shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements to evaluate the entity's objectives,
policies and processes for managing capital.
135.
To comply with paragraph 134, the entity discloses the following:
(a)
qualitative information about its objectives, policies and processes for managing capital, including:
(i)
a description of what it manages as capital;
(ii)
when an entity is subject to externally imposed capital requirements, the nature of those requirements and how those
requirements are incorporated into the management of capital; and
(iii)
how it is meeting its objectives for managing capital.
(b)
summary quantitative data about what it manages as capital. Some entities regard some financial liabilities (e.g. some
forms of subordinated debt) as part of capital. Other entities regard capital as excluding some components of equity
Page 447/765
----- PAGE 448 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(e.g. components arising from cash flow hedges).
(c)
any changes in (a) and (b) from the previous period.
(d)
whether during the period it complied with any externally imposed capital requirements to which it is subject.
(e)
when the entity has not complied with such externally imposed capital requirements, the consequences of such
non-compliance.
The entity bases these disclosures on the information provided internally to key management personnel.
136.
An entity may manage capital in a number of ways and be subject to a number of different capital requirements. For
example, a conglomerate may include entities that undertake insurance activities and banking activities and those
entities may operate in several jurisdictions. When an aggregate disclosure of capital requirements and how capital is
managed would not provide useful information or distorts a financial statement user's understanding of an entity's capital
resources, the entity shall disclose separate information for each capital requirement to which the entity is subject.
Puttable financial instruments classified as equity
136A.
For puttable financial instruments classified as equity instruments, an entity shall disclose (to the extent not disclosed
elsewhere):
(a)
summary quantitative data about the amount classified as equity;
(b)
its objectives, policies and processes for managing its obligation to repurchase or redeem the instruments when
required to do so by the instrument holders, including any changes from the previous period;
(c)
the expected cash outflow on redemption or repurchase of that class of financial instruments; and
(d)
information about how the expected cash outflow on redemption or repurchase was determined.
Other disclosures
137.
An entity shall disclose in the notes:
(a)
the amount of dividends proposed or declared before the financial statements were approved for issue but not
recognized as a distribution to owners during the period, and the related amount per share; and
(b)
the amount of any cumulative preference dividends not recognized.
138.
An entity shall disclose the following, if not disclosed elsewhere in information published with the financial statements:
(a)
the domicile and legal form of the entity, its country of incorporation and the address of its registered office (or principal
place of business, if different from the registered office);
(b)
a description of the nature of the entity's operations and its principal activities;
(c)
the name of the parent and the ultimate parent of the group; and
(d)
if it is a limited life entity, information regarding the length of its life.
[Transition and Effective Date
139.
*
139A.
Page 448/765
----- PAGE 449 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
*
139B.
*
139C.
*
139D.
*
139E.
*
139F.
*
139G.
*
139H.
*
139I.
*
139J.
*
139K.
*
139L.
*
139M.
*
139N.
As a consequence of issuance of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, paragraph 34 is amended. An
entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 115.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[139 O-139P Omitted *
139Q.
Ind AS 116, Leases, amended paragraph 123. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies Ind AS 116.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
*Refer Appendix 1
Appendix A
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
This appendix lists the different appendices which are the part of other Indian Accounting Standards and make
reference to Ind AS 1.
1. Appendix A, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, contained in Ind AS 10, Events after the Reporting Period.
2. Appendix A, Changes in Existing Decommissioning, Restoration and Similar Liabilities, contained in Ind AS 16,
Property, Plant and Equipment.
3. Appendix B, The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, contained in
Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits.
4. Appendix A, Intangible Assets-Web Site Costs, contained in Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets.
5. Appendix D, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments contained in Ind AS 109, Financial
Instruments.
6. Appendix C, Levies, contained in Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
7. Appendix B, Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine, contained in Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and
Equipment.
Appendix 1
Page 449/765
----- PAGE 450 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 1 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board.
Comparison with IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements
1. With regard to preparation of Statement of profit and loss, International Accounting Standard (IAS) 1, Presentation of
Financial Statements, provides an option either to follow the single statement approach or to follow the two statement
approach. Paragraph 10A of IAS 1 provides that an entity may present a single statement of profit or loss and other
comprehensive income, with profit or loss and other comprehensive income presented in two sections or an entity may
present the profit or loss section in a separate statement of profit or loss which shall immediately precede the statement
presenting comprehensive income, which shall begin with profit or loss. Ind AS 1 allows only the single statement
approach. Accordingly paragraph 10A has been modified.
2. Different terminology is used in Ind AS 1 e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position' and 'Statement of Profit and Loss' is used instead of 'Statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive
income'. The words 'approval of the financial statements for issue' have been used instead of 'authorisation of the
financial statements for issue' in the context of financial statements considered for the purpose of events after the
reporting period. The words 'true and fair view' have been used instead of 'fair presentation'.
3. Paragraph 8 of IAS 1 gives the option to individual entities to follow different terminology for the titles of financial
statements. Ind AS 1 is changed to remove alternatives by giving one terminology to be used by all entities. However,
paragraph number 8 has been retained in Ind AS 1 to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 1. Similar
changes has been made in paragraph 10 also.
4. Paragraph 37 of IAS 1 permits the periodicity, for example, of 52 weeks for preparation of financial statements. As Ind
AS 1 does not permit it, the same is deleted. However, paragraph number 37 has been retained in Ind AS 1 to maintain
consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 1.
5. Paragraph 99 of IAS 1 requires an entity to present an analysis of expenses recognized in profit or loss using a
classification based on either their nature or their function within the equity. Ind AS 1 requires only naturewise
classification of expenses. In IAS 1 the following paragraphs are with reference to function-wise classification of
expense. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 1, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind
AS 1:
(i)
Paragraph 103
(ii)
Paragraph 104
(iii)
Paragraph 105
6. [ Following paragraph numbers appear as 'Deleted' in IAS 1. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers
of IAS 1, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 1.
(i)
paragraph 12
(ii)
paragraphs 39-40
(iii)
paragraph 81
(iv)
paragraph 82(e)
(v)
paragraphs 82(f)-(i)
(vi)
paragraphs 83-84
(vii)
paragraph 106(c)
Page 450/765
----- PAGE 451 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(viii)
paragraph 123(a)
(ix)
paragraph 115
(x)
paragraph 120]
7. Paragraph 29 and 31 dealing with materiality and aggregation has been modified to include words 'except when
required by law'.
8. Paragraph 106(d)(iv) of Ind AS 1 dealing with disclosures regarding reconciliation between the carrying amount at the
beginning and the end of the period for each component of equity, has been amended to include disclosure regarding
recognition of bargain purchase gain arising on business combination in line with treatment prescribed in this regard in
Ind AS 103.
9. Paragraph 74 has been modified to clarify that long term loan arrangement need not be classified as current on
account of breach of a material provision, for which the lender has agreed to waive before the approval of financial
statements for issue. Consequential to this Paragraph 76 has been deleted.
10. [ Paragraphs 139 to 139M and 139O-139P related to Transition and Effective Date have not been included in Ind AS
1 as these are not relevant in Indian context. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS
1, these paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 1.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 2
Inventories
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold italic type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting treatment for inventories. A primary issue in accounting
for inventories is the amount of cost to be recognized as an asset and carried forward until the related revenues are
recognized. This Standard deals with the determination of cost and its subsequent recognition as an expense, including
any write-down to net realisable value. It also provides guidance on the cost formulas that are used to assign costs to
inventories.
Scope
2. This Standard applies to all inventories, except:
[***]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b)
financial instruments (Ind AS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation and Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments and) ; and
(c)
biological assets (i.e. living animals or plants) related to agricultural activity and agricultural produce at the point of
harvest (See Ind AS 41, Agriculture).
3. This Standard does not apply to the measurement of inventories held by:
(a)
producers of agricultural and forest products, agricultural produce after harvest, and minerals and mineral products, to
the extent that they are measured at net realisable value in accordance with well-established practices in those
industries. When such inventories are measured at net realisable value, changes in that value are recognized in profit or
loss in the period of the change.
(b)
commodity broker-traders who measure their inventories at fair value less costs to sell. When such inventories are
measured at fair value less costs to sell, changes in fair value less costs to sell are recognized in profit or loss in the
period of the change.
4. The inventories referred to in paragraph 3(a) are measured at net realisable value at certain stages of production.
This occurs, for example, when agricultural crops have been harvested or minerals have been extracted and sale is
assured under a forward contract or a government guarantee, or when an active market exists and there is a negligible
Page 451/765
----- PAGE 452 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
risk of failure to sell. These inventories are excluded from only the measurement requirements of this Standard.
5. Broker-traders are those who buy or sell commodities for others or on their own account. The inventories referred to
in paragraph 3(b) are principally acquired with the purpose of selling in the near future and generating a profit from
fluctuations in price or broker-traders' margin. When these inventories are measured at fair value less costs to sell, they
are excluded from only the measurement requirements of this Standard.
Definitions
6. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Inventories are assets:
(a)
held for sale in the ordinary course of business;
(b)
in the process of production for such sale; or
(c)
in the form of materials or supplies to be consumed in the production process or in the rendering of services.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. (See Ind AS 113, Fair Value Measurement.)
7. Net realisable value refers to the net amount that an entity expects to realise from the sale of inventory in the ordinary
course of business. Fair value reflects the price at which an orderly transaction to sell the same inventory in the principal
(or most advantageous) market for that inventory would take place between market participants at the measurement
date. The former is an entity-specific value; the latter is not. Net realisable value for inventories may not equal fair value
less costs to sell.
8. [ Inventories encompass goods purchased and held for resale including, for example, merchandise purchased by a
retailer and held for resale, or land and other property held for resale. Inventories also encompass finished goods
produced, or work in progress being produced, by the entity and include materials and supplies awaiting use in the
production process. Costs incurred to fulfil a contract with a customer that do not give rise to inventories (or assets
within the scope of another Standard) are accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with
Customers.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Measurement of inventories
9. Inventories shall be measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of inventories
10. The cost of inventories shall comprise all costs of purchase, costs of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing
the inventories to their present location and condition.
Costs of purchase
11. The costs of purchase of inventories comprise the purchase price, import duties and other taxes (other than those
subsequently recoverable by the entity from the taxing authorities), and transport, handling and other costs directly
attributable to the acquisition of finished goods, materials and services. Trade discounts, rebates and other similar items
are deducted in determining the costs of purchase.
Costs of conversion
12. [ The costs of conversion of inventories include costs directly related to the units of production, such as direct labour.
They also include a systematic allocation of fixed and variable production overheads that are incurred in converting
materials into finished goods. Fixed production overheads are those indirect costs of production that remain relatively
constant regardless of the volume of production, such as depreciation and maintenance of factory buildings, equipment
and right-of-use assets used in the production process, and the cost of factory management and administration. Variable
production overheads are those indirect costs of production that vary directly, or nearly directly, with the volume of
production, such as indirect materials and indirect labour.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
13. The allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion is based on the normal capacity of the
production facilities. Normal capacity is the production expected to be achieved on average over a number of periods or
Page 452/765
----- PAGE 453 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
seasons under normal circumstances, taking into account the loss of capacity resulting from planned maintenance. The
actual level of production may be used if it approximates normal capacity. The amount of fixed overhead allocated to
each unit of production is not increased as a consequence of low production or idle plant. Unallocated overheads are
recognized as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. In periods of abnormally high production, the amount
of fixed overhead allocated to each unit of production is decreased so that inventories are not measured above cost.
Variable production overheads are allocated to each unit of production on the basis of the actual use of the production
facilities.
14. A production process may result in more than one product being produced simultaneously. This is the case, for
example, when joint products are produced or when there is a main product and a by-product. When the costs of
conversion of each product are not separately identifiable, they are allocated between the products on a rational and
consistent basis. The allocation may be based, for example, on the relative sales value of each product either at the
stage in the production process when the products become separately identifiable, or at the completion of production.
Most by-products, by their nature, are immaterial. When this is the case, they are often measured at net realisable value
and this value is deducted from the cost of the main product. As a result, the carrying amount of the main product is not
materially different from its cost.
Other costs
15. Other costs are included in the cost of inventories only to the extent that they are incurred in bringing the inventories
to their present location and condition. For example, it may be appropriate to include non-production overheads or the
costs of designing products for specific customers in the cost of inventories.
16. Examples of costs excluded from the cost of inventories and recognized as expenses in the period in which they are
incurred are:
(a)
abnormal amounts of wasted materials, labour or other production costs;
(b)
storage costs, unless those costs are necessary in the production process before a further production stage;
(c)
administrative overheads that do not contribute to bringing inventories to their present location and condition; and
(d)
selling costs.
17. Ind AS 23, Borrowing Costs, identifies limited circumstances where borrowing costs are included in the cost of
inventories.
18. An entity may purchase inventories on deferred settlement terms. When the arrangement effectively contains a
financing element, that element, for example a difference between the purchase price for normal credit terms and the
amount paid, is recognized as interest expense over the period of the financing.
Cost of inventories of a service provider
19. [***]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Cost of agricultural produce harvested from biological assets
20. In accordance with Ind AS 41, Agriculture, inventories comprising agricultural produce that an entity has harvested
from its biological assets are measured on initial recognition at their fair value less costs to sell at the point of harvest.
This is the cost of the inventories at that date for application of this Standard.
Techniques for the measurement of cost
21. Techniques for the measurement of the cost of inventories, such as the standard cost method or the retail method,
may be used for convenience if the results approximate cost. Standard costs take into account normal levels of
materials and supplies, labour, efficiency and capacity utilisation. They are regularly reviewed and, if necessary, revised
in the light of current conditions.
22. The retail method is often used in the retail industry for measuring inventories of large numbers of rapidly changing
items with similar margins for which it is impracticable to use other costing methods. The cost of the inventory is
determined by reducing the sales value of the inventory by the appropriate percentage gross margin. The percentage
used takes into consideration inventory that has been marked down to below its original selling price. An average
percentage for each retail department is often used.
Page 453/765
----- PAGE 454 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Cost Formulas
23. [ The cost of inventories of items that are not ordinarily interchangeable and goods or services produced and
segregated for specific projects shall be assigned by using specific identification of their individual costs.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
24. Specific identification of cost means that specific costs are attributed to identified items of inventory. This is the
appropriate treatment for items that are segregated for a specific project, regardless of whether they have been bought
or produced. However, specific identification of costs is inappropriate when there are large numbers of items of inventory
that are ordinarily interchangeable. In such circumstances, the method of selecting those items that remain in
inventories could be used to obtain predetermined effects on profit or loss.
25. The cost of inventories, other than those dealt with in paragraph 23, shall be assigned by using the firstin, first-out
(FIFO) or weighted average cost formula. An entity shall use the same cost formula for all inventories having a similar
nature and use to the entity. For inventories with a different nature or use, different cost formulas may be justified.
26. For example, inventories used in one operating segment may have a use to the entity different from the same type of
inventories used in another operating segment. However, a difference in geographical location of inventories (or in the
respective tax rules), by itself, is not sufficient to justify the use of different cost formulas.
27. The FIFO formula assumes that the items of inventory that were purchased or produced first are sold first, and
consequently the items remaining in inventory at the end of the period are those most recently purchased or produced.
Under the weighted average cost formula, the cost of each item is determined from the weighted average of the cost of
similar items at the beginning of a period and the cost of similar items purchased or produced during the period. The
average may be calculated on a periodic basis, or as each additional shipment is received, depending upon the
circumstances of the entity.
Net realisable value
28. The cost of inventories may not be recoverable if those inventories are damaged, if they have become wholly or
partially obsolete, or if their selling prices have declined. The cost of inventories may also not be recoverable if the
estimated costs of completion or the estimated costs to be incurred to make the sale have increased. The practice of
writing inventories down below cost to net realisable value is consistent with the view that assets should not be carried in
excess of amounts expected to be realised from their sale or use.
29. [ Inventories are usually written down to net realisable value item by item. In some circumstances, however, it may
be appropriate to group similar or related items. This may be the case with items of inventory relating to the same
product line that have similar purposes or end uses, are produced and marketed in the same geographical area, and
cannot be practicably evaluated separately from other items in that product line. It is not appropriate to write inventories
down on the basis of a classification of inventory, for example, finished goods, or all the inventories in a particular
operating segment.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
30. Estimates of net realisable value are based on the most reliable evidence available at the time the estimates are
made, of the amount the inventories are expected to realise. These estimates take into consideration fluctuations of
price or cost directly relating to events occurring after the end of the period to the extent that such events confirm
conditions existing at the end of the period.
31. Estimates of net realisable value also take into consideration the purpose for which the inventory is held. For
example, the net realisable value of the quantity of inventory held to satisfy firm sales or service contracts is based on
the contract price. If the sales contracts are for less than the inventory quantities held, the net realisable value of the
excess is based on general selling prices. Provisions may arise from firm sales contracts in excess of inventory
quantities held or from firm purchase contracts. Such provisions are dealt with under Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent
Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
32. Materials and other supplies held for use in the production of inventories are not written down below cost if the
finished products in which they will be incorporated are expected to be sold at or above cost. However, when a decline
in the price of materials indicates that the cost of the finished products exceeds net realisable value, the materials are
written down to net realisable value. In such circumstances, the replacement cost of the materials may be the best
available measure of their net realisable value.
33. A new assessment is made of net realisable value in each subsequent period. When the circumstances that
previously caused inventories to be written down below cost no longer exist or when there is clear evidence of an
Page 454/765
----- PAGE 455 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
increase in net realisable value because of changed economic circumstances, the amount of the write-down is reversed
(i.e. the reversal is limited to the amount of the original write-down) so that the new carrying amount is the lower of the
cost and the revised net realisable value. This occurs, for example, when an item of inventory that is carried at net
realisable value, because its selling price has declined, is still on hand in a subsequent period and its selling price has
increased.
Recognition as an expense
34. When inventories are sold, the carrying amount of those inventories shall be recognized as an expense in the period
in which the related revenue is recognized. The amount of any write-down of inventories to net realisable value and all
losses of inventories shall be recognized as an expense in the period the write-down or loss occurs. The amount of any
reversal of any write-down of inventories, arising from an increase in net realisable value, shall be recognized as a
reduction in the amount of inventories recognized as an expense in the period in which the reversal occurs.
35. Some inventories may be allocated to other asset accounts, for example, inventory used as a component of
self-constructed property, plant or equipment. Inventories allocated to another asset in this way are recognized as an
expense during the useful life of that asset.
Disclosure
36. The financial statements shall disclose:
(a)
the accounting policies adopted in measuring inventories, including the cost formula used;
(b)
the total carrying amount of inventories and the carrying amount in classifications appropriate to the entity;
(c)
the carrying amount of inventories carried at fair value less costs to sell;
(d)
the amount of inventories recognized as an expense during the period;
(e)
the amount of any write-down of inventories recognized as an expense in the period in accordance with paragraph 34;
(f)
the amount of any reversal of any write-down that is recognized as a reduction in the amount of inventories recognized
as expense in the period in accordance with paragraph 34;
(g)
the circumstances or events that led to the reversal of a write-down of inventories in accordance with paragraph 34; and
(h)
the carrying amount of inventories pledged as security for liabilities.
37. [ Information about the carrying amounts held in different classifications of inventories and the extent of the changes
in these assets is useful to financial statement users. Common classifications of inventories are merchandise,
production supplies, materials, work in progress and finished goods.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
38. [Refer Appendix 1]
39. An entity adopts a format for profit or loss that results in amounts being disclosed other than the cost of inventories
recognized as an expense during the period. Under this format, the entity presents an analysis of expenses using a
classification based on the nature of expenses. In this case, the entity discloses the costs recognized as an expense for
raw materials and consumables, labour costs and other costs together with the amount of the net change in inventories
for the period.
[Effective Date
40. *
40A. *
40B. *
40C. *
40D. *
40E.
As a consequence of issuance of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, paragraphs 2, 8, 29, 37 are
Page 455/765
----- PAGE 456 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
amended. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 115.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[40F Omitted *
40G.
Ind AS 116 amended paragraph 12. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies Ind AS 116.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix A
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
This appendix lists the appendix which is a part of another Indian Accounting Standard and makes reference to Ind AS
2, Inventories.
1. Appendix A, Intangible Assets-Web site Costs, contained in Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets.
2. Appendix B, Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine, contained in Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and
Equipment.
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 2 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 2, Inventories, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 2, Inventories
1. Paragraph 38 of IAS 2 dealing with recognition of inventories as an expense based on function-wise classification,
has been deleted keeping in view the fact that option provided in IAS 1 to present an analysis of expenses recognized in
profit or loss using a classification based on their function within the entity has been removed and Ind AS 1 requires only
nature-wise classification of expenses. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 2, the
paragraph number is retained in Ind AS 2.
2. [ Following paragraph numbers appear as `Deleted' in IAS 2.. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 2, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 2:
(i)
Paragraph 2 (a)
(ii)
Paragraph 19.
3. [ Paragraphs 40-40D and 40F related to effective date have not been included in Ind AS 2 as these are not relevant in
Indian context. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 2, these paragraph numbers
are retained in Ind AS 2.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 7
Statement of Cash Flows
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
Information about the cash flows of an entity is useful in providing users of financial statements with a basis to assess
the ability of the entity to generate cash and cash equivalents and the needs of the entity to utilise those cash flows. The
economic decisions that are taken by users require an evaluation of the ability of an entity to generate cash and cash
equivalents and the timing and certainty of their generation.
The objective of this Standard is to require the provision of information about the historical changes in cash and cash
equivalents of an entity by means of a statement of cash flows which classifies cash flows during the period from
operating, investing and financing activities.
Scope
1. An entity shall prepare a statement of cash flows in accordance with the requirements of this Standard and shall
present it as an integral part of its financial statements for each period for which financial statements are presented.
Page 456/765
----- PAGE 457 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
2. [Refer Appendix 1]
3. Users of an entity's financial statements are interested in how the entity generates and uses cash and cash
equivalents. This is the case regardless of the nature of the entity's activities and irrespective of whether cash can be
viewed as the product of the entity, as may be the case with a financial institution. Entities need cash for essentially the
same reasons however different their principal revenue-producing activities might be. They need cash to conduct their
operations, to pay their obligations, and to provide returns to their investors. Accordingly, this Standard requires all
entities to present a statement of cash flows.
Benefits of cash flow information
4. A statement of cash flows, when used in conjunction with the rest of the financial statements, provides information
that enables users to evaluate the changes in net assets of an entity, its financial structure (including its liquidity and
solvency) and its ability to affect the amounts and timing of cash flows in order to adapt to changing circumstances and
opportunities. Cash flow information is useful in assessing the ability of the entity to generate cash and cash equivalents
and enables users to develop models to assess and compare the present value of the future cash flows of different
entities. It also enhances the comparability of the reporting of operating performance by different entities because it
eliminates the effects of using different accounting treatments for the same transactions and events.
5. Historical cash flow information is often used as an indicator of the amount, timing and certainty of future cash flows. It
is also useful in checking the accuracy of past assessments of future cash flows and in examining the relationship
between profitability and net cash flow and the impact of changing prices.
Definitions
6. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and
which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash flows are inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents.
Operating activities are the principal revenue-producing activities of the entity and other activities that are not investing
or financing activities.
Investing activities are the acquisition and disposal of long-term assets and other investments not included in cash
equivalents.
Financing activities are activities that result in changes in the size and composition of the contributed equity and
borrowings of the entity.
Cash and cash equivalents
7. Cash equivalents are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments rather than for investment or
other purposes. For an investment to qualify as a cash equivalent it must be readily convertible to a known amount of
cash and be subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Therefore, an investment normally qualifies as a cash
equivalent only when it has a short maturity of, say, three months or less from the date of acquisition. Equity investments
are excluded from cash equivalents unless they are, in substance, cash equivalents, for example in the case of
preference shares acquired within a short period of their maturity and with a specified redemption date.
8. Bank borrowings are generally considered to be financing activities. However, where bank overdrafts which are
repayable on demand form an integral part of an entity's cash management, bank overdrafts are included as a
component of cash and cash equivalents. A characteristic of such banking arrangements is that the bank balance often
fluctuates from being positive to overdrawn.
9. Cash flows exclude movements between items that constitute cash or cash equivalents because these components
are part of the cash management of an entity rather than part of its operating, investing and financing activities. Cash
management includes the investment of excess cash in cash equivalents.
Presentation of a statement of cash flows
10. The statement of cash flows shall report cash flows during the period classified by operating, investing and financing
activities.
11. An entity presents its cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities in a manner which is most
appropriate to its business. Classification by activity provides information that allows users to assess the impact of those
activities on the financial position of the entity and the amount of its cash and cash equivalents. This information may
also be used to evaluate the relationships among those activities.
Page 457/765
----- PAGE 458 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
12. A single transaction may include cash flows that are classified differently. For example, when the instalment paid in
respect of an item of Property, Plant and Equipment acquired on deferred payment basis includes interest, the interest
element is classified under financing activities and the loan element is classified under investing activities.
Operating activities
13. The amount of cash flows arising from operating activities is a key indicator of the extent to which the operations of
the entity have generated sufficient cash flows to repay loans, maintain the operating capability of the entity, pay
dividends and make new investments without recourse to external sources of financing. Information about the specific
components of historical operating cash flows is useful, in conjunction with other information, in forecasting future
operating cash flows.
14. Cash flows from operating activities are primarily derived from the principal revenue-producing activities of the entity.
Therefore, they generally result from the transactions and other events that enter into the determination of profit or loss.
Examples of cash flows from operating activities are:
(a)
cash receipts from the sale of goods and the rendering of services;
(b)
cash receipts from royalties, fees, commissions and other revenue;
(c)
cash payments to suppliers for goods and services;
(d)
cash payments to and on behalf of employees;
(e)
cash receipts and cash payments of an insurance entity for premiums and claims, annuities and other policy benefits;
(f)
cash payments or refunds of income taxes unless they can be specifically identified with financing and investing
activities; and
(g)
cash receipts and payments from contracts held for dealing or trading purposes.
Some transactions, such as the sale of an item of plant, may give rise to a gain or loss that is included in recognized
profit or loss. The cash flows relating to such transactions are cash flows from investing activities. However, cash
payments to manufacture or acquire assets held for rental to others and subsequently held for sale as described in
paragraph 68A of Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment, are cash flows from operating activities. The cash receipts
from rents and subsequent sales of such assets are also cash flows from operating activities.
15. An entity may hold securities and loans for dealing or trading purposes, in which case they are similar to inventory
acquired specifically for resale. Therefore, cash flows arising from the purchase and sale of dealing or trading securities
are classified as operating activities. Similarly, cash advances and loans made by financial institutions are usually
classified as operating activities since they relate to the main revenue producing activity of that entity.
Investing activities
16. The separate disclosure of cash flows arising from investing activities is important because the cash flows represent
the extent to which expenditures have been made for resources intended to generate future income and cash flows.
Only expenditures that result in a recognized asset in the balance sheet are eligible for classification as investing
activities. Examples of cash flows arising from investing activities are:
(a)
cash payments to acquire property, plant and equipment, intangibles and other long-term assets. These payments
include those relating to capitalised development costs and self-constructed property, plant and equipment;
(b)
cash receipts from sales of property, plant and equipment, intangibles and other long-term assets;
(c)
cash payments to acquire equity or debt instruments of other entities and interests in joint ventures (other than
payments for those instruments considered to be cash equivalents or those held for dealing or trading purposes);
(d)
cash receipts from sales of equity or debt instruments of other entities and interests in joint ventures (other than receipts
Page 458/765
----- PAGE 459 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
for those instruments considered to be cash equivalents and those held for dealing or trading purposes);
(e)
cash advances and loans made to other parties (other than advances and loans made by a financial institution);
(f)
cash receipts from the repayment of advances and loans made to other parties (other than advances and loans of a
financial institution);
(g)
cash payments for futures contracts, forward contracts, option contracts and swap contracts except when the contracts
are held for dealing or trading purposes, or the payments are classified as financing activities; and
(h)
cash receipts from futures contracts, forward contracts, option contracts and swap contracts except when the contracts
are held for dealing or trading purposes, or the receipts are classified as financing activities.
When a contract is accounted for as a hedge of an identifiable position the cash flows of the contract are classified in the
same manner as the cash flows of the position being hedged.
Financing activities
17. The separate disclosure of cash flows arising from financing activities is important because it is useful in predicting
claims on future cash flows by providers of capital to the entity. Examples of cash flows arising from financing activities
are:
(a)
cash proceeds from issuing shares or other equity instruments;
(b)
cash payments to owners to acquire or redeem the entity's shares;
(c)
[ cash payments by a lessee for the reduction of the outstanding liability relating to a lease.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(d)
cash repayments of amounts borrowed; and
(e)
cash payments by a lessee for the reduction of the outstanding liability relating to a finance lease.
Reporting cash flows from operating activities
18. An entity shall report cash flows from operating activities using either:
(a)
the direct method, whereby major classes of gross cash receipts and gross cash payments are disclosed; or
(b)
the indirect method, whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the effects of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals
or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or payments, and items of income or expense associated with
investing or financing cash flows.
19. Entities are encouraged to report cash flows from operating activities using the direct method. The direct method
provides information which may be useful in estimating future cash flows and which is not available under the indirect
method. Under the direct method, information about major classes of gross cash receipts and gross cash payments may
be obtained either:
(a)
from the accounting records of the entity; or
(b)
by adjusting sales, cost of sales (interest and similar income and interest expense and similar charges for a financial
institution) and other items in the statement of profit and loss for:
(i)
changes during the period in inventories and operating receivables and payables;
(ii)
other non-cash items; and
(iii)
Page 459/765
----- PAGE 460 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
other items for which the cash effects are investing or financing cash flows.
20. Under the indirect method, the net cash flow from operating activities is determined by adjusting profit or loss for the
effects of:
(a)
changes during the period in inventories and operating receivables and payables;
(b)
non-cash items such as depreciation, provisions, deferred taxes, unrealised foreign currency gains and losses, and
undistributed profits of associates; and
(c)
all other items for which the cash effects are investing or financing cash flows.
Alternatively, the net cash flow from operating activities may be presented under the indirect method by showing the
revenues and expenses disclosed in the statement of profit and loss and the changes during the period in inventories
and operating receivables and payables.
Reporting cash flows from investing and financing activities
21. An entity shall report separately major classes of gross cash receipts and gross cash payments arising from
investing and financing activities, except to the extent that cash flows described in paragraphs 22 and 24 are reported
on a net basis.
Reporting cash flows on a net basis
22. Cash flows arising from the following operating, investing or financing activities may be reported on a net basis:
(a)
cash receipts and payments on behalf of customers when the cash flows reflect the activities of the customer rather than
those of the entity; and
(b)
cash receipts and payments for items in which the turnover is quick, the amounts are large, and the maturities are short.
23. Examples of cash receipts and payments referred to in paragraph 22(a) are:
(a)
the acceptance and repayment of demand deposits of a bank;
(b)
funds held for customers by an investment entity; and
(c)
rents collected on behalf of, and paid over to, the owners of properties.
23A. Examples of cash receipts and payments referred to in paragraph 22(b) are advances made for, and the
repayment of:
(a)
principal amounts relating to credit card customers;
(b)
the purchase and sale of investments; and
(c)
other short-term borrowings, for example, those which have a maturity period of three months or less.
24. Cash flows arising from each of the following activities of a financial institution may be reported on a net basis:
(a)
cash receipts and payments for the acceptance and repayment of deposits with a fixed maturity date;
(b)
the placement of deposits with and withdrawal of deposits from other financial institutions; and
(c)
cash advances and loans made to customers and the repayment of those advances and loans.
Foreign currency cash flows
25. Cash flows arising from transactions in a foreign currency shall be recorded in an entity's functional currency by
applying to the foreign currency amount the exchange rate between the functional currency and the foreign currency at
the date of the cash flow.
26. The cash flows of a foreign subsidiary shall be translated at the exchange rates between the functional currency and
Page 460/765
----- PAGE 461 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the foreign currency at the dates of the cash flows.
27. Cash flows denominated in a foreign currency are reported in a manner consistent with Ind AS 21, The Effects of
Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. This permits the use of an exchange rate that approximates the actual rate. For
example, a weighted average exchange rate for a period may be used for recording foreign currency transactions or the
translation of the cash flows of a foreign subsidiary. However, Ind AS 21 does not permit use of the exchange rate at the
end of the reporting period when translating the cash flows of a foreign subsidiary.
28. Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not cash flows. However,
the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents held or due in a foreign currency is reported in the
statement of cash flows in order to reconcile cash and cash equivalents at the beginning and the end of the period. This
amount is presented separately from cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities and includes the
differences, if any, had those cash flows been reported at end of period exchange rates.
29. [Refer Appendix 1]
30. [Refer Appendix 1]
Interest and dividends
31. Cash flows from interest and dividends received and paid shall each be disclosed separately. Cash flows arising
from interest paid and interest and dividends received in the case of a financial institution should be classified as cash
flows arising from operating activities. In the case of other entities, cash flows arising from interest paid should be
classified as cash flows from financing activities while interest and dividends received should be classified as cash flows
from investing activities. Dividends paid should be classified as cash flows from financing activities.
32. The total amount of interest paid during a period is disclosed in the statement of cash flows whether it has been
recognized as an expense in profit or loss or capitalised in accordance with Ind AS 23, Borrowing Costs.
33. Interest paid and interest and dividends received are usually classified as operating cash flows for a financial
institution. However, there is no consensus on the classification of these cash flows for other entities. Some argue that
interest paid and interest and dividends received may be classified as operating cash flows because they enter into the
determination of profit or loss. However, it is more appropriate that interest paid and interest and dividends received are
classified as financing cash flows and investing cash flows respectively, because they are costs of obtaining financial
resources or returns on investments.
34. Some argue that dividends paid may be classified as a component of cash flows from operating activities in order to
assist users to determine the ability of an entity to pay dividends out of operating cash flows. However, it is considered
more appropriate that dividends paid should be classified as cash flows from financing activities because they are cost
of obtaining financial resources.
Taxes on income
35. Cash flows arising from taxes on income shall be separately disclosed and shall be classified as cash flows from
operating activities unless they can be specifically identified with financing and investing activities.
36. Taxes on income arise on transactions that give rise to cash flows that are classified as operating, investing or
financing activities in a statement of cash flows. While tax expense may be readily identifiable with investing or financing
activities, the related tax cash flows are often impracticable to identify and may arise in a different period from the cash
flows of the underlying transaction. Therefore, taxes paid are usually classified as cash flows from operating activities.
However, when it is practicable to identify the tax cash flow with an individual transaction that gives rise to cash flows
that are classified as investing or financing activities the tax cash flow is classified as an investing or financing activity as
appropriate. When tax cash flows are allocated over more than one class of activity, the total amount of taxes paid is
disclosed.
Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
37. When accounting for an investment in an associate, a joint venture or a subsidiary accounted for by use of the equity
or cost method, an investor restricts its reporting in the statement of cash flows to the cash flows between itself and the
investee, for example, to dividends and advances.
38. An entity that reports its interest in an associate or a joint venture using the equity method includes in its statement
of cash flows the cash flows in respect of its investments in the associate or joint venture, and distributions and other
payments or receipts between it and the associate or joint venture.
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries and other businesses
39. The aggregate cash flows arising from obtaining or losing control of subsidiaries or other businesses shall be
Page 461/765
----- PAGE 462 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
presented separately and classified as investing activities.
40. An entity shall disclose, in aggregate, in respect of both obtaining and losing control of subsidiaries or other
businesses during the period each of the following:
(a)
the total consideration paid or received;
(b)
the portion of the consideration consisting of cash and cash equivalents;
(c)
the amount of cash and cash equivalents in the subsidiaries or other businesses over which control is obtained or lost;
and
(d)
the amount of the assets and liabilities other than cash or cash equivalents in the subsidiaries or other businesses over
which control is obtained or lost, summarised by each major category.
40A. An investment entity, as defined in Ind AS 110, Consolidated Financial Statements, need not apply paragraphs
40(c) or 40(d) to an investment in a subsidiary that is required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss.
41. The separate presentation of the cash flow effects of obtaining or losing control of subsidiaries or other businesses
as single line items, together with the separate disclosure of the amounts of assets and liabilities acquired or disposed
of, helps to distinguish those cash flows from the cash flows arising from the other operating, investing and financing
activities. The cash flow effects of losing control are not deducted from those of obtaining control.
42. The aggregate amount of the cash paid or received as consideration for obtaining or losing control of subsidiaries or
other businesses is reported in the statement of cash flows net of cash and cash equivalents acquired or disposed of as
part of such transactions, events or changes in circumstances.
42A. Cash flows arising from changes in ownership interests in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control shall be
classified as cash flows from financing activities , unless the subsidiary is held by an investment entity, as defined in Ind
AS 110, and is required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss.
42B. Changes in ownership interests in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control, such as the subsequent
purchase or sale by a parent of a subsidiary's equity instruments, are accounted for as equity transactions (see Ind AS
110), unless the subsidiary is held by an investment entity and is required to be measured at fair value through profit or
loss. Accordingly, the resulting cash flows are classified in the same way as other transactions with owners described in
paragraph 17.
Non-cash transactions
43. Investing and financing transactions that do not require the use of cash or cash equivalents shall be excluded from a
statement of cash flows. Such transactions shall be disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements in a way that
provides all the relevant information about these investing and financing activities.
44. Many investing and financing activities do not have a direct impact on current cash flows although they do affect the
capital and asset structure of an entity. The exclusion of non-cash transactions from the statement of cash flows is
consistent with the objective of a statement of cash flows as these items do not involve cash flows in the current period.
Examples of non-cash transactions are:
(a)
[ the acquisition of assets either by assuming directly related liabilities or by means of a lease;]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b)
the acquisition of an entity by means of an equity issue; and
(c)
the conversion of debt to equity.
[Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 258(E), dated 17.3.2017 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
44A.
An entity shall provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from
financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes.
44B.
Page 462/765
----- PAGE 463 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
To the extent necessary to satisfy the requirement in paragraph 44A, an entity shall disclose the following changes in
liabilities arising from financing activities:
(a)
changes from financing cash flows;
(b)
changes arising from obtaining or losing control of subsidiaries or other businesses;
(c)
the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates;
(d)
changes in fair values; and
(e)
other changes.
44C.
Liabilities arising from financing activities are liabilities for which cash flows were, or future cash flows will be, classified
in the statement of cash flows as cash flows from financing activities. In addition, the disclosure requirement in
paragraph 44A also applies to changes in financial assets (for example, assets that hedge liabilities arising from
financing activities) if cash flows from those financial assets were, or future cash flows will be, included in cash flows
from financing activities.
44D.
One way to fulfil the disclosure requirement in paragraph 44A is by providing a reconciliation between the opening and
closing balances in the balance sheet for liabilities arising from financing activities, including the changes identified in
paragraph 44B. Where an entity discloses such a reconciliation, it shall provide sufficient information to enable users of
the financial statements to link items included in the reconciliation to the balance sheet and the statement of cash flows.
44E.
If an entity provides the disclosure required by paragraph 44A in combination with disclosures of changes in other
assets and liabilities, it shall disclose the changes in liabilities arising from financing activities separately from changes in
those other assets and liabilities.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Components of cash and cash equivalents
45. An entity shall disclose the components of cash and cash equivalents and shall present a reconciliation of the
amounts in its statement of cash flows with the equivalent items reported in the balance sheet.
46. In view of the variety of cash management practices and banking arrangements around the world and in order to
comply with Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, an entity discloses the policy which it adopts in determining
the composition of cash and cash equivalents.
47. The effect of any change in the policy for determining components of cash and cash equivalents, for example, a
change in the classification of financial instruments previously considered to be part of an entity's investment portfolio, is
reported in accordance with Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
Other disclosures
48. [An entity shall disclose, together with a commentary by management, the amount of significant cash and cash
equivalent balances held by the entity that are not available for use by the group]
[The requirements shall be equally applicable to the entities in case of separate financial statements also.]
.
49. [There are various circumstances in which cash and cash equivalent balances held by an entity are not available for
use by the group]
[The requirements shall be equally applicable to the entities in case of separate financial statements also.]
. Examples include cash and cash equivalent balances held by a subsidiary that operates in a country where exchange
controls or other legal restrictions apply when the balances are not available for general use by the parent or other
subsidiaries.
50. Additional information may be relevant to users in understanding the financial position and liquidity of an entity.
Disclosure of this information, together with a commentary by management, is encouraged and may include:
(a)
Page 463/765
----- PAGE 464 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the amount of undrawn borrowing facilities that may be available for future operating activities and to settle capital
commitments, indicating any restrictions on the use of these facilities;
(b)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(c)
the aggregate amount of cash flows that represent increases in operating capacity separately from those cash flows that
are required to maintain operating capacity; and
(d)
the amount of the cash flows arising from the operating, investing and financing activities of each reportable segment
(see Ind AS 108, Operating Segments).
51. The separate disclosure of cash flows that represent increases in operating capacity and cash flows that are
required to maintain operating capacity is useful in enabling the user to determine whether the entity is investing
adequately in the maintenance of its operating capacity. An entity that does not invest adequately in the maintenance of
its operating capacity may be prejudicing future profitability for the sake of current liquidity and distributions to owners.
52. The disclosure of segmental cash flows enables users to obtain a better understanding of the relationship between
the cash flows of the business as a whole and those of its component parts and the availability and variability of
segmental cash flows.
[Effective date
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 258(E), dated 17.3.2017 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[53-58]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[Refer Appendix 1]
59. [ Ind 116, Leases, amended paragraphs 17 and 44. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS
116.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
60. Paragraphs 44A-44E have been added. When the entity first applies these amendments, it is not required to provide
comparative information for preceding periods. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on
or after 1 April, 2017.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix 1
Note : This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 7 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 7, Statement of Cash Flows, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows
Ind AS 7 differs from International Accounting Standard (IAS) 7, Statement of Cash Flows, in the following major
respects:
1. In case of other than financial entities, IAS 7 gives an option to classify the interest paid and interest and dividends
received as item of operating cash flows. Ind AS 7 does not provide such an option and requires these item to be
classified as item of financing activity and investing activity, respectively (refer to the paragraph 33).
2. IAS 7 gives an option to classify the dividend paid as an item of operating activity. However, Ind AS 7 requires it to be
classified as a part of financing activity only (refer paragraph 34).
3. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'.
4. Paragraph 2 of IAS 7 which states that IAS 7 supersedes the earlier version IAS 7 is deleted in Ind AS 7 as this is not
relevant in Ind AS 7. However, paragraph number 2 is retained in Ind AS 7 to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 7.
5. The following paragraph numbers appear as 'Deleted' in IAS 7. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 7, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 7:
(i)
paragraph 29
(ii)
Page 464/765
----- PAGE 465 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
paragraph 30
(iii)
paragraph 50(b)
6. [ Paragraphs 53-58 of IAS 7 have not been included in Ind AS 7 as these paragraphs relate to Effective Date.
However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 7, these paragraph numbers are retained in
Ind AS 7.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 8
Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the criteria for selecting and changing accounting policies, together with
the accounting treatment and disclosure of changes in accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and
corrections of errors. The Standard is intended to enhance the relevance and reliability of an entity's financial
statements, and the comparability of those financial statements over time and with the financial statements of other
entities.
2. Disclosure requirements for accounting policies, except those for changes in accounting policies, are set out in Ind AS
1, Presentation of Financial Statements.
Scope
3. This Standard shall be applied in selecting and applying accounting policies, and accounting for changes in
accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and corrections of prior period errors.
4. The tax effects of corrections of prior period errors and of retrospective adjustments made to apply changes in
accounting policies are accounted for and disclosed in accordance with Ind AS 12, Income Taxes.
Definitions
5. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Accounting policies are the specific principles, bases, conventions, rules and practices applied by an entity in preparing
and presenting financial statements.
A change in accounting estimate is an adjustment of the carrying amount of an asset or a liability, or the amount of the
periodic consumption of an asset, that results from the assessment of the present status of, and expected future benefits
and obligations associated with, assets and liabilities. Changes in accounting estimates result from new information or
new developments and, accordingly, are not corrections of errors.
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind ASs) are Standards prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Material Omissions or misstatements of items are material if they could, individually or collectively, influence the
economic decisions that users make on the basis of the financial statements. Materiality depends on the size and nature
of the omission or misstatement judged in the surrounding circumstances. The size or nature of the item, or a
combination of both, could be the determining factor.
Prior period errors are omissions from, and misstatements in, the entity's financial statements for one or more prior
periods arising from a failure to use, or misuse of, reliable information that:
(a)
was available when financial statements for those periods were approved for issue; and
(b)
could reasonably be expected to have been obtained and taken into account in the preparation and presentation of
those financial statements.
Such errors include the effects of mathematical mistakes, mistakes in applying accounting policies, oversights or
misinterpretations of facts, and fraud.
Retrospective application is applying a new accounting policy to transactions, other events and conditions as if that
policy had always been applied.
Retrospective restatement is correcting the recognition, measurement and disclosure of amounts of elements of
financial statements as if a prior period error had never occurred.
Impracticable Applying a requirement is impracticable when the entity cannot apply it after making every reasonable
Page 465/765
----- PAGE 466 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
effort to do so. For a particular prior period, it is impracticable to apply a change in an accounting policy retrospectively
or to make a retrospective restatement to correct an error if:
(a)
the effects of the retrospective application or retrospective restatement are not determinable;
(b)
the retrospective application or retrospective restatement requires assumptions about what management's intent would
have been in that period; or
(c)
the retrospective application or retrospective restatement requires significant estimates of amounts and it is impossible
to distinguish objectively information about those estimates that:
(i)
provides evidence of circumstances that existed on the date(s) as at which those amounts are to be recognized,
measured or disclosed; and
(ii)
would have been available when the financial statements for that prior period were approved for issue from other
information.
Prospective application of a change in accounting policy and of recognising the effect of a change in an accounting
estimate, respectively, are:
(a)
applying the new accounting policy to transactions, other events and conditions occurring after the date as at which the
policy is changed; and
(b)
recognising the effect of the change in the accounting estimate in the current and future periods affected by the change.
6. Assessing whether an omission or misstatement could influence economic decisions of users, and so be material,
requires consideration of the characteristics of those users. The Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of
Financial Statements in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of India states in paragraph 25 that 'users are assumed to have a reasonable knowledge of business and economic
activities and accounting and a willingness to study the information with reasonable diligence.' Therefore, the
assessment needs to take into account how users with such attributes could reasonably be expected to be influenced in
making economic decisions.
Accounting policies
Selection and application of accounting policies
7. When an Ind AS specifically applies to a transaction, other event or condition, the accounting policy or policies applied
to that item shall be determined by applying the Ind AS.
8. Ind ASs set out accounting policies that result in financial statements containing relevant and reliable information
about the transactions, other events and conditions to which they apply. Those policies need not be applied when the
effect of applying them is immaterial. However, it is inappropriate to make, or leave uncorrected, immaterial departures
from Ind ASs to achieve a particular presentation of an entity's financial position, financial performance or cash flows.
9. Ind ASs are accompanied by guidance that is integral part of Ind AS to assist entities in applying their requirements.
Such guidance is mandatory.
10. In the absence of an Ind AS that specifically applies to a transaction, other event or condition, management shall use
its judgement in developing and applying an accounting policy that results in information that is:
(a)
relevant to the economic decision-making needs of users; and
(b)
reliable, in that the financial statements:
(i)
represent faithfully the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the entity;
(ii)
reflect the economic substance of transactions, other events and conditions, and not merely the legal form;
(iii)
Page 466/765
----- PAGE 467 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
are neutral, i.e. free from bias;
(iv)
are prudent; and
(v)
are complete in all material respects.
11. In making the judgement described in paragraph 10, management shall refer to, and consider the applicability of, the
following sources in descending order:
(a)
the requirements in Ind ASs dealing with similar and related issues; and
(b)
the definitions, recognition criteria and measurement concepts for assets, liabilities, income and expenses in the
Framework.
12. In making the judgement described in paragraph 10, management may also first consider the most recent
pronouncements of International Accounting Standards Board and in absence thereof those of the other
standard-setting bodies that use a similar conceptual framework to develop accounting standards, other accounting
literature and accepted industry practices, to the extent that these do not conflict with the sources in paragraph 11.
Consistency of accounting policies
13. An entity shall select and apply its accounting policies consistently for similar transactions, other events and
conditions, unless an Ind AS specifically requires or permits categorisation of items for which different policies may be
appropriate. If an Ind AS requires or permits such categorisation, an appropriate accounting policy shall be selected and
applied consistently to each category.
Changes in accounting policies
14. An entity shall change an accounting policy only if the change:
(a)
is required by an Ind AS; or
(b)
results in the financial statements providing reliable and more relevant information about the effects of transactions,
other events or conditions on the entity's financial position, financial performance or cash flows.
15. Users of financial statements need to be able to compare the financial statements of an entity over time to identify
trends in its financial position, financial performance and cash flows. Therefore, the same accounting policies are
applied within each period and from one period to the next unless a change in accounting policy meets one of the
criteria in paragraph 14.
16. The following are not changes in accounting policies:
(a)
the application of an accounting policy for transactions, other events or conditions that differ in substance from those
previously occurring; and
(b)
the application of a new accounting policy for transactions, other events or conditions that did not occur previously or
were immaterial.
17. The initial application of a policy to revalue assets in accordance with Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment, or
Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets, is a change in an accounting policy to be dealt with as a revaluation in accordance with Ind
AS 16 or Ind AS 38, rather than in accordance with this Standard.
18. Paragraphs 19-31 do not apply to the change in accounting policy described in paragraph 17.
Applying changes in accounting policies
19. Subject to paragraph 23:
(a)
an entity shall account for a change in accounting policy resulting from the initial application of an Ind AS in accordance
with the specific transitional provisions, if any, in that Ind AS; and
(b)
when an entity changes an accounting policy upon initial application of an Ind AS that does not include specific
transitional provisions applying to that change, or changes an accounting policy voluntarily, it shall apply the change
Page 467/765
----- PAGE 468 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
retrospectively.
20. For the purpose of this Standard, early application of an Ind AS is not a voluntary change in accounting policy.
21. In the absence of an Ind AS that specifically applies to a transaction, other event or condition, management may, in
accordance with paragraph 12, apply an accounting policy from the most recent pronouncements of International
Accounting Standards Board and in absence thereof those of the other standard-setting bodies that use a similar
conceptual framework to develop accounting standards. If, following an amendment of such a pronouncement, the entity
chooses to change an accounting policy, that change is accounted for and disclosed as a voluntary change in
accounting policy.
Retrospective application
22. Subject to paragraph 23, when a change in accounting policy is applied retrospectively in accordance with
paragraph 19(a) or (b), the entity shall adjust the opening balance of each affected component of equity for the earliest
prior period presented and the other comparative amounts disclosed for each prior period presented as if the new
accounting policy had always been applied.
Limitations on retrospective application
23. When retrospective application is required by paragraph 19(a) or (b), a change in accounting policy shall be applied
retrospectively except to the extent that it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the
cumulative effect of the change.
24. When it is impracticable to determine the period-specific effects of changing an accounting policy on comparative
information for one or more prior periods presented, the entity shall apply the new accounting policy to the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities as at the beginning of the earliest period for which retrospective application is
practicable, which may be the current period, and shall make a corresponding adjustment to the opening balance of
each affected component of equity for that period.
25. When it is impracticable to determine the cumulative effect, at the beginning of the current period, of applying a new
accounting policy to all prior periods, the entity shall adjust the comparative information to apply the new accounting
policy prospectively from the earliest date practicable.
26. When an entity applies a new accounting policy retrospectively, it applies the new accounting policy to comparative
information for prior periods as far back as is practicable. Retrospective application to a prior period is not practicable
unless it is practicable to determine the cumulative effect on the amounts in both the opening and closing balance
sheets for that period. The amount of the resulting adjustment relating to periods before those presented in the financial
statements is made to the opening balance of each affected component of equity of the earliest prior period presented.
Usually the adjustment is made to retained earnings. However, the adjustment may be made to another component of
equity (for example, to comply with an Ind AS). Any other information about prior periods, such as historical summaries
of financial data, is also adjusted as far back as is practicable.
27. When it is impracticable for an entity to apply a new accounting policy retrospectively, because it cannot determine
the cumulative effect of applying the policy to all prior periods, the entity, in accordance with paragraph 25, applies the
new policy prospectively from the start of the earliest period practicable. It therefore disregards the portion of the
cumulative adjustment to assets, liabilities and equity arising before that date. Changing an accounting policy is
permitted even if it is impracticable to apply the policy prospectively for any prior period. Paragraphs 50-53 provide
guidance on when it is impracticable to apply a new accounting policy to one or more prior periods.
Disclosure
28. When initial application of an Ind AS has an effect on the current period or any prior period, would have such an
effect except that it is impracticable to determine the amount of the adjustment, or might have an effect on future
periods, an entity shall disclose:
(a)
the title of the Ind AS;
(b)
when applicable, that the change in accounting policy is made in accordance with its transitional provisions;
(c)
the nature of the change in accounting policy;
(d)
when applicable, a description of the transitional provisions;
Page 468/765
----- PAGE 469 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(e)
when applicable, the transitional provisions that might have an effect on future periods;
(f)
for the current period and each prior period presented, to the extent practicable, the amount of the adjustment:
(i)
for each financial statement line item affected; and
(ii)
if Ind AS 33, Earnings per Share, applies to the entity, for basic and diluted earnings per share;
(g)
the amount of the adjustment relating to periods before those presented, to the extent practicable; and
(h)
if retrospective application required by paragraph 19(a) or (b) is impracticable for a particular prior period, or for periods
before those presented, the circumstances that led to the existence of that condition and a description of how and from
when the change in accounting policy has been applied.
Financial statements of subsequent periods need not repeat these disclosures.
29. When a voluntary change in accounting policy has an effect on the current period or any prior period, would have an
effect on that period except that it is impracticable to determine the amount of the adjustment, or might have an effect on
future periods, an entity shall disclose:
(a)
the nature of the change in accounting policy;
(b)
the reasons why applying the new accounting policy provides reliable and more relevant information;
(c)
for the current period and each prior period presented, to the extent practicable, the amount of the adjustment:
(i)
for each financial statement line item affected; and
(ii)
if Ind AS 33 applies to the entity, for basic and diluted earnings per share;
(d)
the amount of the adjustment relating to periods before those presented, to the extent practicable; and
(e)
if retrospective application is impracticable for a particular prior period, or for periods before those presented, the
circumstances that led to the existence of that condition and a description of how and from when the change in
accounting policy has been applied.
Financial statements of subsequent periods need not repeat these disclosures.
30. When an entity has not applied a new Ind AS that has been issued but is not yet effective, the entity shall disclose:
(a)
this fact; and
(b)
known or reasonably estimable information relevant to assessing the possible impact that application of the new Ind AS
will have on the entity's financial statements in the period of initial application.
31. In complying with paragraph 30, an entity considers disclosing:
(a)
the title of the new Ind AS;
(b)
the nature of the impending change or changes in accounting policy;
(c)
the date by which application of the Ind AS is required;
(d)
the date as at which it plans to apply the Ind AS initially; and
(e)
Page 469/765
----- PAGE 470 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
either:
(i)
a discussion of the impact that initial application of the Ind AS is expected to have on the entity's financial statements; or
(ii)
if that impact is not known or reasonably estimable, a statement to that effect.
Changes in accounting estimates
32. As a result of the uncertainties inherent in business activities, many items in financial statements cannot be
measured with precision but can only be estimated. Estimation involves judgements based on the latest available,
reliable information. For example, estimates may be required of:
(a)
bad debts;
(b)
inventory obsolescence;
(c)
the fair value of financial assets or financial liabilities;
(d)
the useful lives of, or expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in, depreciable assets;
and
(e)
warranty obligations.
33. The use of reasonable estimates is an essential part of the preparation of financial statements and does not
undermine their reliability.
34. An estimate may need revision if changes occur in the circumstances on which the estimate was based or as a
result of new information or more experience. By its nature, the revision of an estimate does not relate to prior periods
and is not the correction of an error.
35. A change in the measurement basis applied is a change in an accounting policy, and is not a change in an
accounting estimate. When it is difficult to distinguish a change in an accounting policy from a change in an accounting
estimate, the change is treated as a change in an accounting estimate.
36. The effect of change in an accounting estimate, other than a change to which paragraph 37 applies, shall be
recognized prospectively by including it in profit or loss in:
(a)
the period of the change, if the change affects that period only; or
(b)
the period of the change and future periods, if the change affects both.
37. To the extent that a change in an accounting estimate gives rise to changes in assets and liabilities, or relates to an
item of equity, it shall be recognized by adjusting the carrying amount of the related asset, liability or equity item in the
period of the change.
38. Prospective recognition of the effect of a change in an accounting estimate means that the change is applied to
transactions, other events and conditions from the date of the change in estimate. A change in an accounting estimate
may affect only the current period's profit or loss, or the profit or loss of both the current period and future periods. For
example, a change in the estimate of the amount of bad debts affects only the current period's profit or loss and
therefore is recognized in the current period. However, a change in the estimated useful life of, or the expected pattern
of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in, a depreciable asset affects depreciation expense for the
current period and for each future period during the asset's remaining useful life. In both cases, the effect of the change
relating to the current period is recognized as income or expense in the current period. The effect, if any, on future
periods is recognized as income or expense in those future periods.
Disclosure
39. An entity shall disclose the nature and amount of a change in an accounting estimate that has an effect in the
current period or is expected to have an effect in future periods, except for the disclosure of the effect on future periods
when it is impracticable to estimate that effect.
40. If the amount of the effect in future periods is not disclosed because estimating it is impracticable, an entity shall
Page 470/765
----- PAGE 471 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
disclose that fact.
Errors
41. Errors can arise in respect of the recognition, measurement, presentation or disclosure of elements of financial
statements. Financial statements do not comply with Ind ASs if they contain either material errors or immaterial errors
made intentionally to achieve a particular presentation of an entity's financial position, financial performance or cash
flows. Potential current period errors discovered in that period are corrected before the financial statements are
approved for issue. However, material errors are sometimes not discovered until a subsequent period, and these prior
period errors are corrected in the comparative information presented in the financial statements for that subsequent
period (see paragraphs 42-47).
42. Subject to paragraph 43, an entity shall correct material prior period errors retrospectively in the first set of financial
statements approved for issue after their discovery by:
(a)
restating the comparative amounts for the prior period(s) presented in which the error occurred; or
(b)
if the error occurred before the earliest prior period presented, restating the opening balances of assets, liabilities and
equity for the earliest prior period presented.
Limitations on retrospective restatement
43. A prior period error shall be corrected by retrospective restatement except to the extent that it is impracticable to
determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the error.
44. When it is impracticable to determine the period-specific effects of an error on comparative information for one or
more prior periods presented, the entity shall restate the opening balances of assets, liabilities and equity for the earliest
period for which retrospective restatement is practicable (which may be the current period).
45. When it is impracticable to determine the cumulative effect, at the beginning of the current period, of an error on all
prior periods, the entity shall restate the comparative information to correct the error prospectively from the earliest date
practicable.
46. The correction of a prior period error is excluded from profit or loss for the period in which the error is discovered.
Any information presented about prior periods, including any historical summaries of financial data, is restated as far
back as is practicable.
47. When it is impracticable to determine the amount of an error (e.g. a mistake in applying an accounting policy) for all
prior periods, the entity, in accordance with paragraph 45, restates the comparative information prospectively from the
earliest date practicable. It therefore disregards the portion of the cumulative restatement of assets, liabilities and equity
arising before that date. Paragraphs 50-53 provide guidance on when it is impracticable to correct an error for one or
more prior periods.
48. Corrections of errors are distinguished from changes in accounting estimates. Accounting estimates by their nature
are approximations that may need revision as additional information becomes known. For example, the gain or loss
recognized on the outcome of a contingency is not the correction of an error.
Disclosure of prior period errors
49. In applying paragraph 42, an entity shall disclose the following:
(a)
the nature of the prior period error;
(b)
for each prior period presented, to the extent practicable, the amount of the correction:
(i)
for each financial statement line item affected; and
(ii)
if Ind AS 33 applies to the entity, for basic and diluted earnings per share;
(c)
the amount of the correction at the beginning of the earliest prior period presented; and
(d)
if retrospective restatement is impracticable for a particular prior period, the circumstances that led to the existence of
that condition and a description of how and from when the error has been corrected.
Page 471/765
----- PAGE 472 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Financial statements of subsequent periods need not repeat these disclosures.
Impracticability in respect of retrospective application and retrospective restatement
50. In some circumstances, it is impracticable to adjust comparative information for one or more prior periods to achieve
comparability with the current period. For example, data may not have been collected in the prior period(s) in a way that
allows either retrospective application of a new accounting policy (including, for the purpose of paragraphs 51-53, its
prospective application to prior periods) or retrospective restatement to correct a prior period error, and it may be
impracticable to recreate the information.
51. It is frequently necessary to make estimates in applying an accounting policy to elements of financial statements
recognized or disclosed in respect of transactions, other events or conditions. Estimation is inherently subjective, and
estimates may be developed after the reporting period. Developing estimates is potentially more difficult when
retrospectively applying an accounting policy or making a retrospective restatement to correct a prior period error,
because of the longer period of time that might have passed since the affected transaction, other event or condition
occurred. However, the objective of estimates related to prior periods remains the same as for estimates made in the
current period, namely, for the estimate to reflect the circumstances that existed when the transaction, other event or
condition occurred.
52. Therefore, retrospectively applying a new accounting policy or correcting a prior period error requires distinguishing
information that -
(a)
provides evidence of circumstances that existed on the date(s) as at which the transaction, other event or condition
occurred, and
(b)
would have been available when the financial statements for that prior period were approved for issue from other
information. For some types of estimates (e.g. a fair value measurement that uses significant unobservable inputs ), it is
impracticable to distinguish these types of information. When retrospective application or retrospective restatement
would require making a significant estimate for which it is impossible to distinguish these two types of information, it is
impracticable to apply the new accounting policy or correct the prior period error retrospectively.
53. Hindsight should not be used when applying a new accounting policy to, or correcting amounts for, a prior period,
either in making assumptions about what management's intentions would have been in a prior period or estimating the
amounts recognized, measured or disclosed in a prior period. For example, when an entity corrects a prior period error
in calculating its liability for employees' accumulated sick leave in accordance with Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits, it
disregards information about an unusually severe influenza season during the next period that became available after
the financial statements for the prior period were approved for issue. The fact that significant estimates are frequently
required when amending comparative information presented for prior periods does not prevent reliable adjustment or
correction of the comparative information.
Appendix A
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
(1)
Appendix B, Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market - Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment,
contained in Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, makes reference to (Ind AS) 8.
2. [ Appendix B, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration, contained in Ind AS 21, The Effects of
Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, makes reference to Ind AS 8.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 8 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
1. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'. The words 'approval
Page 472/765
----- PAGE 473 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
of the financial statements for issue, have been used instead of 'authorisation of the financial statements for issue 'in the
context of financial statements considered for the purpose of events after the reporting period.
2. Paragraph 9 dealing with status of guidance given along with the Ind ASs forming integral and non-integral part of the
standard, has been modified to delete the text given in the context of the Guidance forming non-integral part of the
Standard as such guidance has not been included in the Standards. 3. In paragraph 12 of Ind AS 8, it is mentioned that
in absence of an Ind AS, management may first consider the most recent pronouncements of International Accounting
Standards Board.
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 10
Events after the Reporting Period
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to prescribe:
(a)
When an entity should adjust its financial statements for events after the reporting period; and
(b)
the disclosures that an entity should give about the date when the financial statements were approved for issue and
about events after the reporting period.
The Standard also requires that an entity should not prepare its financial statements on a going concern basis if events
after the reporting period indicate that the going concern assumption is not appropriate.
Scope
2. This Standard shall be applied in the accounting for, and disclosure of, events after the reporting period.
Definitions
3. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Events after the reporting period are those events, favourable and unfavourable, that occur between the end of the
reporting period and the date when the financial statements are approved by the Board of Directors in case of a
company, and, by the corresponding approving authority in case of any other entity for issue. Two types of events can
be identified:
(a)
those that provide evidence of conditions that existed at the end of the reporting period (adjusting events after the
reporting period); and
(b)
those that are indicative of conditions that arose after the reporting period (non-adjusting events after the reporting
period).
Notwithstanding anything contained above, where there is a breach of a material provision of a long-term loan
arrangement on or before the end of the reporting period with the effect that the liability becomes payable on demand on
the reporting date, the agreement by lender before the approval of the financial statements for issue, to not demand
payment as a consequence of the breach, shall be considered as an adjusting event.
4. The process involved in approving the financial statements for issue will vary depending upon the management
structure, statutory requirements and procedures followed in preparing and finalising the financial statements.
5. In some cases, an entity is required to submit its financial statements to its shareholders for approval after the
financial statements have been approved by the Board for issue. In such cases, the financial statements are approved
for issue on the date of approval by the Board, not the date when shareholders approve the financial statements.
6. In some cases, the management of an entity is required to issue its financial statements to a supervisory board (made
up solely of non-executives) for approval. In such cases, the financial statements are approved for issue when the
management approves them for issue to the supervisory board.
Example
On 18 March 20X2, the
management of an entity approves financial statements for issue
to its supervisory board. The supervisory board is made up solely
of non-executives and may include representatives of employees
Page 473/765
----- PAGE 474 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
and other outside interests. The supervisory board approves the
financial statements on 26 March 20X2. The financial statements
are made available to shareholders and others on 1 April 20X2.
The shareholders approve the financial statements at their annual
meeting on 15 May 20X2 and the financial statements are then
filed with a regulatory body on 17 May 20X2.
The financial statements are approved for
issue on 18 March 20X2 (date of management approval for issue to
the supervisory board).
7. Events after the reporting period include all events up to the date when the financial statements are approved for
issue, even if those events occur after the public announcement of profit or of other selected financial information.
Recognition and measurement
Adjusting events after the reporting period
8. An entity shall adjust the amounts recognized in its financial statements to reflect adjusting events after the reporting
period.
9. The following are examples of adjusting events after the reporting period that require an entity to adjust the amounts
recognized in its financial statements, or to recognise items that were not previously recognized:
(a)
the settlement after the reporting period of a court case that confirms that the entity had a present obligation at the end
of the reporting period. The entity adjusts any previously recognized provision related to this court case in accordance
with Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets or recognises a new provision. The entity does
not merely disclose a contingent liability because the settlement provides additional evidence that would be considered
in accordance with paragraph 16 of Ind AS 37.
(b)
the receipt of information after the reporting period indicating that an asset was impaired at the end of the reporting
period, or that the amount of a previously recognized impairment loss for that asset needs to be adjusted. For example:
(i)
the bankruptcy of a customer that occurs after the reporting period usually confirms that the customer was
credit-impaired at the end of the reporting period; and
(ii)
the sale of inventories after the reporting period may give evidence about their net realisable value at the end of the
reporting period.
(c)
the determination after the reporting period of the cost of assets purchased, or the proceeds from assets sold, before the
end of the reporting period.
(d)
the determination after the reporting period of the amount of profit-sharing or bonus payments, if the entity had a present
legal or constructive obligation at the end of the reporting period to make such payments as a result of events before
that date (see Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits).
(e)
the discovery of fraud or errors that show that the financial statements are incorrect.
Non-adjusting events after the reporting period
10. An entity shall not adjust the amounts recognized in its financial statements to reflect non-adjusting events after the
reporting period.
11. An example of a non-adjusting event after the reporting period is a decline in fair value of investments between the
end of the reporting period and the date when the financial statements are approved for issue. The decline in fair value
does not normally relate to the condition of the investments at the end of the reporting period, but reflects circumstances
that have arisen subsequently. Therefore, an entity does not adjust the amounts recognized in its financial statements
for the investments. Similarly, the entity does not update the amounts disclosed for the investments as at the end of the
reporting period, although it may need to give additional disclosure under paragraph 21.
Dividends
Page 474/765
----- PAGE 475 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
12. If an entity declares dividends to holders of equity instruments (as defined in Ind AS 32, Financial Instruments:
Presentation) after the reporting period, the entity shall not recognise those dividends as a liability at the end of the
reporting period.
13. If dividends are declared after the reporting period but before the financial statements are approved for issue, the
dividends are not recognized as a liability at the end of the reporting period because no obligation exists at that time.
Such dividends are disclosed in the notes in accordance with Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements.
Going concern
14. An entity shall not prepare its financial statements on a going concern basis if management determines after the
reporting period either that it intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or that it has no realistic alternative but to
do so.
15. Deterioration in operating results and financial position after the reporting period may indicate a need to consider
whether the going concern assumption is still appropriate. If the going concern assumption is no longer appropriate, the
effect is so pervasive that this Standard requires a fundamental change in the basis of accounting, rather than an
adjustment to the amounts recognized within the original basis of accounting.
16. Ind AS 1 specifies required disclosures if:
(a)
the financial statements are not prepared on a going concern basis; or
(b)
management is aware of material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt upon the
entity's ability to continue as a going concern. The events or conditions requiring disclosure may arise after the reporting
period.
Disclosure
Date of approval for issue
17. An entity shall disclose the date when the financial statements were approved for issue and who gave that approval.
If the entity's owners or others have the power to amend the financial statements after issue, the entity shall disclose
that fact.
18. It is important for users to know when the financial statements were approved for issue, because the financial
statements do not reflect events after this date.
Updating disclosure about conditions at the end of the reporting period
19. If an entity receives information after the reporting period about conditions that existed at the end of the reporting
period, it shall update disclosures that relate to those conditions, in the light of the new information.
20. In some cases, an entity needs to update the disclosures in its financial statements to reflect information received
after the reporting period, even when the information does not affect the amounts that it recognises in its financial
statements. One example of the need to update disclosures is when evidence becomes available after the reporting
period about a contingent liability that existed at the end of the reporting period. In addition to considering whether it
should recognise or change a provision under Ind AS 37, an entity updates its disclosures about the contingent liability
in the light of that evidence.
Non-adjusting events after the reporting period
21. If non-adjusting events after the reporting period are material, non-disclosure could influence the economic decisions
that users make on the basis of the financial statements. Accordingly, an entity shall disclose the following for each
material category of non-adjusting event after the reporting period:
(a)
the nature of the event; and
(b)
an estimate of its financial effect, or a statement that such an estimate cannot be made.
22. The following are examples of non-adjusting events after the reporting period that would generally result in
disclosure:
(a)
a major business combination after the reporting period Ind AS 103, Business Combinations, requires specific
disclosures in such cases) or disposing of a major subsidiary;
(b)
Page 475/765
----- PAGE 476 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
announcing a plan to discontinue an operation;
(c)
major purchases of assets, classification of assets as held for sale in accordance with Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets
Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, other disposals of assets, or expropriation of major assets by government;
(d)
the destruction of a major production plant by a fire after the reporting period;
(e)
announcing, or commencing the implementation of, a major restructuring (see Ind AS 37);
(f)
major ordinary share transactions and potential ordinary share transactions after the reporting period (Ind AS 33,
Earnings per Share, requires an entity to disclose a description of such transactions, other than when such transactions
involve capitalisation or bonus issues, share splits or reverse share splits all of which are required to be adjusted under
Ind AS 33);
(g)
abnormally large changes after the reporting period in asset prices or foreign exchange rates;
(h)
changes in tax rates or tax laws enacted or announced after the reporting period that have a significant effect on current
and deferred tax assets and liabilities (see Ind AS 12, Income Taxes);
(i)
entering into significant commitments or contingent liabilities, for example, by issuing significant guarantees; and
commencing major litigation arising solely out of events that occurred after the reporting period.
Appendix A
Distribution of Non-cash Assets to [Owners]
[This Appendix deals, inter alia, with when to recognise dividends payable to its owners.]
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Background
1. Sometimes an entity distributes assets other than cash (non-cash assets) as dividends to its [owners]
[Paragraph 7 of Ind AS 1 defines owners as holders of instruments classified as equity.]
acting in their capacity as owners. In those situations, an entity may also give its owners a choice of receiving either
non-cash assets or a cash alternative.
2. Indian Accounting Standards (Ind ASs) do not provide guidance on how an entity should measure distributions to its
owners (commonly referred to as dividends). Ind AS 1 requires an entity to present details of dividends recognized as
distributions to owners either in the statement of changes in equity or in the notes to the financial statements.
Scope
3. This Appendix applies to the following types of non-reciprocal distributions of assets by an entity to its owners acting
in their capacity as owners:
(a)
distributions of non-cash assets (e.g. items of property, plant and equipment, businesses as defined in Ind AS 103,
ownership interests in another entity or disposal groups as defined in Ind AS 105); and
(b)
distributions that give owners a choice of receiving either non-cash assets or a cash alternative.
4. This Appendix applies only to distributions in which all owners of the same class of equity instruments are treated
equally.
5. This Appendix does not apply to a distribution of a non-cash asset that is ultimately controlled by the same party or
parties before and after the distribution. This exclusion applies to the separate, individual and consolidated financial
statements of an entity that makes the distribution.
6. In accordance with paragraph 5, this Appendix does not apply when the non-cash asset is ultimately controlled by the
same parties both before and after the distribution. Paragraph 7 of Appendix C to Ind AS 103. states that 'A group of
individuals shall be regarded as controlling an entity when, as a result of contractual arrangements, they collectively
have the power to govern its financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from its activities, and that ultimate
collective power is not transitory.' Therefore, for a distribution to be outside the scope of this Appendix on the basis that
Page 476/765
----- PAGE 477 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the same parties control the asset both before and after the distribution, a group of individual shareholders receiving the
distribution must have, as a result of contractual arrangements, such ultimate collective power over the entity making the
distribution.
7. In accordance with paragraph 5, this Appendix does not apply when an entity distributes some of its ownership
interests in a subsidiary but retains control of the subsidiary. The entity making a distribution that results in the entity
recognising a non-controlling interest in its subsidiary accounts for the distribution in accordance with Ind AS 110.
8. This Appendix addresses only the accounting by an entity that makes a non-cash asset distribution. It does not
address the accounting by shareholders who receive such a distribution.
Issues
9. When an entity declares a distribution and has an obligation to distribute the assets concerned to its owners, it must
recognise a liability for the dividend payable. Consequently, this Appendix addresses the following issues:
(a)
When should the entity recognise the dividend payable?
(b)
How should an entity measure the dividend payable?
(c)
When an entity settles the dividend payable, how should it account for any difference between the carrying amount of
the assets distributed and the carrying amount of the dividend payable?
Accounting Principles
When to recognise a dividend payable
10. The liability to pay a dividend shall be recognized when the dividend is appropriately authorised and is no longer at
the discretion of the entity, which is the date:
(a)
when declaration of the dividend, e.g. by management or the board of directors, is approved by the relevant authority,
e.g. the shareholders, if the jurisdiction requires such approval, or
(b)
when the dividend is declared, e.g. by management or the board of directors, if the jurisdiction does not require further
approval.
Measurement of a dividend payable
11. An entity shall measure a liability to distribute non-cash assets as a dividend to its owners at the fair value of the
assets to be distributed.
12. If an entity gives its owners a choice of receiving either a non-cash asset or a cash alternative, the entity shall
estimate the dividend payable by considering both the fair value of each alternative and the associated probability of
owners selecting each alternative.
13. At the end of each reporting period and at the date of settlement, the entity shall review and adjust the carrying
amount of the dividend payable, with any changes in the carrying amount of the dividend payable recognized in equity
as adjustments to the amount of the distribution.
Accounting for any difference between the carrying amount of the assets distributed and the carrying amount of the
dividend payable when an entity settles the dividend payable
14. When an entity settles the dividend payable, it shall recognise the difference, if any, between the carrying amount of
the assets distributed and the carrying amount of the dividend payable in profit or loss.
Presentation and disclosures
15. An entity shall present the difference described in paragraph 14 as a separate line item in profit or loss.
16. An entity shall disclose the following information, if applicable:
(a)
the carrying amount of the dividend payable at the beginning and end of the period; and
(b)
the increase or decrease in the carrying amount recognized in the period in accordance with paragraph 13 as result of a
change in the fair value of the assets to be distributed.
17. If, after the end of a reporting period but before the financial statements are approved for issue, an entity declares a
dividend to distribute a non-cash asset, it shall disclose:
Page 477/765
----- PAGE 478 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
the nature of the asset to be distributed;
(b)
the carrying amount of the asset to be distributed as of the end of the reporting period; and
(c)
the fair value of the asset to be distributed as of the end of the reporting period, if it is different from its carrying amount,
and the information about the method(s) used to measure that fair value required by paragraphs 93(b), (d), (g) and (i)
and 99 of Ind AS 113.
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 10 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 10, Events after the Reporting Period, and IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to
Owners, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 10, Events after the Reporting Period, and IFRIC 17
1. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position'. The words 'approval of the financial statements for issue' have been used instead of 'authorisation of the
financial statements for issue' in the context of financial statements considered for the purpose of events after the
reporting period.
2. Consequent to changes made in Ind AS 1, it has been provided in the definition of 'Events after the reporting period'
that in case of breach of a material provision of a long-term loan arrangement on or before the end of the reporting
period with the effect that the liability becomes payable on demand on the reporting date, if the lender, before the
approval of the financial statements for issue, agrees to waive the breach, it shall be considered as an adjusting event.
[***]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 11]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Construction Contracts
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set inboldtype and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting treatment of revenue and costs associated with
construction contracts. Because of the nature of the activity undertaken in construction contracts, the date at which the
contract activity is entered into and the date when the activity is completed usually fall into different accounting periods.
Therefore, the primary issue in accounting for construction contracts is the allocation of contract revenue and contract
costs to the accounting periods in which construction work is performed. This Standard uses the recognition criteria
established in the Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements issued by the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of India to determine when contract revenue and contract costs should be recognized as
revenue and expenses in the statement of profit and loss. It also provides practical guidance on the application of these
criteria.
Scope
1. This Standard shall be applied in accounting for construction contracts in the financial statements of contractors.
1A. The impairment of any contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset arising from this Standard shall be
dealt in accordance with Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments.
2. [Refer Appendix 1]
Definitions
3. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Aconstruction contractis a contract specifically negotiated for the construction of an asset or a combination of assets that
are closely interrelated or interdependent in terms of their design, technology and function or their ultimate purpose or
use.
Afixed price contractis a construction contract in which the contractor agrees to a fixed contract price, or a fixed rate per
Page 478/765
----- PAGE 479 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
unit of output, which in some cases is subject to cost escalation clauses.
Acost plus contractis a construction contract in which the contractor is reimbursed for allowable or otherwise defined
costs, plus a percentage of these costs or a fixed fee.
4. A construction contract may be negotiated for the construction of a single asset such as a bridge, building, dam,
pipeline, road, ship or tunnel. A construction contract may also deal with the construction of a number of assets which
are closely interrelated or interdependent in terms of their design, technology and function or their ultimate purpose or
use; examples of such contracts include those for the construction of refineries and other complex pieces of plant or
equipment.
5. For the purposes of this Standard, construction contracts include:
(a) contracts for the rendering of services which are directly related to the construction of the asset, for example, those
for the services of project managers and architects; and
(b) contracts for the destruction or restoration of assets, and the restoration of the environment following the demolition
of assets.
6. Construction contracts are formulated in a number of ways which, for the purposes of this Standard, are classified as
fixed price contracts and cost plus contracts. Some construction contracts may contain characteristics of both a fixed
price contract and a cost plus contract, for example in the case of a cost plus contract with an agreed maximum price. In
such circumstances, a contractor needs to consider all the conditions in paragraphs 23 and 24 in order to determine
when to recognise contract revenue and expenses.
Combining and segmenting construction contracts
7. The requirements of this Standard are usually applied separately to each construction contract. However, in certain
circumstances, it is necessary to apply the Standard to the separately identifiable components of a single contract or to
a group of contracts together in order to reflect the substance of a contract or a group of contracts.
8. When a contract covers a number of assets, the construction of each asset shall be treated as a separate
construction contract when:
(a) separate proposals have been submitted for each asset;
(b) each asset has been subject to separate negotiation and the contractor and customer have been able to accept or
reject that part of the contract relating to each asset; and
(c) the costs and revenues of each asset can be identified.
9. A group of contracts, whether with a single customer or with several customers, shall be treated as a single
construction contract when:
(a) the group of contracts is negotiated as a single package;
(b) the contracts are so closely interrelated that they are, in effect, part of a single project with an overall profit margin;
and
(c) the contracts are performed concurrently or in a continuous sequence.
10. A contract may provide for the construction of an additional asset at the option of the customer or may be amended
to include the construction of an additional asset. The construction of the additional asset shall be treated as a separate
construction contract when:
(a) the asset differs significantly in design, technology or function from the asset or assets covered by the original
contract; or
(b) the price of the asset is negotiated without regard to the original contract price. Contract revenue
11. Contract revenue shall comprise:
(a) the initial amount of revenue agreed in the contract; and
(b) variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments:
(i) to the extent that it is probable that they will result in revenue; and
(ii) they are capable of being reliably measured.
12. Contract revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. The measurement of
contract revenue is affected by a variety of uncertainties that depend on the outcome of future events. The estimates
often need to be revised as events occur and uncertainties are resolved. Therefore, the amount of contract revenue may
increase or decrease from one period to the next. For example:
(a) a contractor and a customer may agree variations or claims that increase or decrease contract revenue in a period
subsequent to that in which the contract was initially agreed;
Page 479/765
----- PAGE 480 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b) the amount of revenue agreed in a fixed price contract may increase as a result of cost escalation clauses;
(c) the amount of contract revenue may decrease as a result of penalties arising from delays caused by the contractor in
the completion of the contract; or
(d) when a fixed price contract involves a fixed price per unit of output, contract revenue increases as the number of
units is increased.
13. A variation is an instruction by the customer for a change in the scope of the work to be performed under the
contract. A variation may lead to an increase or a decrease in contract revenue. Examples of variations are changes in
the specifications or design of the asset and changes in the duration of the contract. A variation is included in contract
revenue when:
(a) it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and the amount of revenue arising from the variation; and
(b) the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
14. A claim is an amount that the contractor seeks to collect from the customer or another party as reimbursement for
costs not included in the contract price. A claim may arise from, for example, customer caused delays, errors in
specifications or design, and disputed variations in contract work. The measurement of the amounts of revenue arising
from claims is subject to a high level of uncertainty and often depends on the outcome of negotiations. Therefore, claims
are included in contract revenue only when:
(a) negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will accept the claim; and
(b) the amount that it is probable will be accepted by the customer can be measured reliably.
15. Incentive payments are additional amounts paid to the contractor if specified performance standards are met or
exceeded. For example, a contract may allow for an incentive payment to the contractor for early completion of the
contract. Incentive payments are included in contract revenue when:
(a) the contract is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified performance standards will be met or
exceeded; and
(b) the amount of the incentive payment can be measured reliably.
Contract costs
16. Contract costs shall comprise:
(a) costs that relate directly to the specific contract;
(b) costs that are attributable to contract activity in general and can be allocated to the contract; and
(c) such other costs as are specifically chargeable to the customer under the terms of the contract.
17. Costs that relate directly to a specific contract include:
(a) site labour costs, including site supervision;
(b) costs of materials used in construction;
(c) depreciation of plant and equipment used on the contract;
(d) costs of moving plant, equipment and materials to and from the contract site;
(e) costs of hiring plant and equipment;
(f) costs of design and technical assistance that is directly related to the contract;
(g) the estimated costs of rectification and guarantee work, including expected warranty costs; and
(h) claims from third parties.
These costs may be reduced by any incidental income that is not included in contract revenue, for example income from
the sale of surplus materials and the disposal of plant and equipment at the end of the contract.
18. Costs that may be attributable to contract activity in general and can be allocated to specific contracts include:
(a) insurance;
(b) costs of design and technical assistance that are not directly related to a specific contract; and
(c) construction overheads.
Such costs are allocated using methods that are systematic and rational and are applied consistently to all costs having
similar characteristics. The allocation is based on the normal level of construction activity. Construction overheads
include costs such as the preparation and processing of construction personnel payroll. Costs that may be attributable to
contract activity in general and can be allocated to specific contracts also include borrowing costs.
19. Costs that are specifically chargeable to the customer under the terms of the contract may include some general
administration costs and development costs for which reimbursement is specified in the terms of the contract.
20. Costs that cannot be attributed to contract activity or cannot be allocated to a contract are excluded from the costs of
Page 480/765
----- PAGE 481 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
a construction contract. Such costs include:
(a) general administration costs for which reimbursement is not specified in the contract;
(b) selling costs;
(c) research and development costs for which reimbursement is not specified in the contract; and
(d) depreciation of idle plant and equipment that is not used on a particular contract.
21. Contract costs include the costs attributable to a contract for the period from the date of securing the contract to the
final completion of the contract. However, costs that relate directly to a contract and are incurred in securing the contract
are also included as part of the contract costs if they can be separately identified and measured reliably and it is
probable that the contract will be obtained. When costs incurred in securing a contract are recognized as an expense in
the period in which they are incurred, they are not included in contract costs when the contract is obtained in a
subsequent period.
Recognition of contract revenue and expenses
22. When the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, contract revenue and contract costs
associated with the construction contract shall be recognized as revenue and expenses respectively by reference to the
stage of completion of the contract activity at the end of the reporting period. An expected loss on the construction
contract shall be recognized as an expense immediately in accordance with paragraph 36.
23. In the case of a fixed price contract, the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably when all the
following conditions are satisfied:
(a) total contract revenue can be measured reliably;
(b) it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the contract will flow to the entity;
(c) both the contract costs to complete the contract and the stage of contract completion at the end of the reporting
period can be measured reliably; and
(d) the contract costs attributable to the contract can be clearly identified and measured reliably so that actual contract
costs incurred can be compared with prior estimates.
24. In the case of a cost plus contract, the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably when all the
following conditions are satisfied:
(a) it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the contract will flow to the entity; and
(b) the contract costs attributable to the contract, whether or not specifically reimbursable, can be clearly identified and
measured reliably.
25. The recognition of revenue and expenses by reference to the stage of completion of a contract is often referred to as
the percentage of completion method. Under this method, contract revenue is matched with the contract costs incurred
in reaching the stage of completion, resulting in the reporting of revenue, expenses and profit which can be attributed to
the proportion of work completed. This method provides useful information on the extent of contract activity and
performance during a period.
26. Under the percentage of completion method, contract revenue is recognized as revenue in profit or loss in the
accounting periods in which the work is performed. Contract costs are usually recognized as an expense in profit or loss
in the accounting periods in which the work to which they relate is performed. However, any expected excess of total
contract costs over total contract revenue for the contract is recognized as an expense immediately in accordance with
paragraph 36.
27. A contractor may have incurred contract costs that relate to future activity on the contract. Such contract costs are
recognized as an asset provided it is probable that they will be recovered. Such costs represent an amount due from the
customer and are often classified as contract work in progress.
28. The outcome of a construction contract can only be estimated reliably when it is probable that the economic benefits
associated with the contract will flow to the entity. However, when an uncertainty arises about the collectibility of an
amount already included in contract revenue, and already recognized in profit or loss, the uncollectible amount or the
amount in respect of which recovery has ceased to be probable is recognized as an expense rather than as an
adjustment of the amount of contract revenue.
29. An entity is generally able to make reliable estimates after it has agreed to a contract which establishes:
(a) each party's enforceable rights regarding the asset to be constructed;
(b) the consideration to be exchanged; and
(c) the manner and terms of settlement.
Page 481/765
----- PAGE 482 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
It is also usually necessary for the entity to have an effective internal financial budgeting and reporting system. The
entity reviews and, when necessary, revises the estimates of contract revenue and contract costs as the contract
progresses. The need for such revisions does not necessarily indicate that the outcome of the contract cannot be
estimated reliably.
30. The stage of completion of a contract may be determined in a variety of ways. The entity uses the method that
measures reliably the work performed. Depending on the nature of the contract, the methods may include:
(a) the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs;
(b) surveys of work performed; or
(c) completion of a physical proportion of the contract work.
Progress payments and advances received from customers often do not reflect the work performed.
31. When the stage of completion is determined by reference to the contract costs incurred to date, only those contract
costs that reflect work performed are included in costs incurred to date. Examples of contract costs which are excluded
are:
(a) contract costs that relate to future activity on the contract, such as costs of materials that have been delivered to a
contract site or set aside for use in a contract but not yet installed, used or applied during contract performance, unless
the materials have been made specially for the contract; and
(b) payments made to subcontractors in advance of work performed under the subcontract.
32. When the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably:
(a) revenue shall be recognized only to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable; and
(b) contract costs shall be recognized as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
An expected loss on the construction contract shall be recognized as an expense immediately in accordance with
paragraph 36.
33. During the early stages of a contract it is often the case that the outcome of the contract cannot be estimated
reliably. Nevertheless, it may be probable that the entity will recover the contract costs incurred. Therefore, contract
revenue is recognized only to the extent of costs incurred that are expected to be recoverable. As the outcome of the
contract cannot be estimated reliably, no profit is recognized. However, even though the outcome of the contract cannot
be estimated reliably, it may be probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenues. In such cases, any
expected excess of total contract costs over total contract revenue for the contract is recognized as an expense
immediately in accordance with paragraph 36.
34. Contract costs that are not probable of being recovered are recognized as an expense immediately. Examples of
circumstances in which the recoverability of contract costs incurred may not be probable and in which contract costs
may need to be recognized as an expense immediately include contracts:
(a) that are not fully enforceable, ie their validity is seriously in question;
(b) the completion of which is subject to the outcome of pending litigation or legislation;
(c) relating to properties that are likely to be condemned or expropriated;
(d) where the customer is unable to meet its obligations; or
(e) where the contractor is unable to complete the contract or otherwise meet its obligations under the contract.
35. When the uncertainties that prevented the outcome of the contract being estimated reliably no longer exist, revenue
and expenses associated with the construction contract shall be recognized in accordance with paragraph 22 rather
than in accordance with paragraph 32.
Recognition of expected losses
36. When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss shall be recognized
as an expense immediately.
37. The amount of such a loss is determined irrespective of:
(a) whether work has commenced on the contract;
(b) the stage of completion of contract activity; or
(c) the amount of profits expected to arise on other contracts which are not treated as a single construction contract in
accordance with paragraph 9.
Changes in estimates
38. The percentage of completion method is applied on a cumulative basis in each accounting period to the current
estimates of contract revenue and contract costs. Therefore, the effect of a change in the estimate of contract revenue
Page 482/765
----- PAGE 483 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
or contract costs, or the effect of a change in the estimate of the outcome of a contract, is accounted for as a change in
accounting estimate (see Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors). The changed
estimates are used in the determination of the amount of revenue and expenses recognized in profit or loss in the period
in which the change is made and in subsequent periods.
Disclosure
39. An entity shall disclose:
(a) the amount of contract revenue recognized as revenue in the period;
(b) the methods used to determine the contract revenue recognized in the period; and
(c) the methods used to determine the stage of completion of contracts in progress.
40. An entity shall disclose each of the following for contracts in progress at the end of the reporting period:
(a) the aggregate amount of costs incurred and recognized profits (less recognized losses) to date;
(b) the amount of advances received; and
(c) the amount of retentions.
41. Retentions are amounts of progress billings that are not paid until the satisfaction of conditions specified in the
contract for the payment of such amounts or until defects have been rectified. Progress billings are amounts billed for
work performed on a contract whether or not they have been paid by the customer. Advances are amounts received by
the contractor before the related work is performed.
42. An entity shall present:
(a) the gross amount due from customers for contract work as an asset; and
(b) the gross amount due to customers for contract work as a liability.
43. The gross amount due from customers for contract work is the net amount of:
(a) costs incurred plus recognized profits; less
(b) the sum of recognized losses and progress billings
for all contracts in progress for which costs incurred plus recognized profits (less recognized losses) exceeds progress
billings.
44. The gross amount due to customers for contract work is the net amount of:
(a) costs incurred plus recognized profits; less
(b) the sum of recognized losses and progress billings
for all contracts in progress for which progress billings exceed costs incurred plus recognized profits (less recognized
losses).
45. An entity discloses any contingent liabilities and contingent assets in accordance with Ind AS 37,Provisions,
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. Contingent liabilities and contingent assets may arise from such items as
warranty costs, claims, penalties or possible losses.
Appendix A
Service Concession Arrangements
This Appendix is an integral part of Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS)
Background
1. Infrastructure for public services-such as roads, bridges, tunnels, prisons, hospitals, airports, water distribution
facilities, energy supply and telecommunication networks-has traditionally been constructed, operated and maintained
by the public sector and financed through public budget appropriation.
2. In recent times, governments have introduced contractual service arrangements to attract private sector participation
in the development, financing, operation and maintenance of such infrastructure. The infrastructure may already exist, or
may be constructed during the period of the service arrangement. An arrangement within the scope of this Appendix
typically involves a private sector entity (an operator) constructing the infrastructure used to provide the public service or
upgrading it (for example, by increasing its capacity) and operating and maintaining that infrastructure for a specified
period of time. The operator is paid for its services over the period of the arrangement. The arrangement is governed by
a contract that sets out performance standards, mechanisms for adjusting prices, and arrangements for arbitrating
disputes. Such an arrangement is often described as a 'build-operate-transfer', a 'rehabilitate-operate-transfer' or a
'public-to-private' service concession arrangement.
3. A feature of these service arrangements is the public service nature of the obligation undertaken by the operator.
Public policy is for the services related to the infrastructure to be provided to the public, irrespective of the identity of the
Page 483/765
----- PAGE 484 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
party that operates the services. The service arrangement contractually obliges the operator to provide the services to
the public on behalf of the public sector entity. Other common features are:
(a) the party that grants the service arrangement (the grantor) is a public sector entity, including a governmental body, or
a private sector entity to which the responsibility for the service has been devolved.
(b) the operator is responsible for at least some of the management of the infrastructure and related services and does
not merely act as an agent on behalf of the grantor.
(c) the contract sets the initial prices to be levied by the operator and regulates price revisions over the period of the
service arrangement.
(d) the operator is obliged to hand over the infrastructure to the grantor in a specified condition at the end of the period
of the arrangement, for little or no incremental consideration, irrespective of which party initially financed it.
Scope
4. This Appendix gives guidance on the accounting by operators for public-to-private service concession arrangements
5. This Appendix applies to public-to-private service concession arrangements if:
(a) the grantor controls or regulates what services the operator must provide with the infrastructure, to whom it must
provide them, and at what price; and
(b) the grantor controls-through ownership, beneficial entitlement or otherwise-any significant residual interest in the
infrastructure at the end of the term of the arrangement.
6. Infrastructure used in a public-to-private service concession arrangement for its entire useful life (whole of life assets)
is within the scope of this Appendix if the conditions in paragraph 5(a) of this Appendix are met. Paragraphs AG1-AG8 of
the Application Guidance of this Appendix provide guidance on determining whether, and to what extent,
public-to-private service concession arrangements are within the scope of this Appendix.
7. This Appendix applies to both:
(a) infrastructure that the operator constructs or acquires from a third party for the purpose of the service arrangement;
and
(b) existing infrastructure to which the grantor gives the operator access for the purpose of the service arrangement.
8. This Appendix does not specify the accounting for infrastructure that was held and recognized as property, plant and
equipment by the operator before entering the service arrangement. The derecognition requirements of Indian
Accounting Standards (as set out in Ind AS 16 ) apply to such infrastructure.
9. This Appendix does not specify the accounting by grantors.
Issues
10. This Appendix sets out general principles on recognising and measuring the obligations and related rights in service
concession arrangements. Requirements for disclosing information about service concession arrangements are in
Appendix B to this Indian Accounting Standard. The issues addressed in this Appendix are:
(a) treatment of the operator's rights over the infrastructure;
(b) recognition and measurement of arrangement consideration;
(c) construction or upgrade services;
(d) operation services;
(e) borrowing costs;
(f) subsequent accounting treatment of a financial asset and an intangible asset; and
(g) items provided to the operator by the grantor.
Accounting Principles
Treatment of the operator's rights over the infrastructure
11. Infrastructure within the scope of this Appendix shall not be recognized as property, plant and equipment of the
operator because the contractual service arrangement does not convey the right to control the use of the public service
infrastructure to the operator. The operator has access to operate the infrastructure to provide the public service on
behalf of the grantor in accordance with the terms specified in the contract.
Recognition and measurement of arrangement consideration
12. Under the terms of contractual arrangements within the scope of this Appendix, the operator acts as a service
provider. The operator constructs or upgrades infrastructure (construction or upgrade services) used to provide a public
service and operates and maintains that infrastructure (operation services) for a specified period of time.
13. The operator shall recognise and measure revenue in accordance with Ind AS 11 and Ind AS 18 for the services it
Page 484/765
----- PAGE 485 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
performs. If the operator performs more than one service (ie construction or upgrade services and operation services)
under a single contract or arrangement, consideration received or receivable shall be allocated by reference to the
relative fair values of the services delivered, when the amounts are separately identifiable. The nature of the
consideration determines its subsequent accounting treatment. The subsequent accounting for consideration received
as a financial asset and as an intangible asset is detailed in paragraphs 23-26 below.
Construction or upgrade services
14. The operator shall account for revenue and costs relating to construction or upgrade services in accordance with this
standard.
Consideration given by the grantor to the operator
15. If the operator provides construction or upgrade services the consideration received or receivable by the operator
shall be recognized at its fair value. The consideration may be rights to:
(a) a financial asset, or
(b) an intangible asset.
16. The operator shall recognise a financial asset to the extent that it has an unconditional contractual right to receive
cash or another financial asset from or at the direction of the grantor for the construction services; the grantor has little, if
any, discretion to avoid payment, usually because the agreement is enforceable by law. The operator has an
unconditional right to receive cash if the grantor contractually guarantees to pay the operator (a) specified or
determinable amounts or (b) the shortfall, if any, between amounts received from users of the public service and
specified or determinable amounts, even if payment is contingent on the operator ensuring that the infrastructure meets
specified quality or efficiency requirements.
17. The operator shall recognise an intangible asset to the extent that it receives a right (a licence) to charge users of
the public service. A right to charge users of the public service is not an unconditional right to receive cash because the
amounts are contingent on the extent that the public uses the service.
18. If the operator is paid for the construction services partly by a financial asset and partly by an intangible asset it is
necessary to account separately for each component of the operator's consideration. The consideration received or
receivable for both components shall be recognized initially at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
19. The nature of the consideration given by the grantor to the operator shall be determined by reference to the contract
terms and, when it exists, relevant contract law.
Operation services
20. The operator shall account for revenue and costs relating to operation services in accordance with Ind AS 18.
Contractual obligations to restore the infrastructure to a specified level of serviceability
21. The operator may have contractual obligations it must fulfil as a condition of its licence (a) to maintain the
infrastructure to a specified level of serviceability or (b) to restore the infrastructure to a specified condition before it is
handed over to the grantor at the end of the service arrangement. These contractual obligations to maintain or restore
infrastructure, except for any upgrade element (see paragraph 14 of this Appendix), shall be recognized and measured
in accordance with Ind AS 37, ie at the best estimate of the expenditure that would be required to settle the present
obligation at the end of the reporting period.
Borrowing costs incurred by the operator
22. In accordance with Ind AS 23, borrowing costs attributable to the arrangement shall be recognized as an expense in
the period in which they are incurred unless the operator has a contractual right to receive an intangible asset (a right to
charge users of the public service). In this case borrowing costs attributable to the arrangement shall be capitalised
during the construction phase of the arrangement in accordance with that Standard.
Financial asset
23. Ind AS 32, Ind AS 107 and Ind AS 109 apply to the financial asset recognized under paragraphs 16 and 18 of this
Appendix.
24. The amount due from or at the direction of the grantor is accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 109 at:
(a) amortised cost;
(b) fair value through other comprehensive income; or
(c) fair value through profit or loss.
25. If the amount due from the grantor is measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income,
Ind AS 109 requires interest calculated using the effective interest method to be recognized in profit or loss.
Page 485/765
----- PAGE 486 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Intangible asset
26. Ind AS 38 applies to the intangible asset recognized in accordance with paragraphs 17 and 18 of this Appendix.
Paragraphs 45-47 of Ind AS 38 provide guidance on measuring intangible assets acquired in exchange for a
non-monetary asset or assets or a combination of monetary and non-monetary assets.
Items provided to the operator by the grantor
27. In accordance with paragraph 11, infrastructure items to which the operator is given access by the grantor for the
purposes of the service arrangement are not recognized as property, plant and equipment of the operator. The grantor
may also provide other items to the operator that the operator can keep or deal with as it wishes. If such assets form
part of the consideration payable by the grantor for the services, they are not government grants as defined in Ind AS
20. They are recognized as assets of the operator, measured at fair value on initial recognition. The operator shall
recognise a liability in respect of unfulfilled obligations it has assumed in exchange for the assets.
Application Guidance on Appendix A
This Application Guidance is an integral part of Appendix A
Scope(paragraph 5 of Appendix A)
{|
AG1
Paragraph 5 of Appendix A specifies that infrastructure is
within the scope of the Appendix when the following conditions
apply:
(a)
the grantor controls or regulates what services the operator
must provide with the infrastructure, to whom it must provide
them, and at what price; and
(b)
the grantor controls?through ownership, beneficial
entitlement or otherwise?any significant residual interest
in the infrastructure at the end of the term of the arrangement.
AG2
The control or regulation referred to in condition (a) could
be by contract or otherwise (such as through a regulator), and
includes circumstances in which the grantor buys all of the
output as well as those in which some or all of the output is
bought by other users. In applying this condition, the grantor
and any related parties shall be considered together. If the
grantor is a public sector entity, the public sector as a whole,
together with any regulators acting in the public interest, shall
be regarded as related to the grantor for the purposes of this
Appendix A.
AG3
For the purpose of condition (a), the grantor does not need to
have complete control of the price: it is sufficient for the
price to be regulated by the grantor, contract or regulator, for
example by a capping mechanism. However, the condition shall be
applied to the substance of the agreement. Non-substantive
features, such as a cap that will apply only in remote
circumstances, shall be ignored. Conversely, if for example, a
contract purports to give the operator freedom to set prices, but
any excess profit is returned to the grantor, the operator's
return is capped and the price element of the control test is
met.
AG4
Page 486/765
----- PAGE 487 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
For the purpose of condition (b), the grantor's control over
any significant residual interest should both restrict the
operator's practical ability to sell or pledge the infrastructure
and give the grantor a continuing right of use throughout the
period of the arrangement. The residual interest in the
infrastructure is the estimated current value of the
infrastructure as if it were already of the age and in the
condition expected at the end of the period of the arrangement.
AG5
Control should be distinguished from management. If the
grantor retains both the degree of control described in paragraph
5(a) of Appendix A and any significant residual interest in the
infrastructure, the operator is only managing the infrastructure
on the grantor's behalf?even though, in many cases, it may
have wide managerial discretion.
AG6
Conditions (a) and (b) together identify when the
infrastructure, including any replacements required (see
paragraph 21 of Appendix A), is controlled by the grantor for the
whole of its economic life. For example, if the operator has to
replace part of an item of infrastructure during the period of
the arrangement (eg the top layer of a road or the roof of a
building), the item of infrastructure shall be considered as a
whole. Thus condition (b) is met for the whole of the
infrastructure, including the part that is replaced, if the
grantor controls any significant residual interest in the final
replacement of that part.
AG7
Sometimes the use of infrastructure is partly regulated in the
manner described in paragraph 5(a) of Appendix A and partly
unregulated. However, these arrangements take a variety of forms:
(a)
any infrastructure that is physically separable and capable of
being operated independently and meets the definition of a
cash-generating unit as defined in Ind AS 36 shall be analysed
separately if it is used wholly for unregulated purposes. For
example, this might apply to a private wing of a hospital, where
the remainder of the hospital is used by the grantor to treat
public patients.
(b)
when purely ancillary activities (such as a hospital shop) are
unregulated, the control tests shall be applied as if those
services did not exist, because in cases in which the grantor
controls the services in the manner described in paragraph 5 of
Appendix A, the existence of ancillary activities does not
detract from the grantor's control of the infrastructure.
AG8
The operator may have a right to use the separable
infrastructure described in paragraph AG7 (a), or the facilities
used to provide ancillary unregulated services described in
paragraph AG7 (b). In either case, there may in substance be a
Page 487/765
----- PAGE 488 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
lease from the grantor to the operator; if so, it shall be
accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 17.
Information note 1
Accounting framework for public-to-private service arrangements
This note accompanies, but is not part of, Appendix A
The diagram below summarises the accounting for service arrangements established by Appendix A
Information note 2
References to Indian Accounting Standards that apply to typical types of public-to-private arrangements
This note accompanies, but is not part of, Appendix A.
The table sets out the typical types of arrangements for private sector participation in the provision of public sector
services and provides references to Indian Accounting Standards that apply to those arrangements. The list of
arrangements types is not exhaustive. The purpose of the table is to highlight the continuum of arrangements. It is not
Appendix A's intention to convey the impression that bright lines exist between the accounting requirements for
public-to-private arrangements
Category
Lessee
Service provider
Owner
Typical arrangement types
Lease (eg Operator leases asset from grantor)
Service and/ or maintenance contract (specific
tasks eg debt collection)
Rehabilitate - operate - transfer
Build - operate - transfer
Build - own - operate
100% Divestment/ Privatisation/ Corporation
Asset ownership
Grantor
Operator
Capital investment
Grantor
Operator
Demand risk
Shared
Grantor
Operator and/or Grantor
Operator
Typical duration
8?20 years
1?5 years
25?30 years
Indefinite (or may be limited by licence)
Residual interest
Grantor
Operator
Relevant Indian Accounting Standards
Ind AS 17
Ind AS 18
This Appendix A
Ind AS 16
Appendix B
Page 488/765
----- PAGE 489 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Service Concession Arrangements: Disclosures
This Appendix is an integral part of Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 11.
Issues
1. An entity (the operator) may enter into an arrangement with another entity (the grantor) to provide services that give
the public access to major economic and social facilities. The grantor may be a public or private sector entity, including a
governmental body. Examples of service concession arrangements involve water treatment and supply facilities,
motorways, car parks, tunnels, bridges, airports and telecommunication networks. Examples of arrangements that are
not service concession arrangements include an entity outsourcing the operation of its internal services (eg employee
cafeteria, building maintenance, and accounting or information technology functions).
2. A service concession arrangement generally involves the grantor conveying for the period of the concession to the
operator:
(a)
the right to provide services that give the public access to major economic and social facilities, and
(b)
in some cases, the right to use specified tangible assets, intangible assets, or financial assets, in exchange for the
operator:
(c)
committing to provide the services according to certain terms and conditions during the concession period, and
(d)
when applicable, committing to return at the end of the concession period the rights received at the beginning of the
concession period and/or acquired during the concession period.
3. The common characteristic of all service concession arrangements is that the operator both receives a right and
incurs an obligation to provide public services.
4. The issue is what information should be disclosed in the notes in the financial statements of an operator and a
grantor.
5. Certain aspects and disclosures relating to some service concession arrangements are addressed by Indian
Accounting Standards (eg Ind AS 16 applies to acquisitions of items of property, plant and equipment, Ind AS 17 applies
to leases of assets, and Ind AS 38 applies to acquisitions of intangible assets). However, a service concession
arrangement may involve executory contracts that are not addressed in Indian Accounting Standards, unless the
contracts are onerous, in which case Ind AS 37 applies. Therefore, this Appendix addresses additional disclosures of
service concession arrangements.
Accounting Principles
6. All aspects of a service concession arrangement shall be considered in determining the appropriate disclosures in the
notes. An operator and a grantor shall disclose the following in each period:
(a)
a description of the arrangement;
(b)
significant terms of the arrangement that may affect the amount, timing and certainty of future cash flows (eg the period
of the concession, re-pricing dates and the basis upon which re-pricing or re-negotiation is determined);
(c)
the nature and extent (eg quantity, time period or amount as appropriate) of:
(i)
rights to use specified assets;
(ii)
obligations to provide or rights to expect provision of services;
(iii)
obligations to acquire or build items of property, plant and equipment;
(iv)
obligations to deliver or rights to receive specified assets at the end of the concession period;
(v)
renewal and termination options; and
Page 489/765
----- PAGE 490 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(vi)
other rights and obligations (eg major overhauls);
(d)
changes in the arrangement occurring during the period; and
(e)
how the service arrangement has been classified.
6A. An operator shall disclose the amount of revenue and profits or losses recognized in the period on exchanging
construction services for a financial asset or an intangible asset.
7. The disclosures required in accordance with paragraph 6 of this Appendix shall be provided individually for each
service concession arrangement or in aggregate for each class of service concession arrangements. A class is a
grouping of service concession arrangements involving services of a similar nature (eg toll collections,
telecommunications and water treatment services).
Appendix C
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 11.
This appendix lists the appendices which are part of other Indian Accounting Standards and makes reference to Ind AS
11,Construction Contracts.
1. Appendix AIntangible Assets - Web Site Costscontained in Ind AS 38,Intangible Assets.
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 11 and the corresponding International Accounting
Standard (IAS) 11, Construction Contracts, IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements and SIC 29, Service
Concession Arrangements: Disclosures
Comparison with IAS 11, Construction Contracts, IFRIC 12,Service Concession Arrangementsand SIC 29,Service
Concession Arrangements: Disclosures
1. The transitional provisions given in IFRIC 12 have not been given in Ind AS 11, since all transitional provisions related
to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in Ind AS 101,First time Adoption of Indian Accounting
Standards corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
2. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'.
3. Paragraph 2 of IAS 11 which states that IAS 11 supersedes the earlier version of IAS 11 is deleted in Ind AS 11 as
this is not relevant in Ind AS 11. However, paragraph number 2 is retained in Ind AS 11 to maintain consistency with
paragraph numbers of IAS 11.
|}
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 12
Income Taxes
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting treatment for income taxes. The principal issue in
accounting for income taxes is how to account for the current and future tax consequences of:
(a)
the future recovery (settlement) of the carrying amount of assets (liabilities) that are recognized in an entity's balance
sheet; and
(b)
transactions and other events of the current period that are recognized in an entity's financial statements.
It is inherent in the recognition of an asset or liability that the reporting entity expects to recover or settle the carrying
amount of that asset or liability. If it is probable that recovery or settlement of that carrying amount will make future tax
payments larger (smaller) than they would be if such recovery or settlement were to have no tax consequences, this
Standard requires an entity to recognise a deferred tax liability (deferred tax asset), with certain limited exceptions.
This Standard requires an entity to account for the tax consequences of transactions and other events in the same way
Page 490/765
----- PAGE 491 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
that it accounts for the transactions and other events themselves. Thus, for transactions and other events recognized in
profit or loss, any related tax effects are also recognized in profit or loss. For transactions and other events recognized
outside profit or loss (either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity), any related tax effects are also
recognized outside profit or loss (either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively). Similarly, the
recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities in a business combination affects the amount of goodwill arising in that
business combination or the amount of the bargain purchase gain recognized.
This Standard also deals with the recognition of deferred tax assets arising from unused tax losses or unused tax
credits, the presentation of income taxes in the financial statements and the disclosure of information relating to income
taxes.
Scope
1. This Standard shall be applied in accounting for income taxes.
2. For the purposes of this Standard, income taxes include all domestic and foreign taxes which are based on taxable
profits. Income taxes also include taxes, such as withholding taxes, which are payable by a subsidiary, associate or joint
arrangement on distributions to the reporting entity.
3. [Refer Appendix 1]
4. This Standard does not deal with the methods of accounting for government grants (see Ind AS 20, Accounting for
Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance) or investment tax credits. However, this Standard does
deal with the accounting for temporary differences that may arise from such grants or investment tax credits.
Definitions
5. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Accounting profit is profit or loss for a period before deducting tax expense.
Taxable profit (tax loss) is the profit (loss) for a period, determined in accordance with the rules established by the
taxation authorities, upon which income taxes are payable (recoverable).
Tax expense (tax income) is the aggregate amount included in the determination of profit or loss for the period in respect
of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is the amount of income taxes payable (recoverable) in respect of the taxable profit (tax loss) for a period.
Deferred tax liabilities are the amounts of income taxes payable in future periods in respect of taxable temporary
differences.
Deferred tax assets are the amounts of income taxes recoverable in future periods in respect of:
(a)
deductible temporary differences;
(b)
the carry forward of unused tax losses; and
(c)
the carry forward of unused tax credits.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its
tax base. Temporary differences may be either:
(a)
taxable temporary differences, which are temporary differences that will result in taxable amounts in determining taxable
profit (tax loss) of future periods when the carrying amount of the asset or liability is recovered or settled; or
(b)
deductible temporary differences, which are temporary differences that will result in amounts that are deductible in
determining taxable profit (tax loss) of future periods when the carrying amount of the asset or liability is recovered or
settled.
The tax base of an asset or liability is the amount attributed to that asset or liability for tax purposes.
6. Tax expense (tax income) comprises current tax expense (current tax income) and deferred tax expense (deferred tax
income).
Tax base
7. The tax base of an asset is the amount that will be deductible for tax purposes against any taxable economic benefits
that will flow to an entity when it recovers the carrying amount of the asset. If those economic benefits will not be
taxable, the tax base of the asset is equal to its carrying amount.
Page 491/765
----- PAGE 492 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Examples
1. A machine cost Rs.
100. For tax purposes, depreciation of Rs. 30 has already been
deducted in the current and prior periods and the remaining cost
will be deductible in future periods, either as depreciation or
through a deduction on disposal. Revenue generated by using the
machine is taxable, any gain on disposal of the machine will be
taxable and any loss on disposal will be deductible for tax
purposes.The tax base of the machine is Rs. 70.
2. Interest
receivable has a carrying amount of Rs. 100. The related interest
revenue will be taxed on a cash basis.The tax base of the
interest receivable is nil.
3. Trade receivables
have a carrying amount of Rs. 100. The related revenue has
already been included in taxable profit (tax loss).The tax
base of the trade receivables is Rs. 100.
4. [ Dividends
receivable from a subsidiary have a carrying amount of Rs. 100.
The dividends are not taxable.In substance, the entire
carrying amount of the asset is deductible against the economic
benefits. Consequently, the tax base of the dividends receivable
is Rs. 100.]
[Under this analysis, there is no taxable temporary difference. An alternative analysis is that the accrued dividends
receivable have a tax base of nil and that a tax rate of nil is applied to the resulting taxable temporary difference of Rs.
100. Under both analyses, there is no deferred tax liability.]
5. A loan receivable
has a carrying amount of Rs. 100. The repayment of the loan will
have no tax consequences.The tax base of the loan is Rs. 100.
8. The tax base of a liability is its carrying amount, less any amount that will be deductible for tax purposes in respect of
that liability in future periods. In the case of revenue which is received in advance, the tax base of the resulting liability is
its carrying amount, less any amount of the revenue that will not be taxable in future periods.
Examples
1. Current
liabilities include accrued expenses with a carrying amount of
Rs. 100. The related expense will be deducted for tax purposes on
a cash basis.The tax base of the accrued expenses is nil.
2. Current
liabilities include interest revenue received in advance, with a
carrying amount of Rs. 100. The related interest revenue was
taxed on a cash basis.The tax base of the interest received
in advance is nil.
3. Current
liabilities include accrued expenses with a carrying amount of
Rs. 100. The related expense has already been deducted for tax
purposes.The tax base of the accrued expenses is Rs. 100.
4. [ Current
liabilities include accrued fines and penalties with a carrying
amount of Rs. 100. Fines and penalties are not deductible for tax
purposes.The tax base of the accrued fines and penalties is
Rs. 100.]
Page 492/765
----- PAGE 493 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
[Under this analysis, there is no deductible temporary difference. An alternative analysis is that the accrued fines and
penalties payable have a tax base of nil and that a tax rate of nil is applied to the resulting deductible temporary
difference of Rs. 100. Under both analyses, there is no deferred tax asset.]
5. A loan payable has a carrying amount of Rs.
100. The repayment of the loan will have no tax consequences.The
tax base of the loan is Rs. 100.
9. Some items have a tax base but are not recognized as assets and liabilities in the balance sheet. For example,
preliminary expenses are recognized as an expense in determining accounting profit in the period in which they are
incurred but may not be permitted as a deduction in determining taxable profit (tax loss) until a later period(s). The
difference between the tax base of the preliminary expenses, being the amount permitted as a deduction in future
periods under taxation laws, and the carrying amount of nil is a deductible temporary difference that results in a deferred
tax asset.
10. Where the tax base of an asset or liability is not immediately apparent, it is helpful to consider the fundamental
principle upon which this Standard is based: that an entity shall, with certain limited exceptions, recognise a deferred tax
liability (asset) whenever recovery or settlement of the carrying amount of an asset or liability would make future tax
payments larger (smaller) than they would be if such recovery or settlement were to have no tax consequences.
Example C following paragraph 51A illustrates circumstances when it may be helpful to consider this fundamental
principle, for example, when the tax base of an asset or liability depends on the expected manner of recovery or
settlement.
11. The tax base is determined by reference to the tax returns of each entity in the group. In some jurisdictions, in
consolidated financial statements, temporary differences are determined by comparing the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements with the appropriate tax base. The tax base is determined by
reference to a consolidated tax return in those jurisdictions in which such a return is filed.
Recognition of current tax liabilities and current tax assets
12. Current tax for current and prior periods shall, to the extent unpaid, be recognized as a liability. If the amount already
paid in respect of current and prior periods exceeds the amount due for those periods, the excess shall be recognized
as an asset.
13. The benefit relating to a tax loss that can be carried back to recover current tax of a previous period shall be
recognized as an asset.
14. When a tax loss is used to recover current tax of a previous period, an entity recognises the benefit as an asset in
the period in which the tax loss occurs because it is probable that the benefit will flow to the entity and the benefit can be
reliably measured.
Recognition of deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets
Taxable temporary differences
15. A deferred tax liability shall be recognized for all taxable temporary differences, except to the extent that the deferred
tax liability arises from:
(a)
the initial recognition of goodwill; or
(b)
the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which:
(i)
is not a business combination; and
(ii)
at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit (tax loss).
However, for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, and
interests in joint arrangements, a deferred tax liability shall be recognized in accordance with paragraph 39.
16. It is inherent in the recognition of an asset that its carrying amount will be recovered in the form of economic benefits
that flow to the entity in future periods. When the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its tax base, the amount of
taxable economic benefits will exceed the amount that will be allowed as a deduction for tax purposes. This difference is
a taxable temporary difference and the obligation to pay the resulting income taxes in future periods is a deferred tax
liability. As the entity recovers the carrying amount of the asset, the taxable temporary difference will reverse and the
Page 493/765
----- PAGE 494 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
entity will have taxable profit. This makes it probable that economic benefits will flow from the entity in the form of tax
payments. Therefore, this Standard requires the recognition of all deferred tax liabilities, except in certain circumstances
described in paragraphs 15 and 39.
Example
An asset which cost
Rs. 150 has a carrying amount of Rs. 100. Cumulative depreciation
for tax purposes is Rs. 90 and the tax rate is 25%.
The tax base of the asset is Rs. 60 (cost of
Rs. 150 less cumulative tax depreciation of Rs. 90). To recover
the carrying amount of Rs. 100, the entity must earn taxable
income of Rs. 100, but will only be able to deduct tax
depreciation of Rs. 60. Consequently, the entity will pay income
taxes of Rs. 10 (Rs. 40 at 25%) when it recovers the carrying
amount of the asset. The difference between the carrying amount
of Rs. 100 and the tax base of Rs. 60 is a taxable temporary
difference of Rs. 40. Therefore, the entity recognises a deferred
tax liability of Rs. 10 (Rs. 40 at 25%) representing the income
taxes that it will pay when it recovers the carrying amount of
the asset.
17. Some temporary differences arise when income or expense is included in accounting profit in one period but is
included in taxable profit in a different period. Such temporary differences are often described as timing differences. The
following are examples of temporary differences of this kind which are taxable temporary differences and which
therefore result in deferred tax liabilities:
(a)
interest revenue is included in accounting profit on a time proportion basis but may, in some jurisdictions, be included in
taxable profit when cash is collected. The tax base of any receivable recognized in the balance sheet with respect to
such revenues is nil because the revenues do not affect taxable profit until cash is collected;
(b)
depreciation used in determining taxable profit (tax loss) may differ from that used in determining accounting profit. The
temporary difference is the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and its tax base which is the original
cost of the asset less all deductions in respect of that asset permitted under taxation laws in determining taxable profit of
the current and prior periods. A taxable temporary difference arises, and results in a deferred tax liability, when tax
depreciation is accelerated (if tax depreciation is less rapid than accounting depreciation, a deductible temporary
difference arises, and results in a deferred tax asset); and
(c)
development costs may be capitalised and amortised over future periods in determining accounting profit but deducted
in determining taxable profit in the period in which they are incurred. Such development costs have a tax base of nil as
they have already been deducted from taxable profit. The temporary difference is the difference between the carrying
amount of the development costs and their tax base of nil.
18. Temporary differences also arise when:
(a)
the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are recognized at their fair values in
accordance with Ind AS 103, Business Combinations, but no equivalent adjustment is made for tax purposes (see
paragraph 19);
(b)
assets are revalued and no equivalent adjustment is made for tax purposes (see paragraph 20);
(c)
goodwill arises in a business combination (see paragraph 21);
(d)
the tax base of an asset or liability on initial recognition differs from its initial carrying amount, for example when an entity
benefits from non-taxable government grants related to assets (see paragraphs 22. and 33); or
Page 494/765
----- PAGE 495 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(e)
the carrying amount of investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates or interests in joint arrangements becomes
different from the tax base of the investment or interest (see paragraphs 38-45).
Business combinations
19. With limited exceptions, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are
recognized at their fair values at the acquisition date. Temporary differences arise when the tax bases of the identifiable
assets acquired and liabilities assumed are not affected by the business combination or are affected differently. For
example, when the carrying amount of an asset is increased to fair value but the tax base of the asset remains at cost to
the previous owner, a taxable temporary difference arises which results in a deferred tax liability. The resulting deferred
tax liability affects goodwill (see paragraph 66).
Assets carried at fair value
20. [ Ind ASs permit or require certain assets to be carried at fair value or to be revalued (see, for example, Ind AS 16,
Property, Plant and Equipment, Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets, Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments and Ind AS 116,
Leases). In some jurisdictions, the revaluation or other restatement of an asset to fair value affects taxable profit (tax
loss) for the current period. As a result, the tax base of the asset is adjusted and no temporary difference arises. In other
jurisdictions, the revaluation or restatement of an asset does not affect taxable profit in the period of the revaluation or
restatement and, consequently, the tax base of the asset is not adjusted. Nevertheless, the future recovery of the
carrying amount will result in a taxable flow of economic benefits to the entity and the amount that will be deductible for
tax purposes will differ from the amount of those economic benefits. The difference between the carrying amount of a
revalued asset and its tax base is a temporary difference and gives rise to a deferred tax liability or asset. This is true
even if:
(a)
the entity does not intend to dispose of the asset. In such cases, the revalued carrying amount of the asset will be
recovered through use and this will generate taxable income which exceeds the depreciation that will be allowable for
tax purposes in future periods; or
(b)
tax on capital gains is deferred if the proceeds of the disposal of the asset are invested in similar assets. In such cases,
the tax will ultimately become payable on sale or use of the similar assets.]
Goodwill
21. Goodwill arising in a business combination is measured as the excess of (a) over (b) below:
(a)
the aggregate of:
(i)
the consideration transferred measured in accordance with Ind AS 103, which generally requires acquisition-date fair
value;
(ii)
the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree recognized in accordance with Ind AS 103; and
(iii)
in a business combination achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer's previously held equity
interest in the acquiree.
(b)
the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed measured in
accordance with Ind AS 103.
Many jurisdictions do not allow reductions in the carrying amount of goodwill as a deductible expense in determining
taxable profit. Moreover, in such jurisdictions, the cost of goodwill is often not deductible when a subsidiary disposes of
its underlying business. In such jurisdictions, goodwill has a tax base of nil. Any difference between the carrying amount
of goodwill and its tax base of nil is a taxable temporary difference. However, this Standard does not permit the
recognition of the resulting deferred tax liability because goodwill is measured as a residual and the recognition of the
deferred tax liability would increase the carrying amount of goodwill.
21A. Subsequent reductions in a deferred tax liability that is unrecognized because it arises from the initial recognition of
goodwill are also regarded as arising from the initial recognition of goodwill and are therefore not recognized under
Page 495/765
----- PAGE 496 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
paragraph 15(a). For example, if in a business combination an entity recognises goodwill of Rs. 100 that has a tax base
of nil, paragraph 15(a) prohibits the entity from recognising the resulting deferred tax liability. If the entity subsequently
recognises an impairment loss of Rs. 20 for that goodwill, the amount of the taxable temporary difference relating to the
goodwill is reduced from Rs. 100 to Rs. 80, with a resulting decrease in the value of the unrecognized deferred tax
liability. That decrease in the value of the unrecognized deferred tax liability is also regarded as relating to the initial
recognition of the goodwill and is therefore prohibited from being recognized under paragraph 15(a).
21B. Deferred tax liabilities for taxable temporary differences relating to goodwill are, however, recognized to the extent
they do not arise from the initial recognition of goodwill. For example, if in a business combination an entity recognises
goodwill of Rs. 100 that is deductible for tax purposes at a rate of 20 per cent per year starting in the year of acquisition,
the tax base of the goodwill is Rs. 100 on initial recognition and Rs. 80 at the end of the year of acquisition. If the
carrying amount of goodwill at the end of the year of acquisition remains unchanged at Rs. 100, a taxable temporary
difference of Rs. 20 arises at the end of that year. Because that taxable temporary difference does not relate to the initial
recognition of the goodwill, the resulting deferred tax liability is recognized.
Initial recognition of an asset or liability
22. A temporary difference may arise on initial recognition of an asset or liability, for example if part or all of the cost of
an asset will not be deductible for tax purposes. The method of accounting for such a temporary difference depends on
the nature of the transaction that led to the initial recognition of the asset or liability:
(a)
in a business combination, an entity recognises any deferred tax liability or asset and this affects the amount of goodwill
or bargain purchase gain it recognises (see paragraph 19);
(b)
if the transaction affects either accounting profit or taxable profit, an entity recognises any deferred tax liability or asset
and recognises the resulting deferred tax expense or income in profit or loss (see paragraph 59);
(c)
if the transaction is not a business combination, and affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit, an entity would,
in the absence of the exemption provided by paragraphs 15 and 24, recognise the resulting deferred tax liability or asset
and adjust the carrying amount of the asset or liability by the same amount. Such adjustments would make the financial
statements less transparent. Therefore, this Standard does not permit an entity to recognise the resulting deferred tax
liability or asset, either on initial recognition or subsequently (see example below). Furthermore, an entity does not
recognise subsequent changes in the unrecognized deferred tax liability or asset as the asset is depreciated.
Example illustrating paragraph 22(c)
An entity intends to
use an asset which cost Rs. 1,000 throughout its useful life of
five years and then dispose of it for a residual value of nil.
The tax rate is 40%. Depreciation of the asset is not deductible
for tax purposes. On disposal, any capital gain would not be
taxable and any capital loss would not be deductible.
As it recovers the
carrying amount of the asset, the entity will earn taxable income
of Rs. 1,000 and pay tax of Rs. 400. The entity does not
recognise the resulting deferred tax liability of Rs. 400 because
it results from the initial recognition of the asset.
In the following year, the carrying amount of
the asset is Rs. 800. In earning taxable income of Rs. 800, the
entity will pay tax of Rs. 320. The entity does not recognise the
deferred tax liability of Rs. 320 because it results from the
initial recognition of the asset.
23. In accordance with Ind AS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, the issuer of a compound financial instrument
(for example, a convertible bond) classifies the instrument's liability component as a liability and the equity component
as equity. In some jurisdictions, the tax base of the liability component on initial recognition is equal to the initial carrying
amount of the sum of the liability and equity components. The resulting taxable temporary difference arises from the
Page 496/765
----- PAGE 497 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
initial recognition of the equity component separately from the liability component. Therefore, the exception set out in
paragraph 15(b) does not apply. Consequently, an entity recognises the resulting deferred tax liability. In accordance
with paragraph 61A, the deferred tax is charged directly to the carrying amount of the equity component. In accordance
with paragraph 58, subsequent changes in the deferred tax liability are recognized in profit or loss as deferred tax
expense (income).
Deductible temporary differences
24. A deferred tax asset shall be recognized for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that
taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised, unless the deferred tax
asset arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that:
(a)
is not a business combination; and
(b)
at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit (tax loss).
However, for deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates,
and interests in joint arrangements, a deferred tax asset shall be recognized in accordance with paragraph 44.
25. It is inherent in the recognition of a liability that the carrying amount will be settled in future periods through an
outflow from the entity of resources embodying economic benefits. When resources flow from the entity, part or all of
their amounts may be deductible in determining taxable profit of a period later than the period in which the liability is
recognized. In such cases, a temporary difference exists between the carrying amount of the liability and its tax base.
Accordingly, a deferred tax asset arises in respect of the income taxes that will be recoverable in the future periods
when that part of the liability is allowed as a deduction in determining taxable profit. Similarly, if the carrying amount of
an asset is less than its tax base, the difference gives rise to a deferred tax asset in respect of the income taxes that will
be recoverable in future periods.
Example
An entity recognises
a liability of Rs. 100 for gratuity and leave encashment expenses
by creating a provision for gratuity and leave encashment. For
tax purposes, any amount with regard to gratuity and leave
encashment will not be deductible until the entity pays the same.
The tax rate is 25%.
The tax base of the liability is nil
(carrying amount of Rs. 100, less the amount that will be
deductible for tax purposes in respect of that liability in
future periods). In settling the liability for its carrying
amount, the entity will reduce its future taxable profit by an
amount of Rs. 100 and, consequently, reduce its future tax
payments by Rs. 25 (Rs. 100 at 25%). The difference between the
carrying amount of Rs. 100 and the tax base of nil is a
deductible temporary difference of Rs. 100. Therefore, the entity
recognises a deferred tax asset of Rs. 25 (Rs. 100 at 25%),
provided that it is probable that the entity will earn sufficient
taxable profit in future periods to benefit from a reduction in
tax payments.
26. The following are examples of deductible temporary differences that result in deferred tax assets:
(a)
retirement benefit costs may be deducted in determining accounting profit as service is provided by the employee, but
deducted in determining taxable profit either when contributions are paid to a fund by the entity or when retirement
benefits are paid by the entity. A temporary difference exists between the carrying amount of the liability and its tax
base; the tax base of the liability is usually nil. Such a deductible temporary difference results in a deferred tax asset as
economic benefits will flow to the entity in the form of a deduction from taxable profits when contributions or retirement
benefits are paid;
Page 497/765
----- PAGE 498 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
preliminary expenses are recognized as an expense in determining accounting profit in the period in which they are
incurred but may not be permitted as a deduction in determining taxable profit (tax loss) until a later period(s). The
difference between the tax base of the preliminary expenses, being the amount permitted as a deduction in future
periods under taxation laws, and the carrying amount of nil is a deductible temporary difference that results in a deferred
tax asset;
(c)
with limited exceptions, an entity recognises the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business
combination at their fair values at the acquisition date. When a liability assumed is recognized at the acquisition date but
the related costs are not deducted in determining taxable profits until a later period, a deductible temporary difference
arises which results in a deferred tax asset. A deferred tax asset also arises when the fair value of an identifiable asset
acquired is less than its tax base. In both cases, the resulting deferred tax asset affects goodwill (see paragraph 66);
and
(d)
certain assets may be carried at fair value, or may be revalued, without an equivalent adjustment being made for tax
purposes (see paragraph 20). A deductible temporary difference arises if the tax base of the asset exceeds its carrying
amount.
[Example
illustrating paragraph 26(d)
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Identification
of a deductible temporary difference at the end of Year 2:
Entity
A purchases for Rs. 1,000, at the beginning of Year 1, a debt
instrument with a nominal value of Rs. 1,000 payable on maturity
in 5 years with an interest rate of 2% payable at the end of each
year. The effective interest rate is 2%. The debt instrument is
measured at fair value.
At
the end of Year 2, the fair value of the debt instrument has
decreased to Rs. 918 as a result of an increase in market
interest rates to 5%. It is probable that Entity A will collect
all the contractual cash flows if it continues to hold the debt
instrument.
Any
gains (losses) on the debt instrument are taxable (deductible)
only when realised. The gains (losses) arising on the sale or
maturity of the debt instrument are calculated for tax purposes
as the difference between the amount collected and the original
cost of the debt instrument.
Accordingly,
the tax base of the debt instrument is its original cost.
The
difference between the carrying amount of the debt instrument in
Entity A?s balance sheet of Rs. 918 and its tax base of Rs.
1,000 gives rise to a deductible temporary difference of Rs. 82
at the end of Year 2 (see paragraphs 20 and 26(d)), irrespective
of whether Entity A expects to recover the carrying amount of the
debt instrument by sale or by use, i.e. by holding it and
collecting contractual cash flows, or a combination of both.
This
Page 498/765
----- PAGE 499 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
is because deductible temporary differences are differences
between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the
balance sheet and its tax base that will result in amounts that
are deductible in determining taxable profit (tax loss) of future
periods, when the carrying amount of the asset or liability is
recovered or settled (see paragraph 5). Entity A obtains a
deduction equivalent to the tax base of the asset of Rs. 1,000 in
determining taxable profit (tax loss) either on sale or on
maturity.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
27. The reversal of deductible temporary differences results in deductions in determining taxable profits of future
periods. However, economic benefits in the form of reductions in tax payments will flow to the entity only if it earns
sufficient taxable profits against which the deductions can be offset. Therefore, an entity recognises deferred tax assets
only when it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be
utilised.
[27A When an entity assesses whether taxable profits will be available against which it can utilise a deductible
temporary difference, it considers whether tax law restricts the sources of taxable profits against which it may make
deductions on the reversal of that deductible temporary difference. If tax law imposes no such restrictions, an entity
assesses a deductible temporary difference in combination with all of its other deductible temporary differences.
However, if tax law restricts the utilisation of losses to deduction against income of a specific type, a deductible
temporary difference is assessed in combination only with other deductible temporary differences of the appropriate
type.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
28. It is probable that taxable profit will be available against which a deductible temporary difference can be utilised
when there are sufficient taxable temporary differences relating to the same taxation authority and the same taxable
entity which are expected to reverse:
(a)
in the same period as the expected reversal of the deductible temporary difference; or
(b)
in periods into which a tax loss arising from the deferred tax asset can be carried back or forward.
In such circumstances, the deferred tax asset is recognized in the period in which the deductible temporary differences
arise.
[29 When there are insufficient taxable temporary differences relating to the same taxation authority and the same
taxable entity, the deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that:
(a)
it is probable that the entity will have sufficient taxable profit relating to the same taxation authority and the same taxable
entity in the same period as the reversal of the deductible temporary difference (or in the periods into which a tax loss
arising from the deferred tax asset can be carried back or forward). In evaluating whether it will have sufficient taxable
profit in future periods, an entity:
(i)
compares the deductible temporary differences with future taxable profit that excludes tax deductions resulting from the
reversal of those deductible temporary differences. This comparison shows the extent to which the future taxable profit
is sufficient for the entity to deduct the amounts resulting from the reversal of those deductible temporary differences.
(ii)
ignores taxable amounts arising from deductible temporary differences that are expected to originate in future periods,
because the deferred tax asset arising from these deductible temporary differences will itself require future taxable profit
in order to be utilised; or
(b)
tax planning opportunities are available to the entity that will create taxable profit in appropriate periods.]
[29A The estimate of probable future taxable profit may include the recovery of some of an entity's assets for more than
their carrying amount if there is sufficient evidence that it is probable that the entity will achieve this. For example, when
Page 499/765
----- PAGE 500 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
an asset is measured at fair value, the entity shall consider whether there is sufficient evidence to conclude that it is
probable that the entity will recover the asset for more than its carrying amount. This may be the case, for example,
when an entity expects to hold a fixed-rate debt instrument and collect the contractual cash flows.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
30. Tax planning opportunities are actions that the entity would take in order to create or increase taxable income in a
particular period before the expiry of a tax loss or tax credit carry forward. For example, in some jurisdictions, taxable
profit may be created or increased by:
(a)
electing to have interest income taxed on either a received or receivable basis;
(b)
deferring the claim for certain deductions from taxable profit;
(c)
selling, and perhaps leasing back, assets that have appreciated but for which the tax base has not been adjusted to
reflect such appreciation; and
(d)
selling an asset that generates non-taxable income (such as, in some jurisdictions, a government bond) in order to
purchase another investment that generates taxable income.
Where tax planning opportunities advance taxable profit from a later period to an earlier period, the utilisation of a tax
loss or tax credit carry forward still depends on the existence of future taxable profit from sources other than future
originating temporary differences.
31. When an entity has a history of recent losses, the entity considers the guidance in paragraphs 35 and 36.
32. [Refer Appendix 1]
Goodwill
32A. If the carrying amount of goodwill arising in a business combination is less than its tax base, the difference gives
rise to a deferred tax asset. The deferred tax asset arising from the initial recognition of goodwill shall be recognized as
part of the accounting for a business combination to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available
against which the deductible temporary difference could be utilised.
33. [ One case when a deferred tax asset arises on initial recognition of an asset is when a non-taxable Government
grant related to an asset is deducted in arriving at the carrying amount of the asset but, for tax purposes, is not deducted
from the asset's depreciable amount (in other words its tax base); the carrying amount of the asset is less than its tax
base and this gives rise to a deductible temporary difference. Government grants may also be set up as deferred
income in which case the difference between the deferred income and its tax base of nil is a deductible temporary
difference. Whichever method of presentation an entity adopts, the entity does not recognise the resulting deferred tax
asset, for the reason given in paragraph 22.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 903(E), dated 20.9.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2013).]
Unused tax losses and unused tax credits
34. A deferred tax asset shall be recognized for the carry forward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits to the
extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses and unused tax
credits can be utilised.
35. The criteria for recognising deferred tax assets arising from the carry forward of unused tax losses and tax credits
are the same as the criteria for recognising deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences. However,
the existence of unused tax losses is strong evidence that future taxable profit may not be available. Therefore, when an
entity has a history of recent losses, the entity recognises a deferred tax asset arising from unused tax losses or tax
credits only to the extent that the entity has sufficient taxable temporary differences or there is convincing other evidence
that sufficient taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilised by
the entity. In such circumstances, paragraph 82 requires disclosure of the amount of the deferred tax asset and the
nature of the evidence supporting its recognition.
36. An entity considers the following criteria in assessing the probability that taxable profit will be available against which
the unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilised:
(a)
whether the entity has sufficient taxable temporary differences relating to the same taxation authority and the same
Page 500/765
----- PAGE 501 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
taxable entity, which will result in taxable amounts against which the unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be
utilised before they expire;
(b)
whether it is probable that the entity will have taxable profits before the unused tax losses or unused tax credits expire;
(c)
whether the unused tax losses result from identifiable causes which are unlikely to recur; and
(d)
whether tax planning opportunities (see paragraph 30) are available to the entity that will create taxable profit in the
period in which the unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilised.
To the extent that it is not probable that taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses or unused tax
credits can be utilised, the deferred tax asset is not recognized.
Reassessment of unrecognized deferred tax assets
37. At the end of each reporting period, an entity reassesses unrecognized deferred tax assets. The entity recognises a
previously unrecognized deferred tax asset to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow
the deferred tax asset to be recovered. For example, an improvement in trading conditions may make it more probable
that the entity will be able to generate sufficient taxable profit in the future for the deferred tax asset to meet the
recognition criteria set out in paragraph 24 or 34. Another example is when an entity reassesses deferred tax assets at
the date of a business combination or subsequently (see paragraphs 67 and 68).
Investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates and interests in joint arrangements
38. Temporary differences arise when the carrying amount of investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates or
interests in joint arrangements (namely the parent or investor's share of the net assets of the subsidiary, branch,
associate or investee, including the carrying amount of goodwill) becomes different from the tax base (which is often
cost) of the investment or interest. Such differences may arise in a number of different circumstances, for example:
(a)
the existence of undistributed profits of subsidiaries, branches, associates and joint arrangements;
(b)
changes in foreign exchange rates when a parent and its subsidiary are based in different countries; and
(c)
a reduction in the carrying amount of an investment in an associate to its recoverable amount.
In consolidated financial statements, the temporary difference may be different from the temporary difference associated
with that investment in the parent's separate financial statements if the parent carries the investment in its separate
financial statements at cost or revalued amount.
39. An entity shall recognise a deferred tax liability for all taxable temporary differences associated with investments in
subsidiaries, branches and associates, and interests in joint arrangements, except to the extent that both of the following
conditions are satisfied:
(a)
the parent, investor, joint venturer or joint operator is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary
difference; and
(b)
it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
40. As a parent controls the dividend policy of its subsidiary, it is able to control the timing of the reversal of temporary
differences associated with that investment (including the temporary differences arising not only from undistributed
profits but also from any foreign exchange translation differences). Furthermore, it would often be impracticable to
determine the amount of income taxes that would be payable when the temporary difference reverses. Therefore, when
the parent has determined that those profits will not be distributed in the foreseeable future the parent does not
recognise a deferred tax liability. The same considerations apply to investments in branches.
41. The non-monetary assets and liabilities of an entity are measured in its functional currency (see Ind AS 21, The
Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates). If the entity's taxable profit or tax loss (and, hence, the tax base of its
non-monetary assets and liabilities) is determined in a different currency, changes in the exchange rate give rise to
temporary differences that result in a recognized deferred tax liability or (subject to paragraph 24) asset. The resulting
deferred tax is charged or credited to profit or loss (see paragraph 58).
Page 501/765
----- PAGE 502 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
42. An investor in an associate does not control that entity and is usually not in a position to determine its dividend
policy. Therefore, in the absence of an agreement requiring that the profits of the associate will not be distributed in the
foreseeable future, an investor recognises a deferred tax liability arising from taxable temporary differences associated
with its investment in the associate. In some cases, an investor may not be able to determine the amount of tax that
would be payable if it recovers the cost of its investment in an associate, but can determine that it will equal or exceed a
minimum amount. In such cases, the deferred tax liability is measured at this amount.
43. The arrangement between the parties to a joint arrangement usually deals with the distribution of the profits and
identifies whether decisions on such matters require the consent of all the parties or a group of the parties. When the
joint venturer or joint operator can control the timing of the distribution of its share of the profits of the joint arrangement
and it is probable that its share of the profits will not be distributed in the foreseeable future, a deferred tax liability is not
recognized.
44. An entity shall recognise a deferred tax asset for all deductible temporary differences arising from investments in
subsidiaries, branches and associates, and interests in joint arrangements, to the extent that, and only to the extent that,
it is probable that:
(a)
the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future; and
(b)
taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
45. In deciding whether a deferred tax asset is recognized for deductible temporary differences associated with its
investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, and its interests in joint arrangements, an entity considers the
guidance set out in paragraphs 28 to 31.
Measurement
46. Current tax liabilities (assets) for the current and prior periods shall be measured at the amount expected to be paid
to (recovered from) the taxation authorities, using the tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively
enacted by the end of the reporting period.
47. Deferred tax assets and liabilities shall be measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when
the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively
enacted by the end of the reporting period.
48. Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are usually measured using the tax rates (and tax laws) that have
been enacted. However, in some jurisdictions, announcements of tax rates (and tax laws) by the government have the
substantive effect of actual enactment, which may follow the announcement by a period of several months. In these
circumstances, tax assets and liabilities are measured using the announced tax rate (and tax laws).
49. When different tax rates apply to different levels of taxable income, deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured
using the average rates that are expected to apply to the taxable profit (tax loss) of the periods in which the temporary
differences are expected to reverse.
50. [Refer Appendix 1]
51. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets shall reflect the tax consequences that would
follow from the manner in which the entity expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying
amount of its assets and liabilities.
51A.
In some jurisdictions, the manner in which an entity recovers (settles) the carrying amount of an asset (liability) may
affect either or both of:
(a)
the tax rate applicable when the entity recovers (settles) the carrying amount of the asset (liability); and
(b)
the tax base of the asset (liability).
In such cases, an entity measures deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets using the tax rate and the tax base that
are consistent with the expected manner of recovery or settlement.
Example A
An item of property,
plant and equipment has a carrying amount of Rs. 100 and a tax
Page 502/765
----- PAGE 503 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
base of Rs. 60. A tax rate of 20% would apply if the item were
sold and a tax rate of 30% would apply to other income.
The entity recognises a deferred tax
liability of Rs. 8 (Rs. 40 at 20%) if it expects to sell the item
without further use and a deferred tax liability of Rs. 12 (Rs.
40 at 30%) if it expects to retain the item and recover its
carrying amount through use.
Example B
An item of property,
plant and equipment with a cost of Rs. 100 and a carrying amount
of Rs. 80 is revalued to Rs. 150. No equivalent adjustment is
made for tax purposes. Cumulative depreciation for tax purposes
is Rs. 30 and the tax rate is 30%. If the item is sold for more
than cost, the cumulative tax depreciation of Rs. 30. will be
included in taxable income but sale proceeds in excess of cost
will not be taxable.
The tax base of
the item is Rs. 70 and there is a taxable temporary difference of
Rs. 80. If the entity expects to recover the carrying amount by
using the item, it must generate taxable income of Rs. 150, but
will only be able to deduct depreciation of Rs. 70. On this
basis, there is a deferred tax liability of Rs. 24 (Rs. 80 at
30%). If the entity expects to recover the carrying amount by
selling the item immediately for proceeds of Rs. 150, the
deferred tax liability is computed as follows:
{|
Taxable Temporary Difference
Tax Rate
Deferred Tax Liability
(Amount in Rs..)
(Amount in Rs..)
Cumulative tax depreciation
30
30%
9
Proceeds in excess of cost
50
nil
-
Total
80
9
(note: in accordance with paragraph 61A, the
additional deferred tax that arises on the revaluation is
recognized in other comprehensive income)
|}
Example C
The facts are as in
example B, except that if the item is sold for more than cost,
the cumulative tax depreciation will be included in taxable
income (taxed at 30%) and the sale proceeds will be taxed at 40%,
Page 503/765
----- PAGE 504 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
after deducting an inflation-adjusted cost of Rs.. 110.
If the entity
expects to recover the carrying amount by using the item , it
must generate taxable income of Rs.. 150, but will only be able
to deduct depreciation of Rs.. 70. On this basis, the tax base is
Rs.. 70, there is a taxable temporary difference of Rs.. 80 and
there is a deferred tax liability of Rs.. 24 (Rs.. 80 at 30%), as
in example B.
If the entity
expects to recover the carrying amount by selling the item
immediately for proceeds of Rs.. 150, the entity will be able to
deduct the indexed cost of Rs.. 110. The net proceeds of Rs.. 40
will be taxed at 40%. In addition, the cumulative tax
depreciation of Rs.. 30 will be included in taxable income and
taxed at 30%. On this basis, the tax base is Rs.. 80 (Rs.. 110
less Rs.. 30), there is a taxable temporary difference of Rs.. 70
and there is a deferred tax liability of Rs.. 25 (Rs.. 40 at 40%
plus Rs.. 30 at 30%). If the tax base is not immediately apparent
in this example, it may be helpful to consider the fundamental
principle set out in paragraph 10.
(note: in accordance with paragraph 61A, the
additional deferred tax that arises on the revaluation is
recognized in other comprehensive income)
51B.
If a deferred tax liability or deferred tax asset arises from a non-depreciable asset measured using the revaluation model
in Ind AS 16, the measurement of the deferred tax liability or deferred tax asset shall reflect the tax consequences of
recovering the carrying amount of the non-depreciable asset through sale, regardless of the basis of measuring the
carrying amount of that asset. Accordingly, if the tax law specifies a tax rate applicable to the taxable amount derived
from the sale of an asset that differs from the tax rate applicable to the taxable amount derived from using an asset, the
former rate is applied in measuring the deferred tax liability or asset related to a non-depreciable asset.
51C.
-51D. (Refer Appendix 1)
51E.
Paragraph 51B does not change the requirements to apply the principles in paragraphs 24-33 (deductible temporary
differences) and paragraphs 34-36 (unused tax losses and unused tax credits) of this Standard when recognising and
measuring deferred tax assets.
52. [Moved and renumbered 51A]
52A.
In some jurisdictions, income taxes are payable at a higher or lower rate if part or all of the net profit or retained earnings
is paid out as a dividend to shareholders of the entity. In some other jurisdictions, income taxes may be refundable or
payable if part or all of the net profit or retained earnings is paid out as a dividend to shareholders of the entity. In these
circumstances, current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rate applicable to undistributed
profits.
[***]
[Omitted '52B' by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
.
[Example illustrating paragraphs 52A and 57A]
[Substituted 'Example illustrating paragraphs 52A and 52B' by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f.
16.2.2015).]
The following example
deals with the measurement of current and deferred tax assets and
Page 504/765
----- PAGE 505 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
liabilities for an entity in a jurisdiction where income taxes
are payable at a higher rate on undistributed profits (50%) with
an amount being refundable when profits are distributed. The tax
rate on distributed profits is 35%. At the end of the reporting
period, 31 December 20X1, the entity does not recognise a
liability for dividends proposed or declared after the reporting
period. As a result, no dividends are recognized in the year
20X1. Taxable income for 20X1 is Rs.. 100,000. The net taxable
temporary difference for the year 20X1 is Rs. 40,000.
The entity
recognises a current tax liability and a current income tax
expense of Rs. 50,000. No asset is recognized for the amount
potentially recoverable as a result of future dividends. The
entity also recognises a deferred tax liability and deferred tax
expense of Rs. 20,000 (Rs.. 40,000 at 50%) representing the
income taxes that the entity will pay when it recovers or settles
the carrying amounts of its assets and liabilities based on the
tax rate applicable to undistributed profits.
Subsequently, on 15
March 20X2 the entity recognises dividends of Rs.. 10,000 from
previous operating profits as a liability.
On 15 March 20X2, the entity recognises the
recovery of income taxes of Rs. 1,500 (15% of the dividends
recognized as a liability) as a current tax asset and as a
reduction of current income tax expense for 20X2.
53. Deferred tax assets and liabilities shall not be discounted.
54. The reliable determination of deferred tax assets and liabilities on a discounted basis requires detailed scheduling of
the timing of the reversal of each temporary difference. In many cases such scheduling is impracticable or highly
complex. Therefore, it is inappropriate to require discounting of deferred tax assets and liabilities. To permit, but not to
require, discounting would result in deferred tax assets and liabilities which would not be comparable between entities.
Therefore, this Standard does not require or permit the discounting of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
55. Temporary differences are determined by reference to the carrying amount of an asset or liability. This applies even
where that carrying amount is itself determined on a discounted basis, for example in the case of retirement benefit
obligations (see Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits).
56. The carrying amount of a deferred tax asset shall be reviewed at the end of each reporting period. An entity shall
reduce the carrying amount of a deferred tax asset to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit
will be available to allow the benefit of part or all of that deferred tax asset to be utilised. Any such reduction shall be
reversed to the extent that it becomes probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available.
Recognition of current and deferred tax
57. Accounting for the current and deferred tax effects of a transaction or other event is consistent with the accounting
for the transaction or event itself. Paragraphs 58 to 68C implement this principle.
[57A An entity shall recognise the income tax consequences of dividends as defined in Ind AS 109 when it recognises a
liability to pay a dividend. The income tax consequences of dividends are linked more directly to past transactions or
events that generated distributable profits than to distributions to owners. Therefore, an entity shall recognise the income
tax consequences of dividends in profit or loss, other comprehensive income or equity according to where the entity
originally recognised those past transactions or events.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Items recognized in profit or loss
58. Current and deferred tax shall be recognized as income or an expense and included in profit or loss for the period,
except to the extent that the tax arises from:
(a)
Page 505/765
----- PAGE 506 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
a transaction or event which is recognized, in the same or a different period, outside profit or loss, either in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity (see paragraphs 61A-65); or
(b)
a business combination (other than the acquisition by an investment entity, as defined in Ind AS 110, Consolidated
Financial Statements, of a subsidiary that is required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss) (see paragraphs
66-68).
59. Most deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets arise where income or expense is included in accounting profit in
one period, but is included in taxable profit (tax loss) in a different period. The resulting deferred tax is recognized in
profit or loss. Examples are when:
(a)
[ interest, royalty or dividend revenue is received in arrears and is included in accounting profit in accordance with Ind
AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, or Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments, as relevant, but is included in
taxable profit (tax loss) on a cash basis; and]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b)
costs of intangible assets have been capitalised in accordance with Ind AS 38 and are being amortised in profit or loss,
but were deducted for tax purposes when they were incurred.
60. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets and liabilities may change even though there is no change in the amount
of the related temporary differences. This can result, for example, from:
(a)
a change in tax rates or tax laws;
(b)
a reassessment of the recoverability of deferred tax assets; or
(c)
a change in the expected manner of recovery of an asset.
The resulting deferred tax is recognized in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items previously
recognized outside profit or loss (see paragraph 63).
Items recognized outside profit or loss
61. [Refer Appendix 1]
61A.
Current tax and deferred tax shall be recognized outside profit or loss if the tax relates to items that are recognized, in
the same or a different period, outside profit or loss. Therefore, current tax and deferred tax that relates to items that are
recognized, in the same or a different period:
(a)
in other comprehensive income, shall be recognized in other comprehensive income (see paragraph 62).
(b)
directly in equity, shall be recognized directly in equity (see paragraph 62A).
62. Indian Accounting Standards require or permit particular items to be recognized in other comprehensive income.
Examples of such items are:
(a)
a change in carrying amount arising from the revaluation of property, plant and equipment (see Ind AS 16); and
(b)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(c)
exchange differences arising on the translation of the financial statements of a foreign operation (see Ind AS 21).
(d)
[Refer Appendix 1]
62A.
Indian Accounting Standards require or permit particular items to be credited or charged directly to equity. Examples of
such items are:
(a)
Page 506/765
----- PAGE 507 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings resulting from either a change in accounting policy that is
applied retrospectively or the correction of an error (see Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting
Estimates and Errors); and
(b)
amounts arising on initial recognition of the equity component of a compound financial instrument (see paragraph 23).
63. In exceptional circumstances it may be difficult to determine the amount of current and deferred tax that relates to
items recognized outside profit or loss (either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity). This may be the
case, for example, when:
(a)
there are graduated rates of income tax and it is impossible to determine the rate at which a specific component of
taxable profit (tax loss) has been taxed;
(b)
a change in the tax rate or other tax rules affects a deferred tax asset or liability relating (in whole or in part) to an item
that was previously recognized outside profit or loss; or
(c)
an entity determines that a deferred tax asset should be recognized, or should no longer be recognized in full, and the
deferred tax asset relates (in whole or in part) to an item that was previously recognized outside profit or loss.
In such cases, the current and deferred tax related to items that are recognized outside profit or loss are based on a
reasonable pro rata allocation of the current and deferred tax of the entity in the tax jurisdiction concerned, or other
method that achieves a more appropriate allocation in the circumstances.
64. Ind AS 16 does not specify whether an entity should transfer each year from revaluation surplus to retained earnings
an amount equal to the difference between the depreciation or amortisation on a revalued asset and the depreciation or
amortisation based on the cost of that asset. If an entity makes such a transfer, the amount transferred is net of any
related deferred tax. Similar considerations apply to transfers made on disposal of an item of property, plant or
equipment.
65. When an asset is revalued for tax purposes and that revaluation is related to an accounting revaluation of an earlier
period, or to one that is expected to be carried out in a future period, the tax effects of both the asset revaluation and the
adjustment of the tax base are recognized in other comprehensive income in the periods in which they occur. However,
if the revaluation for tax purposes is not related to an accounting revaluation of an earlier period, or to one that is
expected to be carried out in a future period, the tax effects of the adjustment of the tax base are recognized in profit or
loss.
65A.
When an entity pays dividends to its shareholders, it may be required to pay a portion of the dividends to taxation
authorities on behalf of shareholders. In many jurisdictions, this amount is referred to as a withholding tax. Such an
amount paid or payable to taxation authorities is charged to equity as a part of the dividends.
Deferred tax arising from a business combination
66. As explained in paragraphs 19 and 26(c), temporary differences may arise in a business combination. In accordance
with Ind AS 103, an entity recognises any resulting deferred tax assets (to the extent that they meet the recognition
criteria in paragraph 24) or deferred tax liabilities as identifiable assets and liabilities at the acquisition date.
Consequently, those deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities affect the amount of goodwill or the bargain
purchase gain the entity recognises. However, in accordance with paragraph 15(a), an entity does not recognise
deferred tax liabilities arising from the initial recognition of goodwill.
67. As a result of a business combination, the probability of realising a pre-acquisition deferred tax asset of the acquirer
could change. An acquirer may consider it probable that it will recover its own deferred tax asset that was not
recognized before the business combination. For example, the acquirer may be able to utilise the benefit of its unused
tax losses against the future taxable profit of the acquiree. Alternatively, as a result of the business combination it might
no longer be probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. In such cases, the
acquirer recognises a change in the deferred tax asset in the period of the business combination, but does not include it
as part of the accounting for the business combination. Therefore, the acquirer does not take it into account in
measuring the goodwill or bargain purchase gain it recognises in the business combination.
68. The potential benefit of the acquiree's income tax loss carry forwards or other deferred tax assets might not satisfy
Page 507/765
----- PAGE 508 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the criteria for separate recognition when a business combination is initially accounted for but might be realised
subsequently. An entity shall recognise acquired deferred tax benefits that it realises after the business combination as
follows:
(a)
Acquired deferred tax benefits recognized within the measurement period that result from new information about facts
and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date shall be applied to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill
related to that acquisition. If the carrying amount of that goodwill is zero, any remaining deferred tax benefits shall be
recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity as capital reserve or recognized directly in capital
reserve, depending on whether paragraph 34 or paragraph 36A of Ind AS 103, would have applied had the
measurement period adjustments been known on the date of acquisition itself.
(b)
All other acquired deferred tax benefits realised shall be recognized in profit or loss (or, if this Standard so requires,
outside profit or loss).
Current and deferred tax arising from share-based payment transactions
68A.
In some tax jurisdictions, an entity receives a tax deduction (i.e. an amount that is deductible in determining taxable
profit) that relates to remuneration paid in shares, share options or other equity instruments of the entity. The amount of
that tax deduction may differ from the related cumulative remuneration expense, and may arise in a later accounting
period. For example, in some jurisdictions, an entity may recognise an expense for the consumption of employee
services received as consideration for share options granted, in accordance with Ind AS 102, Share-based Payment,
and not receive a tax deduction until the share options are exercised, with the measurement of the tax deduction based
on the entity's share price at the date of exercise.
68B.
As with the preliminary expenses discussed in paragraphs 9 and 26(b) of this Standard, the difference between the tax
base of the employee services received to date (being the amount permitted as a deduction in future periods under
taxation laws), and the carrying amount of nil, is a deductible temporary difference that results in a deferred tax asset. If
the amount permitted as a deduction in future periods under taxation laws is not known at the end of the period, it shall
be estimated, based on information available at the end of the period. For example, if the amount permitted as a
deduction in future periods under taxation laws is dependent upon the entity's share price at a future date, the
measurement of the deductible temporary difference should be based on the entity's share price at the end of the period.
68C.
As noted in paragraph 68A, the amount of the tax deduction (or estimated future tax deduction, measured in accordance
with paragraph 68B) may differ from the related cumulative remuneration expense. Paragraph 58 of the Standard
requires that current and deferred tax should be recognized as income or an expense and included in profit or loss for
the period, except to the extent that the tax arises from (a) a transaction or event that is recognized, in the same or a
different period, outside profit or loss, or (b) a business combination (other than the acquisition by an investment entity of
a subsidiary that is required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss). If the amount of the tax deduction (or
estimated future tax deduction) exceeds the amount of the related cumulative remuneration expense, this indicates that
the tax deduction relates not only to remuneration expense but also to an equity item. In this situation, the excess of the
associated current or deferred tax should be recognized directly in equity.
Presentation
Tax assets and tax liabilities
69.
-70. [Refer Appendix 1]
Offset
71. An entity shall offset current tax assets and current tax liabilities if, and only if, the entity:
(a)
has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts; and
(b)
intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
72. Although current tax assets and liabilities are separately recognized and measured they are offset in the balance
Page 508/765
----- PAGE 509 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
sheet subject to criteria similar to those established for financial instruments in Ind AS 32. An entity will normally have a
legally enforceable right to set off a current tax asset against a current tax liability when they relate to income taxes
levied by the same taxation authority and the taxation laws permit the entity to make or receive a single net payment.
73. In consolidated financial statements, a current tax asset of one entity in a group is offset against a current tax liability
of another entity in the group if, and only if, the entities concerned have a legally enforceable right to make or receive a
single net payment and the entities intend to make or receive such a net payment or to recover the asset and settle the
liability simultaneously.
74. An entity shall offset deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities if, and only if:
(a)
the entity has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities; and
(b)
the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on
either:
(i)
the same taxable entity; or
(ii)
different taxable entities which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to realise the
assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax
liabilities or assets are expected to be settled or recovered.
75. To avoid the need for detailed scheduling of the timing of the reversal of each temporary difference, this Standard
requires an entity to set off a deferred tax asset against a deferred tax liability of the same taxable entity if, and only if,
they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the entity has a legally enforceable right to set off
current tax assets against current tax liabilities.
76. In rare circumstances, an entity may have a legally enforceable right of set-off, and an intention to settle net, for
some periods but not for others. In such rare circumstances, detailed scheduling may be required to establish reliably
whether the deferred tax liability of one taxable entity will result in increased tax payments in the same period in which a
deferred tax asset of another taxable entity will result in decreased payments by that second taxable entity.
Tax expense
Tax expense (income) related to profit or loss from ordinary activities
77. The tax expense (income) related to profit or loss from ordinary activities shall be presented as part of profit or loss
in the statement of profit and loss.
77A.
[Refer Appendix 1]
Exchange differences on deferred foreign tax liabilities or assets
78. Ind AS 21 requires certain exchange differences to be recognized as income or expense but does not specify where
such differences should be presented in the statement of profit and loss. Accordingly, where exchange differences on
deferred foreign tax liabilities or assets are recognized in the statement of profit and loss, such differences may be
classified as deferred tax expense (income) if that presentation is considered to be the most useful to financial statement
users.
Disclosure
79. The major components of tax expense (income) shall be disclosed separately.
80. Components of tax expense (income) may include:
(a)
current tax expense (income);
(b)
any adjustments recognized in the period for current tax of prior periods;
(c)
the amount of deferred tax expense (income) relating to the origination and reversal of temporary differences;
(d)
the amount of deferred tax expense (income) relating to changes in tax rates or the imposition of new taxes;
(e)
Page 509/765
----- PAGE 510 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the amount of the benefit arising from a previously unrecognized tax loss, tax credit or temporary difference of a prior
period that is used to reduce current tax expense;
(f)
the amount of the benefit from a previously unrecognized tax loss, tax credit or temporary difference of a prior period
that is used to reduce deferred tax expense;
(g)
deferred tax expense arising from the write-down, or reversal of a previous write-down, of a deferred tax asset in
accordance with paragraph 56; and
(h)
the amount of tax expense (income) relating to those changes in accounting policies and errors that are included in profit
or loss in accordance with Ind AS 8, because they cannot be accounted for retrospectively.
81. The following shall also be disclosed separately:
(a)
the aggregate current and deferred tax relating to items that are charged or credited directly to equity (see paragraph
62A);
(ab)
the amount of income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income (see paragraph 62 and Ind AS 1);
(b)
[Refer Appendix 1];
(c)
an explanation of the relationship between tax expense (income) and accounting profit in either or both of the following
forms:
(i)
a numerical reconciliation between tax expense (income) and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the
applicable tax rate(s), disclosing also the basis on which the applicable tax rate(s) is (are) computed; or
(ii)
a numerical reconciliation between the average effective tax rate and the applicable tax rate, disclosing also the basis on
which the applicable tax rate is computed;
(d)
an explanation of changes in the applicable tax rate(s) compared to the previous accounting period;
(e)
the amount (and expiry date, if any) of deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses, and unused tax credits for
which no deferred tax asset is recognized in the balance sheet;
(f)
the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates
and interests in joint arrangements, for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognized (see paragraph 39);
(g)
in respect of each type of temporary difference, and in respect of each type of unused tax losses and unused tax credits:
(i)
the amount of the deferred tax assets and liabilities recognized in the balance sheet for each period presented;
(ii)
the amount of the deferred tax income or expense recognized in profit or loss, if this is not apparent from the changes in
the amounts recognized in the balance sheet;
(h)
in respect of discontinued operations, the tax expense relating to:
(i)
the gain or loss on discontinuance; and
(ii)
the profit or loss from the ordinary activities of the discontinued operation for the period, together with the corresponding
amounts for each prior period presented;
(i)
Page 510/765
----- PAGE 511 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the amount of income tax consequences of dividends to shareholders of the entity that were proposed or declared
before the financial statements were approved for issue, but are not recognized as a liability in the financial statements;
(j)
if a business combination in which the entity is the acquirer causes a change in the amount recognized for its
pre-acquisition deferred tax asset (see paragraph 67), the amount of that change; and
(k)
if the deferred tax benefits acquired in a business combination are not recognized at the acquisition date but are
recognized after the acquisition date (see paragraph 68), a description of the event or change in circumstances that
caused the deferred tax benefits to be recognized.
82. An entity shall disclose the amount of a deferred tax asset and the nature of the evidence supporting its recognition,
when:
(a)
the utilisation of the deferred tax asset is dependent on future taxable profits in excess of the profits arising from the
reversal of existing taxable temporary differences; and
(b)
the entity has suffered a loss in either the current or preceding period in the tax jurisdiction to which the deferred tax
asset relates.
82A. In the circumstances described in paragraph 52A, an entity shall disclose the nature of the potential income tax
consequences that would result from the payment of dividends to its shareholders. In addition, the entity shall disclose
the amounts of the potential income tax consequences practicably determinable and whether there are any potential
income tax consequences not practicably determinable.
83. [Refer Appendix 1]
84. The disclosures required by paragraph 81(c) enable users of financial statements to understand whether the
relationship between tax expense (income) and accounting profit is unusual and to understand the significant factors
that could affect that relationship in the future. The relationship between tax expense (income) and accounting profit may
be affected by such factors as revenue that is exempt from taxation, expenses that are not deductible in determining
taxable profit (tax loss), the effect of tax losses and the effect of foreign tax rates.
85. In explaining the relationship between tax expense (income) and accounting profit, an entity uses an applicable tax
rate that provides the most meaningful information to the users of its financial statements. Often, the most meaningful
rate is the domestic rate of tax in the country in which the entity is domiciled, aggregating the tax rate applied for national
taxes with the rates applied for any local taxes which are computed on a substantially similar level of taxable profit (tax
loss). However, for an entity operating in several jurisdictions, it may be more meaningful to aggregate separate
reconciliations prepared using the domestic rate in each individual jurisdiction. The following example illustrates how the
selection of the applicable tax rate affects the presentation of the numerical reconciliation.
Example illustrating paragraph 85
In 19X2, an entity
has accounting profit in its own jurisdiction (country A) of Rs.
1,500 (19X1: Rs. 2,000) and in country B of Rs. 1,500 (19X1: Rs.
500). The tax rate is 30% in country A and 20% in country B. In
country A, expenses of Rs. 100 (19X1: Rs. 200) are not deductible
for tax purposes.
The following is
an example of a reconciliation to the domestic tax rate.
{|
(Amount in Rs.)
19X1
19X2
Accounting profit
2,500
3,000
Tax at the domestic rate of 30%
Page 511/765
----- PAGE 512 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
750
900
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible for tax
purposes
60
30
Effect of lower tax rates in country B
(50)
(150)
Tax expense
760
780
|}
86. The average effective tax rate is the tax expense (income) divided by the accounting profit.
87. It would often be impracticable to compute the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liabilities arising from
investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates and interests in joint arrangements (see paragraph 39). Therefore,
this Standard requires an entity to disclose the aggregate amount of the underlying temporary differences but does not
require disclosure of the deferred tax liabilities. Nevertheless, where practicable, entities are encouraged to disclose the
amounts of the unrecognized deferred tax liabilities because financial statement users may find such information useful.
87A.
Paragraph 82A requires an entity to disclose the nature of the potential income tax consequences that would result from
the payment of dividends to its shareholders. An entity discloses the important features of the income tax systems and
the factors that will affect the amount of the potential income tax consequences of dividends.
87B.
It would sometimes not be practicable to compute the total amount of the potential income tax consequences that would
result from the payment of dividends to shareholders. This may be the case, for example, where an entity has a large
number of foreign subsidiaries. However, even in such circumstances, some portions of the total amount may be easily
determinable. For example, in a consolidated group, a parent and some of its subsidiaries may have paid income taxes
at a higher rate on undistributed profits and be aware of the amount that would be refunded on the payment of future
dividends to shareholders from consolidated retained earnings. In this case, that refundable amount is disclosed. If
applicable, the entity also discloses that there are additional potential income tax consequences not practicably
determinable. In the parent's separate financial statements, if any, the disclosure of the potential income tax
consequences relates to the parent's retained earnings.
87C.
An entity required to provide the disclosures in paragraph 82A may also be required to provide disclosures related to
temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates or interests in joint
arrangements. In such cases, an entity considers this in determining the information to be disclosed under paragraph
82A. For example, an entity may be required to disclose the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with
investments in subsidiaries for which no deferred tax liabilities have been recognized (see paragraph 81(f)). If it is
impracticable to compute the amounts of unrecognized deferred tax liabilities (see paragraph 87) there may be amounts
of potential income tax consequences of dividends not practicably determinable related to these subsidiaries.
88. An entity discloses any tax-related contingent liabilities and contingent assets in accordance with Ind AS 37,
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. Contingent liabilities and contingent assets may arise, for
example, from unresolved disputes with the taxation authorities. Similarly, where changes in tax rates or tax laws are
enacted or announced after the reporting period, an entity discloses any significant effect of those changes on its current
and deferred tax assets and liabilities (see Ind AS 10, Events after the Reporting Period).
[Effective Date
89. *
90. *
91. *
92. *
Page 512/765
----- PAGE 513 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
93. *
94. *
95. *
96. *
97. *
98. *
98A.
*
98B.
*
98C.
*
98D.
*
98E.
As a consequence of issuance of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, paragraph 59 is amended. An
entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 115.
98F.
*
[98G Ind AS 116 amended paragraph 20. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies Ind AS 116.
98H.
Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses (Amendments to Ind AS 12) amended paragraph 29 and
added paragraphs 27A, 29A and 89-98F and the example following paragraph 26. An entity shall apply those
amendments for annual periods beginning on or after April 01, 2018. An entity shall apply those amendments
retrospectively in accordance with Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
However, on initial application of the amendment, the change in the opening equity of the earliest comparative period
may be recognised in opening retained earnings (or in another component of equity, as appropriate), without allocating
the change between opening retained earnings and other components of equity. If an entity applies this relief, it shall
disclose that fact.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[98I Annual Improvements to Ind AS (2018) added paragraph 57A and deleted paragraph 52B. An entity shall apply
those amendments for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 April, 2019.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix A
Income Taxes-Changes in the Tax Status of an Entity or its Shareholders
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Issue
1. A change in the tax status of an entity or of its shareholders may have consequences for an entity by increasing or
decreasing its tax liabilities or assets. This may, for example, occur upon the public listing of an entity's equity
instruments or upon the restructuring of an entity's equity. It may also occur upon a controlling shareholder's move to a
foreign country. As a result of such an event, an entity may be taxed differently; it may for example gain or lose tax
incentives or become subject to a different rate of tax in the future.
2. A change in the tax status of an entity or its shareholders may have an immediate effect on the entity's current tax
liabilities or assets. The change may also increase or decrease the deferred tax liabilities and assets recognized by the
entity, depending on the effect the change in tax status has on the tax consequences that will arise from recovering or
settling the carrying amount of the entity's assets and liabilities.
3. The issue is how an entity should account for the tax consequences of a change in its tax status or that of its
shareholders.
Accounting Principles
Page 513/765
----- PAGE 514 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
4. A change in the tax status of an entity or its shareholders does not give rise to increases or decreases in amounts
recognized outside profit or loss. The current and deferred tax consequences of a change in tax status shall be included
in profit or loss for the period, unless those consequences relate to transactions and events that result, in the same or a
different period, in a direct credit or charge to the recognized amount of equity or in amounts recognized in other
comprehensive income. Those tax consequences that relate to changes in the recognized amount of equity, in the same
or a different period (not included in profit or loss), shall be charged or credited directly to equity. Those tax
consequences that relate to amounts recognized in other comprehensive income shall be recognized in other
comprehensive income.
Appendix B
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
1. Appendix A, Applying the Restatement Approach under Ind AS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyper-inflationary
Economies, contained in Ind AS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyper-inflationary Economies, makes reference to Ind AS 12.
2. Appendix C, Levies, contained in Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
[Appendix C]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS and has the same authority as the other parts of the Ind AS
Background
1. Ind AS 12, Income Taxes, specifies requirements for current and deferred tax assets and liabilities. An entity applies
the requirements in Ind AS 12 based on applicable tax laws.
2. It may be unclear how tax law applies to a particular transaction or circumstance. The acceptability of a particular tax
treatment under tax law may not be known until the relevant taxation authority or a court takes a decision in the future.
Consequently, a dispute or examination of a particular tax treatment by the taxation authority may affect an entity's
accounting for a current or deferred tax asset or liability.
3. In this Appendix:
(a)
'tax treatments' refers to the treatments used by an entity or that it plans to use in its income tax filings.
(b)
'taxation authority' refers to the body or bodies that decide whether tax treatments are acceptable under tax law. This
might include a court.
(c)
an 'uncertain tax treatment' is a tax treatment for which there is uncertainty over whether the relevant taxation authority
will accept the tax treatment under tax law. For example, an entity's decision not to submit any income tax filing in a tax
jurisdiction, or not to include particular income in taxable profit, is an uncertain tax treatment if its acceptability is
uncertain under tax law.
Scope
____________________________________________________________________________
4. This Appendix clarifies how to apply the recognition and measurement requirements in Ind AS 12 when there is
uncertainty over income tax treatments. In such a circumstance, an entity shall recognise and measure its current or
deferred tax asset or liability applying the requirements in Ind AS 12 based on taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases,
unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates determined applying this Appendix.
Issues
________________________________________________________________________________
5. When there is uncertainty over income tax treatments, this Appendix addresses:
(a)
whether an entity considers uncertain tax treatments separately;
(b)
the assumptions an entity makes about the examination of tax treatments by taxation authorities;
(c)
how an entity determines taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates; and
Page 514/765
----- PAGE 515 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(d)
how an entity considers changes in facts and circumstances.
Accounting Principles
__________________________________________________________________________________
Whether an entity considers uncertain tax treatments separately
6. An entity shall determine whether to consider each uncertain tax treatment separately or together with one or more
other uncertain tax treatments based on which approach better predicts the resolution of the uncertainty. In determining
the approach that better predicts the resolution of the uncertainty, an entity might consider, for example, (a) how it
prepares its income tax filings and supports tax treatments; or (b) how the entity expects the taxation authority to make
its examination and resolve issues that might arise from that examination.
7. If, applying paragraph 6, an entity considers more than one uncertain tax treatment together, the entity shall read
references to an 'uncertain tax treatment' in this Appendix as referring to the group of uncertain tax treatments
considered together.
Examination by taxation authorities
8. In assessing whether and how an uncertain tax treatment affects the determination of taxable profit (tax loss), tax
bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, an entity shall assume that a taxation authority will examine
amounts it has a right to examine and have full knowledge of all related information when making those examinations.
Determination of taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates
9. An entity shall consider whether it is probable that a taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment.
10. If an entity concludes it is probable that the taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment, the entity shall
determine the taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits or tax rates consistently with the
tax treatment used or planned to be used in its income tax filings.
11. If an entity concludes it is not probable that the taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment, the entity
shall reflect the effect of uncertainty in determining the related taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses,
unused tax credits or tax rates. An entity shall reflect the effect of uncertainty for each uncertain tax treatment by using
either of the following methods, depending on which method the entity expects to better predict the resolution of the
uncertainty:
(a)
The most likely amount-the single most likely amount in a range of possible outcomes. The most likely amount may
better predict the resolution of the uncertainty if the possible outcomes are binary or are concentrated on one value.
(b)
The expected value-the sum of the probability-weighted amounts in a range of possible outcomes. The expected value
may better predict the resolution of the uncertainty if there is a range of possible outcomes that are neither binary nor
concentrated on one value.
12. If an uncertain tax treatment affects current tax and deferred tax (for example, if it affects both taxable profit used to
determine current tax and tax bases used to determine deferred tax), an entity shall make consistent judgements and
estimates for both current tax and deferred tax.
Changes in facts and circumstances
13. An entity shall reassess a judgement or estimate required by this Appendix if the facts and circumstances on which
the judgement or estimate was based change or as a result of new information that affects the judgement or estimate.
For example, a change in facts and circumstances might change an entity's conclusions about the acceptability of a tax
treatment or the entity's estimate of the effect of uncertainty, or both. Paragraphs A1-A3 set out guidance on changes in
facts and circumstances.
14. An entity shall reflect the effect of a change in facts and circumstances or of new information as a change in
accounting estimate applying Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. An entity
shall apply Ind AS 10, Events after the Reporting Period, to determine whether a change that occurs after the reporting
period is an adjusting or non-adjusting event.
Application Guidance
This Application Guidance is an integral part of Appendix C and has the same authority as the other parts of Appendix
C.
Changes in facts and circumstances (paragraph 13)
Page 515/765
----- PAGE 516 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
_____________________________________________________________________________________
A1 In applying paragraph 13 of this Appendix, an entity shall assess the relevance and effect of a change in facts and
circumstances or of new information in the context of applicable tax laws. For example, a particular event might result in
the reassessment of a judgement or estimate made for one tax treatment but not another, if those tax treatments are
subject to different tax laws.
A2 Examples of changes in facts and circumstances or new information that, depending on the circumstances, can
result in the reassessment of a judgement or estimate required by this Appendix include, but are not limited to, the
following:
(a)
examinations or actions by a taxation authority. For example:
(i)
agreement or disagreement by the taxation authority with the tax treatment or a similar tax treatment used by the entity;
(ii)
information that the taxation authority has agreed or disagreed with a similar tax treatment used by another entity; and
(iii)
information about the amount received or paid to settle a similar tax treatment.
(b)
changes in rules established by a taxation authority.
(c)
the expiry of a taxation authority's right to examine or re-examine a tax treatment.
A3 The absence of agreement or disagreement by a taxation authority with a tax treatment, in isolation, is unlikely to
constitute a change in facts and circumstances or new information that affects the judgements and estimates required
by this Appendix.
Disclosure
_________________________________________________________________________________
A4 When there is uncertainty over income tax treatments, an entity shall determine whether to disclose:
(a)
judgements made in determining taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates
applying paragraph 122 of Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements; and
(b)
information about the assumptions and estimates made in determining taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax
losses, unused tax credits and tax rates applying paragraphs 125-129 of Ind AS 1.
A5 If an entity concludes it is probable that a taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment, the entity shall
determine whether to disclose the potential effect of the uncertainty as a tax-related contingency applying paragraph 88
of Ind AS 12.
Effective date and transition
This Section is an integral part of Appendix C and has the same authority as the other parts of the Appendix C.
Effective date
__________________________________________________________________________________
B1 An entity shall apply this Appendix for annual reporting periods beginning on or after April 1, 2019.
Transition
B2 On initial application, an entity shall apply this Appendix either:
(a)
retrospectively applying Ind AS 8, if that is possible without the use of hindsight; or
(b)
retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the Appendix recognised at the date of initial application. If
an entity selects this transition approach, it shall not restate comparative information. Instead, the entity shall recognise
the cumulative effect of initially applying the Appendix as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings (or
other component of equity, as appropriate). The date of initial application is the beginning of the annual reporting period
in which an entity first applies this Appendix.
Appendix 1
Page 516/765
----- PAGE 517 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 12 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 12, Income Taxes, [IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
and SIC 25, Income Taxes-Changes in the Tax Status of an Entity or its Shareholders, issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 12, Income Taxes [IFRIC 23]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
and SIC 25
1. The transitional provisions given in SIC 25 have not been given in Ind AS 12, since all transitional provisions related
to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate, have been included in Ind AS 101, First-time Adoption of Indian
Accounting Standards corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
2. Different terminology is used, as used in existing laws e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of
financial position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'. Words
'approved for issue' have been used instead of 'authorised for issue' in the context of financial statements considered for
the purpose of events after the reporting period.
3. Requirements regarding presentation of tax expense (income) in the separate income statement, where separate
income statement is presented, have been deleted. This change is consequential to the removal of option regarding the
two statement approach in Ind AS 1. Ind AS 1 requires that the components of profit or loss and components of other
comprehensive income shall be presented as a part of the statement of profit and loss.
4. The following paragraph numbers appear as 'Deleted' in IAS 12. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 12, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 12:
(i)
paragraph 3
(ii)
paragraph 32
(iii)
paragraph 50
(iv)
[ paragraph 52B
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(v)
paragraph 61
(vi)
paragraphs 62(b) and (d)
(vii)
paragraph 69
(viii)
paragraph 70
(ix)
paragraph 77A
(x)
paragraph 81(b)
(xi)
paragraph 83.]
5. As a consequence of not allowing fair value model in Ind AS 40, paragraphs 51C-51D have been deleted and the
following paragraphs have been modified in Ind AS 12:
(i)
paragraph 20
(ii)
paragraph 51E
Page 517/765
----- PAGE 518 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
6. Paragraph 68 (a) has been modified as a consequence of different accounting treatment of bargain purchase gain in
Ind AS 103, Business Combinations, in comparison to IFRS 3, Business Combination.
7. [ ***]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 903(E), dated 20.9.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2013).]
8. [ Paragraphs 89 to 98D and 98F of IAS 12 related to effective date have not been included in Ind AS 12 as these are
not relevant in Indian context. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 12, these
paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 12.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 16
Property, Plant and Equipment
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting treatment for property, plant and equipment so that users
of the financial statements can discern information about an entity's investment in its property, plant and equipment and
the changes in such investment. The principal issues in accounting for property, plant and equipment are the recognition
of the assets, the determination of their carrying amounts and the depreciation charges and impairment losses to be
recognized in relation to them.
Scope
2. This Standard shall be applied in accounting for property, plant and equipment except when another Standard
requires or permits a different accounting treatment.
3. This Standard does not apply to:
(a)
property, plant and equipment classified as held for sale in accordance with Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets Held for
Sale and Discontinued Operations.
(b)
biological assets related to agricultural activity other than bearer plants (See Ind AS 41, Agriculture). This Standard
applies to bearer plants but it does not apply to the produce on bearer plants.
(c)
the recognition and measurement of exploration and evaluation assets (see Ind AS 106, Exploration for and Evaluation
of Mineral Resources).
(d)
mineral rights and mineral reserves such as oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative resources.
However, this Standard applies to property, plant and equipment used to develop or maintain the assets described in
(b)-(d).
[***]
[Omitted 'Paragraph 4' by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
5. [ An entity accounting for investment property in accordance with Ind AS 40, Investment Property, shall use the cost
model in this Standard for owned investment property.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Definitions
6. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
A bearer plant is a living plant that:
(a)
is used in the production or supply of agricultural produce;
(b)
is expected to bear produce for more than one period; and
(c)
has a remote likelihood of being sold as agricultural produce, except for incidental scrap sales.
Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognized after deducting any accumulated depreciation and
accumulated impairment losses.
Page 518/765
----- PAGE 519 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Cost is the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of the other consideration given to acquire an asset
at the time of its acquisition or construction or, where applicable, the amount attributed to that asset when initially
recognized in accordance with the specific requirements of other Indian Accounting Standards, e.g. Ind AS 102,
Share-based Payment.
Depreciable amount is the cost of an asset, or other amount substituted for cost, less its residual value.
Depreciation is the systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an asset over its useful life.
Entity-specific value is the present value of the cash flows an entity expects to arise from the continuing use of an asset
and from its disposal at the end of its useful life or expects to incur when settling a liability.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. (See Ind AS 113, Fair Value Measurement.)
An impairment loss is the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Property, plant and equipment are tangible items that:
(a)
are held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, for rental to others, or for administrative purposes; and
(b)
are expected to be used during more than one period.
Recoverable amount is the higher of an asset's fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
The residual value of an asset is the estimated amount that an entity would currently obtain from disposal of the asset,
after deducting the estimated costs of disposal, if the asset were already of the age and in the condition expected at the
end of its useful life.
Useful life is:
(a)
the period over which an asset is expected to be available for use by an entity; or
(b)
the number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from the asset by an entity.
Recognition
7. The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment shall be recognized as an asset if, and only if:
(a)
it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the entity; and
(b)
the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
8. Items such as spare parts, stand-by equipment and servicing equipment are recognized in accordance with this Ind
AS when they meet the definition of property, plant and equipment. Otherwise, such items are classified as inventory.
9. This Standard does not prescribe the unit of measure for recognition, i.e. what constitutes an item of property, plant
and equipment. Thus, judgement is required in applying the recognition criteria to an entity's specific circumstances. It
may be appropriate to aggregate individually insignificant items, such as moulds, tools and dies, and to apply the criteria
to the aggregate value.
10. [ An entity evaluates under this recognition principle all its property, plant and equipment costs at the time they are
incurred. These costs include costs incurred initially to acquire or construct an item of property, plant and equipment and
costs incurred subsequently to add to, replace part of, or service it. The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment
may include costs incurred relating to leases of assets that are used to construct, add to, replace part of or service an
item of property, plant and equipment, such as depreciation of right-of-use assets.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Initial costs
11. Items of property, plant and equipment may be acquired for safety or environmental reasons. The acquisition of such
property, plant and equipment, although not directly increasing the future economic benefits of any particular existing
item of property, plant and equipment, may be necessary for an entity to obtain the future economic benefits from its
other assets. Such items of property, plant and equipment qualify for recognition as assets because they enable an
entity to derive future economic benefits from related assets in excess of what could be derived had those items not
been acquired. For example, a chemical manufacturer may install new chemical handling processes to comply with
environmental requirements for the production and storage of dangerous chemicals; related plant enhancements are
Page 519/765
----- PAGE 520 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
recognized as an asset because without them the entity is unable to manufacture and sell chemicals. However, the
resulting carrying amount of such an asset and related assets is reviewed for impairment in accordance with Ind AS 36,
Impairment of Assets.
Subsequent costs
12. Under the recognition principle in paragraph 7, an entity does not recognise in the carrying amount of an item of
property, plant and equipment the costs of the day-to-day servicing of the item. Rather, these costs are recognized in
profit or loss as incurred. Costs of day-to-day servicing are primarily the costs of labour and consumables, and may
include the cost of small parts. The purpose of these expenditures is often described as for the 'repairs and
maintenance' of the item of property, plant and equipment.
13. Parts of some items of property, plant and equipment may require replacement at regular intervals. For example, a
furnace may require relining after a specified number of hours of use, or aircraft interiors such as seats and galleys may
require replacement several times during the life of the airframe. Items of property, plant and equipment may also be
acquired to make a less frequently recurring replacement, such as replacing the interior walls of a building, or to make a
nonrecurring replacement. Under the recognition principle in paragraph 7, an entity recognises in the carrying amount of
an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if the
recognition criteria are met. The carrying amount of those parts that are replaced is derecognized in accordance with the
derecognition provisions of this Standard (see paragraphs 67-72).
14. A condition of continuing to operate an item of property, plant and equipment (for example, an aircraft) may be
performing regular major inspections for faults regardless of whether parts of the item are replaced. When each major
inspection is performed, its cost is recognized in the carrying amount of the item of property, plant and equipment as a
replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied. Any remaining carrying amount of the cost of the previous inspection
(as distinct from physical parts) is derecognized. This occurs regardless of whether the cost of the previous inspection
was identified in the transaction in which the item was acquired or constructed. If necessary, the estimated cost of a
future similar inspection may be used as an indication of what the cost of the existing inspection component was when
the item was acquired or constructed.
Measurement at recognition
15. An item of property, plant and equipment that qualifies for recognition as an asset shall be measured at its cost.
Elements of cost
16. The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment comprises:
(a)
its purchase price, including import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade discounts and
rebates.
(b)
any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of
operating in the manner intended by management.
(c)
the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located, the
obligation for which an entity incurs either when the item is acquired or as a consequence of having used the item during
a particular period for purposes other than to produce inventories during that period.
17. Examples of directly attributable costs are:
(a)
costs of employee benefits (as defined in Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits) arising directly from the construction or
acquisition of the item of property, plant and equipment;
(b)
costs of site preparation;
(c)
initial delivery and handling costs;
(d)
installation and assembly costs;
(e)
costs of testing whether the asset is functioning properly, after deducting the net proceeds from selling any items
Page 520/765
----- PAGE 521 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
produced while bringing the asset to that location and condition (such as samples produced when testing equipment);
and
(f)
professional fees.
18. An entity applies Ind AS 2, Inventories, to the costs of obligations for dismantling, removing and restoring the site on
which an item is located that are incurred during a particular period as a consequence of having used the item to
produce inventories during that period. The obligations for costs accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 2 or Ind AS 16
are recognized and measured in accordance with Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
19. Examples of costs that are not costs of an item of property, plant and equipment are:
(a)
costs of opening a new facility;
(b)
costs of introducing a new product or service (including costs of advertising and promotional activities);
(c)
costs of conducting business in a new location or with a new class of customer (including costs of staff training); and
(d)
administration and other general overhead costs.
20. Recognition of costs in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment ceases when the item is in
the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Therefore, costs incurred in using or redeploying an item are not included in the carrying amount of that item. For
example, the following costs are not included in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment:
(a)
costs incurred while an item capable of operating in the manner intended by management has yet to be brought into use
or is operated at less than full capacity;
(b)
initial operating losses, such as those incurred while demand for the item's output builds up; and
(c)
costs of relocating or reorganising part or all of an entity's operations.
21. Some operations occur in connection with the construction or development of an item of property, plant and
equipment, but are not necessary to bring the item to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of
operating in the manner intended by management. These incidental operations may occur before or during the
construction or development activities. For example, income may be earned through using a building site as a car park
until construction starts. Because incidental operations are not necessary to bring an item to the location and condition
necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management, the income and related expenses of
incidental operations are recognized in profit or loss and included in their respective classifications of income and
expense.
22. The cost of a self-constructed asset is determined using the same principles as for an acquired asset. If an entity
makes similar assets for sale in the normal course of business, the cost of the asset is usually the same as the cost of
constructing an asset for sale (see Ind AS 2). Therefore, any internal profits are eliminated in arriving at such costs.
Similarly, the cost of abnormal amounts of wasted material, labour, or other resources incurred in self-constructing an
asset is not included in the cost of the asset. Ind AS 23, Borrowing Costs, establishes criteria for the recognition of
interest as a component of the carrying amount of a self-constructed item of property, plant and equipment.
22A. Bearer plants are accounted for in the same way as self-constructed items of property, plant and equipment before
they are in the location and condition necessary to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Consequently, references to 'construction' in this Standard should be read as covering activities that are necessary to
cultivate the bearer plants before they are in the location and condition necessary to be capable of operating in the
manner intended by management.
Measurement of cost
23. The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment is the cash price equivalent at the recognition date. If payment
is deferred beyond normal credit terms, the difference between the cash price equivalent and the total payment is
recognized as interest over the period of credit unless such interest is capitalised in accordance with Ind AS 23.
Page 521/765
----- PAGE 522 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
24. One or more items of property, plant and equipment may be acquired in exchange for a non-monetary asset or
assets, or a combination of monetary and non-monetary assets. The following discussion refers simply to an exchange
of one non-monetary asset for another, but it also applies to all exchanges described in the preceding sentence. The
cost of such an item of property, plant and equipment is measured at fair value unless (a) the exchange transaction
lacks commercial substance or (b) the fair value of neither the asset received nor the asset given up is reliably
measurable. The acquired item is measured in this way even if an entity cannot immediately derecognise the asset
given up. If the acquired item is not measured at fair value, its cost is measured at the carrying amount of the asset
given up.
25. An entity determines whether an exchange transaction has commercial substance by considering the extent to which
its future cash flows are expected to change as a result of the transaction. An exchange transaction has commercial
substance if:
(a)
the configuration (risk, timing and amount) of the cash flows of the asset received differs from the configuration of the
cash flows of the asset transferred; or
(b)
the entity-specific value of the portion of the entity's operations affected by the transaction changes as a result of the
exchange; and
(c)
the difference in (a) or (b) is significant relative to the fair value of the assets exchanged.
For the purpose of determining whether an exchange transaction has commercial substance, the entity-specific value of
the portion of the entity's operations affected by the transaction shall reflect post-tax cash flows. The result of these
analyses may be clear without an entity having to perform detailed calculations.
26. The fair value of an asset is reliably measurable if (a) the variability in the range of reasonable fair value
measurements is not significant for that asset or (b) the probabilities of the various estimates within the range can be
reasonably assessed and used when measuring fair value. If an entity is able to measure reliably the fair value of either
the asset received or the asset given up, then the fair value of the asset given up is used to measure the cost of the
asset received unless the fair value of the asset received is more clearly evident.
[***]
[Omitted '(27)' by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
28. [ The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment may be reduced by Government grants in
accordance with Ind AS 20, Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 903(E), dated 20.9.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2013).]
Measurement after recognition
29. An entity shall choose either the cost model in paragraph 30 or the revaluation model in paragraph 31 as its
accounting policy and shall apply that policy to an entire class of property, plant and equipment.
Cost model
30. After recognition as an asset, an item of property, plant and equipment shall be carried at its cost less any
accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Revaluation model
31. After recognition as an asset, an item of property, plant and equipment whose fair value can be measured reliably
shall be carried at a revalued amount, being its fair value at the date of the revaluation less any subsequent
accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses. Revaluations shall be made with sufficient
regularity to ensure that the carrying amount does not differ materially from that which would be determined using fair
value at the end of the reporting period.
32. [Refer Appendix 1].
33. [Refer Appendix 1].
34. The frequency of revaluations depends upon the changes in fair values of the items of property, plant and equipment
being revalued. When the fair value of a revalued asset differs materially from its carrying amount, a further revaluation
is required. Some items of property, plant and equipment experience significant and volatile changes in fair value, thus
necessitating annual revaluation. Such frequent revaluations are unnecessary for items of property, plant and equipment
with only insignificant changes in fair value. Instead, it may be necessary to revalue the item only every three or five
Page 522/765
----- PAGE 523 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
years.
35. When an item of property, plant and equipment is revalued, the carrying amount of that asset is adjusted to the
revalued amount. At the date of the revaluation, the asset is treated in one of the following ways:
(a)
the gross carrying amount is adjusted in a manner that is consistent with the revaluation of the carrying amount of the
asset. For example, the gross carrying amount may be restated by reference to observable market data or it may be
restated proportionately to the change in the carrying amount. The accumulated depreciation at the date of the
revaluation is adjusted to equal the difference between the gross carrying amount and the carrying amount of the asset
after taking into account accumulated impairment losses; or
(b)
the accumulated depreciation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset.
The amount of the adjustment of accumulated depreciation forms part of the increase or decrease in carrying amount
that is accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 39 and 40.
36. If an item of property, plant and equipment is revalued, the entire class of property, plant and equipment to which
that asset belongs shall be revalued.
37. A class of property, plant and equipment is a grouping of assets of a similar nature and use in an entity's operations.
The following are examples of separate classes:
(a)
land;
(b)
land and buildings;
(c)
machinery;
(d)
ships;
(e)
aircraft;
(f)
motor vehicles;
(g)
furniture and fixtures;
(h)
office equipment; and
(i)
bearer plants.
38. The items within a class of property, plant and equipment are revalued simultaneously to avoid selective revaluation
of assets and the reporting of amounts in the financial statements that are a mixture of costs and values as at different
dates. However, a class of assets may be revalued on a rolling basis provided revaluation of the class of assets is
completed within a short period and provided the revaluations are kept up to date.
39. If an asset's carrying amount is increased as a result of a revaluation, the increase shall be recognized in other
comprehensive income and accumulated in equity under the heading of revaluation surplus. However, the increase shall
be recognized in profit or loss to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same asset previously
recognized in profit or loss.
40. If an asset's carrying amount is decreased as a result of a revaluation, the decrease shall be recognized in profit or
loss. However, the decrease shall be recognized in other comprehensive income to the extent of any credit balance
existing in the revaluation surplus in respect of that asset. The decrease recognized in other comprehensive income
reduces the amount accumulated in equity under the heading of revaluation surplus.
41. The revaluation surplus included in equity in respect of an item of property, plant and equipment may be transferred
directly to retained earnings when the asset is derecognized. This may involve transferring the whole of the surplus
when the asset is retired or disposed of. However, some of the surplus may be transferred as the asset is used by an
entity. In such a case, the amount of the surplus transferred would be the difference between depreciation based on the
Page 523/765
----- PAGE 524 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
revalued carrying amount of the asset and depreciation based on the asset's original cost. Transfers from revaluation
surplus to retained earnings are not made through profit or loss.
42. The effects of taxes on income, if any, resulting from the revaluation of property, plant and equipment are recognized
and disclosed in accordance with Ind AS 12, Income Taxes.
Depreciation
43. Each part of an item of property, plant and equipment with a cost that is significant in relation to the total cost of the
item shall be depreciated separately.
44. [ An entity allocates the amount initially recognised in respect of an item of property, plant and equipment to its
significant parts and depreciates separately each such part. For example, it may be appropriate to depreciate separately
the airframe and engines of an aircraft. Similarly, if an entity acquires property, plant and equipment subject to an
operating lease in which it is the lessor, it may be appropriate to depreciate separately amounts reflected in the cost of
that item that are attributable to favourable or unfavourable lease terms relative to market terms.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
45. A significant part of an item of property, plant and equipment may have a useful life and a depreciation method that
are the same as the useful life and the depreciation method of another significant part of that same item. Such parts may
be grouped in determining the depreciation charge.
46. To the extent that an entity depreciates separately some parts of an item of property, plant and equipment, it also
depreciates separately the remainder of the item. The remainder consists of the parts of the item that are individually not
significant. If an entity has varying expectations for these parts, approximation techniques may be necessary to
depreciate the remainder in a manner that faithfully represents the consumption pattern and/or useful life of its parts.
47. An entity may choose to depreciate separately the parts of an item that do not have a cost that is significant in
relation to the total cost of the item.
48. The depreciation charge for each period shall be recognized in profit or loss unless it is included in the carrying
amount of another asset.
49. The depreciation charge for a period is usually recognized in profit or loss. However, sometimes, the future
economic benefits embodied in an asset are absorbed in producing other assets. In this case, the depreciation charge
constitutes part of the cost of the other asset and is included in its carrying amount. For example, the depreciation of
manufacturing plant and equipment is included in the costs of conversion of inventories (see Ind AS 2). Similarly,
depreciation of property, plant and equipment used for development activities may be included in the cost of an
intangible asset recognized in accordance with Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets.
Depreciable amount and depreciation period
50. The depreciable amount of an asset shall be allocated on a systematic basis over its useful life.
51. The residual value and the useful life of an asset shall be reviewed at least at each financial year-end and, if
expectations differ from previous estimates, the change(s) shall be accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate
in accordance with Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
52. Depreciation is recognized even if the fair value of the asset exceeds its carrying amount, as long as the asset's
residual value does not exceed its carrying amount. Repair and maintenance of an asset do not negate the need to
depreciate it.
53. The depreciable amount of an asset is determined after deducting its residual value. In practice, the residual value of
an asset is often insignificant and therefore immaterial in the calculation of the depreciable amount.
54. The residual value of an asset may increase to an amount equal to or greater than the asset's carrying amount. If it
does, the asset's depreciation charge is zero unless and until its residual value subsequently decreases to an amount
below the asset's carrying amount.
55. Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use, i.e. when it is in the location and condition necessary for
it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Depreciation of an asset ceases at the earlier of
the date that the asset is classified as held for sale (or included in a disposal group that is classified as held for sale) in
accordance with Ind AS 105 and the date that the asset is derecognized. Therefore, depreciation does not cease when
the asset becomes idle or is retired from active use unless the asset is fully depreciated. However, under usage
methods of depreciation the depreciation charge can be zero while there is no production.
56. The future economic benefits embodied in an asset are consumed by an entity principally through its use. However,
other factors, such as technical or commercial obsolescence and wear and tear while an asset remains idle, often result
Page 524/765
----- PAGE 525 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
in the diminution of the economic benefits that might have been obtained from the asset. Consequently, all the following
factors are considered in determining the useful life of an asset:
(a)
expected usage of the asset. Usage is assessed by reference to the asset's expected capacity or physical output.
(b)
expected physical wear and tear, which depends on operational factors such as the number of shifts for which the asset
is to be used and the repair and maintenance programme, and the care and maintenance of the asset while idle.
(c)
technical or commercial obsolescence arising from changes or improvements in production, or from a change in the
market demand for the product or service output of the asset. Expected future reductions in the selling price of an item
that was produced using an asset could indicate the expectation of technical or commercial obsolescence of the asset,
which, in turn, might reflect a reduction of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset.
(d)
legal or similar limits on the use of the asset, such as the expiry dates of related leases.
57. The useful life of an asset is defined in terms of the asset's expected utility to the entity. The asset management
policy of the entity may involve the disposal of assets after a specified time or after consumption of a specified
proportion of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset. Therefore, the useful life of an asset may be shorter
than its economic life. The estimation of the useful life of the asset is a matter of judgement based on the experience of
the entity with similar assets.
58. Land and buildings are separable assets and are accounted for separately, even when they are acquired together.
With some exceptions, such as quarries and sites used for landfill, land has an unlimited useful life and therefore is not
depreciated. Buildings have a limited useful life and therefore are depreciable assets. An increase in the value of the
land on which a building stands does not affect the determination of the depreciable amount of the building.
59. If the cost of land includes the costs of site dismantlement, removal and restoration, that portion of the land asset is
depreciated over the period of benefits obtained by incurring those costs. In some cases, the land itself may have a
limited useful life, in which case it is depreciated in a manner that reflects the benefits to be derived from it.
Depreciation method
60. The depreciation method used shall reflect the pattern in which the asset's future economic benefits are expected to
be consumed by the entity.
61. The depreciation method applied to an asset shall be reviewed at least at each financial year-end and, if there has
been a significant change in the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset,
the method shall be changed to reflect the changed pattern. Such a change shall be accounted for as a change in an
accounting estimate in accordance with Ind AS 8.
62. A variety of depreciation methods can be used to allocate the depreciable amount of an asset on a systematic basis
over its useful life. These methods include the straight-line method, the diminishing balance method and the units of
production method. Straight-line depreciation results in a constant charge over the useful life if the asset's residual value
does not change. The diminishing balance method results in a decreasing charge over the useful life. The units of
production method results in a charge based on the expected use or output. The entity selects the method that most
closely reflects the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset. That method
is applied consistently from period to period unless there is a change in the expected pattern of consumption of those
future economic benefits.
62A. A depreciation method that is based on revenue that is generated by an activity that includes the use of an asset is
not appropriate. The revenue generated by an activity that includes the use of an asset generally reflects factors other
than the consumption of the economic benefits of the asset. For example, revenue is affected by other inputs and
processes, selling activities and changes in sales volumes and prices. The price component of revenue may be affected
by inflation, which has no bearing upon the way in which an asset is consumed.
Impairment
63. To determine whether an item of property, plant and equipment is impaired, an entity applies Ind AS 36, Impairment
of Assets. That Standard explains how an entity reviews the carrying amount of its assets, how it determines the
recoverable amount of an asset, and when it recognises, or reverses the recognition of, an impairment loss.
64. [Refer Appendix 1]
Page 525/765
----- PAGE 526 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Compensation for impairment
65. Compensation from third parties for items of property, plant and equipment that were impaired, lost or given up shall
be included in profit or loss when the compensation becomes receivable.
66. Impairments or losses of items of property, plant and equipment, related claims for or payments of compensation
from third parties and any subsequent purchase or construction of replacement assets are separate economic events
and are accounted for separately as follows:
(a)
impairments of items of property, plant and equipment are recognized in accordance with Ind AS 36;
(b)
derecognition of items of property, plant and equipment retired or disposed of is determined in accordance with this
Standard;
(c)
compensation from third parties for items of property, plant and equipment that were impaired, lost or given up is
included in determining profit or loss when it becomes receivable; and
(d)
the cost of items of property, plant and equipment restored, purchased or constructed as replacements is determined in
accordance with this Standard.
Derecognition
67. The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment shall be derecognized:
(a)
on disposal; or
(b)
when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
[68 The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment shall be included in profit
or loss when the item is derecognised (unless Ind AS 116, Leases, requires otherwise on a sale and leaseback). Gains
shall not be classified as revenue.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
68A. [ However, an entity that, in the course of its ordinary activities, routinely sells items of property, plant and
equipment that it has held for rental to others shall transfer such assets to inventories at their carrying amount when they
cease to be rented and become held for sale. The proceeds from the sale of such assets shall be recognised as
revenue in accordance with Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Ind AS 105 does not apply when
assets that are held for sale in the ordinary course of business are transferred to inventories.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.20186 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
69. [ The disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment may occur in a variety of ways (eg by sale, by entering
into a finance lease or by donation). The date of disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is the date the
recipient obtains control of that item in accordance with the requirements for determining when a performance obligation
is satisfied in Ind AS 115. Ind AS 116 applies to disposal by a sale and leaseback.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
70. If, under the recognition principle in paragraph 7, an entity recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property,
plant and equipment the cost of a replacement for part of the item, then it derecognises the carrying amount of the
replaced part regardless of whether the replaced part had been depreciated separately. If it is not practicable for an
entity to determine the carrying amount of the replaced part, it may use the cost of the replacement as an indication of
what the cost of the replaced part was at the time it was acquired or constructed.
71. The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment shall be determined as
the difference between the net disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of the item.
72. [ The amount of consideration to be included in the gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of property,
plant and equipment is determined in accordance with the requirements for determining the transaction price in
paragraphs 47-72 of Ind AS 115. Subsequent changes to the estimated amount of the consideration included in the gain
or loss shall be accounted for in accordance with the requirements for changes in the transaction price in Ind AS 115.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Disclosure
Page 526/765
----- PAGE 527 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
73. The financial statements shall disclose, for each class of property, plant and equipment:
(a)
the measurement bases used for determining the gross carrying amount;
(b)
the depreciation methods used;
(c)
the useful lives or the depreciation rates used;
(d)
the gross carrying amount and the accumulated depreciation (aggregated with accumulated impairment losses) at the
beginning and end of the period; and
(e)
a reconciliation of the carrying amount at the beginning and end of the period showing:
(i)
additions;
(ii)
assets classified as held for sale or included in a disposal group classified as held for sale in accordance with Ind AS
105 and other disposals;
(iii)
acquisitions through business combinations;
(iv)
increases or decreases resulting from revaluations under paragraphs 31, 39 and 40 and from impairment losses
recognized or reversed in other comprehensive income in accordance with Ind AS 36;
(v)
impairment losses recognized in profit or loss in accordance with Ind AS 36;
(vi)
impairment losses reversed in profit or loss in accordance with Ind AS 36;
(vii)
depreciation;
(viii)
the net exchange differences arising on the translation of the financial statements from the functional currency into a
different presentation currency, including the translation of a foreign operation into the presentation currency of the
reporting entity; and
(ix)
other changes.
74. The financial statements shall also disclose:
(a)
the existence and amounts of restrictions on title, and property, plant and equipment pledged as security for liabilities;
(b)
the amount of expenditures recognized in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment in the course
of its construction;
(c)
the amount of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment; and
(d)
if it is not disclosed separately in the statement of profit and loss, the amount of compensation from third parties for
items of property, plant and equipment that were impaired, lost or given up that is included in profit or loss.
75. Selection of the depreciation method and estimation of the useful life of assets are matters of judgement. Therefore,
disclosure of the methods adopted and the estimated useful lives or depreciation rates provides users of financial
statements with information that allows them to review the policies selected by management and enables comparisons
to be made with other entities. For similar reasons, it is necessary to disclose:
(a)
depreciation, whether recognized in profit or loss or as a part of the cost of other assets, during a period; and
Page 527/765
----- PAGE 528 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
accumulated depreciation at the end of the period.
76. In accordance with Ind AS 8 an entity discloses the nature and effect of a change in an accounting estimate that has
an effect in the current period or is expected to have an effect in subsequent periods. For property, plant and equipment,
such disclosure may arise from changes in estimates with respect to:
(a)
residual values;
(b)
the estimated costs of dismantling, removing or restoring items of property, plant and equipment;
(c)
useful lives; and
(d)
depreciation methods.
77. If items of property, plant and equipment are stated at revalued amounts, the following shall be disclosed in addition
to the disclosures required by Ind AS 113:
(a)
the effective date of the revaluation;
(b)
whether an independent valuer was involved;
(c)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(d)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(e)
for each revalued class of property, plant and equipment, the carrying amount that would have been recognized had the
assets been carried under the cost model; and
(f)
the revaluation surplus, indicating the change for the period and any restrictions on the distribution of the balance to
shareholders.
78. In accordance with Ind AS 36 an entity discloses information on impaired property, plant and equipment in addition
to the information required by paragraph 73(e)(iv)-(vi).
79. Users of financial statements may also find the following information relevant to their needs:
(a)
the carrying amount of temporarily idle property, plant and equipment;
(b)
the gross carrying amount of any fully depreciated property, plant and equipment that is still in use;
(c)
the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment retired from active use and not classified as held for sale in
accordance with Ind AS 105; and
(d)
when the cost model is used, the fair value of property, plant and equipment when this is materially different from the
carrying amount.
Therefore, entities are encouraged to disclose these amounts.
[.Transitional Provisions
80. *
80A. *
80B.
*
80C.
*
Effective Date
Page 528/765
----- PAGE 529 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
81. *
81A. *
81B. *
81C.
*
81D.
*
81E.
*
81F.
*
81G.
*
81H.
*
81I.
*
81J.
As a consequence of issuance of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, paragraphs 68A, 69, 72 are
amended. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 115.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[81K Omitted*
81L.
Ind AS 116 deleted paragraphs 4 and 27 and paragraph 3 of Appendix C and amended paragraphs 5, 10, 44, 68-69 and
paragraph 2 of Appendix A. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 116.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
* Refer Appendix 1
Appendix A
Changes in Existing Decommissioning, Restoration and Similar Liabilities
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Background
1. Many entities have obligations to dismantle, remove and restore items of property, plant and equipment. In this
Appendix such obligations are referred to as 'decommissioning, restoration and similar liabilities'. Under Ind AS 16, the
cost of an item of property, plant and equipment includes the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the
item and restoring the site on which it is located, the obligation for which an entity incurs either when the item is acquired
or as a consequence of having used the item during a particular period for purposes other than to produce inventories
during that period. Ind AS 37 contains requirements on how to measure decommissioning, restoration and similar
liabilities. This Appendix provides guidance on how to account for the effect of changes in the measurement of existing
decommissioning, restoration and similar liabilities.
Scope
2. This Appendix applies to changes in the measurement of any existing decommissioning, restoration or similar liability
that is both:
(a)
[ recognised as part of the cost of an item of property, plant and equipment in accordance with Ind AS 16 or as part of
the cost of a right-of-use asset in accordance with Ind AS 116; and]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b)
recognized as a liability in accordance with Ind AS 37.
For example, a decommissioning, restoration or similar liability may exist for decommissioning a plant, rehabilitating
environmental damage in extractive industries, or removing equipment.
Issue
Page 529/765
----- PAGE 530 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
3. This Appendix addresses how the effect of the following events that change the measurement of an existing
decommissioning, restoration or similar liability should be accounted for:
(a)
a change in the estimated outflow of resources embodying economic benefits (e.g. cash flows) required to settle the
obligation;
(b)
a change in the current market-based discount rate as defined in paragraph 47 of Ind AS 37 (this includes changes in
the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability); and
(c)
an increase that reflects the passage of time (also referred to as the unwinding of the discount).
Accounting Principles
4. Changes in the measurement of an existing decommissioning, restoration and similar liability that result from changes
in the estimated timing or amount of the outflow of resources embodying economic benefits required to settle the
obligation, or a change in the discount rate, shall be accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 5-7 below.
5. If the related asset is measured using the cost model:
(a)
subject to (b), changes in the liability shall be added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related asset in the current
period.
(b)
the amount deducted from the cost of the asset shall not exceed its carrying amount. If a decrease in the liability
exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess shall be recognized immediately in profit or loss.
(c)
if the adjustment results in an addition to the cost of an asset, the entity shall consider whether this is an indication that
the new carrying amount of the asset may not be fully recoverable. If it is such an indication, the entity shall test the
asset for impairment by estimating its recoverable amount, and shall account for any impairment loss, in accordance
with Ind AS 36.
6. If the related asset is measured using the revaluation model:
(a)
changes in the liability alter the revaluation surplus or deficit previously recognized on that asset, so that:
(i)
a decrease in the liability shall [subject to (b)] be recognized in other comprehensive income and increase the
revaluation surplus within equity, except that it shall be recognized in profit or loss to the extent that it reverses a
revaluation deficit on the asset that was previously recognized in profit or loss;
(ii)
an increase in the liability shall be recognized in profit or loss, except that it shall be recognized in other comprehensive
income and reduce the revaluation surplus within equity to the extent of any credit balance existing in the revaluation
surplus in respect of that asset.
(b)
in the event that a decrease in the liability exceeds the carrying amount that would have been recognized had the asset
been carried under the cost model, the excess shall be recognized immediately in profit or loss.
(c)
a change in the liability is an indication that the asset may have to be revalued in order to ensure that the carrying
amount does not differ materially from that which would be determined using fair value at the end of the reporting period.
Any such revaluation shall be taken into account in determining the amounts to be recognized in profit or loss or in other
comprehensive income under (a). If a revaluation is necessary, all assets of that class shall be revalued.
(d)
Ind AS 1 requires disclosure in the statement of profit and loss of each component of other comprehensive income or
expense. In complying with this requirement, the change in the revaluation surplus arising from a change in the liability
shall be separately identified and disclosed as such.
7. The adjusted depreciable amount of the asset is depreciated over its useful life. Therefore, once the related asset has
reached the end of its useful life, all subsequent changes in the liability shall be recognized in profit or loss as they
Page 530/765
----- PAGE 531 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
occur. This applies under both the cost model and the revaluation model.
8. The periodic unwinding of the discount shall be recognized in profit or loss as a finance cost as it occurs.
Capitalisation under Ind AS 23 is not permitted.
Appendix B
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine
Background
1. In surface mining operations, entities may find it necessary to remove mine waste materials ('overburden') to gain
access to mineral ore deposits. This waste removal activity is known as 'stripping'.
2. During the development phase of the mine (before production begins), stripping costs are usually capitalised as part
of the depreciable cost of building, developing and constructing the mine. Those capitalised costs are depreciated or
amortised on a systematic basis, usually by using the units of production method, once production begins.
3. A mining entity may continue to remove overburden and to incur stripping costs during the production phase of the
mine.
4. The material removed when stripping in the production phase will not necessarily be a total waste; often it will be a
combination of ore and waste. The ratio of ore to waste can range from uneconomic low grade to profitable high grade.
Removal of material with a low ratio of ore to waste may produce some usable material, which can be used to produce
inventory. This removal might also provide access to deeper levels of material that have a higher ratio of ore to waste.
There can therefore be two benefits accruing to the entity from the stripping activity: usable ore that can be used to
produce inventory and improved access to further quantities of material that will be mined in future periods.
5. This Appendix considers when and how to account separately for these two benefits arising from the stripping activity,
as well as how to measure these benefits both initially and subsequently.
Scope
6. This Appendix applies to waste removal costs that are incurred in surface mining activity during the production phase
of the mine ('production stripping costs').
Issues
7. This Appendix addresses the following issues:
(a)
recognition of production stripping costs as an asset;
(b)
initial measurement of the stripping activity asset; and
(c)
subsequent measurement of the stripping activity asset.
Accounting Principles
Recognition of production stripping costs as an asset
8. To the extent that the benefit from the stripping activity is realised in the form of inventory produced, the entity shall
account for the costs of that stripping overburden removal activity in accordance with the principles of Ind AS 2,
Inventories. To the extent the benefit is improved access to ore, the entity shall recognise these costs as a non-current
asset, say, Stripping Activity Asset, if the criteria in paragraph 9 below are met.
9. An entity shall recognise a stripping activity asset if, and only if, all of the following are met:
(a)
it is probable that the future economic benefit (improved access to the ore body) associated with the stripping activity will
flow to the entity;
(b)
the entity can identify the component of the ore body for which access has been improved; and
(c)
the costs relating to the stripping activity associated with that component can be measured reliably.
10. The stripping activity asset shall be accounted for as an addition to, or as an enhancement of, an existing asset. In
other words, the stripping activity asset will be accounted for as part of an existing asset.
11. The stripping activity asset's classification as a tangible or intangible asset is the same as the existing asset. In other
words, the nature of this existing asset will determine whether the entity shall classify the stripping activity asset as
Page 531/765
----- PAGE 532 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
tangible or intangible.
Initial measurement of the stripping activity asset
12. The entity shall initially measure the stripping activity asset at cost, this being the accumulation of costs directly
incurred to perform the stripping activity that improves access to the identified component of ore, plus an allocation of
directly attributable overhead costs. Examples of the types of costs that would be included as directly attributable
overhead costs include an allocation of salary costs of the mine supervisor overseeing that component of the mine, and
the rental costs of any equipment that was hired specifically to perform the stripping activity. Some incidental operations
may take place at the same time as the production stripping activity, but which are not necessary for the production
stripping activity to continue as planned. The costs associated with these incidental operations shall not be included in
the cost of the stripping activity asset. An example of such type of incidental operations would be building an access
road in the area in which the stripping campaign is taking place.
13. When the costs of the stripping activity asset and the inventory produced are not separately identifiable, the entity
shall allocate the production stripping costs between the inventory produced and the stripping activity asset by using an
allocation basis that is based on a relevant production measure. This production measure shall be calculated for the
identified component of the ore body, and shall be used as a benchmark to identify the extent to which the additional
activity of creating a future benefit has taken place. Examples of such measures include:
(a)
cost of inventory produced compared with expected cost;
(b)
volume of waste extracted compared with expected volume, for a given volume of ore production; and
(c)
mineral content of the ore extracted compared with expected mineral content to be extracted, for a given quantity of ore
produced.
13A. The production measure shall not be calculated using a basis that is based on sales values. A basis that is based
on sales values, in the context of stripping costs, is inappropriate because it is not closely linked to the activity taking
place. Furthermore, if the current sales price of the relevant material is used in determining the allocation basis, the
same current sales price will be applied to the volume of the mineral in both the extracted ore and the identified
component. Hence, the relevant variable will be the volume of mineral in both the extracted ore and the identified
component, i.e., the current sales price will not change the allocation basis. Applying a future sales price basis involves
practical difficulties. Identifying a future sales price for ore that will be mined in the future can be difficult, given the
volatility of market prices for many minerals. Further complexities may arise when more than one mineral is present
(whether by-products or joint products) when the ore is extracted.
Subsequent measurement of the stripping activity asset
14. After initial recognition, the stripping activity asset shall be carried at either its cost or its revalued amount less
depreciation or amortisation and less impairment losses, in the same way as the existing asset of which it is a part.
15. The stripping activity asset shall be depreciated or amortised on a systematic basis, over the expected useful life of
the identified component of the ore body that becomes more accessible as a result of the stripping activity. The units of
production method shall be applied unless another method is more appropriate.
The expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body that is used to depreciate or amortise the stripping
activity asset will differ from the expected useful life that is used to depreciate or amortise the mine itself and the related
life-of-mine assets. The exception to this are those limited circumstances when the stripping activity provides improved
access to the whole of the remaining ore body. For example, this might occur towards the end of a mine's useful life
when the identified component represents the final part of the ore body to be extracted.
Appendix C
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
This appendix lists the appendices which are part of other Indian Accounting Standards and make reference to Ind AS
16, Property, Plant and Equipment.
1. [ Appendix D, Service Concession Arrangements contained in Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
2. Appendix E, Service Concession Arrangements: Disclosures contained in Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with
Page 532/765
----- PAGE 533 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Customers.]
[***]
[Omitted '3' by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
4. Appendix A, Intangible Assets-Web Site Costs contained in Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets.
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 16 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 16, Property, Plant and Equipment, and IFRIC 1, Changes in Existing Decommissioning,
Restoration and Similar Liabilities and IFRIC 20, Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine issued by
the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment, IFRIC 1 and IFRIC 20
1. The transitional provisions given in IAS 16 and IFRIC 1 and IFRIC 20 have not been given in Ind AS 16, since all
transitional provisions related to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in Ind AS 101, First-time
Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial
Reporting Standards.
2. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position' and 'Statement of profit' and loss is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'.
3. [ ***.]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 903(E), dated 20.9.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2013).]
4. [ The following paragraph numbers appear as 'Deleted' in IAS 16. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 16, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 16:
(i)
paragraph 4
(ii)
paragraph 27
(iii)
paragraphs 32-33
(iv)
paragraph 64
(v)
paragraph 77(c)-(d)]
5. Paragraphs 5 of Ind AS 16 has been modified, since Ind AS 40, Investment Property, prohibits the use of fair value
model.
6. Paragraph 12 of Appendix B has been modified and paragraph 13A of Appendix B has been added to provide
guidance with regard to the requirements contained in the paragraphs 12 and 13.
7. [ Paragraphs 80 to 80C of IAS 16 which deals with the transitional provisions have not been included in Ind AS 16 as
all transitional provisions related to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in Ind AS 101,
First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards. Paragraphs 81 to 81I and 81K related to effective date have not
been included in Ind AS 16 as these are not relevant in Indian context. However, in order to maintain consistency with
paragraph numbers of IAS 16, these paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 16.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[***]
[Omitted 'Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 17' by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f.
16.2.2015).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 17
Leases
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set inboldtype and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to prescribe, for lessees and lessors, the appropriate accounting policies and
Page 533/765
----- PAGE 534 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
disclosure to apply in relation to leases.
Scope
2. This Standard shall be applied in accounting for all leases other than:
(a) leases to explore for or use minerals, oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative resources; and
(b) licensing agreements for such items as motion picture films, video recordings, plays, manuscripts, patents and
copyrights.
However, this Standard shall not be applied as the basis of measurement for:
(a) property held by lessees that is accounted for as investment property (see Ind AS 40,Investment Property);
(b) investment property provided by lessors under operating leases (see Ind AS 40,Investment Property);
(c) biological assets within the scope of Ind AS 41Agricultureheld by lessees under finance leases; or
(d) biological assets within the scope of Ind AS 41 provided by lessors under operating leases.
3. This Standard applies to agreements that transfer the right to use assets even though substantial services by the
lessor may be called for in connection with the operation or maintenance of such assets. This Standard does not apply
to agreements that are contracts for services that do not transfer the right to use assets from one contracting party to the
other.
Definitions
4. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
A leaseis an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the lessee in return for a payment or series of payments the right
to use an asset for an agreed period of time.
A finance leaseis a lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset. Title
may or may not eventually be transferred.
An operating leaseis a lease other than a finance lease.
A non-cancellable leaseis a lease that is cancellable only:
(a) upon the occurrence of some remote contingency;
(b) with the permission of the lessor;
(c) if the lessee enters into a new lease for the same or an equivalent asset with the same lessor; or
(d) upon payment by the lessee of such an additional amount that, at inception of the lease, continuation of the lease is
reasonably certain.
Theinception of the leaseis the earlier of the date of the lease agreement and the date of commitment by the parties to
the principal provisions of the lease. As at this date:
(a) a lease is classified as either an operating or a finance lease; and
(b) in the case of a finance lease, the amounts to be recognized at the commencement of the lease term are
determined.
Thecommencement of the lease termis the date from which the lessee is entitled to exercise its right to use the leased
asset. It is the date of initial recognition of the lease (i.e. the recognition of the assets, liabilities, income or expenses
resulting from the lease, as appropriate).
Thelease termis the non-cancellable period for which the lessee has contracted to lease the asset together with any
further terms for which the lessee has the option to continue to lease the asset, with or without further payment, when at
the inception of the lease it is reasonably certain that the lessee will exercise the option.
Minimum lease paymentsare the payments over the lease term that the lessee is or can be required to make, excluding
contingent rent, costs for services and taxes to be paid by and reimbursed to the lessor, together with:
(a) for a lessee, any amounts guaranteed by the lessee or by a party related to the lessee; or
(b) for a lessor, any residual value guaranteed to the lessor by:
(i) the lessee;
(ii) a party related to the lessee; or
(iii) a third party unrelated to the lessor that is financially capable of discharging the obligations under the guarantee.
However, if the lessee has an option to purchase the asset at a price that is expected to be sufficiently lower than fair
value at the date the option becomes exercisable for it to be reasonably certain, at the inception of the lease, that the
option will be exercised, the minimum lease payments comprise the minimum payments payable over the lease term to
the expected date of exercise of this purchase option and the payment required to exercise it.
Fair valueis the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing
Page 534/765
----- PAGE 535 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
parties in an arm's length transaction.
Economic lifeis either:
(a) the period over which an asset is expected to be economically usable by one or more users; or
(b) the number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from the asset by one or more users.
Useful lifeis the estimated remaining period, from the commencement of the lease term, without limitation by the lease
term, over which the economic benefits embodied in the asset are expected to be consumed by the entity.
Guaranteed residual valueis:
(a) for a lessee, that part of the residual value that is guaranteed by the lessee or by a party related to the lessee (the
amount of the guarantee being the maximum amount that could, in any event, become payable); and
(b) for a lessor, that part of the residual value that is guaranteed by the lessee or by a third party unrelated to the lessor
that is financially capable of discharging the obligations under the guarantee.
Unguaranteed residual valueis that portion of the residual value of the leased asset, the realisation of which by the
lessor is not assured or is guaranteed solely by a party related to the lessor.
Initial direct costsare incremental costs that are directly attributable to negotiating and arranging a lease, except for such
costs incurred by manufacturer or dealer lessors.
Gross investment in the leaseis the aggregate of:
(a) the minimum lease payments receivable by the lessor under a finance lease, and
(b) any unguaranteed residual value accruing to the lessor.
Net investment in the leaseis the gross investment in the lease discounted at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
sis the difference between:
(a) the gross investment in the lease, and
(b) the net investment in the lease.
Theinterest rate implicit in the leaseis the discount rate that, at the inception of the lease, causes the aggregate present
value of (a) the minimum lease payments and (b) the unguaranteed residual value to be equal to the sum of (i) the fair
value of the leased asset and (ii) any initial direct costs of the lessor.
Thelessee's incremental borrowing rate of interestis the rate of interest the lessee would have to pay on a similar lease
or, if that is not determinable, the rate that, at the inception of the lease, the lessee would incur to borrow over a similar
term, and with a similar security, the funds necessary to purchase the asset.
Contingent rentis that portion of the lease payments that is not fixed in amount but is based on the future amount of a
factor that changes other than with the passage of time (e.g. percentage of future sales, amount of future use, future
price indices, future market rates of interest).
5. A lease agreement or commitment may include a provision to adjust the lease payments for changes in the
construction or acquisition cost of the leased property or for changes in some other measure of cost or value, such as
general price levels, or in the lessor's costs of financing the lease, during the period between the inception of the lease
and the commencement of the lease term. If so, the effect of any such changes shall be deemed to have taken place at
the inception of the lease for the purposes of this Standard.
6. The definition of a lease includes contracts for the hire of an asset that contain a provision giving the hirer an option to
acquire title to the asset upon the fulfilment of agreed conditions. These contracts are sometimes known as hire
purchase contracts.
6A. Ind AS 17 uses the term 'fair value' in a way that differs in some respects from the definition of fair value in Ind AS
113,Fair Value Measurement. Therefore, when applying Ind AS 17 an entity measures fair value in accordance with Ind
AS 17, not Ind AS 113.
Classification of leases
7. The classification of leases adopted in this Standard is based on the extent to which risks and rewards incidental to
ownership of a leased asset lie with the lessor or the lessee. Risks include the possibilities of losses from idle capacity
or technological obsolescence and of variations in return because of changing economic conditions. Rewards may be
represented by the expectation of profitable operation over the asset's economic life and of gain from appreciation in
value or realisation of a residual value.
8. A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership. A
lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to
ownership.
Page 535/765
----- PAGE 536 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
9. Because the transaction between a lessor and a lessee is based on a lease agreement between them, it is
appropriate to use consistent definitions. The application of these definitions to the differing circumstances of the lessor
and lessee may result in the same lease being classified differently by them. For example, this may be the case if the
lessor benefits from a residual value guarantee provided by a party unrelated to the lessee.
10.[Whether a lease is a finance lease or an operating lease depends on the substance of the transaction rather than
the form of the contract.]
[See also Appendix B Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease]
Examples of situations that individually or in combination would normally lead to a lease being classified as a finance
lease are:
(a) the lease transfers ownership of the asset to the lessee by the end of the lease term;
(b) the lessee has the option to purchase the asset at a price that is expected to be sufficiently lower than the fair value
at the date the option becomes exercisable for it to be reasonably certain, at the inception of the lease, that the option
will be exercised;
(c) the lease term is for the major part of the economic life of the asset even if title is not transferred;
(d) at the inception of the lease the present value of the minimum lease payments amounts to at least substantially all of
the fair value of the leased asset; and
(e) the leased assets are of such a specialised nature that only the lessee can use them without major modifications.
11. Indicators of situations that individually or in combination could also lead to a lease being classified as a finance
lease are:
(a) if the lessee can cancel the lease, the lessor's losses associated with the cancellation are borne by the lessee;
(b) gains or losses from the fluctuation in the fair value of the residual accrue to the lessee (for example, in the form of a
rent rebate equalling most of the sales proceeds at the end of the lease); and
(c) the lessee has the ability to continue the lease for a secondary period at a rent that is substantially lower than market
rent.
12. The examples and indicators in paragraphs 10 and 11 are not always conclusive. If it is clear from other features that
the lease does not transfer substantially all risks and rewards incidental to ownership, the lease is classified as an
operating lease. For example, this may be the case if ownership of the asset transfers at the end of the lease for a
variable payment equal to its then fair value, or if there are contingent rents, as a result of which the lessee does not
have substantially all such risks and rewards.
13. Lease classification is made at the inception of the lease. If at any time the lessee and the lessor agree to change
the provisions of the lease, other than by renewing the lease, in a manner that would have resulted in a different
classification of the lease under the criteria in paragraphs 7-12 if the changed terms had been in effect at the inception
of the lease, the revised agreement is regarded as a new agreement over its term. However, changes in estimates (for
example, changes in estimates of the economic life or of the residual value of the leased property), or changes in
circumstances (for example, default by the lessee), do not give rise to a new classification of a lease for accounting
purposes.
14-15 [Refer Appendix 1]
15A. When a lease includes both land and buildings elements, an entity assesses the classification of each element as a
finance or an operating lease separately in accordance with paragraphs 7-13. In determining whether the land element
is an operating or a finance lease, an important consideration is that land normally has an indefinite economic life.
16. Whenever necessary in order to classify and account for a lease of land and buildings, the minimum lease payments
(including any lump-sum upfront payments) are allocated between the land and the buildings elements in proportion to
the relative fair values of the leasehold interests in the land element and buildings element of the lease at the inception
of the lease. If the lease payments cannot be allocated reliably between these two elements, the entire lease is
classified as a finance lease, unless it is clear that both elements are operating leases, in which case the entire lease is
classified as an operating lease.
17. For a lease of land and buildings in which the amount that would initially be recognized for the land element, in
accordance with paragraph 20, is immaterial, the land and buildings may be treated as a single unit for the purpose of
lease classification and classified as a finance or operating lease in accordance with paragraphs 7-13. In such a case,
the economic life of the buildings is regarded as the economic life of the entire leased asset.
18.-19. [Refer Appendix 1]
Page 536/765
----- PAGE 537 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Leases in the financial statements of lessees
Finance leases
Initial recognition
20. At the commencement of the lease term, lessees shall recognise finance leases as assets and liabilities in their
balance sheets at amounts equal to the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, the present value of the minimum
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The discount rate to be used in calculating the present
value of the minimum lease payments is the interest rate implicit in the lease, if this is practicable to determine; if not, the
lessee's incremental borrowing rate shall be used. Any initial direct costs of the lessee are added to the amount
recognized as an asset.
21. Transactions and other events are accounted for and presented in accordance with their substance and financial
reality and not merely with legal form. Although the legal form of a lease agreement is that the lessee may acquire no
legal title to the leased asset, in the case of finance leases the substance and financial reality are that the lessee
acquires the economic benefits of the use of the leased asset for the major part of its economic life in return for entering
into an obligation to pay for that right an amount approximating, at the inception of the lease, the fair value of the asset
and the related finance charge.
22. If such lease transactions are not reflected in the lessee's balance sheet, the economic resources and the level of
obligations of an entity are understated, thereby distorting financial ratios. Therefore, it is appropriate for a finance lease
to be recognized in the lessee's balance sheet both as an asset and as an obligation to pay future lease payments. At
the commencement of the lease term, the asset and the liability for the future lease payments are recognized in the
balance sheet at the same amounts except for any initial direct costs of the lessee that are added to the amount
recognized as an asset.
23. It is not appropriate for the liabilities for leased assets to be presented in the financial statements as a deduction
from the leased assets. If for the presentation of liabilities in the balance sheet a distinction is made between current and
non-current liabilities, the same distinction is made for lease liabilities.
24. Initial direct costs are often incurred in connection with specific leasing activities, such as negotiating and securing
leasing arrangements. The costs identified as directly attributable to activities performed by the lessee for a finance
lease are added to the amount recognized as an asset.
Subsequent measurement
25. Minimum lease payments shall be apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding
liability. The finance charge shall be allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Contingent rents shall be charged as expenses in the periods in
which they are incurred.
26. In practice, in allocating the finance charge to periods during the lease term, a lessee may use some form of
approximation to simplify the calculation.
27. A finance lease gives rise to depreciation expense for depreciable assets as well as finance expense for each
accounting period. The depreciation policy for depreciable leased assets shall be consistent with that for depreciable
assets that are owned, and the depreciation recognized shall be calculated in accordance with Ind AS 16,Property, Plant
and Equipmentand Ind AS 38,Intangible Assets. If there is no reasonable certainty that the lessee will obtain ownership
by the end of the lease term, the asset shall be fully depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and its useful life.
28. The depreciable amount of a leased asset is allocated to each accounting period during the period of expected use
on a systematic basis consistent with the depreciation policy the lessee adopts for depreciable assets that are owned. If
there is reasonable certainty that the lessee will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the period of expected
use is the useful life of the asset; otherwise the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and its useful life.
29. The sum of the depreciation expense for the asset and the finance expense for the period is rarely the same as the
lease payments payable for the period, and it is, therefore, inappropriate simply to recognise the lease payments
payable as an expense. Accordingly, the asset and the related liability are unlikely to be equal in amount after the
commencement of the lease term.
30. To determine whether a leased asset has become impaired, an entity applies Ind AS 36,Impairment of Assets.
Disclosures
31. Lessees shall, in addition to meeting the requirements of Ind AS 107,Financial Instruments: Disclosures, make the
following disclosures for finance leases:
Page 537/765
----- PAGE 538 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a) for each class of asset, the net carrying amount at the end of the reporting period.
(b) a reconciliation between the total of future minimum lease payments at the end of the reporting period, and their
present value. In addition, an entity shall disclose the total of future minimum lease payments at the end of the reporting
period, and their present value, for each of the following periods:
(i) not later than one year;
(ii) later than one year and not later than five years;
(iii) later than five years.
(c) contingent rents recognized as an expense in the period.
(d) the total of future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at the end
of the reporting period.
(e) a general description of the lessee's material leasing arrangements including, but not limited to, the following:
(i) the basis on which contingent rent payable is determined;
(ii) the existence and terms of renewal or purchase options and escalation clauses; and
(iii) restrictions imposed by lease arrangements, such as those concerning dividends, additional debt, and further
leasing.
32. In addition, the requirements for disclosure in accordance with Ind AS 16, Ind AS 36, Ind AS 38, Ind AS 40 and Ind
AS 41 apply to lessees for assets leased under finance leases.
[Operating leases
33. Lease payments under an operating lease shall be recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease
term unless either:
(a) another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern of the user's benefit even if the payments to the
lessors are not on that basis; or
[See also Appendix A Operating Leases-Incentives.]
(b) the payments to the lessor are structured to increase in line with expected general inflation to compensate for the
lessor's expected inflationary cost increases. If payments to the lessor vary because of factors other than general
inflation, then this condition is not met.]
34. For operating leases, lease payments (excluding costs for services such as insurance and maintenance) are
recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis unless another systematic basis is representative of the time pattern
of the user's benefit, even if the payments are not on that basis.
Disclosures
35. Lessees shall, in addition to meeting the requirements of Ind AS 107, make the following disclosures for operating
leases:
(a) the total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for each of the following periods:
(i) not later than one year;
(ii) later than one year and not later than five years;
(iii) later than five years.
(b) the total of future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at the end
of the reporting period.
(c) lease and sublease payments recognized as an expense in the period, with separate amounts for minimum lease
payments, contingent rents, and sublease payments.
(d) a general description of the lessee's significant leasing arrangements including, but not limited to, the following:
(i) the basis on which contingent rent payable is determined;
(ii) the existence and terms of renewal or purchase options and escalation clauses; and
(iii) restrictions imposed by lease arrangements, such as those concerning dividends, additional debt and further leasing.
Leases in the financial statements of lessors
Finance leases
Initial recognition
36. Lessors shall recognise assets held under a finance lease in their balance sheets and present them as a receivable
at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease.
37. Under a finance lease substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to legal ownership are transferred by the
lessor, and thus the lease payment receivable is treated by the lessor as repayment of principal and finance income to
Page 538/765
----- PAGE 539 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
reimburse and reward the lessor for its investment and services.
38. Initial direct costs are often incurred by lessors and include amounts such as commissions, legal fees and internal
costs that are incremental and directly attributable to negotiating and arranging a lease. They exclude general
overheads such as those incurred by a sales and marketing team. For finance leases other than those involving
manufacturer or dealer lessors, initial direct costs are included in the initial measurement of the finance lease receivable
and reduce the amount of income recognized over the lease term. The interest rate implicit in the lease is defined in
such a way that the initial direct costs are included automatically in the finance lease receivable; there is no need to add
them separately. Costs incurred by manufacturer or dealer lessors in connection with negotiating and arranging a lease
are excluded from the definition of initial direct costs. As a result, they are excluded from the net investment in the lease
and are recognized as an expense when the selling profit is recognized, which for a finance lease is normally at the
commencement of the lease term.
Subsequent measurement
39. The recognition of finance income shall be based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on the
lessor's net investment in the finance lease.
40. A lessor aims to allocate finance income over the lease term on a systematic and rational basis. This income
allocation is based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic return on the lessor's net investment in the finance lease.
Lease payments relating to the period, excluding costs for services, are applied against the gross investment in the
lease to reduce both the principal and the unearned finance income.
41. Estimated unguaranteed residual values used in computing the lessor's gross investment in the lease are reviewed
regularly. If there has been a reduction in the estimated unguaranteed residual value, the income allocation over the
lease term is revised and any reduction in respect of amounts accrued is recognized immediately.
41A. An asset under a finance lease that is classified as held for sale (or included in a disposal group that is classified
as held for sale) in accordance with Ind AS 105,Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, shall be
accounted for in accordance with that Ind AS.
42. Manufacturer or dealer lessors shall recognise selling profit or loss in the period, in accordance with the policy
followed by the entity for outright sales. If artificially low rates of interest are quoted, selling profit shall be restricted to
that which would apply if a market rate of interest were charged. Costs incurred by manufacturer or dealer lessors in
connection with negotiating and arranging a lease shall be recognized as an expense when the selling profit is
recognized.
43. Manufacturers or dealers often offer to customers the choice of either buying or leasing an asset. A finance lease of
an asset by a manufacturer or dealer lessor gives rise to two types of income:
(a) profit or loss equivalent to the profit or loss resulting from an outright sale of the asset being leased, at normal selling
prices, reflecting any applicable volume or trade discounts; and
(b) finance income over the lease term.
44. The sales revenue recognized at the commencement of the lease term by a manufacturer or dealer lessor is the fair
value of the asset, or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments accruing to the lessor, computed at a
market rate of interest. The cost of sale recognized at the commencement of the lease term is the cost, or carrying
amount if different, of the leased property less the present value of the unguaranteed residual value. The difference
between the sales revenue and the cost of sale is the selling profit, which is recognized in accordance with the entity's
policy for outright sales.
45. Manufacturer or dealer lessors sometimes quote artificially low rates of interest in order to attract customers. The
use of such a rate would result in an excessive portion of the total income from the transaction being recognized at the
time of sale. If artificially low rates of interest are quoted, selling profit is restricted to that which would apply if a market
rate of interest were charged.
46. Costs incurred by a manufacturer or dealer lessor in connection with negotiating and arranging a finance lease are
recognized as an expense at the commencement of the lease term because they are mainly related to earning the
manufacturer's or dealer's selling profit.
Disclosures
47. Lessors shall, in addition to meeting the requirements in Ind AS 107, disclose the following for finance leases:
(a) a reconciliation between the gross investment in the lease at the end of the reporting period, and the present value of
minimum lease payments receivable at the end of the reporting period. In addition, an entity shall disclose the gross
Page 539/765
----- PAGE 540 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
investment in the lease and the present value of minimum lease payments receivable at the end of the reporting period,
for each of the following periods:
(i) not later than one year;
(ii) later than one year and not later than five years;
(iii) later than five years.
(b) unearned finance income.
(c) the unguaranteed residual values accruing to the benefit of the lessor.
(d) the accumulated allowance for uncollectible minimum lease payments receivable.
(e) contingent rents recognized as income in the period.
(f) a general description of the lessor's material leasing arrangements.
48. As an indicator of growth it is often useful also to disclose the gross investment less unearned income in new
business added during the period, after deducting the relevant amounts for canceled leases.
[Operating leases
49. Lessors shall present assets subject to operating leases in their balance sheet according to the nature of the asset.
50. Lease income from operating leases (excluding amounts for services such as insurance and maintenance) shall be
recognized in income on a straight-line basis over the lease term, unless either:
(a) another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which use benefit derived from the leased
asset is diminished, even if the payments to the lessors are not on that basis; or
[See also Appendix A Operating Leases-Incentives.]
(b) the payments to the lessor are structured to increase in line with expected general inflation to compensate for the
lessor's expected inflationary cost increases. If payments to the lessor vary according to factors other than inflation, then
this condition is not met.]
51. Costs, including depreciation, incurred in earning the lease income are recognized as an expense. Lease income
(excluding receipts for services provided such as insurance and maintenance) is recognized on a straight-line basis over
the lease term even if the receipts are not on such a basis, unless another systematic basis is more representative of
the time pattern in which use benefit derived from the leased asset is diminished.
52. Initial direct costs incurred by lessors in negotiating and arranging an operating lease shall be added to the carrying
amount of the leased asset and recognized as an expense over the lease term on the same basis as the lease income.
53. The depreciation policy for depreciable leased assets shall be consistent with the lessor's normal depreciation policy
for similar assets, and depreciation shall be calculated in accordance with Ind AS 16 and Ind AS 38.
54. To determine whether a leased asset has become impaired, an entity applies Ind AS 36.
55. A manufacturer or dealer lessor does not recognise any selling profit on entering into an operating lease because it
is not the equivalent of a sale.
Disclosures
56. Lessors shall, in addition to meeting the requirements of Ind AS 107, disclose the following for operating leases:
(a) the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases in the aggregate and for each of the
following periods:
(i) not later than one year;
(ii) later than one year and not later than five years;
(iii) later than five years.
(b) total contingent rents recognized as income in the period.
(c) a general description of the lessor's leasing arrangements.
57. In addition, the disclosure requirements in Ind AS 16, Ind AS 36, Ind AS 38, Ind AS 40 and Ind AS 41 apply to
lessors for assets provided under operating leases.
Sale and leaseback transactions
58. A sale and leaseback transaction involves the sale of an asset and the leasing back of the same asset. The lease
payment and the sale price are usually interdependent because they are negotiated as a package. The accounting
treatment of a sale and leaseback transaction depends upon the type of lease involved.
59. If a sale and leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, any excess of sales proceeds over the carrying
amount shall not be immediately recognized as income by a seller-lessee. Instead, it shall be deferred and amortised
over the lease term.
Page 540/765
----- PAGE 541 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
60. If the leaseback is a finance lease, the transaction is a means whereby the lessor provides finance to the lessee,
with the asset as security. For this reason it is not appropriate to regard an excess of sales proceeds over the carrying
amount as income. Such excess is deferred and amortised over the lease term.
61. If a sale and leaseback transaction results in an operating lease, and it is clear that the transaction is established at
fair value, any profit or loss shall be recognized immediately. If the sale price is below fair value, any profit or loss shall
be recognized immediately except that, if the loss is compensated for by future lease payments at below market price, it
shall be deferred and amortised in proportion to the lease payments over the period for which the asset is expected to
be used. If the sale price is above fair value, the excess over fair value shall be deferred and amortised over the period
for which the asset is expected to be used.
62. If the leaseback is an operating lease, and the lease payments and the sale price are at fair value, there has in effect
been a normal sale transaction and any profit or loss is recognized immediately.
63. For operating leases, if the fair value at the time of a sale and leaseback transaction is less than the carrying amount
of the asset, a loss equal to the amount of the difference between the carrying amount and fair value shall be recognized
immediately.
64. For finance leases, no such adjustment is necessary unless there has been an impairment in value, in which case
the carrying amount is reduced to recoverable amount in accordance with Ind AS 36.
65. Disclosure requirements for lessees and lessors apply equally to sale and leaseback transactions. The required
description of material leasing arrangements leads to disclosure of unique or unusual provisions of the agreement or
terms of the sale and leaseback transactions.
66. Sale and leaseback transactions may trigger the separate disclosure criteria in Ind AS 1,Presentation of Financial
Statements.
Appendix A
Operating Leases-Incentives
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Issue
1. In negotiating a new or renewed operating lease, the lessor may provide incentives for the lessee to enter into the
agreement. Examples of such incentives are an up-front cash payment to the lessee or the reimbursement or
assumption by the lessor of costs of the lessee (such as relocation costs, leasehold improvements and costs associated
with a pre-existing lease commitment of the lessee). Alternatively, initial periods of the lease term may be agreed to be
rent-free or at a reduced rent.
2. The issue is how incentives in an operating lease should be recognized in the financial statements of both the lessee
and the lessor.
Accounting Principles
3. All incentives for the agreement of a new or renewed operating lease shall be recognized as an integral part of the net
consideration agreed for the use of the leased asset, irrespective of the incentive's nature or form or the timing of
payments.
4. The lessor shall recognise the aggregate cost of incentives as a reduction of rental income over the lease term, on a
straight-line basis unless another systematic basis is representative of the time pattern over which the benefit of the
leased asset is diminished.
5. The lessee shall recognise the aggregate benefit of incentives as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term,
on a straight-line basis unless another systematic basis is representative of the time pattern of the lessee's benefit from
the use of the leased asset.
6. Costs incurred by the lessee, including costs in connection with a pre-existing lease (for example costs for
termination, relocation or leasehold improvements), shall be accounted for by the lessee in accordance with the
Standards applicable to those costs, including costs which are effectively reimbursed through an incentive arrangement.
Appendix B
Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Issue
1. An Entity may enter into a transaction or a series of structured transactions (an arrangement) with an unrelated party
or parties (an Investor) that involves the legal form of a lease. For example, an Entity may lease assets to an Investor
Page 541/765
----- PAGE 542 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
and lease the same assets back, or alternatively, legally sell assets and lease the same assets back. The form of each
arrangement and its terms and conditions can vary significantly. In the lease and leaseback example, it may be that the
arrangement is designed to achieve a tax advantage for the Investor that is shared with the Entity in the form of a fee,
and not to convey the right to use an asset.
2. When an arrangement with an Investor involves the legal form of a lease, the issues are:
(a) how to determine whether a series of transactions is linked and should be accounted for as one transaction;
(b) whether the arrangement meets the definition of a lease under Ind AS 17; and, if not,
(i) whether a separate investment account and lease payment obligations that might exist represent assets and liabilities
of the Entity ;
(ii) how the Entity should account for other obligations resulting from the arrangement; and
(iii) how the Entity should account for a fee it might receive from an Investor.
Accounting Principles
3. A series of transactions that involve the legal form of a lease is linked and shall be accounted for as one transaction
when the overall economic effect cannot be understood without reference to the series of transactions as a whole. This
is the case, for example, when the series of transactions are closely interrelated, negotiated as a single transaction, and
takes place concurrently or in a continuous sequence.
4. The accounting shall reflect the substance of the arrangement. All aspects and implications of an arrangement shall
be evaluated to determine its substance, with weight given to those aspects and implications that have an economic
effect.
5. Ind AS 17 applies when the substance of an arrangement includes the conveyance of the right to use an asset for an
agreed period of time. Indicators that individually demonstrate that an arrangement may not, in substance, involve a
lease under Ind AS 17 include :
(a) an Entity retains all the risks and rewards incident to ownership of an underlying asset and enjoys substantially the
same rights to its use as before the arrangement;
(b) the primary reason for the arrangement is to achieve a particular tax result, and not to convey the right to use an
asset; and
(c) an option is included on terms that make its exercise almost certain (e.g. a put option that is exercisable at a price
sufficiently higher than the expected fair value when it becomes exercisable).
6. The definitions and guidance in paragraphs 49-64 of theFramework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial
Statements in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India,
shall be applied in determining whether, in substance, a separate investment account and lease payment obligations
represent assets and liabilities of the Entity. Indicators that collectively demonstrate that, in substance, a separate
investment account and lease payment obligations do not meet the definitions of an asset and a liability and shall not be
recognized by the Entity include :
(a) the Entity is not able to control the investment account in pursuit of its own objectives and is not obligated to pay the
lease payments. This occurs when, for example, a prepaid amount is placed in a separate investment account to protect
the Investor and may only be used to pay the Investor, the Investor agrees that the lease payment obligations are to be
paid from funds in the investment account, and the Entity has no ability to withhold payments to the Investor from the
investment account;
(b) the Entity has only a remote risk of reimbursing the entire amount of any fee received from an Investor and possibly
paying some additional amount, or, when a fee has not been received, only a remote risk of paying an amount under
other obligations (e.g. a guarantee). Only a remote risk of payment exists when, for example, the terms of the
arrangement require that a prepaid amount is invested in risk-free assets that are expected to generate sufficient cash
flows to satisfy the lease payment obligations; and
(c) other than the initial cash flows at inception of the arrangement, the only cash flows expected under the arrangement
are the lease payments that are satisfied solely from funds withdrawn from the separate investment account established
with the initial cash flows.
7. Other obligations of an arrangement, including any guarantees provided and obligations incurred upon early
termination, shall be accounted for under Ind AS 37,Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, Ind AS
104,Insurance Contractsor Ind AS 109,Financial Instrumentsdepending on the terms.
8. [ The requirements in Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, shall be applied to the facts and
Page 542/765
----- PAGE 543 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
circumstances of each arrangement in determining when to recognise a fee as income that an Entity might receive.
Factors such as whether there is continuing involvement in the form of significant future performance obligations
necessary to earn the fee, whether there are retained risks, the terms of any guarantee arrangements, and the risk of
repayment of the fee, shall be considered. Indicators that individually demonstrate that recognition of the entire fee as
income when received, if received at the beginning of the arrangement, is inappropriate include:]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(a) obligations either to perform or to refrain from certain significant activities are conditions of earning the fee received,
and therefore execution of a legally binding arrangement is not the most significant act required by the arrangement;
(b) limitations are put on the use of the underlying asset that have the practical effect of restricting and significantly
changing the Entity's ability to use (e.g. deplete, sell or pledge as collateral) the asset;
(c) the possibility of reimbursing any amount of the fee and possibly paying some additional amount is not remote. This
occurs when, for example,
(i) the underlying asset is not a specialised asset that is required by the Entity to conduct its business, and therefore
there is a possibility that the Entity may pay an amount to terminate the arrangement early; or
(ii) the Entity is required by the terms of the arrangement, or has some or total discretion, to invest a prepaid amount in
assets carrying more than an insignificant amount of risk (e.g. currency, interest rate or credit risk). In this circumstance,
the risk of the investment's value being insufficient to satisfy the lease payment obligations is not remote, and therefore
there is a possibility that the Entity may be required to pay some amount.
9. The fee shall be presented in the statement of profit and loss based on its economic substance and nature.
Disclosure
10. All aspects of an arrangement that does not, in substance, involve a lease under Ind AS 17 shall be considered in
determining the appropriate disclosures that are necessary to understand the arrangement and the accounting treatment
adopted. An Entity shall disclose the following in each period that an arrangement exists:
(a) a description of the arrangement including :
(i) the underlying asset and any restrictions on its use;
(ii) the life and other significant terms of the arrangement;
(iii) the transactions that are linked together, including any options; and
(b) the accounting treatment applied to any fee received, the amount recognized as income in the period, and the line
item of the statement of profit and loss in which it is included.
The disclosures required in accordance with paragraph 10 of this appendix shall be provided individually for each
arrangement or in aggregate for each class of arrangement. A class is a grouping of arrangements with underlying
assets of a similar nature (e.g. power plants).
Appendix C
Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Background
1. An entity may enter into an arrangement, comprising a transaction or a series of related transactions, that does not
take the legal form of a lease but conveys a right to use an asset (e.g. an item of property, plant or equipment) in return
for a payment or series of payments. Examples of arrangements in which one entity (the supplier) may convey such a
right to use an asset to another entity (the purchaser), often together with related services, include :
? outsourcing arrangements (e.g. the outsourcing of the data processing functions of an entity).
? arrangements in the telecommunications industry, in which suppliers of network capacity enter into contracts to
provide purchasers with rights to capacity.
? take-or-pay and similar contracts, in which purchasers must make specified payments regardless of whether they take
delivery of the contracted products or services (e.g. a take-or-pay contract to acquire substantially all of the output of a
supplier's power generator).
2. This appendix provides guidance for determining whether such arrangements are, or contain, leases that should be
accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 17. This Appendix does not provide guidance for determining how such a lease
should be classified under Ind AS 17.
3. In some arrangements, the underlying asset that is the subject of the lease is a portion of a larger asset. This
appendix does not address how to determine when a portion of a larger asset is itself the underlying asset for the
Page 543/765
----- PAGE 544 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
purposes of applying Ind AS 17. Nevertheless, arrangements in which the underlying asset would represent a unit of
account in either Ind AS 16 or Ind AS 38 are within the scope of this appendix.
Scope
4. This appendix does not apply to arrangements that :
(a) are, or contain, leases excluded from the scope of Ind AS 17; or
(b) [ are public-to-private service concession arrangements within the scope of Appendix D of Ind AS 115,Service
Concession Arrangements]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Issues
5. The issues addressed in this appendix are :
(a) how to determine whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease as defined in Ind AS 17;
(b) when the assessment or a reassessment of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease should be made; and
(c) if an arrangement is, or contains, a lease, how the payments for the lease should be separated from payments for
any other elements in the arrangement.
Accounting Principles
Determining whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease
6. Determining whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease shall be based on the substance of the arrangement and
requires an assessment of whether :
(a) fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets (the asset); and
(b) the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset
7. Although a specific asset may be explicitly identified in an arrangement, it is not the subject of a lease if fulfilment of
the arrangement is not dependent on the use of the specified asset. For example, if the supplier is obliged to deliver a
specified quantity of goods or services and has the right and ability to provide those goods or services using other
assets not specified in the arrangement, then fulfilment of the arrangement is not dependent on the specified asset and
the arrangement does not contain a lease. A warranty obligation that permits or requires the substitution of the same or
similar assets when the specified asset is not operating properly does not preclude lease treatment. In addition, a
contractual provision (contingent or otherwise) permitting or requiring the supplier to substitute other assets for any
reason on or after a specified date does not preclude lease treatment before the date of substitution.
8. An asset has been implicitly specified if, for example, the supplier owns or leases only one asset with which to fulfil
the obligation and it is not economically feasible or practicable for the supplier to perform its obligation through the use
of alternative assets.
Arrangement conveys a right to use the asset
9. An arrangement conveys the right to use the asset if the arrangement conveys to the purchaser (lessee) the right to
control the use of the underlying asset. The right to control the use of the underlying asset is conveyed if any one of the
following conditions is met :
(a) The purchaser has the ability or right to operate the asset or direct others to operate the asset in a manner it
determines while obtaining or controlling more than an insignificant amount of the output or other utility of the asset.
(b) The purchaser has the ability or right to control physical access to the underlying asset while obtaining or controlling
more than an insignificant amount of the output or other utility of the asset.
(c) Facts and circumstances indicate that it is remote that one or more parties other than the purchaser will take more
than an insignificant amount of the output or other utility that will be produced or generated by the asset during the term
of the arrangement, and the price that the purchaser will pay for the output is neither contractually fixed per unit of output
nor equal to the current market price per unit of output as of the time of delivery of the output.
Assessing or reassessing whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease
10. The assessment of whether an arrangement contains a lease shall be made at the inception of the arrangement,
being the earlier of the date of the arrangement and the date of commitment by the parties to the principal terms of the
arrangement, on the basis of all of the facts and circumstances. A reassessment of whether the arrangement contains a
lease after the inception of the arrangement shall be made only if any one of the following conditions is met :
(a) There is a change in the contractual terms, unless the change only renews or extends the arrangement.
(b) A renewal option is exercised or an extension is agreed to by the parties to the arrangement, unless the term of the
Page 544/765
----- PAGE 545 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
renewal or extension had initially been included in the lease term in accordance with paragraph 4 of Ind AS 17. A
renewal or extension of the arrangement that does not include modification of any of the terms in the original
arrangement before the end of the term of the original arrangement shall be evaluated under paragraphs 6-9 only with
respect to the renewal or extension period.
(c) There is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is dependent on a specified asset.
(d) There is a substantial change to the asset, for example a substantial physical change to property, plant or
equipment.
11. A reassessment of an arrangement shall be based on the facts and circumstances as of the date of reassessment,
including the remaining term of the arrangement. Changes in estimate (for example, the estimated amount of output to
be delivered to the purchaser or other potential purchasers) would not trigger a reassessment. If an arrangement is
reassessed and is determined to contain a lease (or not to contain a lease), lease accounting shall be applied (or cease
to apply) from :
(a) in the case of (a), (c) or (d) in paragraph 10, when the change in circumstances giving rise to the reassessment
occurs;
(b) in the case of (b) in paragraph 10, the inception of the renewal or extension period.
Separating payments for the lease from other payments
12. If an arrangement contains a lease, the parties to the arrangement shall apply the requirements of Ind AS 17 to the
lease element of the arrangement, unless exempted from those requirements in accordance with paragraph 2 of Ind AS
17. Accordingly, if an arrangement contains a lease, that lease shall be classified as a finance lease or an operating
lease in accordance with paragraphs 7-17 of Ind AS 17. Other elements of the arrangement not within the scope of Ind
AS 17 shall be accounted for in accordance with other Standards.
13. For the purpose of applying the requirements of Ind AS 17, payments and other consideration required by the
arrangement shall be separated at the inception of the arrangement or upon a reassessment of the arrangement into
those for the lease and those for other elements on the basis of their relative fair values. The minimum lease payments
as defined in paragraph 4 of Ind AS 17 include only payments for the lease (i.e. the right to use the asset) and exclude
payments for other elements in the arrangement (e.g. for services and the cost of inputs).
14. In some cases, separating the payments for the lease from payments for other elements in the arrangement will
require the purchaser to use an estimation technique. For example, a purchaser may estimate the lease payments by
reference to a lease agreement for a comparable asset that contains no other elements, or by estimating the payments
for the other elements in the arrangement by reference to comparable agreements and then deducting these payments
from the total payments under the arrangement.
15. If a purchaser concludes that it is impracticable to separate the payments reliably, it shall:
(a) in the case of a finance lease, recognise an asset and a liability at an amount equal to the fair value of the underlying
asset that was identified in paragraphs 7 and 8 as the subject of the lease. Subsequently the liability shall be reduced as
payments are made and an imputed finance charge on the liability recognized using the purchaser's incremental
borrowing rate of interest.
(b) in the case of an operating lease, treat all payments under the arrangement as lease payments for the purposes of
complying with the disclosure requirements of Ind AS 17, but
(i) disclose those payments separately from minimum lease payments of other arrangements that do not include
payments for non-lease elements, and
(ii) state that the disclosed payments also include payments for non-lease elements in the arrangement.
Appendix D
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
This appendix lists the appendices which are part of other Indian Accounting Standards and make reference to Ind AS
17,Leases.
1. [ Appendix D,Service Concession Arrangements containedin Ind AS 115,Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
2. Appendix E,Service Concession Arrangements: Disclosurescontained in Ind AS 115,Revenue from Contracts with
Customers.]
3. Appendix A,Intangible Assets-Web Site Costscontained in Ind AS 38,Intangible Assets.
Page 545/765
----- PAGE 546 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Appendix 1
Note:This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out the
major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 17 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 17, Leases, SIC 15, Operating Leases - Incentives, SIC 27, Evaluating the Substance of
Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease and IFRIC 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease,
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 17, Leases, SIC 15, SIC 27 and IFRIC 4
1. Paragraph 18 of IAS 17 dealing with measurement of the land and buildings elements when the lessee's interest in
both land and buildings is classified as an investment property in accordance with Ind AS 40,Investment Property, if the
fair value model is adopted and paragraph 19 of IAS 17 dealing with property interest held under an operating lease as
an investment property, if the definition of investment property is otherwise met and fair value model is applied, have
been deleted, since Ind AS 40,Investment Property, prohibits the use of fair value model. However, paragraph numbers
have been retained in Ind AS 17 to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 17.
2. Paragraphs 33 and 50 have been modified to provide that where the escalation of lease rentals is in line with the
expected general inflation so as to compensate the lessor for expected inflationary cost, the increases in the rentals
shall not be straight lined.
3. Paragraph numbers 14 and 15 appear as 'Deleted' in IAS 17. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 17, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 17.
4. The transitional provisions given in IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 have not been given in Ind AS 17, since all transitional
provisions related to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate, have been included in Ind AS 101,First-time Adoption of
Indian Accounting Standardscorresponding to IFRS 1,First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
5. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'.
6. Following references to 'Examples of linked transactions' or 'The substance of an arrangement' which are not integral
part of SIC 27 have not been included in Ind AS 17 :
(i) Reference to paragraph A2(a) of 'Examples of linked transactions' in paragraph 2(b)(i) of Appendix B,
(ii) Reference to illustrations given in 'Examples of linked transactions' in paragraph 3 of Appendix B,
(iii)Reference to illustrations given under 'The substance of an arrangement' in paragraph 5 of Appendix B.
[***]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 18]
Revenue
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set inboldtype and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
Income is defined in theFramework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statementsissued by the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of India as increases in economic benefits during the accounting period in the form of inflows
or enhancements of assets or decreases of liabilities that result in increases in equity, other than those relating to
contributions from equity participants. Income encompasses both revenue and gains. Revenue is income that arises in
the course of ordinary activities of an entity and is referred to by a variety of different names including sales, fees,
interest, dividends and royalties. The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting treatment of revenue
arising from certain types of transactions and events.
The primary issue in accounting for revenue is determining when to recognise revenue. Revenue is recognized when it
is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and these benefits can be measured reliably. This
Standard identifies the circumstances in which these criteria will be met and, therefore, revenue will be recognized. It
also provides practical guidance on the application of these criteria.
Scope
1. This Standard shall be applied in accounting for revenue arising from the following transactions and events2:
(a) the sale of goods;
(b) the rendering of services; and
Page 546/765
----- PAGE 547 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(c) the use by others of entity assets yielding interest and royalties.
2For real estate developers, revenue shall be accounted for in accordance with the Guidance Note on the subject being
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
1A. This Standard deals with recognition of interest. However, the following are dealt in accordance with Ind AS
109,Financial Instruments:
(a) measurement of interest charges for the use of cash or cash equivalents or amounts due to the entity; and
(b) recognition and measurement of dividend.
1B. The impairment of any contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset arising from this Standard shall be
dealt in accordance with Ind AS 109,Financial Instruments.
2. [Refer Appendix 1]
3. Goods includes goods produced by the entity for the purpose of sale and goods purchased for resale, such as
merchandise purchased by a retailer or land and other property held for resale.
4. The rendering of services typically involves the performance by the entity of a contractually agreed task over an
agreed period of time. The services may be rendered within a single period or over more than one period. Some
contracts for the rendering of services are directly related to construction contracts, for example, those for the services
of project managers and architects. Revenue arising from these contracts is not dealt with in this Standard but is dealt
with in accordance with the requirements for construction contracts as specified in Ind AS 11Construction Contracts.
5. The use by others of entity assets gives rise to revenue in the form of:
(a) interest-charges for the use of cash or cash equivalents or amounts due to the entity;
(b) royalties-charges for the use of long-term assets of the entity, for example, patents, trademarks, copyrights and
computer software; and
(c) dividends-distributions of profits to holders of equity investments in proportion to their holdings of a particular class of
capital.
6. This Standard does not deal with revenue arising from:
(a) lease agreements (see Ind AS 17 Leases);
(b) dividends arising from investments which are accounted for under the equity method (see Ind AS 28Investments in
Associates and Joint Ventures);
(c) insurance contracts within the scope of Ind AS 104 Insurance Contracts;
(d) changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities or their disposal (see Ind AS 109Financial
Instruments);
(e) changes in the value of other current assets;
(f) initial recognition and from changes in the fair value of biological assets related to agricultural activity (see Ind AS
41Agriculture);
(g) initial recognition of agricultural produce (see Ind AS 41); and
(h) the extraction of mineral ores.
Definitions
7. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Revenueis the gross inflow of economic benefits during the period arising in the course of the ordinary activities of an
entity when those inflows result in increases in equity, other than increases relating to contributions from equity
participants.
Fair valueis the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date.(See Ind AS 113,Fair Value Measurement)
8. Revenue includes only the gross inflows of economic benefits received and receivable by the entity on its own
account. Amounts collected on behalf of third parties such as sales taxes, goods and services taxes and value added
taxes are not economic benefits which flow to the entity and do not result in increases in equity. Therefore, they are
excluded from revenue. Similarly, in an agency relationship, the gross inflows of economic benefits include amounts
collected on behalf of the principal and which do not result in increases in equity for the entity. The amounts collected on
behalf of the principal are not revenue. Instead, revenue is the amount of commission.
Measurement of revenue
9. Revenue shall be measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.3
3seealso Appendix A of this standard, Revenue-Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services.
Page 547/765
----- PAGE 548 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
10. The amount of revenue arising on a transaction is usually determined by agreement between the entity and the
buyer or user of the asset. It is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable taking into account
the amount of any trade discounts and volume rebates allowed by the entity.
11. In most cases, the consideration is in the form of cash or cash equivalents and the amount of revenue is the amount
of cash or cash equivalents received or receivable. However, when the inflow of cash or cash equivalents is deferred,
the fair value of the consideration may be less than the nominal amount of cash received or receivable. For example, an
entity may provide interest-free credit to the buyer or accept a note receivable bearing a below-market interest rate from
the buyer as consideration for the sale of goods. When the arrangement effectively constitutes a financing transaction,
the fair value of the consideration is determined by discounting all future receipts using an imputed rate of interest. The
imputed rate of interest is the more clearly determinable of either:
(a) the prevailing rate for a similar instrument of an issuer with a similar credit rating; or
(b) a rate of interest that discounts the nominal amount of the instrument to the current cash sales price of the goods or
services.
The difference between the fair value and the nominal amount of the consideration is recognized as interest revenue in
accordance with Ind AS 109.
12. When goods or services are exchanged or swapped for goods or services which are of a similar nature and value,
the exchange is not regarded as a transaction which generates revenue. This is often the case with commodities like oil
or milk where suppliers exchange or swap inventories in various locations to fulfil demand on a timely basis in a
particular location. When goods are sold or services are rendered in exchange for dissimilar goods or services, the
exchange is regarded as a transaction which generates revenue. The revenue is measured at the fair value of the goods
or services received, adjusted by the amount of any cash or cash equivalents transferred. When the fair value of the
goods or services received cannot be measured reliably, the revenue is measured at the fair value of the goods or
services given up, adjusted by the amount of any cash or cash equivalents transferred.
Identification of the transaction
13. The recognition criteria in this Standard are usually applied separately to each transaction. However, in certain
circumstances, it is necessary to apply the recognition criteria to the separately identifiable components of a single
transaction in order to reflect the substance of the transaction. For example, when the selling price of a product includes
an identifiable amount for subsequent servicing, that amount is deferred and recognized as revenue over the period
during which the service is performed. Conversely, the recognition criteria are applied to two or more transactions
together when they are linked in such a way that the commercial effect cannot be understood without reference to the
series of transactions as a whole. For example, an entity may sell goods and, at the same time, enter into a separate
agreement to repurchase the goods at a later date, thus negating the substantive effect of the transaction; in such a
case, the two transactions are dealt with together.
Sale of goods
14. Revenue from the sale of goods shall be recognized when all the following conditions have been satisfied:
(a) the entity has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods;
(b) the entity retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor
effective control over the goods sold;
(c) the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
(d) it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity; and
(e) the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
15. The assessment of when an entity has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer
requires an examination of the circumstances of the transaction. In most cases, the transfer of the risks and rewards of
ownership coincides with the transfer of the legal title or the passing of possession to the buyer. This is the case for
most retail sales. In other cases, the transfer of risks and rewards of ownership occurs at a different time from the
transfer of legal title or the passing of possession.
16. If the entity retains significant risks of ownership, the transaction is not a sale and revenue is not recognized. An
entity may retain a significant risk of ownership in a number of ways. Examples of situations in which the entity may
retain the significant risks and rewards of ownership are:
(a) when the entity retains an obligation for unsatisfactory performance not covered by normal warranty provisions;
(b) when the receipt of the revenue from a particular sale is contingent on the derivation of revenue by the buyer from its
Page 548/765
----- PAGE 549 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
sale of the goods;
(c) when the goods are shipped subject to installation and the installation is a significant part of the contract which has
not yet been completed by the entity; and
(d) when the buyer has the right to rescind the purchase for a reason specified in the sales contract and the entity is
uncertain about the probability of return.
17. If an entity retains only an insignificant risk of ownership, the transaction is a sale and revenue is recognized. For
example, a seller may retain the legal title to the goods solely to protect the collectability of the amount due. In such a
case, if the entity has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership, the transaction is a sale and revenue is
recognized. Another example of an entity retaining only an insignificant risk of ownership may be a retail sale when a
refund is offered if the customer is not satisfied. Revenue in such cases is recognized at the time of sale provided the
seller can reliably estimate future returns and recognises a liability for returns based on previous experience and other
relevant factors.
18. Revenue is recognized only when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow
to the entity. In some cases, this may not be probable until the consideration is received or until an uncertainty is
removed. For example, it may be uncertain that a foreign governmental authority will grant permission to remit the
consideration from a sale in a foreign country. When the permission is granted, the uncertainty is removed and revenue
is recognized. However, when an uncertainty arises about the collectability of an amount already included in revenue,
the uncollectible amount or the amount in respect of which recovery has ceased to be probable is recognized as an
expense, rather than as an adjustment of the amount of revenue originally recognized.
19. Revenue and expenses that relate to the same transaction or other event are recognized simultaneously; this
process is commonly referred to as the matching of revenues and expenses. Expenses, including warranties and other
costs to be incurred after the shipment of the goods can normally be measured reliably when the other conditions for the
recognition of revenue have been satisfied. However, revenue cannot be recognized when the expenses cannot be
measured reliably; in such circumstances, any consideration already received for the sale of the goods is recognized as
a liability.
Rendering of services
20. When the outcome of a transaction involving the rendering of services can be estimated reliably, revenue associated
with the transaction shall be recognized by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the
reporting period. The outcome of a transaction can be estimated reliably when all the following conditions are satisfied:
(a) the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
(b) it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity;
(c) the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period can be measured reliably; and
(d) the costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably.4
4seealso Appendix A of this standard, Revenue-Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services and Appendix B of
Ind AS 17 , Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.
21. The recognition of revenue by reference to the stage of completion of a transaction is often referred to as the
percentage of completion method. Under this method, revenue is recognized in the accounting periods in which the
services are rendered. The recognition of revenue on this basis provides useful information on the extent of service
activity and performance during a period. Ind AS 11 also requires the recognition of revenue on this basis. The
requirements of that Standard are generally applicable to the recognition of revenue and the associated expenses for a
transaction involving the rendering of services.
22. Revenue is recognized only when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow
to the entity. However, when an uncertainty arises about the collectability of an amount already included in revenue, the
uncollectible amount, or the amount in respect of which recovery has ceased to be probable, is recognized as an
expense, rather than as an adjustment of the amount of revenue originally recognized.
23. An entity is generally able to make reliable estimates after it has agreed to the following with the other parties to the
transaction:
(a) each party's enforceable rights regarding the service to be provided and received by the parties;
(b) the consideration to be exchanged; and
(c) the manner and terms of settlement.
It is also usually necessary for the entity to have an effective internal financial budgeting and reporting system. The
Page 549/765
----- PAGE 550 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
entity reviews and, when necessary, revises the estimates of revenue as the service is performed. The need for such
revisions does not necessarily indicate that the outcome of the transaction cannot be estimated reliably.
24. The stage of completion of a transaction may be determined by a variety of methods. An entity uses the method that
measures reliably the services performed. Depending on the nature of the transaction, the methods may include:
(a) surveys of work performed;
(b) services performed to date as a percentage of total services to be performed; or
(c) the proportion that costs incurred to date bear to the estimated total costs of the transaction. Only costs that reflect
services performed to date are included in costs incurred to date. Only costs that reflect services performed or to be
performed are included in the estimated total costs of the transaction.
Progress payments and advances received from customers often do not reflect the services performed.
25. For practical purposes, when services are performed by an indeterminate number of acts over a specified period of
time, revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the specified period unless there is evidence that some other
method better represents the stage of completion. When a specific act is much more significant than any other acts, the
recognition of revenue is postponed until the significant act is executed.
26. When the outcome of the transaction involving the rendering of services cannot be estimated reliably, revenue shall
be recognized only to the extent of the expenses recognized that are recoverable.
27. During the early stages of a transaction, it is often the case that the outcome of the transaction cannot be estimated
reliably. Nevertheless, it may be probable that the entity will recover the transaction costs incurred. Therefore, revenue
is recognized only to the extent of costs incurred that are expected to be recoverable. As the outcome of the transaction
cannot be estimated reliably, no profit is recognized.
28. When the outcome of a transaction cannot be estimated reliably and it is not probable that the costs incurred will be
recovered, revenue is not recognized and the costs incurred are recognized as an expense. When the uncertainties that
prevented the outcome of the contract being estimated reliably no longer exist, revenue is recognized in accordance
with paragraph 20 rather than in accordance with paragraph 26.
Interest and Royalties
29. Revenue arising from the use by others of entity assets yielding interest and royalties shall be recognized on the
bases set out in paragraph 30 when:
(a) it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity; and
(b) the amount of the revenue can be measured reliably.
30. Revenue shall be recognized on the following bases:
(a) interest shall be recognized using the effective interest method as set out in Ind AS109; and
(b) royalties shall be recognized on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreement.
(c) Omitted*
31. Omitted*
32. Omitted*
* Refer Appendix 1
33. Royalties accrue in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreement and are usually recognized on that basis
unless, having regard to the substance of the agreement, it is more appropriate to recognise revenue on some other
systematic and rational basis.
34. Revenue is recognized only when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow
to the entity. However, when an uncertainty arises about the collectibility of an amount already included in revenue, the
uncollectible amount, or the amount in respect of which recovery has ceased to be probable, is recognized as an
expense, rather than as an adjustment of the amount of revenue originally recognized.
Disclosure
35. An entity shall disclose:
(a) the accounting policies adopted for the recognition of revenue, including the methods adopted to determine the stage
of completion of transactions involving the rendering of services;
(b) the amount of each significant category of revenue recognized during the period, including revenue arising from:
(i) the sale of goods;
(ii) the rendering of services; and
(iii) Omitted*
Page 550/765
----- PAGE 551 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(iv) royalties
(v) Omitted *
(c) the amount of revenue arising from exchanges of goods or services included in each significant category of revenue.
* Refer Appendix 1
36. An entity discloses any contingent liabilities and contingent assets in accordance with Ind AS 37,Provisions,
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. Contingent liabilities and contingent assets may arise from items such as
warranty costs, claims, penalties or possible losses.
Appendix A
Revenue-Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services
Issue
1. An entity (Seller) may enter into a barter transaction to provide advertising services in exchange for receiving
advertising services from its customer (Customer). Advertisements may be displayed on the Internet or poster sites,
broadcast on the television or radio, published in magazines or journals, or presented in another medium.
2. In some cases, no cash or other consideration is exchanged between the entities. In some other cases, equal or
approximately equal amounts of cash or other consideration are also exchanged.
3. A Seller that provides advertising services in the course of its ordinary activities recognises revenue under Ind AS 18
from a barter transaction involving advertising when, amongst other criteria, the services exchanged are dissimilar
(paragraph 12 of Ind AS 18) and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably (paragraph 20(a) of Ind AS 18.This
Appendix only applies to an exchange of dissimilar advertising services. An exchange of similar advertising services is
not a transaction that generates revenue under Ind AS 18.
4. The issue is under what circumstances can a Seller reliably measure revenue at the fair value of advertising services
received or provided in a barter transaction.
Accounting Principles
5. Revenue from a barter transaction involving advertising cannot be measured reliably at the fair value of advertising
services received. However, a Seller can reliably measure revenue at the fair value of the advertising services it
provides in a barter transaction, by reference only to non-barter transactions that:
(a) involve advertising similar to the advertising in the barter transaction;
(b) occur frequently;
(c) represent a predominant number of transactions and amount when compared to all transactions to provide
advertising that is similar to the advertising in the barter transaction;
(d) involve cash and/or another form of consideration (eg marketable securities, non-monetary assets, and other
services) that has a reliably measurable fair value; and
(e) do not involve the same counterparty as in the barter transaction.
Appendix B
Customer Loyalty Programmes
Background
1. Customer loyalty programmes are used by entities to provide customers with incentives to buy their goods or
services. If a customer buys goods or services, the entity grants the customer award credits (often described as 'points').
The customer can redeem the award credits for awards such as free or discounted goods or services.
2. The programmes operate in a variety of ways. Customers may be required to accumulate a specified minimum
number or value of award credits before they are able to redeem them. Award credits may be linked to individual
purchases or groups of purchases, or to continued custom over a specified period. The entity may operate the customer
loyalty programme itself or participate in a programme operated by a third party. The awards offered may include goods
or services supplied by the entity itself and/or rights to claim goods or services from a third party.
Scope
3. This Appendix applies to customer loyalty award credits that:
(a) an entity grants to its customers as part of a sales transaction, ie a sale of goods, rendering of services or use by a
customer of entity assets; and
(b) subject to meeting any further qualifying conditions, the customers can redeem in the future for free or discounted
goods or services.
The Appendix addresses accounting by the entity that grants award credits to its customers.
Page 551/765
----- PAGE 552 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Issues
4. The issues addressed in this Appendix are:
(a) whether the entity's obligation to provide free or discounted goods or services ('awards') in the future should be
recognized and measured by:
(i) allocating some of the consideration received or receivable from the sales transaction to the award credits and
deferring the recognition of revenue (applying paragraph 13 of Ind AS 18); or
(ii) providing for the estimated future costs of supplying the awards (applying paragraph 19 of Ind AS 18); and
(b) if consideration is allocated to the award credits:
(i) how much should be allocated to them;
(ii) when revenue should be recognized; and
(iii) if a third party supplies the awards, how revenue should be measured.
Accounting Principles
5. An entity shall apply paragraph 13 of Ind AS 18 and account for award credits as a separately identifiable component
of the sales transaction(s) in which they are granted (the 'initial sale'). The fair value of the consideration received or
receivable in respect of the initial sale shall be allocated between the award credits and the other components of the
sale.
6. The consideration allocated to the award credits shall be measured by reference to their fair value.
7. If the entity supplies the awards itself, it shall recognise the consideration allocated to award credits as revenue when
award credits are redeemed and it fulfils its obligations to supply awards. The amount of revenue recognized shall be
based on the number of award credits that have been redeemed in exchange for awards, relative to the total number
expected to be redeemed.
8. If a third party supplies the awards, the entity shall assess whether it is collecting the consideration allocated to the
award credits on its own account (ie as the principal in the transaction) or on behalf of the third party (ie as an agent for
the third party).
(a) If the entity is collecting the consideration on behalf of the third party, it shall:
(i) measure its revenue as the net amount retained on its own account, ie the difference between the consideration
allocated to the award credits and the amount payable to the third party for supplying the awards; and
(ii) recognise this net amount as revenue when the third party becomes obliged to supply the awards and entitled to
receive consideration for doing so. These events may occur as soon as the award credits are granted. Alternatively, if
the customer can choose to claim awards from either the entity or a third party, these events may occur only when the
customer chooses to claim awards from the third party.
(b) If the entity is collecting the consideration on its own account, it shall measure its revenue as the gross consideration
allocated to the award credits and recognise the revenue when it fulfils its obligations in respect of the awards.
9. If at any time the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations to supply the awards are expected to exceed the
consideration received and receivable for them (ie the consideration allocated to the award credits at the time of the
initial sale that has not yet been recognized as revenue plus any further consideration receivable when the customer
redeems the award credits), the entity has onerous contracts. A liability shall be recognized for the excess in accordance
with Ind AS 37. The need to recognise such a liability could arise if the expected costs of supplying awards increase, for
example if the entity revises its expectations about the number of award credits that will be redeemed.
Application guidance on Appendix B
This application guidance is an integral part of Appendix B.
Measuring the fair value of award credits
{|
AG1
Paragraph 6 of Appendix B requires the consideration allocated
to award credits to be measured by reference to their fair value.
If there is not a quoted market price for an identical award
credit, fair value must be measured using another valuation
technique.
AG2
An entity may measure the fair value of award credits by
Page 552/765
----- PAGE 553 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
reference to the fair value of the awards for which they could be
redeemed. The fair value of the award credits takes into account,
as appropriate:
(a)
the amount of the discounts or incentives that would otherwise
be offered to customers who have not earned award credits from an
initial sale;
(b)
the proportion of award credits that are not expected to be
redeemed by customers; and
(c)
non-performance risk.
If customers can choose from a range of different awards, the
fair value of the award credits reflects the fair values of the
range of available awards, weighted in proportion to the frequency
with which each award is expected to be selected.
AG3
In some circumstances, other valuation techniques may be used.
For example, if a third party will supply the awards and the
entity pays the third party for each award credit it grants, it
could measure the fair value of the award credits by reference to
the amount it pays the third party, adding a reasonable profit
margin. Judgement is required to select and apply the valuation
technique that satisfies the requirements of paragraph 6 of
Appendix B and is most appropriate in the circumstances.
Appendix C
Transfers of Assets from Customers
Background
1. In the utilities industry, an entity may receive from its customers items of property, plant and equipment that must be
used to connect those customers to a network and provide them with ongoing access to a supply of commodities such
as electricity, gas or water. Alternatively, an entity may receive cash from customers for the acquisition or construction of
such items of property, plant and equipment. Typically, customers are required to pay additional amounts for the
purchase of goods or services based on usage.
2. Transfers of assets from customers may also occur in industries other than utilities. For example, an entity
outsourcing its information technology functions may transfer its existing items of property, plant and equipment to the
outsourcing provider.
3. In some cases, the transferor of the asset may not be the entity that will eventually have ongoing access to the supply
of goods or services and will be the recipient of those goods or services. However, for convenience this Appendix refers
to the entity transferring the asset as the customer.
Scope
4. This Appendix applies to the accounting for transfers of items of property, plant and equipment by entities that receive
such transfers from their customers.
5. Agreements within the scope of this Appendix are agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of
property, plant and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the
customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services, or to do both.
6. This Appendix also applies to agreements in which an entity receives cash from a customer when that amount of cash
must be used only to construct or acquire an item of property, plant and equipment and the entity must then use the item
of property, plant and equipment either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing
access to a supply of goods or services, or to do both.
7. This Appendix does not apply to agreements in which the transfer is either a government grant as defined in Ind AS
20 or infrastructure used in a service concession arrangement that is within the scope of Appendix A of Ind AS 11
Page 553/765
----- PAGE 554 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Service Concession Arrangements.
Issues
8. The Appendix addresses the following issues:
(a)
Is the definition of an asset met?
(b)
If the definition of an asset is met, how should the transferred item of property, plant and equipment be measured on
initial recognition?
(c)
If the item of property, plant and equipment is measured at fair value on initial recognition, how should the resulting
credit be accounted for?
(d)
How should the entity account for a transfer of cash from its customer?
Accounting Principles
Is the definition of an asset met?
9. When an entity receives from a customer a transfer of an item of property, plant and equipment, it shall assess
whether the transferred item meets the definition of an asset set out in theFramework for the Preparation and
Presentation of Financial Statementsissued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Paragraph 49(a) of the
Framework states that 'an asset is a resource controlled by the entity as a result of past events and from which future
economic benefits are expected to flow to the entity.' In most circumstances, the entity obtains the right of ownership of
the transferred item of property, plant and equipment. However, in determining whether an asset exists, the right of
ownership is not essential. Therefore, if the customer continues to control the transferred item, the asset definition would
not be met despite a transfer of ownership.
10. An entity that controls an asset can generally deal with that asset as it pleases. For example, the entity can
exchange that asset for other assets, employ it to produce goods or services, charge a price for others to use it, use it to
settle liabilities, hold it, or distribute it to owners. The entity that receives from a customer a transfer of an item of
property, plant and equipment shall consider all relevant facts and circumstances when assessing control of the
transferred item. For example, although the entity must use the transferred item of property, plant and equipment to
provide one or more services to the customer, it may have the ability to decide how the transferred item of property,
plant and equipment is operated and maintained and when it is replaced. In this case, the entity would normally
conclude that it controls the transferred item of property, plant and equipment.
How should the transferred item of property, plant and equipment be measured on initial recognition?
11. If the entity concludes that the definition of an asset is met, it shall recognise the transferred asset as an item of
property, plant and equipment in accordance with paragraph 7 of Ind AS 16 and measure its cost on initial recognition at
its fair value in accordance with paragraph 24 of that Standard.
How should the credit be accounted for?
12. The following discussion assumes that the entity receiving an item of property, plant and equipment has concluded
that the transferred item should be recognized and measured in accordance with paragraphs 9-11.
13. Paragraph 12 of Ind AS 18 states that 'When goods are sold or services are rendered in exchange for dissimilar
goods or services, the exchange is regarded as a transaction which generates revenue.' According to the terms of the
agreements within the scope of this Appendix, a transfer of an item of property, plant and equipment would be an
exchange for dissimilar goods or services. Consequently, the entity shall recognise revenue in accordance with Ind AS
18.
Identifying the separately identifiable services
14. An entity may agree to deliver one or more services in exchange for the transferred item of property, plant and
equipment, such as connecting the customer to a network, providing the customer with ongoing access to a supply of
goods or services, or both. In accordance with paragraph 13 of Ind AS 18, the entity shall identify the separately
identifiable services included in the agreement.
15. Features that indicate that connecting the customer to a network is a separately identifiable service include:
(a)
a service connection is delivered to the customer and represents stand-alone value for that customer;
Page 554/765
----- PAGE 555 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
the fair value of the service connection can be measured reliably.
16. A feature that indicates that providing the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services is a
separately identifiable service is that, in the future, the customer making the transfer receives the ongoing access, the
goods or services, or both at a price lower than would be charged without the transfer of the item of property, plant and
equipment.
17. Conversely, a feature that indicates that the obligation to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of
goods or services arises from the terms of the entity's operating licence or other regulation rather than from the
agreement relating to the transfer of an item of property, plant and equipment is that customers that make a transfer pay
the same price as those that do not for the ongoing access, or for the goods or services, or for both.
Revenue recognition
18. If only one service is identified, the entity shall recognise revenue when the service is performed in accordance with
paragraph 20 of Ind AS 18. If such a service is ongoing, revenue shall be recognized in accordance with paragraph 20
of this Appendix.
19. If more than one separately identifiable service is identified, paragraph 13 of Ind AS 18 requires the fair value of the
total consideration received or receivable for the agreement to be allocated to each service and the recognition criteria
of Ind AS 18 are then applied to each service.
20. If an ongoing service is identified as part of the agreement, the period over which revenue shall be recognized for
that service is generally determined by the terms of the agreement with the customer. If the agreement does not specify
a period, the revenue shall be recognized over a period no longer than the useful life of the transferred asset used to
provide the ongoing service.
How should the entity account for a transfer of cash from its customer?
21. When an entity receives a transfer of cash from a customer, it shall assess whether the agreement is within the
scope of this Appendix in accordance with paragraph 6. If it is, the entity shall assess whether the constructed or
acquired item of property, plant and equipment meets the definition of an asset in accordance with paragraphs 9 and 10.
If the definition of an asset is met, the entity shall recognise the item of property, plant and equipment at its cost in
accordance with Ind AS 16 and shall recognise revenue in accordance with paragraphs 13-20 at the amount of cash
received from the customer.
Appendix D
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of Indian Accounting Standard 18.
This appendix lists the appendices which are part of other Indian Accounting Standards and make reference to Ind AS
18,Revenues
1. Appendix A,Service Concession Arrangementscontained in Ind AS 11Construction Contracts.
2. Appendix B,Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Leasecontained in Ind AS
17Leases.
Appendix 1
Note: This appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 18 and the corresponding International Accounting
Standard (IAS) 18, Revenue, SIC 31, Revenue-Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services, IFRIC 13, Customer
Loyalty Programmes and IFRIC 18, Transfers Of Assets from Customers.
Comparison with IAS 18,Revenue, SIC 31, IFRIC 13 and IFRIC 18
1. The transitional provisions given in IAS 18, SIC 13 and IFRIC 13 have not been given in Ind AS 18, since all
transitional provisions related to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in Ind AS 101, First-time
Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards corresponding to IFRS 1,First-time Adoption of International Financial
Reporting Standards.
2. On the basis of principles of the IAS 18, IFRIC 15 onAgreement for Construction of Real Estateprescribes that
construction of real estate should be treated as sale of goods and revenue should be recognized when the entity has
transferred significant risks and rewards of ownership and retained neither continuing managerial involvement nor
effective control. IFRIC 15 has not been included in Ind AS 18. Instead, a footnote has been given specifying that the
Guidance Note on the subject being issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India shall be followed.
Page 555/765
----- PAGE 556 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
3. Paragraph 2 of IAS 18 which states that IAS 18 supersedes the earlier version IAS 18 is deleted in Ind AS 18 as this
is not relevant in Ind AS 18. However, paragraph number 2 is retained in Ind AS 18 to maintain consistency with
paragraph numbers of IAS 18.
4. Paragraph number 31 appear as 'Deleted 'in IAS 18. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS
18, the paragraph number is retained in Ind AS 18.
5. Paragraph 30(c), 32, 35 b(iii), 35b(v) appear as 'Deleted' in Ind AS 18 which addresses revenue in form of interest
and dividend. The recognition, measurement of dividend is given in Ind AS 109, whereas the measurement of interest is
given in Ind AS 109.
6. Paragraph 1A is inserted which states that recognition of interest is dealt in this standard whereas measurement of
interest charges for the use of cash or cash equivalents or amounts due to the entity and recognition and measurement
of dividend is dealt in accordance with Ind AS 109,Financial Instruments.
7. Paragraph 1B is inserted, which prescribes the impairment of any contractual right to receive cash or another financial
asset arising from this standard, shall be dealt in accordance with Ind AS 109,Financial Instruments.
|}
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 19
Employee Benefits
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting and disclosure for employee benefits. The Standard
requires an entity to recognise :
(a)
a liability when an employee has provided service in exchange for employee benefits to be paid in the future; and
(b)
an expense when the entity consumes the economic benefit arising from service provided by an employee in exchange
for employee benefits.
Scope
2. This Standard shall be applied by an employer in accounting for all employee benefits, except those to which Ind AS
102, Share-based Payment, applies.
3. This Standard does not deal with reporting by employee benefit plans.
4. The employee benefits to which this Standard applies include those provided:
(a)
under formal plans or other formal agreements between an entity and individual employees, groups of employees or
their representatives;
(b)
under legislative requirements, or through industry arrangements, whereby entities are required to contribute to national,
state, industry or other multi-employer plans; or
(c)
by those informal practices that give rise to a constructive obligation. Informal practices give rise to a constructive
obligation where the entity has no realistic alternative but to pay employee benefits. An example of a constructive
obligation is where a change in the entity's informal practices would cause unacceptable damage to its relationship with
employees.
5. Employee benefits include:
(a)
short-term employee benefits, such as the following, if expected to be settled wholly before twelve months after the end
of the annual reporting period in which the employees render the related services:
(i)
wages, salaries and social security contributions;
(ii)
paid annual leave and paid sick leave;
(iii)
Page 556/765
----- PAGE 557 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
profit-sharing and bonuses; and
(iv)
non-monetary benefits (such as medical care, housing, cars and free or subsidised goods or services) for current
employees;
(b)
post-employment benefits, such as the following:
(i)
retirement benefits (e.g. pensions and lump sum payments on retirement); and
(ii)
other post-employment benefits, such as post-employment life insurance and post-employment medical care;
(c)
other long-term employee benefits, such as the following:
(i)
long-term paid absences such as long-service leave or sabbatical leave;
(ii)
jubilee or other long-service benefits; and
(iii)
long-term disability benefits; and
(d)
termination benefits.
6. Employee benefits include benefits provided either to employees or to their dependants or beneficiaries and may be
settled by payments (or the provision of goods or services) made either directly to the employees, to their spouses,
children or other dependants or to others, such as insurance companies.
7. An employee may provide services to an entity on a full-time, part-time, permanent, casual or temporary basis. For
the purpose of this Standard, employees include directors and other management personnel.
Definitions
8. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Definitions of employee benefits
Employee benefits are all forms of consideration given by an entity in exchange for service rendered by employees or
for the termination of employment.
Short-term employee benefits are employee benefits (other than termination benefits) that are expected to be settled
wholly before twelve months after the end of the annual reporting period in which the employees render the related
service.
Post-employment benefits are employee benefits (other than termination benefits and short-term employee benefits) that
are payable after the completion of employment.
Other long-term employee benefits are all employee benefits other than short-term employee benefits, post employment
benefits and termination benefits.
Termination benefits are employee benefits provided in exchange for the termination of an employee's employment as a
result of either:
(a)
an entity's decision to terminate an employee's employment before the normal retirement date; or
(b)
an employee's decision to accept an offer of benefits in exchange for the termination of employment.
Definitions relating to classification of plans
Post-employment benefit plans are formal or informal arrangements under which an entity provides post-employment
benefits for one or more employees.
Defined contribution plans are post-employment benefit plans under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a
separate entity (a fund) and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not
hold sufficient assets to pay all employee benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
Defined benefit plans are post-employment benefit plans other than defined contribution plans.
Multi-employer plans are defined contribution plans (other than state plans) or defined benefit plans (other than state
Page 557/765
----- PAGE 558 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
plans) that:
(a)
pool the assets contributed by various entities that are not under common control; and
(b)
use those assets to provide benefits to employees of more than one entity, on the basis that contribution and benefit
levels are determined without regard to the identity of the entity that employs the employees.
Definitions relating to the net defined benefit liability (asset)
The net defined benefit liability (asset) is the deficit or surplus, adjusted for any effect of limiting a net defined benefit
asset to the asset ceiling.
The deficit or surplus is:
(a)
the present value of the defined benefit obligation less
(b)
the fair value of plan assets (if any).
The asset ceiling is the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or
reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The present value of a defined benefit obligation is the present value, without deducting any plan assets, of expected
future payments required to settle the obligation resulting from employee service in the current and prior periods.
Plan assets comprise:
(a)
assets held by a long-term employee benefit fund; and
(b)
qualifying insurance policies.
Assets held by a long-term employee benefit fund are assets (other than non-transferable financial instruments issued
by the reporting entity) that:
(a)
are held by an entity (a fund) that is legally separate from the reporting entity and exists solely to pay or fund employee
benefits; and
(b)
are available to be used only to pay or fund employee benefits, are not available to the reporting entity's own creditors
(even in bankruptcy), and cannot be returned to the reporting entity, unless either:
(i)
the remaining assets of the fund are sufficient to meet all the related employee benefit obligations of the plan or the
reporting entity; or
(ii)
the assets are returned to the reporting entity to reimburse it for employee benefits already paid.
[A qualifying insurance policy is an insurance policy]
[A qualifying insurance policy is not necessarily an insurance contract, as defined in Ind AS 104, Insurance Contracts.]
issued by an insurer that is not a related party (as defined in Ind AS 24, Related Party Disclosures) of the reporting
entity, if the proceeds of the policy:
(a)
can be used only to pay or fund employee benefits under a defined benefit plan; and
(b)
are not available to the reporting entity's own creditors (even in bankruptcy) and cannot be paid to the reporting entity,
unless either:
i. the proceeds represent surplus assets that are not needed for the policy to meet all the related employee benefit
obligations; or
ii. the proceeds are returned to the reporting entity to reimburse it for employee benefits already paid.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. (See Ind AS 113, Fair Value Measurement.)
Definitions relating to defined benefit cost
Page 558/765
----- PAGE 559 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Service cost comprises:
(a)
current service cost, which is the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee
service in the current period;
(b)
past service cost, which is the change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for employee service in prior
periods, resulting from a plan amendment (the introduction or withdrawal of, or changes to, a defined benefit plan) or a
curtailment (a significant reduction by the entity in the number of employees covered by a plan); and
(c)
any gain or loss on settlement.
Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) is the change during the period in the net defined benefit liability
(asset) that arises from the passage of time.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) comprise:
(a)
actuarial gains and losses;
(b)
the return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset); and
(c)
any change in the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability
(asset).
Actuarial gains and losses are changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from:
(a)
experience adjustments (the effects of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually
occurred); and
(b)
the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions.
The return on plan assets is interest, dividends and other income derived from the plan assets, together with realised
and unrealised gains or losses on the plan assets, less:
(a)
any costs of managing plan assets; and
(b)
any tax payable by the plan itself, other than tax included in the actuarial assumptions used to measure the present
value of the defined benefit obligation.
A settlement is a transaction that eliminates all further legal or constructive obligations for part or all of the benefits
provided under a defined benefit plan, other than a payment of benefits to, or on behalf of, employees that is set out in
the terms of the plan and included in the actuarial assumptions.
Short-term employee benefits
9. Short-term employee benefits include items such as the following, if expected to be settled wholly before twelve
months after the end of the annual reporting period in which the employees render the related services:
(a)
wages, salaries and social security contributions;
(b)
paid annual leave and paid sick leave;
(c)
profit-sharing and bonuses; and
(d)
non-monetary benefits (such as medical care, housing, cars and free or subsidised goods or services) for current
employees.
10. An entity need not reclassify a short-term employee benefit if the entity's expectations of the timing of settlement
change temporarily. However, if the characteristics of the benefit change (such as a change from a non-accumulating
benefit to an accumulating benefit) or if a change in expectations of the timing of settlement is not temporary, then the
Page 559/765
----- PAGE 560 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
entity considers whether the benefit still meets the definition of short-term employee benefits.
Recognition and measurement
All short-term employee benefits
11. When an employee has rendered service to an entity during an accounting period, the entity shall recognise the
undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expected to be paid in exchange for that service:
(a)
as a liability (accrued expense), after deducting any amount already paid. If the amount already paid exceeds the
undiscounted amount of the benefits, an entity shall recognise that excess as an asset (prepaid expense) to the extent
that the prepayment will lead to, for example, a reduction in future payments or a cash refund.
(b)
as an expense, unless another Ind AS requires or permits the inclusion of the benefits in the cost of an asset (see, for
example, Ind AS 2, Inventories, and Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment).
12. Paragraphs 13, 16 and 19 explain how an entity shall apply paragraph 11 to short-term employee benefits in the
form of paid absences and profit-sharing and bonus plans.
Short-term paid absences
13. An entity shall recognise the expected cost of short-term employee benefits in the form of paid absences under
paragraph 11 as follows:
(a)
in the case of accumulating paid absences, when the employees render service that increases their entitlement to future
paid absences.
(b)
in the case of non-accumulating paid absences, when the absences occur.
14. An entity may pay employees for absence for various reasons including holidays, sickness and short-term disability,
maternity or paternity, jury service and military service. Entitlement to paid absences falls into two categories:
(a)
accumulating; and
(b)
non-accumulating.
15. Accumulating paid absences are those that are carried forward and can be used in future periods if the current
period's entitlement is not used in full. Accumulating paid absences may be either vesting (in other words, employees
are entitled to a cash payment for unused entitlement on leaving the entity) or non-vesting (when employees are not
entitled to a cash payment for unused entitlement on leaving). An obligation arises as employees render service that
increases their entitlement to future paid absences. The obligation exists, and is recognized, even if the paid absences
are non-vesting, although the possibility that employees may leave before they use an accumulated non-vesting
entitlement affects the measurement of that obligation.
16. An entity shall measure the expected cost of accumulating paid absences as the additional amount that the entity
expects to pay as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the reporting period.
17. The method specified in the previous paragraph measures the obligation at the amount of the additional payments
that are expected to arise solely from the fact that the benefit accumulates. In many cases, an entity may not need to
make detailed computations to estimate that there is no material obligation for unused paid absences. For example, a
sick leave obligation is likely to be material only if there is a formal or informal understanding that unused paid sick leave
may be taken as paid annual leave.
Example illustrating paragraphs 16 and 17
An entity has 100 employees, who are each entitled to five working days of paid sick leave for each year. Unused sick
leave may be carried forward for one calendar year. Sick leave is taken first out of the current year's entitlement and
then out of any balance brought forward from the previous year (a LIFO basis). At 31 December 20X1 the average
unused entitlement is two days per employee. The entity expects, on the basis of experience that is expected to
continue, that 92 employees will take no more than five days of paid sick leave in 20X2 and that the remaining eight
employees will take an average of six and a half days each.
The entity expects that it will pay an additional twelve days of sick pay as a result of the unused entitlement that has
accumulated at 31 December 20X1 (one and a half days each, for eight employees). Therefore, the entity recognises a
Page 560/765
----- PAGE 561 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
liability equal to twelve days of sick pay.
18. Non-accumulating paid absences do not carry forward: they lapse if the current period's entitlement is not used in full
and do not entitle employees to a cash payment for unused entitlement on leaving the entity. This is commonly the case
for sick pay (to the extent that unused past entitlement does not increase future entitlement), maternity or paternity leave
and paid absences for jury service or military service. An entity recognises no liability or expense until the time of the
absence, because employee service does not increase the amount of the benefit.
Profit-sharing and bonus plans
19. An entity shall recognise the expected cost of profit-sharing and bonus payments under paragraph 11 when, and
only when:
(a)
the entity has a present legal or constructive obligation to make such payments as a result of past events; and
(b)
a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
A present obligation exists when, and only when, the entity has no realistic alternative but to make the payments.
20. Under some profit-sharing plans, employees receive a share of the profit only if they remain with the entity for a
specified period. Such plans create a constructive obligation as employees render service that increases the amount to
be paid if they remain in service until the end of the specified period. The measurement of such constructive obligations
reflects the possibility that some employees may leave without receiving profit-sharing payments.
Example illustrating paragraph 20
A profit-sharing plan requires an entity to pay a specified proportion of its profit for the year to employees who serve
throughout the year. If no employees leave during the year, the total profit-sharing payments for the year will be 3 per
cent of profit. The entity estimates that staff turnover will reduce the payments to 2.5 per cent of profit.
The entity recognises a liability and an expense of 2.5 per cent of profit.
21. An entity may have no legal obligation to pay a bonus. Nevertheless, in some cases, an entity has a practice of
paying bonuses. In such cases, the entity has a constructive obligation because the entity has no realistic alternative but
to pay the bonus. The measurement of the constructive obligation reflects the possibility that some employees may
leave without receiving a bonus.
22. An entity can make a reliable estimate of its legal or constructive obligation under a profit-sharing or bonus plan
when, and only when:
(a)
the formal terms of the plan contain a formula for determining the amount of the benefit;
(b)
the entity determines the amounts to be paid before the financial statements are approved for issue; or
(c)
past practice gives clear evidence of the amount of the entity's constructive obligation.
23. An obligation under profit-sharing and bonus plans results from employee service and not from a transaction with the
entity's owners. Therefore, an entity recognises the cost of profit-sharing and bonus plans not as a distribution of profit
but as an expense.
24. If profit-sharing and bonus payments are not expected to be settled wholly before twelve months after the end of the
annual reporting period in which the employees render the related service, those payments are other long-term
employee benefits (see paragraphs 153-158).
Disclosure
25. Although this Standard does not require specific disclosures about short-term employee benefits, other Ind ASs may
require disclosures. For example, Ind AS 24 requires disclosures about employee benefits for key management
personnel. Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, requires disclosure of employee benefits expense.
Post-employment benefits: distinction between defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans
26. Post-employment benefits include items such as the following:
(a)
retirement benefits (e.g. pensions and lump sum payments on retirement); and
(b)
other post-employment benefits, such as post-employment life insurance and post-employment medical care.
Page 561/765
----- PAGE 562 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Arrangements whereby an entity provides post-employment benefits are post-employment benefit plans. An entity
applies this Standard to all such arrangements whether or not they involve the establishment of a separate entity to
receive contributions and to pay benefits.
27. Post-employment benefit plans are classified as either defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans, depending
on the economic substance of the plan as derived from its principal terms and conditions.
28. Under defined contribution plans the entity's legal or constructive obligation is limited to the amount that it agrees to
contribute to the fund. Thus, the amount of the post-employment benefits received by the employee is determined by the
amount of contributions paid by an entity (and perhaps also the employee) to a post-employment benefit plan or to an
insurance company, together with investment returns arising from the contributions. In consequence, actuarial risk (that
benefits will be less than expected) and investment risk (that assets invested will be insufficient to meet expected
benefits) fall, in substance, on the employee.
29. Examples of cases where an entity's obligation is not limited to the amount that it agrees to contribute to the fund are
when the entity has a legal or constructive obligation through:
(a)
a plan benefit formula that is not linked solely to the amount of contributions and requires the entity to provide further
contributions if assets are insufficient to meet the benefits in the plan benefit formula;
(b)
a guarantee, either indirectly through a plan or directly, of a specified return on contributions; or
(c)
those informal practices that give rise to a constructive obligation. For example, a constructive obligation may arise
where an entity has a history of increasing benefits for former employees to keep pace with inflation even where there is
no legal obligation to do so.
30. Under defined benefit plans:
(a)
the entity's obligation is to provide the agreed benefits to current and former employees; and
(b)
actuarial risk (that benefits will cost more than expected) and investment risk fall, in substance, on the entity. If actuarial
or investment experience are worse than expected, the entity's obligation may be increased.
31. Paragraphs 32-49 explain the distinction between defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans in the context
of multi-employer plans, defined benefit plans that share risks between entities under common control, state plans and
insured benefits.
Multi-employer plans
32. An entity shall classify a multi-employer plan as a defined contribution plan or a defined benefit plan under the terms
of the plan (including any constructive obligation that goes beyond the formal terms).
33. If an entity participates in a multi-employer defined benefit plan, unless paragraph 34 applies, it shall:
(a)
account for its proportionate share of the defined benefit obligation, plan assets and cost associated with the plan in the
same way as for any other defined benefit plan; and
(b)
disclose the information required by paragraphs 135-148 (excluding paragraph 148(d)).
34. When sufficient information is not available to use defined benefit accounting for a multi-employer defined benefit
plan, an entity shall:
(a)
account for the plan in accordance with paragraphs 51 and 52 as if it were a defined contribution plan; and
(b)
disclose the information required by paragraph 148.
35. One example of a multi-employer defined benefit plan is one where:
(a)
the plan is financed on a pay-as-you-go basis: contributions are set at a level that is expected to be sufficient to pay the
benefits falling due in the same period; and future benefits earned during the current period will be paid out of future
contributions; and
Page 562/765
----- PAGE 563 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
employees' benefits are determined by the length of their service and the participating entities have no realistic means of
withdrawing from the plan without paying a contribution for the benefits earned by employees up to the date of
withdrawal. Such a plan creates actuarial risk for the entity: if the ultimate cost of benefits already earned at the end of
the reporting period is more than expected, the entity will have either to increase its contributions or to persuade
employees to accept a reduction in benefits. Therefore, such a plan is a defined benefit plan.
36. Where sufficient information is available about a multi-employer defined benefit plan, an entity accounts for its
proportionate share of the defined benefit obligation, plan assets and post-employment cost associated with the plan in
the same way as for any other defined benefit plan. However, an entity may not be able to identify its share of the
underlying financial position and performance of the plan with sufficient reliability for accounting purposes. This may
occur if:
(a)
the plan exposes the participating entities to actuarial risks associated with the current and former employees of other
entities, with the result that there is no consistent and reliable basis for allocating the obligation, plan assets and cost to
individual entities participating in the plan; or
(b)
the entity does not have access to sufficient information about the plan to satisfy the requirements of this Standard.
In those cases, an entity accounts for the plan as if it were a defined contribution plan and discloses the information
required by paragraph 148.
37. There may be a contractual agreement between the multi-employer plan and its participants that determines how the
surplus in the plan will be distributed to the participants (or the deficit funded). A participant in a multi-employer plan with
such an agreement that accounts for the plan as a defined contribution plan in accordance with paragraph 34 shall
recognise the asset or liability that arises from the contractual agreement and the resulting income or expense in profit
or loss.
Example illustrating paragraph 37
An entity
participates in a multi-employer defined benefit plan that does
not prepare plan valuations on an Ind AS 19 basis. It therefore
accounts for the plan as if it were a defined contribution plan.
A non-Ind AS 19 funding valuation shows a deficit of Rs.100
million in the plan. The plan has agreed under contract a
schedule of contributions with the participating employers in the
plan that will eliminate the deficit over the next five years.
The entity's total contributions under the contract are Rs.8
million.
The entity recognises a liability for the
contributions adjusted for the time value of money and an equal
expense in profit or loss.
38. Multi-employer plans are distinct from group administration plans. A group administration plan is merely an
aggregation of single employer plans combined to allow participating employers to pool their assets for investment
purposes and reduce investment management and administration costs, but the claims of different employers are
segregated for the sole benefit of their own employees. Group administration plans pose no particular accounting
problems because information is readily available to treat them in the same way as any other single employer plan and
because such plans do not expose the participating entities to actuarial risks associated with the current and former
employees of other entities. The definitions in this Standard require an entity to classify a group administration plan as a
defined contribution plan or a defined benefit plan in accordance with the terms of the plan (including any constructive
obligation that goes beyond the formal terms).*
39. In determining when to recognise, and how to measure, a liability relating to the wind-up of a multi-employer defined
benefit plan, or the entity's withdrawal from a multi-employer defined benefit plan, an entity shall apply Ind AS 37,
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Defined benefit plans that share risks between entities under common control
Page 563/765
----- PAGE 564 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
40. Defined benefit plans that share risks between entities under common control, for example, a parent and its
subsidiaries, are not multi-employer plans.
41. An entity participating in such a plan shall obtain information about the plan as a whole measured in accordance with
this Standard on the basis of assumptions that apply to the plan as a whole. If there is a contractual agreement or stated
policy for charging to individual group entities the net defined benefit cost for the plan as a whole measured in
accordance with this Standard, the entity shall, in its separate or individual financial statements, recognise the net
defined benefit cost so charged. If there is no such agreement or policy, the net defined benefit cost shall be recognized
in the separate or individual financial statements of the group entity that is legally the sponsoring employer for the plan.
The other group entities shall, in their separate or individual financial statements, recognise a cost equal to their
contribution payable for the period.
42. Participation in such a plan is a related party transaction for each individual group entity. An entity shall therefore, in
its separate or individual financial statements, disclose the information required by paragraph 149.
State plans
43. An entity shall account for a state plan in the same way as for a multi-employer plan (see paragraphs 32-39).
44. State plans are established by legislation to cover all entities (or all entities in a particular category, for example, a
specific industry) and are operated by national or local government or by another body (for example, an autonomous
agency created specifically for this purpose) that is not subject to control or influence by the reporting entity. Some plans
established by an entity provide both compulsory benefits, as a substitute for benefits that would otherwise be covered
under a state plan, and additional voluntary benefits. Such plans are not state plans.
45. State plans are characterised as defined benefit or defined contribution, depending on the entity's obligation under
the plan. Many state plans are funded on a pay-as-you-go basis: contributions are set at a level that is expected to be
sufficient to pay the required benefits falling due in the same period; future benefits earned during the current period will
be paid out of future contributions. Nevertheless, in most state plans the entity has no legal or constructive obligation to
pay those future benefits: its only obligation is to pay the contributions as they fall due and if the entity ceases to employ
members of the state plan, it will have no obligation to pay the benefits earned by its own employees in previous years.
For this reason, state plans are normally defined contribution plans. However, when a state plan is a defined benefit plan
an entity applies paragraphs 32-39.
Insured benefits
46. An entity may pay insurance premiums to fund a post-employment benefit plan. The entity shall treat such a plan as
a defined contribution plan unless the entity will have (either directly, or indirectly through the plan) a legal or
constructive obligation either:
(a)
to pay the employee benefits directly when they fall due; or
(b)
to pay further amounts if the insurer does not pay all future employee benefits relating to employee service in the current
and prior periods.
If the entity retains such a legal or constructive obligation, the entity shall treat the plan as a defined benefit plan.
47. The benefits insured by an insurance policy need not have a direct or automatic relationship with the entity's
obligation for employee benefits. Post-employment benefit plans involving insurance policies are subject to the same
distinction between accounting and funding as other funded plans.
48. Where an entity funds a post-employment benefit obligation by contributing to an insurance policy under which the
entity (either directly, indirectly through the plan, through the mechanism for setting future premiums or through a related
party relationship with the insurer) retains a legal or constructive obligation, the payment of the premiums does not
amount to a defined contribution arrangement. It follows that the entity:
(a)
accounts for a qualifying insurance policy as a plan asset (see paragraph 8); and
(b)
recognises other insurance policies as reimbursement rights (if the policies satisfy the criterion in paragraph 116).
49. Where an insurance policy is in the name of a specified plan participant or a group of plan participants and the entity
does not have any legal or constructive obligation to cover any loss on the policy, the entity has no obligation to pay
benefits to the employees and the insurer has sole responsibility for paying the benefits. The payment of fixed premiums
Page 564/765
----- PAGE 565 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
under such contracts is, in substance, the settlement of the employee benefit obligation, rather than an investment to
meet the obligation. Consequently, the entity no longer has an asset or a liability. Therefore, an entity treats such
payments as contributions to a defined contribution plan.
Post-employment benefits: defined contribution plans
50. Accounting for defined contribution plans is straightforward because the reporting entity's obligation for each period
is determined by the amounts to be contributed for that period. Consequently, no actuarial assumptions are required to
measure the obligation or the expense and there is no possibility of any actuarial gain or loss. Moreover, the obligations
are measured on an undiscounted basis, except where they are not expected to be settled wholly before twelve months
after the end of the annual reporting period in which the employees render the related service.
Recognition and measurement
51. When an employee has rendered service to an entity during a period, the entity shall recognise the contribution
payable to a defined contribution plan in exchange for that service:
(a)
as a liability (accrued expense), after deducting any contribution already paid. If the contribution already paid exceeds
the contribution due for service before the end of the reporting period, an entity shall recognise that excess as an asset
(prepaid expense) to the extent that the prepayment will lead to, for example, a reduction in future payments or a cash
refund.
(b)
as an expense, unless another Ind AS requires or permits the inclusion of the contribution in the cost of an asset (see,
for example, Ind AS 2 and Ind AS 16).
52. When contributions to a defined contribution plan are not expected to be settled wholly before twelve months after
the end of the annual reporting period in which the employees render the related service, they shall be discounted using
the discount rate specified in paragraph 83.
Disclosure
53. An entity shall disclose the amount recognized as an expense for defined contribution plans.
54. Where required by Ind AS 24 an entity discloses information about contributions to defined contribution plans for key
management personnel.
Post-employment benefits: defined benefit plans
55. Accounting for defined benefit plans is complex because actuarial assumptions are required to measure the
obligation and the expense and there is a possibility of actuarial gains and losses. Moreover, the obligations are
measured on a discounted basis because they may be settled many years after the employees render the related
service.
Recognition and measurement
56. Defined benefit plans may be unfunded, or they may be wholly or partly funded by contributions by an entity, and
sometimes its employees, into an entity, or fund, that is legally separate from the reporting entity and from which the
employee benefits are paid. The payment of funded benefits when they fall due depends not only on the financial
position and the investment performance of the fund but also on an entity's ability, and willingness, to make good any
shortfall in the fund's assets. Therefore, the entity is, in substance, underwriting the actuarial and investment risks
associated with the plan. Consequently, the expense recognized for a defined benefit plan is not necessarily the amount
of the contribution due for the period.
57. Accounting by an entity for defined benefit plans involves the following steps:
(a)
determining the deficit or surplus. This involves:
(i)
using an actuarial technique, the projected unit credit method, to make a reliable estimate of the ultimate cost to the
entity of the benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods (see
paragraphs 67-69). This requires an entity to determine how much benefit is attributable to the current and prior periods
(see paragraphs 70-74) and to make estimates (actuarial assumptions) about demographic variables (such as employee
turnover and mortality) and financial variables (such as future increases in salaries and medical costs) that will affect the
cost of the benefit (see paragraphs 75-98).
(ii)
Page 565/765
----- PAGE 566 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
discounting that benefit in order to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the current service
cost (see paragraphs 67-69 and 83-86).
(iii)
deducting the fair value of any plan assets (see paragraphs 113-115) from the present value of the defined benefit
obligation.
(b)
determining the amount of the net defined benefit liability (asset) as the amount of the deficit or surplus determined in
(a), adjusted for any effect of limiting a net defined benefit asset to the asset ceiling (see paragraph 64).
(c)
determining amounts to be recognized in profit or loss:
(i)
[ current service cost (see paragraphs 70-74 and paragraph 122A).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(ii)
any past service cost and gain or loss on settlement (see paragraphs 99-112).
(iii)
net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (see paragraphs 123-126).
(d)
determining the remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset), to be recognized in other comprehensive
income, comprising:
(i)
actuarial gains and losses (see paragraphs 128 and 129);
(ii)
return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (see
paragraph 130); and
(iii)
any change in the effect of the asset ceiling (see paragraph 64), excluding amounts included in net interest on the net
defined benefit liability (asset).
Where an entity has more than one defined benefit plan, the entity applies these procedures for each material plan
separately.
58. An entity shall determine the net defined benefit liability (asset) with sufficient regularity that the amounts recognized
in the financial statements do not differ materially from the amounts that would be determined at the end of the reporting
period.
59. This Standard encourages, but does not require, an entity to involve a qualified actuary in the measurement of all
material post-employment benefit obligations. For practical reasons, an entity may request a qualified actuary to carry
out a detailed valuation of the obligation before the end of the reporting period. Nevertheless, the results of that
valuation are updated for any material transactions and other material changes in circumstances (including changes in
market prices and interest rates) up to the end of the reporting period.
60. In some cases, estimates, averages and computational short cuts may provide a reliable approximation of the
detailed computations illustrated in this Standard.
Accounting for the constructive obligation
61. An entity shall account not only for its legal obligation under the formal terms of a defined benefit plan, but also for
any constructive obligation that arises from the entity's informal practices. Informal practices give rise to a constructive
obligation where the entity has no realistic alternative but to pay employee benefits. An example of a constructive
obligation is where a change in the entity's informal practices would cause unacceptable damage to its relationship with
employees.
62. The formal terms of a defined benefit plan may permit an entity to terminate its obligation under the plan.
Nevertheless, it is usually difficult for an entity to terminate its obligation under a plan (without payment) if employees are
to be retained. Therefore, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, accounting for post employment benefits assumes
that an entity that is currently promising such benefits will continue to do so over the remaining working lives of
employees.
Page 566/765
----- PAGE 567 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Balance Sheet
63. An entity shall recognise the net defined benefit liability (asset) in the balance sheet.
64. When an entity has a surplus in a defined benefit plan, it shall measure the net defined benefit asset at the lower of:
(a)
the surplus in the defined benefit plan; and
(b)
the asset ceiling, determined using the discount rate specified in paragraph 83.
65. A net defined benefit asset may arise where a defined benefit plan has been over funded or where actuarial gains
have arisen. An entity recognises a net defined benefit asset in such cases because:
(a)
the entity controls a resource, which is the ability to use the surplus to generate future benefits;
(b)
that control is a result of past events (contributions paid by the entity and service rendered by the employee); and
(c)
future economic benefits are available to the entity in the form of a reduction in future contributions or a cash refund,
either directly to the entity or indirectly to another plan in deficit. The asset ceiling is the present value of those future
benefits.
Recognition and measurement: present value of defined benefit obligations and current service cost
66. The ultimate cost of a defined benefit plan may be influenced by many variables, such as final salaries, employee
turnover and mortality, employee contributions and medical cost trends. The ultimate cost of the plan is uncertain and
this uncertainty is likely to persist over a long period of time. In order to measure the present value of the
post-employment benefit obligations and the related current service cost, it is necessary:
(a)
to apply an actuarial valuation method (see paragraphs 67-69);
(b)
to attribute benefit to periods of service (see paragraphs 70-74); and
(c)
to make actuarial assumptions (see paragraphs 75-98).
Actuarial valuation method
67. An entity shall use the projected unit credit method to determine the present value of its defined benefit obligations
and the related current service cost and, where applicable, past service cost.
68. The projected unit credit method (sometimes known as the accrued benefit method pro-rated on service or as the
benefit/years of service method) sees each period of service as giving rise to an additional unit of benefit entitlement
(see paragraphs 70-74) and measures each unit separately to build up the final obligation (see paragraphs 75-98).
Example illustrating paragraph 68
A lump sum benefit is
payable on termination of service and equal to 1 per cent of
final salary for each year of service. The salary in year 1 is
Rs.10,000 and is assumed to increase at 7 per cent (compound)
each year. The discount rate used is 10 per cent per year. The
following table shows how the obligation builds up for an
employee who is expected to leave at the end of year 5, assuming
that there are no changes in actuarial assumptions. For
simplicity, this example ignores the additional adjustment needed
to reflect the probability that the employee may leave the entity
at an earlier or later date.
{|
Year
1
2
3
Page 567/765
----- PAGE 568 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
4
5
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Benefit attributed to:
- prior years
0
131
262
393
524
- current year (1% of final salary)
131
131
131
131
131
- current and prior years
131
262
393
524
655
Opening Obligation
-
89
196
324
476
Interest at 10%
-
9
20
33
48
Current service cost
89
98
108
119
131
Closing Obligation
89
196
324
476
655
Note:
Page 568/765
----- PAGE 569 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
1. The opening obligation is the
present value of the benefit attributed to prior years.
2. The current service cost is
the present value of the benefit attributed to the current year.
3. The closing obligation is the present value of the
benefit attributed to current and prior years.
|}
69. An entity discounts the whole of a post-employment benefit obligation, even if part of the obligation is expected to be
settled before twelve months after the reporting period.
Attributing benefit to periods of service
70. In determining the present value of its defined benefit obligations and the related current service cost and, where
applicable, past service cost, an entity shall attribute benefit to periods of service under the plan's benefit formula.
However, if an employee's service in later years will lead to a materially higher level of benefit than in earlier years, an
entity shall attribute benefit on a straight-line basis from:
(a)
the date when service by the employee first leads to benefits under the plan (whether or not the benefits are conditional
on further service) until
(b)
the date when further service by the employee will lead to no material amount of further benefits under the plan, other
than from further salary increases.
71. The projected unit credit method requires an entity to attribute benefit to the current period (in order to determine
current service cost) and the current and prior periods (in order to determine the present value of defined benefit
obligations). An entity attributes benefit to periods in which the obligation to provide post-employment benefits arises.
That obligation arises as employees render services in return for post-employment benefits that an entity expects to pay
in future reporting periods. Actuarial techniques allow an entity to measure that obligation with sufficient reliability to
justify recognition of a liability.
Examples illustrating paragraph 71
1. A defined benefit
plan provides a lump sum benefit of Rs.100 payable on retirement
for each year of service.
A benefit of
Rs.100 is attributed to each year. The current service cost is
the present value of Rs.100. The present value of the defined
benefit obligation is the present value of Rs.100, multiplied by
the number of years of service up to the end of the reporting
period.
If the benefit is
payable immediately when the employee leaves the entity, the
current service cost and the present value of the defined benefit
obligation reflect the date at which the employee is expected to
leave. Thus, because of the effect of discounting, they are less
than the amounts that would be determined if the employee left at
the end of the reporting period.
2. A plan provides a
monthly pension of 0.2 per cent of final salary for each year of
service. The pension is payable from the age of 65.
Benefit equal to the present value, at the
expected retirement date, of a monthly pension of 0.2 per cent of
the estimated final salary payable from the expected retirement
date until the expected date of death is attributed to each year
of service. The current service cost is the present value of that
Page 569/765
----- PAGE 570 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
benefit. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is
the present value of monthly pension payments of 0.2 per cent of
final salary, multiplied by the number of years of service up to
the end of the reporting period. The current service cost and the
present value of the defined benefit obligation are discounted
because pension payments begin at the age of 65.
72. Employee service gives rise to an obligation under a defined benefit plan even if the benefits are conditional on
future employment (in other words they are not vested). Employee service before the vesting date gives rise to a
constructive obligation because, at the end of each successive reporting period, the amount of future service that an
employee will have to render before becoming entitled to the benefit is reduced. In measuring its defined benefit
obligation, an entity considers the probability that some employees may not satisfy any vesting requirements. Similarly,
although some post-employment benefits, for example, post-employment medical benefits, become payable only if a
specified event occurs when an employee is no longer employed, an obligation is created when the employee renders
service that will provide entitlement to the benefit if the specified event occurs. The probability that the specified event
will occur affects the measurement of the obligation, but does not determine whether the obligation exists.
Examples illustrating paragraph 72
1. A plan pays a
benefit of Rs.100 for each year of service. The benefits vest
after ten years of service.
A benefit of
Rs.100 is attributed to each year. In each of the first ten
years, the current service cost and the present value of the
obligation reflect the probability that the employee may not
complete ten years of service.
2. A plan pays a
benefit of Rs.100 for each year of service, excluding service
before the age of 25. The benefits vest immediately.
No benefit is attributed to service before
the age of 25 because service before that date does not lead to
benefits (conditional or unconditional). A benefit of Rs.100 is
attributed to each subsequent year.
73. The obligation increases until the date when further service by the employee will lead to no material amount of
further benefits. Therefore, all benefit is attributed to periods ending on or before that date. Benefit is attributed to
individual accounting periods under the plan's benefit formula. However, if an employee's service in later years will lead
to a materially higher level of benefit than in earlier years, an entity attributes benefit on a straight-line basis until the
date when further service by the employee will lead to no material amount of further benefits. That is because the
employee's service throughout the entire period will ultimately lead to benefit at that higher level.
Examples illustrating paragraph 73
1. A plan pays a lump
sum benefit of Rs.1,000 that vests after ten years of service.
The plan provides no further benefit for subsequent service.
A benefit of
Rs.100 (Rs.1,000 divided by ten) is attributed to each of the
first ten years.
The current
service cost in each of the first ten years reflects the
probability that the employee may not complete ten years of
service. No benefit is attributed to subsequent years.
2. A plan pays a lump
sum retirement benefit of Rs. 2,000 to all employees who are
still employed at the age of 55 after twenty years of service, or
Page 570/765
----- PAGE 571 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
who are still employed at the age of 65, regardless of their
length of service.
For employees who
join before the age of 35, service first leads to benefits under
the plan at the age of 35 (an employee could leave at the age of
30 and return at the age of 33, with no effect on the amount or
timing of benefits). Those benefits are conditional on further
service. Also, service beyond the age of 55 will lead to no
material amount of further benefits. For these employees, the
entity attributes benefit of Rs.100 (Rs.2,000 divided by twenty)
to each year from the age of 35 to the age of 55.
For employees who
join between the ages of 35 and 45, service beyond twenty years
will lead to no material amount of further benefits. For these
employees, the entity attributes benefit of 100 (2,000 divided by
twenty) to each of the first twenty years.
For an employee
who joins at the age of 55, service beyond ten years will lead to
no material amount of further benefits. For this employee, the
entity attributes benefit of Rs.200 (Rs.2,000 divided by ten) to
each of the first ten years.
For all employees,
the current service cost and the present value of the obligation
reflect the probability that the employee may not complete the
necessary period of service.
3. A post-employment
medical plan reimburses 40 per cent of an employee's
post-employment medical costs if the employee leaves after more
than ten and less than twenty years of service and 50 per cent of
those costs if the employee leaves after twenty or more years of
service.
Under the plan's
benefit formula, the entity attributes 4 per cent of the present
value of the expected medical costs (40 per cent divided by ten)
to each of the first ten years and 1 per cent (10 per cent
divided by ten) to each of the second ten years. The current
service cost in each year reflects the probability that the
employee may not complete the necessary period of service to earn
part or all of the benefits. For employees expected to leave
within ten years, no benefit is attributed.
4. A post-employment
medical plan reimburses 10 per cent of an employee's
post-employment medical costs if the employee leaves after more
than ten and less than twenty years of service and 50 per cent of
those costs if the employee leaves after twenty or more years of
service.
Service in later
years will lead to a materially higher level of benefit than in
earlier years. Therefore, for employees expected to leave after
twenty or more years, the entity attributes benefit on a
straight-line basis under paragraph 71. Service beyond twenty
Page 571/765
----- PAGE 572 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
years will lead to no material amount of further benefits.
Therefore, the benefit attributed to each of the first twenty
years is 2.5 per cent of the present value of the expected
medical costs (50 per cent divided by twenty).
For employees
expected to leave between ten and twenty years, the benefit
attributed to each of the first ten years is 1 per cent of the
present value of the expected medical costs.
For these
employees, no benefit is attributed to service between the end of
the tenth year and the estimated date of leaving.
For employees
expected to leave within ten years, no benefit is attributed.
5. An entity has
1,000 employees. As per the statutory requirements, gratuity
shall be payable to an employee on the termination of his
employment after he has rendered continuous service for not less
than five years (a) on his superannuation, or (b) on his
retirement or resignation, or (c) on his death or disablement due
to accident or disease. The completion of continuous service of
five years shall not be necessary where the termination of the
employment of any employee is due to death or disablement. The
amount payable is determined by a formula linked to number of
years of service and last drawn salary. As per the law, the
amount payable shall not exceed Rs.1,000,000.
The amount of
gratuity attributed to each year of service will be calculated as
follows:
Number of
employees not likely to fulfil the eligibility criteria will be
ignored.
Other employees
will be grouped according to period of service they are expected
to render taking into account mortality rate, disablement and
resignation after 5 years. Gratuity payable will be calculated in
accordance with the formula prescribed in the governing statute
based on the period of service and the salary at the time of
termination of employment, assuming promotion, salary increases
etc.
For those
employees for whom the amount payable as per the formula does not
exceed Rs.1,000,000, over the expected period of service, the
amount payable will be divided by the expected period of service
and the resulting amount will be attributed to each year of the
expected period of service, including the period before the
stipulated period of 5 years.
In case of the remaining employees, the
amount as per the formula exceeds Rs. 1,000,000 over the expected
period of service of 10 years, and the amount of the statutory
threshold of Rs. 1,000,000 is reached at the end of 8 years. Rs.
1,25,000 (Rs. 1,000,000 divided by 8) is attributed to each of
Page 572/765
----- PAGE 573 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the first 8 years. In this case, no benefit is attributed to
subsequent two years. This is because service beyond 8 years will
lead to no material amount of further benefits.
74. Where the amount of a benefit is a constant proportion of final salary for each year of service, future salary increases
will affect the amount required to settle the obligation that exists for service before the end of the reporting period, but do
not create an additional obligation. Therefore:
(a)
for the purpose of paragraph 70(b), salary increases do not lead to further benefits, even though the amount of the
benefits is dependent on final salary; and
(b)
the amount of benefit attributed to each period is a constant proportion of the salary to which the benefit is linked.
Example illustrating paragraph 74
Employees are entitled to a benefit of 3 per cent of final salary for each year of service before the age of 55.
Benefit of 3 per cent of estimated final salary is attributed to each year up to the age of 55. This is the date when further
service by the employee will lead to no material amount of further benefits under the plan. No benefit is attributed to
service after that age.
Actuarial assumptions
75. Actuarial assumptions shall be unbiased and mutually compatible.
76. Actuarial assumptions are an entity's best estimates of the variables that will determine the ultimate cost of providing
post-employment benefits. Actuarial assumptions comprise:
(a)
demographic assumptions about the future characteristics of current and former employees (and their dependants) who
are eligible for benefits. Demographic assumptions deal with matters such as:
(i)
mortality (see paragraphs 81 and 82);
(ii)
rates of employee turnover, disability and early retirement;
(iii)
the proportion of plan members with dependants who will be eligible for benefits;
(iv)
the proportion of plan members who will select each form of payment option available under the plan terms; and
(v)
claim rates under medical plans.
(b)
financial assumptions, dealing with items such as:
(i)
the discount rate (see paragraphs 83-86);
(ii)
benefit levels, excluding any cost of the benefits to be met by employees, and future salary (see paragraphs 87-95);
(iii)
in the case of medical benefits, future medical costs, including claim handling costs (i.e. the costs that will be incurred in
processing and resolving claims, including legal and adjuster's fees) (see paragraphs 96-98); and
(iv)
taxes payable by the plan on contributions relating to service before the reporting date or on benefits resulting from that
service.
77. Actuarial assumptions are unbiased if they are neither imprudent nor excessively conservative.
78. Actuarial assumptions are mutually compatible if they reflect the economic relationships between factors such as
inflation, rates of salary increase and discount rates. For example, all assumptions that depend on a particular inflation
level (such as assumptions about interest rates and salary and benefit increases) in any given future period assume the
same inflation level in that period.
79. An entity determines the discount rate and other financial assumptions in nominal (stated) terms, unless estimates in
Page 573/765
----- PAGE 574 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
real (inflation-adjusted) terms are more reliable, for example, in a hyper-inflationary economy (see Ind AS 29, Financial
Reporting in Hyper-inflationary Economies), or where the benefit is index-linked and there is a deep market in
index-linked bonds of the same currency and term.
80. Financial assumptions shall be based on market expectations, at the end of the reporting period, for the period over
which the obligations are to be settled.
Actuarial assumptions: mortality
81. An entity shall determine its mortality assumptions by reference to its best estimate of the mortality of plan members
both during and after employment.
82. In order to estimate the ultimate cost of the benefit an entity takes into consideration expected changes in mortality,
for example by modifying standard mortality tables with estimates of mortality improvements.
Actuarial assumptions: discount rate
83. [ The rate used to discount post-employment benefit obligations (both funded and unfunded) shall be determined by
reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on government bonds. However, for currencies other than
Indian rupee for which there is deep market in high quality corporate bonds, the market yields (at the end of the
reporting period) on such high quality corporate bonds denominated in that currency shall be used. The currency and
term of the government bonds or corporate bonds shall be consistent with the currency and estimated term of the
post-employment benefit obligations.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
84. One actuarial assumption that has a material effect is the discount rate. The discount rate reflects the time value of
money but not the actuarial or investment risk. Furthermore, the discount rate does not reflect the entity specific credit
risk borne by the entity's creditors, nor does it reflect the risk that future experience may differ from actuarial
assumptions.
85. The discount rate reflects the estimated timing of benefit payments. In practice, an entity often achieves this by
applying a single weighted average discount rate that reflects the estimated timing and amount of benefit payments and
the currency in which the benefits are to be paid.
86. In some cases, there may be no deep market in government bonds with a sufficiently long maturity to match the
estimated maturity of all the benefit payments. In such cases, an entity uses current market rates of the appropriate term
to discount shorter-term payments, and estimates the discount rate for longer maturities by extrapolating current market
rates along the yield curve. The total present value of a defined benefit obligation is unlikely to be particularly sensitive to
the discount rate applied to the portion of benefits that is payable beyond the final maturity of the available government
bonds.
Actuarial assumptions: salaries, benefits and medical costs
87. An entity shall measure its defined benefit obligations on a basis that reflects:
(a)
the benefits set out in the terms of the plan (or resulting from any constructive obligation that goes beyond those terms)
at the end of the reporting period;
(b)
any estimated future salary increases that affect the benefits payable;
(c)
the effect of any limit on the employer's share of the cost of the future benefits;
(d)
contributions from employees or third parties that reduce the ultimate cost to the entity of those benefits; and
(e)
estimated future changes in the level of any state benefits that affect the benefits payable under a defined benefit plan,
if, and only if, either:
(i)
those changes were enacted before the end of the reporting period; or
(ii)
historical data, or other reliable evidence, indicate that those state benefits will change in some predictable manner, for
example, in line with future changes in general price levels or general salary levels.
88. Actuarial assumptions reflect future benefit changes that are set out in the formal terms of a plan (or a constructive
Page 574/765
----- PAGE 575 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
obligation that goes beyond those terms) at the end of the reporting period. This is the case if, for example:
(a)
the entity has a history of increasing benefits, for example, to mitigate the effects of inflation, and there is no indication
that this practice will change in the future;
(b)
the entity is obliged, by either the formal terms of a plan (or a constructive obligation that goes beyond those terms) or
legislation, to use any surplus in the plan for the benefit of plan participants (see paragraph 108(c)); or
(c)
benefits vary in response to a performance target or other criteria. For example, the terms of the plan may state that it
will pay reduced benefits or require additional contributions from employees if the plan assets are insufficient. The
measurement of the obligation reflects the best estimate of the effect of the performance target or other criteria.
89. Actuarial assumptions do not reflect future benefit changes that are not set out in the formal terms of the plan (or a
constructive obligation) at the end of the reporting period. Such changes will result in:
(a)
past service cost, to the extent that they change benefits for service before the change; and
(b)
current service cost for periods after the change, to the extent that they change benefits for service after the change.
90. Estimates of future salary increases take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors, such as
supply and demand in the employment market.
91. Some defined benefit plans limit the contributions that an entity is required to pay. The ultimate cost of the benefits
takes account of the effect of a limit on contributions. The effect of a limit on contributions is determined over the shorter
of:
(a)
the estimated life of the entity; and
(b)
the estimated life of the plan.
92. Some defined benefit plans require employees or third parties to contribute to the cost of the plan. Contributions by
employees reduce the cost of the benefits to the entity. An entity considers whether third-party contributions reduce the
cost of the benefits to the entity, or are a reimbursement right as described in paragraph 116. Contributions by
employees or third parties are either set out in the formal terms of the plan (or arise from a constructive obligation that
goes beyond those terms), or are discretionary. Discretionary contributions by employees or third parties reduce service
cost upon payment of these contributions to the plan.
93. Contributions from employees or third parties set out in the formal terms of the plan either reduce service cost (if
they are linked to service), or affect remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) (if they are not linked to
service). An example of contributions that are not linked to service is when the contributions are required to reduce a
deficit arising from losses on plan assets or from actuarial losses. If contributions from employees or third parties are
linked to service, those contributions reduce the service cost as follows:
(a)
if the amount of the contributions is dependent on the number of years of service, an entity shall attribute the
contributions to periods of service using the same attribution method required by paragraph 70 for the gross benefit (i.e.
either using the plan's contribution formula or on a straight-line basis); or
(b)
if the amount of the contributions is independent of the number of years of service, the entity is permitted to recognise
such contributions as a reduction of the service cost in the period in which the related service is rendered. Examples of
contributions that are independent of the number of years of service include those that are a fixed percentage of the
employee's salary, a fixed amount throughout the service period or dependent on the employee's age.
Appendix A provides related application guidance.
94. For contributions from employees or third parties that are attributed to periods of service in accordance with
paragraph 93(a), changes in the contributions result in:
(a)
current and past service cost (if those changes are not set out in the formal terms of a plan and do not arise from a
Page 575/765
----- PAGE 576 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
constructive obligation); or
(b)
actuarial gains and losses (if those changes s are set out in the formal terms of a plan, or arise from a constructive
obligation).
95. Some post-employment benefits are linked to variables such as the level of state retirement benefits or state medical
care. The measurement of such benefits reflects the best estimate of such variables, based on historical data and other
reliable evidence.
96. Assumptions about medical costs shall take account of estimated future changes in the cost of medical services,
resulting from both inflation and specific changes in medical costs.
97. Measurement of post-employment medical benefits requires assumptions about the level and frequency of future
claims and the cost of meeting those claims. An entity estimates future medical costs on the basis of historical data
about the entity's own experience, supplemented where necessary by historical data from other entities, insurance
companies, medical providers or other sources. Estimates of future medical costs consider the effect of technological
advances, changes in health care utilisation or delivery patterns and changes in the health status of plan participants.
98. The level and frequency of claims is particularly sensitive to the age, health status and sex of employees (and their
dependants) and may be sensitive to other factors such as geographical location. Therefore, historical data are adjusted
to the extent that the demographic mix of the population differs from that of the population used as a basis for the data.
They are also adjusted where there is reliable evidence that historical trends will not continue.
Past service cost and gains and losses on settlement
[99 When determining past service cost, or a gain or loss on settlement, an entity shall remeasure the net defined
benefit liability (asset) using the current fair value of plan assets and current actuarial assumptions, including current
market interest rates and other current market prices, reflecting:
(a)
the benefits offered under the plan and the plan assets before the plan amendment, curtailment or settlement; and
(b)
the benefits offered under the plan and the plan assets after the plan amendment, curtailment or settlement.]
100. An entity need not distinguish between past service cost resulting from a plan amendment, past service cost
resulting from a curtailment and a gain or loss on settlement if these transactions occur together. In some cases, a plan
amendment occurs before a settlement, such as when an entity changes the benefits under the plan and settles the
amended benefits later. In those cases an entity recognises past service cost before any gain or loss on settlement.
101. A settlement occurs together with a plan amendment and curtailment if a plan is terminated with the result that the
obligation is settled and the plan ceases to exist. However, the termination of a plan is not a settlement if the plan is
replaced by a new plan that offers benefits that are, in substance, the same.
[101A When a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs, an entity shall recognise and measure any past
service cost, or a gain or loss on settlement, in accordance with paragraphs 99-101 and paragraphs 102-112. In doing
so, an entity shall not consider the effect of the asset ceiling. An entity shall then determine the effect of the asset ceiling
after the plan amendment, curtailment or settlement and shall recognise any change in that effect in accordance with
paragraph 57(d).]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Past service cost
102. Past service cost is the change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from a plan
amendment or curtailment.
103. An entity shall recognise past service cost as an expense at the earlier of the following dates:
(a)
when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs; and
(b)
when the entity recognises related restructuring costs (see Ind AS 37) or termination benefits (see paragraph 165).
104. A plan amendment occurs when an entity introduces, or withdraws, a defined benefit plan or changes the benefits
payable under an existing defined benefit plan.
105. A curtailment occurs when an entity significantly reduces the number of employees covered by a plan. A
curtailment may arise from an isolated event, such as the closing of a plant, discontinuance of an operation or
Page 576/765
----- PAGE 577 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
termination or suspension of a plan.
106. Past service cost may be either positive (when benefits are introduced or changed so that the present value of the
defined benefit obligation increases) or negative (when benefits are withdrawn or changed so that the present value of
the defined benefit obligation decreases).
107. Where an entity reduces benefits payable under an existing defined benefit plan and, at the same time, increases
other benefits payable under the plan for the same employees, the entity treats the change as a single net change.
108. Past service cost excludes:
(a)
the effect of differences between actual and previously assumed salary increases on the obligation to pay benefits for
service in prior years (there is no past service cost because actuarial assumptions allow for projected salaries);
(b)
underestimates and overestimates of discretionary pension increases when an entity has a constructive obligation to
grant such increases (there is no past service cost because actuarial assumptions allow for such increases);
(c)
estimates of benefit improvements that result from actuarial gains or from the return on plan assets that have been
recognized in the financial statements if the entity is obliged, by either the formal terms of a plan (or a constructive
obligation that goes beyond those terms) or legislation, to use any surplus in the plan for the benefit of plan participants,
even if the benefit increase has not yet been formally awarded (there is no past service cost because the resulting
increase in the obligation is an actuarial loss, see paragraph 88); and
(d)
the increase in vested benefits (i.e. benefits that are not conditional on future employment, see paragraph 72) when, in
the absence of new or improved benefits, employees complete vesting requirements (there is no past service cost
because the entity recognized the estimated cost of benefits as current service cost as the service was rendered).
Gains and losses on settlement
109. The gain or loss on a settlement is the difference between:
(a)
the present value of the defined benefit obligation being settled, as determined on the date of settlement; and
(b)
the settlement price, including any plan assets transferred and any payments made directly by the entity in connection
with the settlement.
110. An entity shall recognise a gain or loss on the settlement of a defined benefit plan when the settlement occurs.
111. A settlement occurs when an entity enters into a transaction that eliminates all further legal or constructive
obligation for part or all of the benefits provided under a defined benefit plan (other than a payment of benefits to, or on
behalf of, employees in accordance with the terms of the plan and included in the actuarial assumptions). For example,
a one-off transfer of significant employer obligations under the plan to an insurance company through the purchase of an
insurance policy is a settlement; a lump sum cash payment, under the terms of the plan, to plan participants in exchange
for their rights to receive specified post-employment benefits is not.
112. In some cases, an entity acquires an insurance policy to fund some or all of the employee benefits relating to
employee service in the current and prior periods. The acquisition of such a policy is not a settlement if the entity retains
a legal or constructive obligation (see paragraph 46) to pay further amounts if the insurer does not pay the employee
benefits specified in the insurance policy. Paragraphs 116-119 deal with the recognition and measurement of
reimbursement rights under insurance policies that are not plan assets.
Recognition and measurement: plan assets
Fair value of plan assets
113. The fair value of any plan assets is deducted from the present value of the defined benefit obligation in determining
the deficit or surplus.
114. Plan assets exclude unpaid contributions due from the reporting entity to the fund, as well as any nontransferable
financial instruments issued by the entity and held by the fund. Plan assets are reduced by any liabilities of the fund that
do not relate to employee benefits, for example, trade and other payables and liabilities resulting from derivative
financial instruments.
115. Where plan assets include qualifying insurance policies that exactly match the amount and timing of some or all of
Page 577/765
----- PAGE 578 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the benefits payable under the plan, the fair value of those insurance policies is deemed to be the present value of the
related obligations (subject to any reduction required if the amounts receivable under the insurance policies are not
recoverable in full).
Reimbursements
116. When, and only when, it is virtually certain that another party will reimburse some or all of the expenditure required
to settle a defined benefit obligation, an entity shall:
(a)
recognise its right to reimbursement as a separate asset. The entity shall measure the asset at fair value.
(b)
disaggregate and recognise changes in the fair value of its right to reimbursement in the same way as for changes in the
fair value of plan assets (see paragraphs 124 and 125). The components of defined benefit cost recognized in
accordance with paragraph 120 may be recognized net of amounts relating to changes in the carrying amount of the
right to reimbursement.
117. Sometimes, an entity is able to look to another party, such as an insurer, to pay part or all of the expenditure
required to settle a defined benefit obligation. Qualifying insurance policies, as defined in paragraph 8, are plan assets.
An entity accounts for qualifying insurance policies in the same way as for all other plan assets and paragraph 116 is not
relevant (see paragraphs 46-49 and 115).
118. When an insurance policy held by an entity is not a qualifying insurance policy, that insurance policy is not a plan
asset. Paragraph 116 is relevant to such cases: the entity recognises its right to reimbursement under the insurance
policy as a separate asset, rather than as a deduction in determining the defined benefit deficit or surplus. Paragraph
140(b) requires the entity to disclose a brief description of the link between the reimbursement right and the related
obligation.
119. If the right to reimbursement arises under an insurance policy that exactly matches the amount and timing of some
or all of the benefits payable under a defined benefit plan, the fair value of the reimbursement right is deemed to be the
present value of the related obligation (subject to any reduction required if the reimbursement is not recoverable in full).
Components of defined benefit cost
120. An entity shall recognise the components of defined benefit cost, except to the extent that another Ind AS requires
or permits their inclusion in the cost of an asset, as follows:
(a)
[ service cost (see paragraphs 66-112 and paragraph 122A) in profit or loss;]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b)
net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (see paragraphs 123-126) in profit or loss; and
(c)
remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) (see paragraphs 127-130) in other comprehensive income.
121. Other Ind ASs require the inclusion of some employee benefit costs within the cost of assets, such as inventories
and property, plant and equipment (see Ind AS 2 and Ind AS 16). Any post-employment benefit costs included in the
cost of such assets include the appropriate proportion of the components listed in paragraph 120.
122. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) recognized in other comprehensive income shall not be
reclassified to profit or loss in a subsequent period. However, the entity may transfer those amounts recognized in other
comprehensive income within equity.
[Current service cost
122A.
An entity shall determine current service cost using actuarial assumptions determined at the start of the annual reporting
period. However, if an entity remeasures the net defined benefit liability (asset) in accordance with paragraph 99, it shall
determine current service cost for the remainder of the annual reporting period after the plan amendment, curtailment or
settlement using the actuarial assumptions used to remeasure the net defined benefit liability (asset) in accordance with
paragraph 99(b).]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset)
Page 578/765
----- PAGE 579 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
[123 An entity shall determine net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) by multiplying the net defined benefit
liability (asset) by the discount rate specified in paragraph 83.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[123A To determine net interest in accordance with paragraph 123, an entity shall use the net defined benefit liability
(asset) and the discount rate determined at the start of the annual reporting period. However, if an entity remeasures the
net defined benefit liability (asset) in accordance with paragraph 99, the entity shall determine net interest for the
remainder of the annual reporting period after the plan amendment, curtailment or settlement using:
(a)
the net defined benefit liability (asset) determined in accordance with paragraph 99(b); and
(b)
the discount rate used to remeasure the net defined benefit liability (asset) in accordance with paragraph 99(b).
In applying paragraph 123A, the entity shall also take into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability (asset)
during the period resulting from contributions or benefit payments.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
124. Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) can be viewed as comprising interest income on plan assets,
interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and interest on the effect of the asset ceiling mentioned in paragraph 64.
[125 Interest income on plan assets is a component of the return on plan assets, and is determined by multiplying the
fair value of the plan assets by the discount rate specified in paragraph 123A. An entity shall determine the fair value of
the plan assets at the start of the annual reporting period. However, if an entity remeasures the net defined benefit
liability (asset) in accordance with paragraph 99, the entity shall determine interest income for the remainder of the
annual reporting period after the plan amendment, curtailment or settlement using the plan assets used to remeasure
the net defined benefit liability (asset) in accordance with paragraph 99(b). In applying paragraph 125, the entity shall
also take into account any changes in the plan assets held during the period resulting from contributions or benefit
payments. The difference between the interest income on plan assets and the return on plan assets is included in the
remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (asset).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[126 Interest on the effect of the asset ceiling is part of the total change in the effect of the asset ceiling, and is
determined by multiplying the effect of the asset ceiling by the discount rate specified in paragraph 123A.An entity shall
determine the effect of the asset ceiling at the start of the annual reporting period. However, if an entity remeasures the
net defined benefit liability (asset) in accordance with paragraph 99, the entity shall determine interest on the effect of
the asset ceiling for the remainder of the annual reporting period after the plan amendment, curtailment or settlement
taking into account any change in the effect of the asset ceiling determined in accordance with paragraph 101A. The
difference between interest on the effect of the asset ceilingand the total change in the effect of the asset ceiling is
included in the remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (asset).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset)
127. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) comprise:
(a)
actuarial gains and losses (see paragraphs 128 and 129);
(b)
the return on plan assets (see paragraph 130), excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit
liability (asset) (see paragraph 125); and
(c)
any change in the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability
(asset) (see paragraph 126).
128. Actuarial gains and losses result from increases or decreases in the present value of the defined benefit obligation
because of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments. Causes of actuarial gains and losses
include, for example:
(a)
unexpectedly high or low rates of employee turnover, early retirement or mortality or of increases in salaries, benefits (if
the formal or constructive terms of a plan provide for inflationary benefit increases) or medical costs;
Page 579/765
----- PAGE 580 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
the effect of changes to assumptions concerning benefit payment options;
(c)
the effect of changes in estimates of future employee turnover, early retirement or mortality or of increases in salaries,
benefits (if the formal or constructive terms of a plan provide for inflationary benefit increases) or medical costs; and
(d)
the effect of changes in the discount rate.
129. Actuarial gains and losses do not include changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation because of
the introduction, amendment, curtailment or settlement of the defined benefit plan, or changes to the benefits payable
under the defined benefit plan. Such changes result in past service cost or gains or losses on settlement.
130. In determining the return on plan assets, an entity deducts the costs of managing the plan assets and any tax
payable by the plan itself, other than tax included in the actuarial assumptions used to measure the defined benefit
obligation (paragraph 76). Other administration costs are not deducted from the return on plan assets.
Presentation
Offset
131. An entity shall offset an asset relating to one plan against a liability relating to another plan when, and only when,
the entity:
(a)
has a legally enforceable right to use a surplus in one plan to settle obligations under the other plan; and
(b)
intends either to settle the obligations on a net basis, or to realize the surplus in one plan and settle its obligation under
the other plan simultaneously.
132. The offsetting criteria are similar to those established for financial instruments in Ind AS 32, Financial Instruments:
Presentation.
Current/non-current distinction
133. Some entities distinguish current assets and liabilities from non-current assets and liabilities. This Standard does
not specify whether an entity should distinguish current and non-current portions of assets and liabilities arising from
post-employment benefits.
Components of defined benefit cost
134. Paragraph 120 requires an entity to recognise service cost and net interest on the net defined benefit liability
(asset) in profit or loss. This Standard does not specify how an entity should present service cost and net interest on the
net defined benefit liability (asset). An entity presents those components in accordance with Ind AS1.
Disclosure
135. An entity shall disclose information that:
(a)
explains the characteristics of its defined benefit plans and risks associated with them (see paragraph 139);
(b)
identifies and explains the amounts in its financial statements arising from its defined benefit plans (see paragraphs
140-144); and
(c)
describes how its defined benefit plans may affect the amount, timing and uncertainty of the entity's future cash flows
(see paragraphs 145-147).
136. To meet the objectives in paragraph 135, an entity shall consider all the following:
(a)
the level of detail necessary to satisfy the disclosure requirements;
(b)
how much emphasis to place on each of the various requirements;
(c)
how much aggregation or disaggregation to undertake; and
(d)
whether users of financial statements need additional information to evaluate the quantitative information disclosed.
Page 580/765
----- PAGE 581 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
137. If the disclosures provided in accordance with the requirements in this Standard and other Ind ASs are insufficient
to meet the objectives in paragraph 135, an entity shall disclose additional information necessary to meet those
objectives. For example, an entity may present an analysis of the present value of the defined benefit obligation that
distinguishes the nature, characteristics and risks of the obligation. Such a disclosure could distinguish:
(a)
between amounts owing to active members, deferred members, and pensioners.
(b)
between vested benefits and accrued but not vested benefits.
(c)
between conditional benefits, amounts attributable to future salary increases and other benefits.
138. An entity shall assess whether all or some disclosures should be disaggregated to distinguish plans or groups of
plans with materially different risks. For example, an entity may disaggregate disclosure about plans showing one or
more of the following features:
(a)
different geographical locations.
(b)
different characteristics such as flat salary pension plans, final salary pension plans or post-employment medical plans.
(c)
different regulatory environments.
(d)
different reporting segments.
(e)
different funding arrangements (e.g. wholly unfunded, wholly or partly funded).
Characteristics of defined benefit plans and risks associated with them
139. An entity shall disclose:
(a)
information about the characteristics of its defined benefit plans, including:
(i)
the nature of the benefits provided by the plan (e.g. final salary defined benefit plan or contribution based plan with
guarantee).
(ii)
a description of the regulatory framework in which the plan operates, for example the level of any minimum funding
requirements, and any effect of the regulatory framework on the plan, such as the asset ceiling (see paragraph 64).
(iii)
a description of any other entity's responsibilities for the governance of the plan, for example responsibilities of trustees
or of board members of the plan.
(b)
a description of the risks to which the plan exposes the entity, focused on any unusual, entity-specific or plan-specific
risks, and of any significant concentrations of risk. For example, if plan assets are invested primarily in one class of
investments, e.g. property, the plan may expose the entity to a concentration of property market risk.
(c)
a description of any plan amendments, curtailments and settlements.
Explanation of amounts in the financial statements
140.
An entity shall provide a reconciliation from the opening balance to the closing balance for each of the following, if
applicable:
(a)
the net defined benefit liability (asset), showing separate reconciliations for:
(i)
plan assets.
(ii)
Page 581/765
----- PAGE 582 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the present value of the defined benefit obligation.
(iii)
the effect of the asset ceiling.
(b)
any reimbursement rights. An entity shall also describe the relationship between any reimbursement right and the
related obligation.
141.
Each reconciliation listed in paragraph 140 shall show each of the following, if applicable:
(a)
current service cost.
(b)
interest income or expense.
(c)
remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset), showing separately:
(i)
the return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest in (b).
(ii)
actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions (see paragraph 76(a)).
(iii)
actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (see paragraph 76(b)).
(iv)
changes in the effect of limiting a net defined benefit asset to the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest in
(b). An entity shall also disclose how it determined the maximum economic benefit available, i.e. whether those benefits
would be in the form of refunds, reductions in future contributions or a combination of both.
(d)
past service cost and gains and losses arising from settlements. As permitted by paragraph 100, past service cost and
gains and losses arising from settlements need not be distinguished if they occur together.
(e)
the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates.
(f)
contributions to the plan, showing separately those by the employer and by plan participants.
(g)
payments from the plan, showing separately the amount paid in respect of any settlements.
(h)
the effects of business combinations and disposals.
142.
An entity shall disaggregate the fair value of the plan assets into classes that distinguish the nature and risks of those
assets, subdividing each class of plan asset into those that have a quoted market price in an active market (as defined
in Ind AS 113, Fair Value Measurement) and those that do not. For example, and considering the level of disclosure
discussed in paragraph 136, an entity could distinguish between:
(a)
cash and cash equivalents;
(b)
equity instruments (segregated by industry type, company size, geography etc.);
(c)
debt instruments (segregated by type of issuer, credit quality, geography etc.);
(d)
real estate (segregated by geography etc.);
(e)
derivatives (segregated by type of underlying risk in the contract, for example, interest rate contracts, foreign exchange
contracts, equity contracts, credit contracts, longevity swaps etc.);
Page 582/765
----- PAGE 583 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(f)
investment funds (segregated by type of fund);
(g)
asset-backed securities; and
(h)
structured debt.
143.
An entity shall disclose the fair value of the entity's own transferable financial instruments held as plan assets, and the
fair value of plan assets that are property occupied by, or other assets used by, the entity.
144.
An entity shall disclose the significant actuarial assumptions used to determine the present value of the defined benefit
obligation (see paragraph 76). Such disclosure shall be in absolute terms (e.g. as an absolute percentage, and not just
as a margin between different percentages and other variables). When an entity provides disclosures in total for a
grouping of plans, it shall provide such disclosures in the form of weighted averages or relatively narrow ranges.
Amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows
145.
An entity shall disclose:
(a)
a sensitivity analysis for each significant actuarial assumption (as disclosed under paragraph 144) as of the end of the
reporting period, showing how the defined benefit obligation would have been affected by changes in the relevant
actuarial assumption that were reasonably possible at that date.
(b)
the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses required by (a) and the limitations of those
methods.
(c)
changes from the previous period in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses, and the
reasons for such changes.
146.
An entity shall disclose a description of any asset-liability matching strategies used by the plan or the entity, including
the use of annuities and other techniques, such as longevity swaps, to manage risk.
147.
To provide an indication of the effect of the defined benefit plan on the entity's future cash flows, an entity shall disclose:
(a)
a description of any funding arrangements and funding policy that affect future contributions.
(b)
the expected contributions to the plan for the next annual reporting period.
(c)
information about the maturity profile of the defined benefit obligation. This will include the weighted average duration of
the defined benefit obligation and may include other information about the distribution of the timing of benefit payments,
such as a maturity analysis of the benefit payments.
Multi-employer plans
148.
If an entity participates in a multi-employer defined benefit plan, it shall disclose:
(a)
a description of the funding arrangements, including the method used to determine the entity's rate of contributions and
any minimum funding requirements.
(b)
a description of the extent to which the entity can be liable to the plan for other entities' obligations under the terms and
conditions of the multi-employer plan.
(c)
a description of any agreed allocation of a deficit or surplus on:
Page 583/765
----- PAGE 584 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(i)
wind-up of the plan; or
(ii)
the entity's withdrawal from the plan.
(d)
if the entity accounts for that plan as if it were a defined contribution plan in accordance with paragraph 34, it shall
disclose the following, in addition to the information required by (a)-(c) and instead of the information required by
paragraphs 139-147:
(i)
the fact that the plan is a defined benefit plan.
(ii)
the reason why sufficient information is not available to enable the entity to account for the plan as a defined benefit
plan.
(iii)
the expected contributions to the plan for the next annual reporting period.
(iv)
information about any deficit or surplus in the plan that may affect the amount of future contributions, including the basis
used to determine that deficit or surplus and the implications, if any, for the entity.
(v)
an indication of the level of participation of the entity in the plan compared with other participating entities. Examples of
measures that might provide such an indication include the entity's proportion of the total contributions to the plan or the
entity's proportion of the total number of active members, retired members, and former members entitled to benefits, if
that information is available.
Defined benefit plans that share risks between entities under common control
149.
If an entity participates in a defined benefit plan that shares risks between entities under common control, it shall
disclose:
(a)
the contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost or the fact that there is no such
policy.
(b)
the policy for determining the contribution to be paid by the entity.
(c)
if the entity accounts for an allocation of the net defined benefit cost as noted in paragraph 41, all the information about
the plan as a whole required by paragraphs 135-147.
(d)
if the entity accounts for the contribution payable for the period as noted in paragraph 41, the information about the plan
as a whole required by paragraphs 135-137, 139, 142-144 and 147(a) and (b).
150.
The information required by paragraph 149(c) and (d) can be disclosed by cross-reference to disclosures in another
group entity's financial statements if:
(a)
that group entity's financial statements separately identify and disclose the information required about the plan; and
(b)
that group entity's financial statements are available to users of the financial statements on the same terms as the
financial statements of the entity and at the same time as, or earlier than, the financial statements of the entity.
Disclosure requirements in other Ind ASs
151.
Where required by Ind AS 24 an entity discloses information about:
(a)
related party transactions with post-employment benefit plans; and
Page 584/765
----- PAGE 585 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
post-employment benefits for key management personnel.
152.
Where required by Ind AS 37 an entity discloses information about contingent liabilities arising from post-employment
benefit obligations.
Other long-term employee benefits
153.
Other long-term employee benefits include items such as the following, if not expected to be settled wholly before twelve
months after the end of the annual reporting period in which the employees render the related service:
(a)
long-term paid absences such as long-service or sabbatical leave;
(b)
jubilee or other long-service benefits;
(c)
long-term disability benefits;
(d)
profit-sharing and bonuses; and
(e)
deferred remuneration.
154.
The measurement of other long-term employee benefits is not usually subject to the same degree of uncertainty as the
measurement of post-employment benefits. For this reason, this Standard requires a simplified method of accounting for
other long-term employee benefits. Unlike the accounting required for post-employment benefits, this method does not
recognise remeasurements in other comprehensive income.
Recognition and measurement
155.
In recognising and measuring the surplus or deficit in an other long-term employee benefit plan, an entity shall apply
paragraphs 56-98 and 113-115. An entity shall apply paragraphs 116-119 in recognising and measuring any
reimbursement right.
156.
For other long-term employee benefits, an entity shall recognise the net total of the following amounts in profit or loss,
except to the extent that another Ind AS requires or permits their inclusion in the cost of an asset:
[(a) service cost (see paragraphs 66-112 and paragraph 122A);]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b)
net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (see paragraphs 123-126); and
(c)
remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) (see paragraphs 127-130).
157.
One form of other long-term employee benefit is long-term disability benefit. If the level of benefit depends on the length
of service, an obligation arises when the service is rendered. Measurement of that obligation reflects the probability that
payment will be required and the length of time for which payment is expected to be made. If the level of benefit is the
same for any disabled employee regardless of years of service, the expected cost of those benefits is recognized when
an event occurs that causes a long-term disability.
Disclosure
158.
Although this Standard does not require specific disclosures about other long-term employee benefits, other Ind ASs
may require disclosures. For example, Ind AS 24 requires disclosures about employee benefits for key management
personnel. Ind AS 1 requires disclosure of employee benefits expense.
Termination benefits
159.
Page 585/765
----- PAGE 586 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
This Standard deals with termination benefits separately from other employee benefits because the event that gives rise
to an obligation is the termination of employment rather than employee service. Termination benefits result from either
an entity's decision to terminate the employment or an employee's decision to accept an entity's offer of benefits in
exchange for termination of employment.
160.
Termination benefits do not include employee benefits resulting from termination of employment at the request of the
employee without an entity's offer, or as a result of mandatory retirement requirements, because those benefits are
post-employment benefits. Some entities provide a lower level of benefit for termination of employment at the request of
the employee (in substance, a post-employment benefit) than for termination of employment at the request of the entity.
The difference between the benefit provided for termination of employment at the request of the employee and a higher
benefit provided at the request of the entity is a termination benefit.
161.
The form of the employee benefit does not determine whether it is provided in exchange for service or in exchange for
termination of the employee's employment. Termination benefits are typically lump sum payments, but sometimes also
include:
(a)
enhancement of post-employment benefits, either indirectly through an employee benefit plan or directly.
(b)
salary until the end of a specified notice period if the employee renders no further service that provides economic
benefits to the entity.
162.
Indicators that an employee benefit is provided in exchange for services include the following:
(a)
the benefit is conditional on future service being provided (including benefits that increase if further service is provided).
(b)
the benefit is provided in accordance with the terms of an employee benefit plan.
163.
Some termination benefits are provided in accordance with the terms of an existing employee benefit plan. For example,
they may be specified by statute, employment contract or union agreement, or may be implied as a result of the
employer's past practice of providing similar benefits. As another example, if an entity makes an offer of benefits
available for more than a short period, or there is more than a short period between the offer and the expected date of
actual termination, the entity considers whether it has established a new employee benefit plan and hence whether the
benefits offered under that plan are termination benefits or post-employment benefits. Employee benefits provided in
accordance with the terms of an employee benefit plan are termination benefits if they both result from an entity's
decision to terminate an employee's employment and are not conditional on future service being provided.
164.
Some employee benefits are provided regardless of the reason for the employee's departure. The payment of such
benefits is certain (subject to any vesting or minimum service requirements) but the timing of their payment is uncertain.
Although such benefits are described in some jurisdictions as termination indemnities or termination gratuities, they are
post-employment benefits rather than termination benefits, and an entity accounts for them as post-employment
benefits.
Recognition
165.
An entity shall recognise a liability and expense for termination benefits at the earlier of the following dates:
(a)
when the entity can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits; and
(b)
when the entity recognises costs for a restructuring that is within the scope of Ind AS 37 and involves the payment of
termination benefits.
166.
For termination benefits payable as a result of an employee's decision to accept an offer of benefits in exchange for the
Page 586/765
----- PAGE 587 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
termination of employment, the time when an entity can no longer withdraw the offer of termination benefits is the earlier
of:
(a)
when the employee accepts the offer; and
(b)
when a restriction (e.g. a legal, regulatory or contractual requirement or other restriction) on the entity's ability to
withdraw the offer takes effect. This would be when the offer is made, if the restriction existed at the time of the offer.
167.
For termination benefits payable as a result of an entity's decision to terminate an employee's employment, the entity
can no longer withdraw the offer when the entity has communicated to the affected employees a plan of termination
meeting all of the following criteria:
(a)
Actions required to complete the plan indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made.
(b)
The plan identifies the number of employees whose employment is to be terminated, their job classifications or functions
and their locations (but the plan need not identify each individual employee) and the expected completion date.
(c)
The plan establishes the termination benefits that employees will receive in sufficient detail that employees can
determine the type and amount of benefits they will receive when their employment is terminated.
168.
When an entity recognises termination benefits, the entity may also have to account for a plan amendment or a
curtailment of other employee benefits (see paragraph 103).
Measurement
169.
An entity shall measure termination benefits on initial recognition, and shall measure and recognise subsequent
changes, in accordance with the nature of the employee benefit, provided that if the termination benefits are an
enhancement to post-employment benefits, the entity shall apply the requirements for post-employment benefits.
Otherwise:
(a)
if the termination benefits are expected to be settled wholly before twelve months after the end of the annual reporting
period in which the termination benefit is recognized, the entity shall apply the requirements for short-term employee
benefits.
(b)
if the termination benefits are not expected to be settled wholly before twelve months after the end of the annual
reporting period, the entity shall apply the requirements for other long-term employee benefits.
170.
Because termination benefits are not provided in exchange for service, paragraphs 70-74 relating to the attribution of the
benefit to periods of service are not relevant.
Example illustrating paragraphs 159-170
Background
As a result of a recent acquisition, an entity plans to close a factory in ten months and, at that time, terminate the
employment of all of the remaining employees at the factory. Because the entity needs the expertise of the employees at
the factory to complete some contracts, it announces a plan of termination as follows.
Each employee who stays and renders service until the closure of the factory will receive on the termination date a cash
payment of Rs 30,000. Employees leaving before closure of the factory will receive Rs.10,000.
There are 120 employees at the factory. At the time of announcing the plan, the entity expects 20 of them to leave
before closure. Therefore, the total expected cash outflows under the plan are Rs.3,200,000 (i.e. 20 × RS.10,000 + 100
× Rs.30,000). As required by paragraph 160, the entity accounts for benefits provided in exchange for termination of
employment as termination benefits and accounts for benefits provided in exchange for services as short-term employee
benefits.
Termination benefits
Page 587/765
----- PAGE 588 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
The benefit provided in exchange for termination of employment is Rs.10,000. This is the amount that an entity would
have to pay for terminating the employment regardless of whether the employees stay and render service until closure
of the factory or they leave before closure. Even though the employees can leave before closure, the termination of all
employees' employment is a result of the entity's decision to close the factory and terminate their employment (i.e. all
employees will leave employment when the factory closes). Therefore the entity recognises a liability of Rs.1,200,000
(i.e. 120 × Rs.10,000) for the termination benefits provided in accordance with the employee benefit plan at the earlier of
when the plan of termination is announced and when the entity recognises the restructuring costs associated with the
closure of the factory.
Benefits provided in exchange for service
The incremental benefits that employees will receive if they provide services for the full ten-month period are in
exchange for services provided over that period. The entity accounts for them as short-term employee benefits because
the entity expects to settle them before twelve months after the end of the annual reporting period. In this example,
discounting is not required, so an expense of Rs.200,000 (i.e. Rs.2,000,000 ÷ 10) is recognized in each month during
the service period of ten months, with a corresponding increase in the carrying amount of the liability.
Disclosure
171.
Although this Standard does not require specific disclosures about termination benefits, other Ind ASs may require
disclosures. For example, Ind AS 24 requires disclosures about employee benefits for key management personnel. Ind
AS 1 requires disclosure of employee benefits expense.
[Transition and effective date
_____________________________________________________________________________________
172.
*
173.
*
174.
*
175.
*
176.
*
177.
*
178.
*
179.
Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement (Amendments to Ind AS 19), added paragraphs 101A, 122A and 123A, and
amended paragraphs 57, 99, 120, 123, 125, 126 and 156. An entity shall apply these amendments to plan amendments,
curtailments or settlements occurring on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period that begins on or after
1 April, 2019.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
* Refer Appendix 1
Appendix A
Application Guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS. It describes the application of paragraphs 92-93 and has the same
authority as the other parts of the Ind AS.
A1 The accounting requirements for contributions from employees or third parties are illustrated in the diagram below.
(1)
This dotted arrow means that an entity is permitted to choose either accounting.
Appendix B
Ind AS 19 - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction
Page 588/765
----- PAGE 589 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Background
1. Paragraph 64 of Ind 19 limits the measurement of a net defined benefit asset to the lower of the surplus in the defined
benefit plan and the asset ceiling. Paragraph 8 of Ind AS 19 defines the asset ceiling as 'the present value of any
economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan'.
Questions have arisen about when refunds or reductions in future contributions should be regarded as available,
particularly when a minimum funding requirement exists.
2. Minimum funding requirements exist in many countries to improve the security of the post-employment benefit
promise made to members of an employee benefit plan. Such requirements normally stipulate a minimum amount or
level of contributions that must be made to a plan over a given period. Therefore, a minimum funding requirement may
limit the ability of the entity to reduce future contributions.
3. Further, the limit on the measurement of a defined benefit asset may cause a minimum funding requirement to be
onerous. Normally, a requirement to make contributions to a plan would not affect the measurement of the defined
benefit asset or liability. This is because the contributions, once paid, will become plan assets and so the additional net
liability is nil. However, a minimum funding requirement may give rise to a liability if the required contributions will not be
available to the entity once they have been paid.
3A. [Refer Appendix 1].
Scope
4. This Appendix applies to all post-employment defined benefits and other long-term employee defined benefits.
5. For the purpose of this Appendix, minimum funding requirements are any requirements to fund a post-employment or
other long-term defined benefit plan.
Issues
6. The issues addressed in this Appendix are:
(a)
when refunds or reductions in future contributions should be regarded as available in accordance with the definition of
the asset ceiling in paragraph 8 of Ind AS 19 .
(b)
how a minimum funding requirement might affect the availability of reductions in future contributions.
(c)
when a minimum funding requirement might give rise to a liability.
Principles
Availability of a refund or reduction in future contributions
7. An entity shall determine the availability of a refund or a reduction in future contributions in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the plan and any statutory requirements in the jurisdiction of the plan.
8. An economic benefit, in the form of a refund or a reduction in future contributions, is available if the entity can realise it
at some point during the life of the plan or when the plan liabilities are settled. In particular, such an economic benefit
may be available even if it is not realisable immediately at the end of the reporting period.
9. The economic benefit available does not depend on how the entity intends to use the surplus. An entity shall
determine the maximum economic benefit that is available from refunds, reductions in future contributions or a
combination of both. An entity shall not recognise economic benefits from a combination of refunds and reductions in
future contributions based on assumptions that are mutually exclusive.
10. In accordance with Ind AS 1, the entity shall disclose information about the key sources of estimation uncertainty at
the end of the reporting period that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the
net asset or liability recognized in the balance sheet. This might include disclosure of any restrictions on the current
realisability of the surplus or disclosure of the basis used to determine the amount of the economic benefit available.
The economic benefit available as a refund
The right to a refund
11. A refund is available to an entity only if the entity has an unconditional right to a refund:
(a)
during the life of the plan, without assuming that the plan liabilities must be settled in order to obtain the refund (e.g. in
some jurisdictions, the entity may have a right to a refund during the life of the plan, irrespective of whether the plan
Page 589/765
----- PAGE 590 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
liabilities are settled); or
(b)
assuming the gradual settlement of the plan liabilities over time until all members have left the plan; or
(c)
assuming the full settlement of the plan liabilities in a single event (i.e. as a plan wind-up).
An unconditional right to a refund can exist whatever the funding level of a plan at the end of the reporting period.
12. If the entity's right to a refund of a surplus depends on the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain
future events not wholly within its control, the entity does not have an unconditional right and shall not recognise an
asset.
Measurement of the economic benefit
13. An entity shall measure the economic benefit available as a refund as the amount of the surplus at the end of the
reporting period (being the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation) that the
entity has a right to receive as a refund, less any associated costs. For instance, if a refund would be subject to a tax
other than income tax, an entity shall measure the amount of the refund net of the tax.
14. In measuring the amount of a refund available when the plan is wound up (paragraph 11(c)), an entity shall include
the costs to the plan of settling the plan liabilities and making the refund. For example, an entity shall deduct
professional fees if these are paid by the plan rather than the entity, and the costs of any insurance premiums that may
be required to secure the liability on wind-up.
15. If the amount of a refund is determined as the full amount or a proportion of the surplus, rather than a fixed amount,
an entity shall make no adjustment for the time value of money, even if the refund is realisable only at a future date.
The economic benefit available as a contribution reduction
16. If there is no minimum funding requirement for contributions relating to future service, the economic benefit available
as a reduction in future contributions is the future service cost to the entity for each period over the shorter of the
expected life of the plan and the expected life of the entity. The future service cost to the entity excludes amounts that
will be borne by employees.
17. An entity shall determine the future service costs using assumptions consistent with those used to determine the
defined benefit obligation and with the situation that exists at the end of the reporting period as determined by Ind AS 19.
Therefore, an entity shall assume no change to the benefits to be provided by a plan in the future until the plan is
amended and shall assume a stable workforce in the future unless the entity makes a reduction in the number of
employees covered by the plan. In the latter case, the assumption about the future workforce shall include the reduction.
The effect of a minimum funding requirement on the economic benefit available as a reduction in future contributions
18. An entity shall analyse any minimum funding requirement at a given date into contributions that are required to cover
(a) any existing shortfall for past service on the minimum funding basis and (b) future service.
19. Contributions to cover any existing shortfall on the minimum funding basis in respect of services already received do
not affect future contributions for future service. They may give rise to a liability in accordance with paragraphs 23-26.
20. If there is a minimum funding requirement for contributions relating to future service, the economic benefit available
as a reduction in future contributions is the sum of:
(a)
any amount that reduces future minimum funding requirement contributions for future service because the entity made a
prepayment (i.e. paid the amount before being required to do so); and
(b)
the estimated future service cost in each period in accordance with paragraphs 16 and 17, less the estimated minimum
funding requirement contributions that would be required for future service in those periods if there were no prepayment
as described in (a).
21. An entity shall estimate the future minimum funding requirement contributions for future service taking into account
the effect of any existing surplus determined using the minimum funding basis but excluding the prepayment described
in paragraph 20(a). An entity shall use assumptions consistent with the minimum funding basis and, for any factors not
specified by that basis, assumptions consistent with those used to determine the defined benefit obligation and with the
situation that exists at the end of the reporting period as determined by Ind AS 19. The estimate shall include any
changes expected as a result of the entity paying the minimum contributions when they are due. However, the estimate
shall not include the effect of expected changes in the terms and conditions of the minimum funding basis that are not
Page 590/765
----- PAGE 591 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
substantively enacted or contractually agreed at the end of the reporting period.
22. When an entity determines the amount described in paragraph 20(b), if the future minimum funding requirement
contributions for future service exceed the future IAS 19 service cost in any given period, that excess reduces the
amount of the economic benefit available as a reduction in future contributions. However, the amount described in
paragraph 20(b) can never be less than zero.
When a minimum funding requirement may give rise to a liability
23. If an entity has an obligation under a minimum funding requirement to pay contributions to cover an existing shortfall
on the minimum funding basis in respect of services already received, the entity shall determine whether the
contributions payable will be available as a refund or reduction in future contributions after they are paid into the plan.
24. To the extent that the contributions payable will not be available after they are paid into the plan, the entity shall
recognise a liability when the obligation arises. The liability shall reduce the net defined benefit asset or increase the net
defined benefit liability so that no gain or loss is expected to result from applying paragraph 64 of Ind AS 19 when the
contributions are paid.
25.
-26 (refer Appendix 1)
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 19 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 19, Employee Benefits, and IFRIC 14, IAS 19 - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset,
Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 19, Employee Benefits, and IFRIC 14
1. Paragraph numbers 25-26 appear as 'Deleted' in IFRIC 14. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers
of IFRIC 14, the paragraph numbers are retained in Appendix B of Ind AS 19.
2. [ According to Ind AS 19 the rate to be used to discount post-employment benefit obligation shall be determined by
reference to the market yields on government bonds, whereas under IAS 19 , the government bonds can be used only
for those currencies where there is no deep market of high quality corporate bonds. However, requirements given in IAS
19 in this regard have been retained with appropriate modifications for currencies other than Indian rupee.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
3. To illustrate treatment of gratuity subject to ceiling under Indian Gratuity Rules, an example has been added in
paragraph 73.
4. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position'. The words 'approval of the financial statements for issue have been used instead of 'authorisation of the
financial statements for issue ' in the context of financial statements considered for the purpose of events after the
reporting period.
5. Paragraph 3A of Appendix B is deleted as this paragraph deals with reason for amending IFRIC 14, which is
irrelevant for Appendix B to Ind AS 19.
[6 Paragraphs 172 to 177of IAS 19 have not been included as these paragraphs relate to transition and effective date
that are not relevant in Indian context. Paragraph 178 has not been included as it refers to amendments due to issuance
of IFRS 17, Insurance Contracts, for which corresponding Ind AS is under formulation. However, in order to maintain
consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 19, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 19.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 20
Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Scope
1. This Standard shall be applied in accounting for, and in the disclosure of, government grants and in the disclosure of
other forms of government assistance.
2. This Standard does not deal with:
(a)
the special problems arising in accounting for government grants in financial statements reflecting the effects of
Page 591/765
----- PAGE 592 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
changing prices or in supplementary information of a similar nature.
(b)
government assistance that is provided for an entity in the form of benefits that are available in determining taxable profit
or tax loss, or are determined or limited on the basis of income tax liability. Examples of such benefits are income tax
holidays, investment tax credits, accelerated depreciation.
(c)
government participation in the ownership of the entity.
(d)
government grants covered by Ind AS 41, Agriculture.
Definitions
3. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Government refers to government, government agencies and similar bodies whether local, national or international.
Government assistance is action by government designed to provide an economic benefit specific to an entity or range
of entities qualifying under certain criteria. Government assistance for the purpose of this Standard does not include
benefits provided only indirectly through action affecting general trading conditions, such as the provision of
infrastructure in development areas or the imposition of trading constraints on competitors.
[Government grants are assistance by government in the form of transfers of resources to an entity in return for past or
future compliance with certain conditions relating to the operating activities of the entity. They exclude those forms of
government assistance which cannot reasonably have a value placed upon them and transactions with government
which cannot be distinguished from the normal trading transactions of the entity.]
[See Appendix A Government Assistance-No Specific Relation to Operating Activities]
Grants related to assets are government grants whose primary condition is that an entity qualifying for them should
purchase, construct or otherwise acquire long-term assets. Subsidiary conditions may also be attached restricting the
type or location of the assets or the periods during which they are to be acquired or held.
Grants related to income are government grants other than those related to assets.
Forgivable loans are loans which the lender undertakes to waive repayment of under certain prescribed conditions.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. (See Ind AS 113, Fair Value Measurement)
4. Government assistance takes many forms varying both in the nature of the assistance given and in the conditions
which are usually attached to it. The purpose of the assistance may be to encourage an entity to embark on a course of
action which it would not normally have taken if the assistance was not provided.
5. The receipt of government assistance by an entity may be significant for the preparation of the financial statements for
two reasons. Firstly, if resources have been transferred, an appropriate method of accounting for the transfer must be
found. Secondly, it is desirable to give an indication of the extent to which the entity has benefited from such assistance
during the reporting period. This facilitates comparison of an entity's financial statements with those of prior periods and
with those of other entities.
6. Government grants are sometimes called by other names such as subsidies, subventions, or premiums.
Government grants
7. Government grants, including non-monetary grants at fair value, shall not be recognized until there is reasonable
assurance that:
(a)
the entity will comply with the conditions attaching to them; and
(b)
the grants will be received.
8. A government grant is not recognized until there is reasonable assurance that the entity will comply with the
conditions attaching to it, and that the grant will be received. Receipt of a grant does not of itself provide conclusive
evidence that the conditions attaching to the grant have been or will be fulfilled.
9. The manner in which a grant is received does not affect the accounting method to be adopted in regard to the grant.
Thus a grant is accounted for in the same manner whether it is received in cash or as a reduction of a liability to the
government.
10. A forgivable loan from government is treated as a government grant when there is reasonable assurance that the
Page 592/765
----- PAGE 593 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
entity will meet the terms for forgiveness of the loan.
10A. The benefit of a government loan at a below-market rate of interest is treated as a government grant. The loan
shall be recognized and measured in accordance with Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments. The benefit of the
below-market rate of interest shall be measured as the difference between the initial carrying value of the loan
determined in accordance with Ind AS 109, and the proceeds received. The benefit is accounted for in accordance with
this Standard. The entity shall consider the conditions and obligations that have been, or must be, met when identifying
the costs for which the benefit of the loan is intended to compensate.
11. Once a government grant is recognized, any related contingent liability or contingent asset is treated in accordance
with Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
12. Government grants shall be recognized in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which the entity
recognises as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate.
13. There are two broad approaches to the accounting for government grants: the capital approach, under which a grant
is recognized outside profit or loss, and the income approach, under which a grant is recognized in profit or loss over
one or more periods.
14. Those in support of the capital approach argue as follows:
(a)
government grants are a financing device and should be dealt with as such in the balance sheet rather than be
recognized in profit or loss to offset the items of expense that they finance. Because no repayment is expected, such
grants should be recognized outside profit or loss.
(b)
it is inappropriate to recognise government grants in profit or loss, because they are not earned but represent an
incentive provided by government without related costs.
15. Arguments in support of the income approach are as follows:
(a)
because government grants are receipts from a source other than shareholders, they should not be recognized directly
in equity but should be recognized in profit or loss in appropriate periods.
(b)
government grants are rarely gratuitous. The entity earns them through compliance with their conditions and meeting the
envisaged obligations. They should therefore be recognized in profit or loss over the periods in which the entity
recognises as expenses the related costs for which the grant is intended to compensate.
(c)
because income and other taxes are expenses, it is logical to deal also with government grants, which are an extension
of fiscal policies, in profit or loss.
16. It is fundamental to the income approach that government grants should be recognized in profit or loss on a
systematic basis over the periods in which the entity recognises as expenses the related costs for which the grant is
intended to compensate. Recognition of government grants in profit or loss on a receipts basis is not in accordance with
the accrual accounting assumption (see Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements) and would be acceptable only if
no basis existed for allocating a grant to periods other than the one in which it was received.
17. In most cases the periods over which an entity recognises the costs or expenses related to a government grant are
readily ascertainable. Thus grants in recognition of specific expenses are recognized in profit or loss in the same period
as the relevant expenses. Similarly, grants related to depreciable assets are usually recognized in profit or loss over the
periods and in the proportions in which depreciation expense on those assets is recognized.
18. Grants related to non-depreciable assets may also require the fulfilment of certain obligations and would then be
recognized in profit or loss over the periods that bear the cost of meeting the obligations. As an example, a grant of land
may be conditional upon the erection of a building on the site and it may be appropriate to recognise the grant in profit or
loss over the life of the building.
19. Grants are sometimes received as part of a package of financial or fiscal aids to which a number of conditions are
attached. In such cases, care is needed in identifying the conditions giving rise to costs and expenses which determine
the periods over which the grant will be earned. It may be appropriate to allocate part of a grant on one basis and part
on another.
20. A government grant that becomes receivable as compensation for expenses or losses already incurred or for the
Page 593/765
----- PAGE 594 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
purpose of giving immediate financial support to the entity with no future related costs shall be recognized in profit or
loss of the period in which it becomes receivable.
21. In some circumstances, a government grant may be awarded for the purpose of giving immediate financial support
to an entity rather than as an incentive to undertake specific expenditures. Such grants may be confined to a particular
entity and may not be available to a whole class of beneficiaries. These circumstances may warrant recognising a grant
in profit or loss of the period in which the entity qualifies to receive it, with disclosure to ensure that its effect is clearly
understood.
22. A government grant may become receivable by an entity as compensation for expenses or losses incurred in a
previous period. Such a grant is recognized in profit or loss of the period in which it becomes receivable, with disclosure
to ensure that its effect is clearly understood.
23. [ A Government grant may take the form of a transfer of a non-monetary asset, such as land or other resources, for
the use of the entity. In these circumstances, it is usual to assess the fair value of the non-monetary asset and to
account for both grant and asset at that fair value. An alternative course that is sometimes followed is to record both
asset and grant at a nominal amount.
24. Government grants related to assets, including non-monetary grants at fair value, shall be presented in the balance
sheet either by setting up the grant as deferred income or by deducting the grant in arriving at the carrying amount of the
asset.
25. Two methods of presentation in financial statements of grants or the appropriate portions of grants related to assets
are regarded as acceptable alternatives.
26. One method recognises the grant as deferred income that is recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over
the useful life of the asset.
27. The other method deducts the grant in calculating the carrying amount of the asset. The grant is recognised in profit
or loss over the life of a depreciable asset as a reduced depreciation expense.
28. The purchase of assets and the receipt of related grants can cause major movements in the cash flow of an entity.
For this reason and in order to show the gross investment in assets, such movements are often disclosed as separate
items in the statement of cash flows regardless of whether or not the grant is deducted from the related asset for
presentation purposes in the balance sheet.]
[Substituted by Notification no. G.S.R. 903(E), dated 20.9.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2013).]
Presentation of grants related to income
29. Grants related to income are presented as part of profit or loss, either separately or under a general heading such as
'Other income'; alternatively, they are deducted in reporting the related expense.
29A. [Refer Appendix 1]
30. Supporters of the first method claim that it is inappropriate to net income and expense items and that separation of
the grant from the expense facilitates comparison with other expenses not affected by a grant. For the second method it
is argued that the expenses might well not have been incurred by the entity if the grant had not been available and
presentation of the expense without offsetting the grant may therefore be misleading.
31. Both methods are regarded as acceptable for the presentation of grants related to income. Disclosure of the grant
may be necessary for a proper understanding of the financial statements. Disclosure of the effect of the grants on any
item of income or expense which is required to be separately disclosed is usually appropriate.
32. [ A Government grant that becomes repayable shall be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate (see Ind
AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors). Repayment of a grant related to income shall
be applied first against any unamortised deferred credit recognised in respect of the grant. To the extent that the
repayment exceeds any such deferred credit, or when no deferred credit exists, the repayment shall be recognised
immediately in profit or loss. Repayment of a grant related to an asset shall be recognised by increasing the carrying
amount of the asset or reducing the deferred income balance by the amount repayable. The cumulative additional
depreciation that would have been recognised in profit or loss to date in the absence of the grant shall be recognised
immediately in profit or loss.
33. Circumstances giving rise to repayment of a grant related to an asset may require consideration to be given to the
possible impairment of the new carrying amount of the asset.]
[Substituted by Notification no. G.S.R. 903(E), dated 20.9.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2013).]
Government assistance
Page 594/765
----- PAGE 595 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
34. Excluded from the definition of government grants in paragraph 3 are certain forms of government assistance which
cannot reasonably have a value placed upon them and transactions with government which cannot be distinguished
from the normal trading transactions of the entity.
35. Examples of assistance that cannot reasonably have a value placed upon them are free technical or marketing
advice and the provision of guarantees. An example of assistance that cannot be distinguished from the normal trading
transactions of the entity is a government procurement policy that is responsible for a portion of the entity's sales. The
existence of the benefit might be unquestioned but any attempt to segregate the trading activities from government
assistance could well be arbitrary.
36. The significance of the benefit in the above examples may be such that disclosure of the nature, extent and duration
of the assistance is necessary in order that the financial statements may not be misleading.
37. [Refer Appendix 1]
38. In this Standard, government assistance does not include the provision of infrastructure by improvement to the
general transport and communication network and the supply of improved facilities such as irrigation or water reticulation
which is available on an ongoing indeterminate basis for the benefit of an entire local community.
Disclosure
39. The following matters shall be disclosed:
(a)
the accounting policy adopted for government grants, including the methods of presentation adopted in the financial
statements;
(b)
the nature and extent of government grants recognized in the financial statements and an indication of other forms of
government assistance from which the entity has directly benefited; and
(c)
unfulfilled conditions and other contingencies attaching to government assistance that has been recognized.
40. [ *Refer Appendix 1
Effective date
41. *
42. *
43. *
44. *
45. *
46. *
47. *
48. *
48A.
Paragraphs 23-24, 26, 28 and 32 are amended, and paragraphs 25, 27, 33 and 40-48A have been added to allow the
option of recording of non-monetary government grants at nominal value and presentation of government grants related
to assets by deducting the same from the carrying amount of the asset. An entity shall apply these amendments for the
annual periods beginning on or after April 1, 2018.]
[Inserted by Notification no. G.S.R. 903(E), dated 20.9.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2013).]
Appendix A
Government Assistance-No Specific Relation to Operating Activities
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Issue
1. In some countries government assistance to entities may be aimed at encouragement or long-term support of
business activities either in certain regions or industry sectors. Conditions to receive such assistance may not be
specifically related to the operating activities of the entity. Examples of such assistance are transfers of resources by
governments to entities which:
(a)
operate in a particular industry;
(b)
Page 595/765
----- PAGE 596 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
continue operating in recently privatised industries; or
(c)
start or continue to run their business in underdeveloped areas.
2. The issue is whether such government assistance is a 'government grant' within the scope of Ind AS 20 and,
therefore, should be accounted for in accordance with this Standard.
Accounting Principle
3. Government assistance to entities meets the definition of government grants in Ind AS 20, even if there are no
conditions specifically relating to the operating activities of the entity other than the requirement to operate in certain
regions or industry sectors. Such grants shall therefore not be credited directly to shareholders' interests.
Appendix B
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
1. Appendix C, Levies, contained in Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Appendix 1
Note : This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 20 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 20, Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance, and SIC
10 Government Assistance-No Specific Relation to Operating Activities, issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 20, Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance and SIC 10
1. [ and 2. ***]
[Omitted '1 and 2' by Notification no. G.S.R. 903(E), dated 20.9.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2013).]
3. Requirements regarding presentation of grants related to income in the separate income statement, where separate
income statement is presented under paragraph 29A of IAS 20 have been deleted. This change is consequential to the
removal of option regarding two statement approach in Ind AS 1. Ind AS 1 requires that the components of profit or loss
and components of other comprehensive income shall be presented as a part of the statement of profit and loss.
However, paragraph number 29A has been retained in Ind AS 20 to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of
IAS 20.
4. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'.
5. Paragraph number 37 appear as 'Deleted' in IAS 20. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS
20, the paragraph number is retained in Ind AS 20.
[6 Paragraph 40 of IAS 20 related to transitional provisions has not been included in Ind AS 20 since transitional
provisions considered relevant have been included in Ind AS 101, First Time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards.
7. Paragraphs 41-48 of Effective date of IAS 20 have not been included in Ind AS 20 since these are not relevant in
Indian context.]
[Inserted by Notification no. G.S.R. 903(E), dated 20.9.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2013).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 21
The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. An entity may carry on foreign activities in two ways. It may have transactions in foreign currencies or it may have
foreign operations. In addition, an entity may present its financial statements in a foreign currency. The objective of this
Standard is to prescribe how to include foreign currency transactions and foreign operations in the financial statements
of an entity and how to translate financial statements into a presentation currency.
2. The principal issues are which exchange rate(s) to use and how to report the effects of changes in exchange rates in
the financial statements.
Scope
3. This Standard shall be applied:
(a)
Page 596/765
----- PAGE 597 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
in accounting for transactions and balances in foreign currencies, except for those derivative transactions and balances
that are within the scope of Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments;
(b)
in translating the results and financial position of foreign operations that are included in the financial statements of the
entity by consolidation or the equity method; and
(c)
in translating an entity's results and financial position into a presentation currency.
4. Ind AS 109 applies to many foreign currency derivatives and, accordingly, these are excluded from the scope of this
Standard. However, those foreign currency derivatives that are not within the scope of Ind AS 109 (e.g. some foreign
currency derivatives that are embedded in other contracts) are within the scope of this Standard. In addition, this
Standard applies when an entity translates amounts relating to derivatives from its functional currency to its presentation
currency.
5. This Standard does not apply to hedge accounting for foreign currency items, including the hedging of a net
investment in a foreign operation. Ind AS 109 applies to hedge accounting.
6. This Standard applies to the presentation of an entity's financial statements in a foreign currency and sets out
requirements for the resulting financial statements to be described as complying with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind
ASs). For translations of financial information into a foreign currency that do not meet these requirements, this Standard
specifies information to be disclosed.
7. This Standard does not apply to the presentation in a statement of cash flows of the cash flows arising from
transactions in a foreign currency, or to the translation of cash flows of a foreign operation (see Ind AS 7, Statement of
Cash Flows).
7AA.
This Standard does not also apply to long-term foreign currency monetary items for which an entity has opted for the
exemption given in paragraph D13AA of Appendix D to Ind AS 101. Such an entity may continue to apply the accounting
policy so opted for such long-term foreign currency monetary items.
Definitions
8. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Closing rate is the spot exchange rate at the end of the reporting period.
Exchange difference is the difference resulting from translating a given number of units of one currency into another
currency at different exchange rates.
Exchange rate is the ratio of exchange for two currencies.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. (See Ind AS 13, Fair Value Measurement.).
Foreign currency is a currency other than the functional currency of the entity.
Foreign operation is an entity that is a subsidiary, associate, joint arrangement or branch of a reporting entity, the
activities of which are based or conducted in a country or currency other than those of the reporting entity.
Functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
A group is a parent and all its subsidiaries.
Monetary items are units of currency held and assets and liabilities to be received or paid in a fixed or determinable
number of units of currency.
Net investment in a foreign operation is the amount of the reporting entity's interest in the net assets of that operation.
Presentation currency is the currency in which the financial statements are presented.
Spot exchange rate is the exchange rate for immediate delivery.
Elaboration on the definitions
Functional currency
9. The primary economic environment in which an entity operates is normally the one in which it primarily generates and
expends cash. An entity considers the following factors in determining its functional currency:
(a)
the currency:
(i)
that mainly influences sales prices for goods and services (this will often be the currency in which sales prices for its
Page 597/765
----- PAGE 598 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
goods and services are denominated and settled); and
(ii)
of the country whose competitive forces and regulations mainly determine the sales prices of its goods and services.
(b)
the currency that mainly influences labour, material and other costs of providing goods or services (this will often be the
currency in which such costs are denominated and settled).
10. The following factors may also provide evidence of an entity's functional currency:
(a)
the currency in which funds from financing activities (i.e. issuing debt and equity instruments) are generated.
(b)
the currency in which receipts from operating activities are usually retained.
11. The following additional factors are considered in determining the functional currency of a foreign operation, and
whether its functional currency is the same as that of the reporting entity (the reporting entity, in this context, being the
entity that has the foreign operation as its subsidiary, branch, associate or joint arrangement):
(a)
whether the activities of the foreign operation are carried out as an extension of the reporting entity, rather than being
carried out with a significant degree of autonomy. An example of the former is when the foreign operation only sells
goods imported from the reporting entity and remits the proceeds to it. An example of the latter is when the operation
accumulates cash and other monetary items, incurs expenses, generates income and arranges borrowings, all
substantially in its local currency.
(b)
whether transactions with the reporting entity are a high or a low proportion of the foreign operation's activities.
(c)
whether cash flows from the activities of the foreign operation directly affect the cash flows of the reporting entity and are
readily available for remittance to it.
(d)
whether cash flows from the activities of the foreign operation are sufficient to service existing and normally expected
debt obligations without funds being made available by the reporting entity.
12. When the above indicators are mixed and the functional currency is not obvious, management uses its judgement to
determine the functional currency that most faithfully represents the economic effects of the underlying transactions,
events and conditions. As part of this approach, management gives priority to the primary indicators in paragraph 9
before considering the indicators in paragraphs 10 and 11, which are designed to provide additional supporting evidence
to determine an entity's functional currency.
13. An entity's functional currency reflects the underlying transactions, events and conditions that are relevant to it.
Accordingly, once determined, the functional currency is not changed unless there is a change in those underlying
transactions, events and conditions.
14. If the functional currency is the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy, the entity's financial statements are
restated in accordance with Ind AS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyper-inflationary Economies. An entity cannot avoid
restatement in accordance with Ind AS 29 by, for example, adopting as its functional currency a currency other than the
functional currency determined in accordance with this Standard (such as the functional currency of its parent).
Net investment in a foreign operation
15. An entity may have a monetary item that is receivable from or payable to a foreign operation. An item for which
settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future is, in substance, a part of the entity's net
investment in that foreign operation, and is accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 32 and 33. Such monetary
items may include long-term receivables or loans. They do not include trade receivables or trade payables.
15A. The entity that has a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation described in paragraph 15
may be any subsidiary of the group. For example, an entity has two subsidiaries, A and B. Subsidiary B is a foreign
operation. Subsidiary A grants a loan to Subsidiary B. Subsidiary A's loan receivable from Subsidiary B would be part of
the entity's net investment in Subsidiary B if settlement of the loan is neither planned nor likely to occur in the
foreseeable future. This would also be true if Subsidiary A were itself a foreign operation.
Monetary items
Page 598/765
----- PAGE 599 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
16. [ The essential feature of a monetary item is a right to receive (or an obligation to deliver) a fixed or determinable
number of units of currency. Examples include: pensions and other employee benefits to be paid in cash; provisions that
are to be settled in cash; lease liabilities; and cash dividends that are recognised as a liability. Similarly, a contract to
receive (or deliver) a variable number of the entity's own equity instruments or a variable amount of assets in which the
fair value to be received (or delivered) equals a fixed or determinable number of units of currency is a monetary item.
Conversely, the essential feature of a non-monetary item is the absence of a right to receive (or an obligation to deliver)
a fixed or determinable number of units of currency. Examples include: amounts prepaid for goods and services;
goodwill; intangible assets; inventories; property, plant and equipment; right-of-use assets and provisions that are to be
settled by the delivery of a non-monetary asset.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Summary of the approach required by this Standard
17. In preparing financial statements, each entity-whether a stand-alone entity, an entity with foreign operations (such as
a parent) or a foreign operation (such as a subsidiary or branch)-determines its functional currency in accordance with
paragraphs 9-14. The entity translates foreign currency items into its functional currency and reports the effects of such
translation in accordance with paragraphs 20-37 and 50.
18. Many reporting entities comprise a number of individual entities (e.g. a group is made up of a parent and one or
more subsidiaries). Various types of entities, whether members of a group or otherwise, may have investments in
associates or joint arrangements. They may also have branches. It is necessary for the results and financial position of
each individual entity included in the reporting entity to be translated into the currency in which the reporting entity
presents its financial statements. This Standard permits the presentation currency of a reporting entity to be any
currency (or currencies). The results and financial position of any individual entity within the reporting entity whose
functional currency differs from the presentation currency are translated in accordance with paragraphs 38-50.
19. This Standard also permits a stand-alone entity preparing financial statements or an entity preparing separate
financial statements in accordance with Ind AS 27, Separate Financial Statements, to present its financial statements in
any currency (or currencies). If the entity's presentation currency differs from its functional currency, its results and
financial position are also translated into the presentation currency in accordance with paragraphs 38-50.
Reporting foreign currency transactions in the functional currency
Initial recognition
20. A foreign currency transaction is a transaction that is denominated or requires settlement in a foreign currency,
including transactions arising when an entity:
(a)
buys or sells goods or services whose price is denominated in a foreign currency;
(b)
borrows or lends funds when the amounts payable or receivable are denominated in a foreign currency; or
(c)
otherwise acquires or disposes of assets, or incurs or settles liabilities, denominated in a foreign currency.
21. A foreign currency transaction shall be recorded, on initial recognition in the functional currency, by applying to the
foreign currency amount the spot exchange rate between the functional currency and the foreign currency at the date of
the transaction.
22. The date of a transaction is the date on which the transaction first qualifies for recognition in accordance with Ind
ASs. For practical reasons, a rate that approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction is often used, for
example, an average rate for a week or a month might be used for all transactions in each foreign currency occurring
during that period. However, if exchange rates fluctuate significantly, the use of the average rate for a period is
inappropriate.
Reporting at the ends of subsequent reporting periods
23. At the end of each reporting period:
(a)
foreign currency monetary items shall be translated using the closing rate;
(b)
non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency shall be translated using the
exchange rate at the date of the transaction; and
Page 599/765
----- PAGE 600 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(c)
non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency shall be translated using the exchange rates at
the date when the fair value was measured.
24. The carrying amount of an item is determined in conjunction with other relevant Standards. For example, property,
plant and equipment may be measured in terms of fair value or historical cost in accordance with Ind AS 16, Property,
Plant and Equipment. Whether the carrying amount is determined on the basis of historical cost or on the basis of fair
value, if the amount is determined in a foreign currency it is then translated into the functional currency in accordance
with this Standard.
25. The carrying amount of some items is determined by comparing two or more amounts. For example, the carrying
amount of inventories is the lower of cost and net realisable value in accordance with Ind AS 2, Inventories. Similarly, in
accordance with Ind AS 36, Impairment of Assets, the carrying amount of an asset for which there is an indication of
impairment is the lower of its carrying amount before considering possible impairment losses and its recoverable
amount. When such an asset is non-monetary and is measured in a foreign currency, the carrying amount is determined
by comparing:
(a)
the cost or carrying amount, as appropriate, translated at the exchange rate at the date when that amount was
determined (i.e. the rate at the date of the transaction for an item measured in terms of historical cost); and
(b)
the net realisable value or recoverable amount, as appropriate, translated at the exchange rate at the date when that
value was determined (e.g. the closing rate at the end of the reporting period).
The effect of this comparison may be that an impairment loss is recognized in the functional currency but would not be
recognized in the foreign currency, or vice versa.
26. When several exchange rates are available, the rate used is that at which the future cash flows represented by the
transaction or balance could have been settled if those cash flows had occurred at the measurement date. If
exchangeability between two currencies is temporarily lacking, the rate used is the first subsequent rate at which
exchanges could be made.
Recognition of exchange differences
27. As noted in paragraph 3 (a) and 5, Ind AS 109 applies to hedge accounting for foreign currency items. The
application of hedge accounting requires an entity to account for some exchange differences differently from the
treatment of exchange differences required by this Standard. For example, Ind AS 109 requires that exchange
differences on monetary items that qualify as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge are recognized initially in other
comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective.
28. Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items or on translating monetary items at rates different
from those at which they were translated on initial recognition during the period or in previous financial statements shall
be recognized in profit or loss in the period in which they arise, except as described in paragraph 32.
29. When monetary items arise from a foreign currency transaction and there is a change in the exchange rate between
the transaction date and the date of settlement, an exchange difference results. When the transaction is settled within
the same accounting period as that in which it occurred, all the exchange difference is recognized in that period.
However, when the transaction is settled in a subsequent accounting period, the exchange difference recognized in
each period up to the date of settlement is determined by the change in exchange rates during each period.
30. When a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognized in other comprehensive income, any exchange
component of that gain or loss shall be recognized in other comprehensive income. Conversely, when a gain or loss on
a non-monetary item is recognized in profit or loss, any exchange component of that gain or loss shall be recognized in
profit or loss.
31. Other Ind ASs require some gains and losses to be recognized in other comprehensive income. For example, Ind
AS 16 requires some gains and losses arising on a revaluation of property, plant and equipment to be recognized in
other comprehensive income. When such an asset is measured in a foreign currency, paragraph 23(c) of this Standard
requires the revalued amount to be translated using the rate at the date the value is determined, resulting in an
exchange difference that is also recognized in other comprehensive income.
32. Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entity's net investment in a foreign
operation (see paragraph 15) shall be recognized in profit or loss in the separate financial statements of the reporting
Page 600/765
----- PAGE 601 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
entity or the individual financial statements of the foreign operation, as appropriate. In the financial statements that
include the foreign operation and the reporting entity (e.g. consolidated financial statements when the foreign operation
is a subsidiary), such exchange differences shall be recognized initially in other comprehensive income and reclassified
from equity to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment in accordance with paragraph 48.
33. When a monetary item forms part of a reporting entity's net investment in a foreign operation and is denominated in
the functional currency of the reporting entity, an exchange difference arises in the foreign operation's individual financial
statements in accordance with paragraph 28. If such an item is denominated in the functional currency of the foreign
operation, an exchange difference arises in the reporting entity's separate financial statements in accordance with
paragraph 28. If such an item is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of either the reporting
entity or the foreign operation, an exchange difference arises in the reporting entity's separate financial statements and
in the foreign operation's individual financial statements in accordance with paragraph 28. Such exchange differences
are recognized in other comprehensive income in the financial statements that include the foreign operation and the
reporting entity (i.e. financial statements in which the foreign operation is consolidated or accounted for using the equity
method).
34. When an entity keeps its books and records in a currency other than its functional currency, at the time the entity
prepares its financial statements all amounts are translated into the functional currency in accordance with paragraphs
20-26. This produces the same amounts in the functional currency as would have occurred had the items been recorded
initially in the functional currency. For example, monetary items are translated into the functional currency using the
closing rate, and non-monetary items that are measured on a historical cost basis are translated using the exchange
rate at the date of the transaction that resulted in their recognition.
Change in functional currency
35. When there is a change in an entity's functional currency, the entity shall apply the translation procedures applicable
to the new functional currency prospectively from the date of the change.
36. As noted in paragraph 13, the functional currency of an entity reflects the underlying transactions, events and
conditions that are relevant to the entity. Accordingly, once the functional currency is determined, it can be changed only
if there is a change to those underlying transactions, events and conditions. For example, a change in the currency that
mainly influences the sales prices of goods and services may lead to a change in an entity's functional currency.
37. The effect of a change in functional currency is accounted for prospectively. In other words, an entity translates all
items into the new functional currency using the exchange rate at the date of the change. The resulting translated
amounts for non-monetary items are treated as their historical cost. Exchange differences arising from the translation of
a foreign operation previously recognized in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraphs 32 and 39(c)
are not reclassified from equity to profit or loss until the disposal of the operation.
Use of a presentation currency other than the functional currency
Translation to the presentation currency
38. An entity may present its financial statements in any currency (or currencies). If the presentation currency differs
from the entity's functional currency, it translates its results and financial position into the presentation currency. For
example, when a group contains individual entities with different functional currencies, the results and financial position
of each entity are expressed in a common currency so that consolidated financial statements may be presented.
39. The results and financial position of an entity whose functional currency is not the currency of a hyper-inflationary
economy shall be translated into a different presentation currency using the following procedures:
(a)
assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented (i.e. including comparatives) shall be translated at the closing
rate at the date of that balance sheet;
(b)
income and expenses for each statement of profit and loss presented (i.e. including comparatives) shall be translated at
exchange rates at the dates of the transactions; and
(c)
all resulting exchange differences shall be recognized in other comprehensive income.
40. For practical reasons, a rate that approximates the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions, for example an
average rate for the period, is often used to translate income and expense items. However, if exchange rates fluctuate
significantly, the use of the average rate for a period is inappropriate.
Page 601/765
----- PAGE 602 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
41. The exchange differences referred to in paragraph 39(c) result from:
(a)
translating income and expenses at the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions and assets and liabilities at the
closing rate.
(b)
translating the opening net assets at a closing rate that differs from the previous closing rate.
These exchange differences are not recognized in profit or loss because the changes in exchange rates have little or no
direct effect on the present and future cash flows from operations. The cumulative amount of the exchange differences
is presented in a separate component of equity until disposal of the foreign operation. When the exchange differences
relate to a foreign operation that is consolidated but not wholly-owned, accumulated exchange differences arising from
translation and attributable to non-controlling interests are allocated to, and recognized as part of, non-controlling
interests in the consolidated balance sheet.
42. The results and financial position of an entity whose functional currency is the currency of a hyper-inflationary
economy shall be translated into a different presentation currency using the following procedures:
(a)
all amounts (i.e. assets, liabilities, equity items, income and expenses, including comparatives) shall be translated at the
closing rate at the date of the most recent balance sheet, except that
(b)
when amounts are translated into the currency of a non-hyper-inflationary economy, comparative amounts shall be
those that were presented as current year amounts in the relevant prior year financial statements (i.e. not adjusted for
subsequent changes in the price level or subsequent changes in exchange rates).
43. When an entity's functional currency is the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy, the entity shall restate its
financial statements in accordance with Ind AS 29 before applying the translation method set out in paragraph 42,
except for comparative amounts that are translated into a currency of a non-hyper-inflationary economy (see paragraph
42(b)). When the economy ceases to be hyper-inflationary and the entity no longer restates its financial statements in
accordance with Ind AS 29, it shall use as the historical costs for translation into the presentation currency the amounts
restated to the price level at the date the entity ceased restating its financial statements.
Translation of a foreign operation
44. Paragraphs 45-47, in addition to paragraphs 38-43, apply when the results and financial position of a foreign
operation are translated into a presentation currency so that the foreign operation can be included in the financial
statements of the reporting entity by consolidation or the equity method.
45. The incorporation of the results and financial position of a foreign operation with those of the reporting entity follows
normal consolidation procedures, such as the elimination of intragroup balances and intragroup transactions of a
subsidiary (see Ind AS 110, Consolidated Financial Statements). However, an intragroup monetary asset (or liability),
whether short-term or long-term, cannot be eliminated against the corresponding intragroup liability (or asset) without
showing the results of currency fluctuations in the consolidated financial statements. This is because the monetary item
represents a commitment to convert one currency into another and exposes the reporting entity to a gain or loss through
currency fluctuations. Accordingly, in the consolidated financial statements of the reporting entity, such an exchange
difference is recognized in profit or loss or, if it arises from the circumstances described in paragraph 32, it is recognized
in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a separate component of equity until the disposal of the foreign
operation.
46. When the financial statements of a foreign operation are as of a date different from that of the reporting entity, the
foreign operation often prepares additional statements as of the same date as the reporting entity's financial statements.
When this is not done, Ind AS 110 allows the use of a different date provided that the difference is no greater than three
months and adjustments are made for the effects of any significant transactions or other events that occur between the
different dates. In such a case, the assets and liabilities of the foreign operation are translated at the exchange rate at
the end of the reporting period of the foreign operation. Adjustments are made for significant changes in exchange rates
up to the end of the reporting period of the reporting entity in accordance with Ind AS 110. The same approach is used
in applying the equity method to associates and joint ventures in accordance with Ind AS 28.
47. Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts
of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition of that foreign operation shall be treated as assets and liabilities of the
Page 602/765
----- PAGE 603 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
foreign operation. Thus they shall be expressed in the functional currency of the foreign operation and shall be
translated at the closing rate in accordance with paragraphs 39 and 42.
Disposal or partial disposal of a foreign operation
48. On the disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount of the exchange differences relating to that foreign
operation, recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the separate component of equity, shall be
reclassified from equity to profit or loss (as a reclassification adjustment) when the gain or loss on disposal is recognized
(see Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements).
48A. In addition to the disposal of an entity's entire interest in a foreign operation, the following partial disposals are
accounted for as disposals:
(a)
when the partial disposal involves the loss of control of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, regardless of
whether the entity retains a non-controlling interest in its former subsidiary after the partial disposal; and
(b)
when the retained interest after the partial disposal of an interest in a joint arrangement or a partial disposal of an
interest in an associate that includes a foreign operation is a financial asset that includes a foreign operation.
48B.
On disposal of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the cumulative amount of the exchange differences relating
to that foreign operation that have been attributed to the non-controlling interests shall be derecognized, but shall not be
reclassified to profit or loss.
48C.
On the partial disposal of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the entity shall re-attribute the proportionate
share of the cumulative amount of the exchange differences recognized in other comprehensive income to the
non-controlling interests in that foreign operation. In any other partial disposal of a foreign operation the entity shall
reclassify to profit or loss only the proportionate share of the cumulative amount of the exchange differences recognized
in other comprehensive income.
48D.
A partial disposal of an entity's interest in a foreign operation is any reduction in an entity's ownership interest in a
foreign operation, except those reductions in paragraph 48A that are accounted for as disposals.
49. An entity may dispose or partially dispose of its interest in a foreign operation through sale, liquidation, repayment of
share capital or abandonment of all, or part of, that entity. A write-down of the carrying amount of a foreign operation,
either because of its own losses or because of an impairment recognized by the investor, does not constitute a partial
disposal. Accordingly, no part of the foreign exchange gain or loss recognized in other comprehensive income is
reclassified to profit or loss at the time of a write-down.
Tax effects of all exchange differences
50. Gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and exchange differences arising on translating the results and
financial position of an entity (including a foreign operation) into a different currency may have tax effects. Ind AS 12,
Income Taxes, applies to these tax effects.
Disclosure
51. In paragraphs 53 and 55-57 references to 'functional currency' apply, in the case of a group, to the functional
currency of the parent.
52. An entity shall disclose:
(a)
the amount of exchange differences recognized in profit or loss except for those arising on financial instruments
measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with Ind AS 109; and
(b)
net exchange differences recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a separate component of
equity, and a reconciliation of the amount of such exchange differences at the beginning and end of the period.
53. When the presentation currency is different from the functional currency, that fact shall be stated, together with
disclosure of the functional currency and the reason for using a different presentation currency.
54. When there is a change in the functional currency of either the reporting entity or a significant foreign operation, that
fact, the reason for the change in functional currency and the date of change in functional currency shall be disclosed.
Page 603/765
----- PAGE 604 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
55. When an entity presents its financial statements in a currency that is different from its functional currency, it shall
describe the financial statements as complying with Ind ASs only if they comply with all the requirements of each
applicable Standard including the translation method set out in paragraphs 39 and 42.
56. An entity sometimes presents its financial statements or other financial information in a currency that is not its
functional currency without meeting the requirements of paragraph 55. For example, an entity may convert into another
currency only selected items from its financial statements. Or, an entity whose functional currency is not the currency of
a hyper-inflationary economy may convert the financial statements into another currency by translating all items at the
most recent closing rate. Such conversions are not in accordance with Ind ASs and the disclosures set out in paragraph
57 are required.
57. When an entity displays its financial statements or other financial information in a currency that is different from
either its functional currency or its presentation currency and the requirements of paragraph 55 are not met, it shall:
(a)
clearly identify the information as supplementary information to distinguish it from the information that complies with Ind
ASs;
(b)
disclose the currency in which the supplementary information is displayed; and
(c)
disclose the entity's functional currency and the method of translation used to determine the supplementary information.
[Effective date and transition
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
________________________________________________________________________________
58.
-60J Omitted*
60K.
Ind AS 116 amended paragraph 16. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies Ind AS 116.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix A
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
This appendix lists the appendix which is a part of another Indian Accounting Standard and makes reference to Ind AS
21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
1. Appendix C, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, contained in Ind AS 109, Financial instruments
makes reference to this Standard also.
[Appendix B, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS
Background
1. Paragraph 21 of Ind AS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, requires an entity to record a foreign
currency transaction, on initial recognition in its functional currency, by applying to the foreign currency amount the spot
exchange rate between the functional currency and the foreign currency (the exchange rate) at the date of the
transaction. Paragraph 22 of Ind AS 21 states that the date of the transaction is the date on which the transaction first
qualifies for recognition in accordance with Ind AS Standards (Standards).
2. When an entity pays or receives consideration in advance in a foreign currency, it generally recognises a
non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability* before the recognition of the related asset, expense or income. The
related asset, expense or income (or part of it) is the amount recognised applying relevant Standards, which results in
the derecognition of the non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the advance consideration.
*For example, paragraph 106 of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, requires that if a customer pays
consideration, or an entity has a right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional (ie a receivable), before the
entity transfers a good or service to the customer, the entity shall present the contract as a contract liability when the
payment is made or the payment is due (whichever is earlier).
3. Initially, the issue was how to determine `the date of the transaction' applying paragraphs 21 -22 of Ind AS 21 when
recognising revenue. The question specifically addressed circumstances in which an entity recognises a non-monetary
Page 604/765
----- PAGE 605 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
liability arising from the receipt of advance consideration before it recognises the related revenue. It was noted that the
receipt or payment of advance consideration in a foreign currency is not restricted to revenue transactions. Accordingly,
this appendix clarifies the date of the transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange rate to use on initial
recognition of the related asset, expense or income when an entity has received or paid advance consideration in a
foreign currency.
Scope
4. This Appendix applies to a foreign currency transaction (or part of it) when an entity recognises a non-monetary asset
or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration before the entity recognises the
related asset, expense or income (or part of it).
5. This Appendix does not apply when an entity measures the related asset, expense or income on initial recognition:
(a)
at fair value; or
(b)
at the fair value of the consideration paid or received at a date other than the date of initial recognition of the
non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from advance consideration (for example, the measurement of
goodwill applying Ind AS 103, Business Combinations).
6. An entity is not required to apply this Appendix to:
(a)
income taxes; or
(b)
insurance contracts (including reinsurance contracts) that it issues or reinsurance contracts that it holds.
Issue
7. This Appendix addresses how to determine the date of the transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange
rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income (or part of it) on the derecognition of a
non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration in a foreign
currency.
Accounting Principles
8. Applying paragraphs 21-22 of Ind AS 21, the date of the transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange rate
to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income (or part of it) is the date on which an entity initially
recognises the non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance
consideration.
9. If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the entity shall determine a date of the transaction for each
payment or receipt of advance consideration.
Effective date and transition of Appendix B
This is an integral part of Appendix B and has the same authority as the other parts of the Appendix B.
Effective date
A1 An entity shall apply this Appendix for annual reporting periods beginning on or after April 1, 2018.
A2 On initial application, an entity shall apply this Appendix either:
(a)
retrospectively applying Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors; or
(b)
prospectively to all assets, expenses and income in the scope of the Appendix initially recognised on or after:
(i)
the beginning of the reporting period in which the entity first applies the Appendix; or
(ii)
the beginning of a prior reporting period presented as comparative information in the financial statements of the
reporting period in which the entity first applies the Appendix.
A3 An entity that applies paragraph A2(b) shall, on initial application, apply the Appendix to assets, expenses and
income initially recognised on or after the beginning of the reporting period in paragraph A2(b)(i) or (ii) for which the
entity has recognised non-monetary assets or non-monetary liabilities arising from advance consideration before that
date.]
Page 605/765
----- PAGE 606 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 21 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, [and IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency
Transactions and Advance Consideration]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates [and IFRIC 22]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
1. The transitional provisions given in IAS 21 have not been given in the Ind AS 21, since all transitional provisions
related to Indian ASs, wherever considered appropriate, have been included in Ind AS 101, First-time Adoption of Indian
Accounting Standards, corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
2. Paragraph 7AA has been inserted to scope out the long-term foreign currency monetary items for which an entity has
opted for the exemption given in paragraph D13AA of Appendix D to Ind AS 101 allowing to continue the policy adopted
for accounting for exchange differences arising from translation of such long-term foreign currency monetary items
recognized in the financial statements for the period ending immediately before beginning of the first Ind AS financial
reporting period as per the previous GAAP.
3. When there is a change in functional currency of either the reporting currency or a significant foreign operation, IAS
21 requires disclosure of that fact and the reason for the change in functional currency. Ind AS 21 requires an additional
disclosure of the date of change in functional currency.
4. Different terminology is used in this Standard e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position'.
5. [ Paragraphs 58-60J of IAS 21 have not been included in Ind AS 21 as these paragraphs relate to Effective date and
transition. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 21, these paragraph numbers are
retained in Ind AS 21.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 23
Borrowing Costs
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Core principle
1. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset form
part of the cost of that asset. Other borrowing costs are recognized as an expense.
Scope
2. An entity shall apply this Standard in accounting for borrowing costs.
3. The Standard does not deal with the actual or imputed cost of equity, including preferred capital not classified as a
liability.
4. An entity is not required to apply the Standard to borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction
or production of:
(a)
a qualifying asset measured at fair value, for example, a biological asset within the scope of Ind AS 41, Agriculture; or
(b)
inventories that are manufactured, or otherwise produced, in large quantities on a repetitive basis.
Definitions
5. This Standard uses the following terms with the meanings specified:
Borrowing costs are interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
A qualifying asset is an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.
6. Borrowing costs may include:
(a)
interest expense calculated using the effective interest method as described in Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments;
Page 606/765
----- PAGE 607 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(c)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(d)
[ interest in respect of lease liabilities recognised in accordance with Ind AS 116, Leases; and]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(e)
exchange differences arising from foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are regarded as an adjustment to
interest costs.
6A. With regard to exchange difference required to be treated as borrowing costs in accordance with paragraph 6(e), the
manner of arriving at the adjustments stated therein shall be as follows:
(i)
the adjustment should be of an amount which is equivalent to the extent to which the exchange loss does not exceed
the difference between the cost of borrowing in functional currency when compared to the cost of borrowing in a foreign
currency.
(ii)
where there is an unrealised exchange loss which is treated as an adjustment to interest and subsequently there is a
realised or unrealised gain in respect of the settlement or translation of the same borrowing, the gain to the extent of the
loss previously recognized as an adjustment should also be recognized as an adjustment to interest.
7. Depending on the circumstances, any of the following may be qualifying assets:
(a)
inventories
(b)
manufacturing plants
(c)
power generation facilities
(d)
intangible assets
(e)
investment properties
(f)
bearer plants.
Financial assets, and inventories that are manufactured, or otherwise produced, over a short period of time, are not
qualifying assets. Assets that are ready for their intended use or sale when acquired are not qualifying assets.
Recognition
8. An entity shall capitalise borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a
qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset. An entity shall recognise other borrowing costs as an expense in the
period in which it incurs them.
9. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are
included in the cost of that asset. Such borrowing costs are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset when it is
probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably. When an
entity applies Ind AS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyper-inflationary Economies, it recognises as an expense the part of
borrowing costs that compensates for inflation during the same period in accordance with paragraph 21 of that
Standard.
Borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation
10. The borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset
are those borrowing costs that would have been avoided if the expenditure on the qualifying asset had not been made.
When an entity borrows funds specifically for the purpose of obtaining a particular qualifying asset, the borrowing costs
that directly relate to that qualifying asset can be readily identified.
11. It may be difficult to identify a direct relationship between particular borrowings and a qualifying asset and to
Page 607/765
----- PAGE 608 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
determine the borrowings that could otherwise have been avoided. Such a difficulty occurs, for example, when the
financing activity of an entity is co-ordinated centrally. Difficulties also arise when a group uses a range of debt
instruments to borrow funds at varying rates of interest, and lends those funds on various bases to other entities in the
group. Other complications arise through the use of loans denominated in or linked to foreign currencies, when the
group operates in highly inflationary economies, and from fluctuations in exchange rates. As a result, the determination
of the amount of borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of a qualifying asset is difficult and the
exercise of judgement is required.
12. To the extent that an entity borrows funds specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the entity shall
determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation as the actual borrowing costs incurred on that
borrowing during the period less any investment income on the temporary investment of those borrowings.
13. The financing arrangements for a qualifying asset may result in an entity obtaining borrowed funds and incurring
associated borrowing costs before some or all of the funds are used for expenditures on the qualifying asset. In such
circumstances, the funds are often temporarily invested pending their expenditure on the qualifying asset. In determining
the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation during a period, any investment income earned on such funds is
deducted from the borrowing costs incurred.
[14 To the extent that an entity borrows funds generally and uses them for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset,
the entity shall determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation by applying a capitalisation rate to the
expenditures on that asset. The capitalisation rate shall be the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to all
borrowings of the entity that are outstanding during the period. However, an entity shall exclude from this calculation
borrowing costs applicable to borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset until
substantially all the activities necessary to prepare that asset for its intended use or sale are complete. The amount of
borrowing costs that an entity capitalises during a period shall not exceed the amount of borrowing costs it incurred
during that period.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
15. In some circumstances, it is appropriate to include all borrowings of the parent and its subsidiaries when computing
a weighted average of the borrowing costs; in other circumstances, it is appropriate for each subsidiary to use a
weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to its own borrowings.
Excess of the carrying amount of the qualifying asset over recoverable amount
16. When the carrying amount or the expected ultimate cost of the qualifying asset exceeds its recoverable amount or
net realisable value, the carrying amount is written down or written off in accordance with the requirements of other
Standards. In certain circumstances, the amount of the write-down or write-off is written back in accordance with those
other Standards.
Commencement of capitalisation
17. An entity shall begin capitalising borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset on the commencement
date. The commencement date for capitalisation is the date when the entity first meets all of the following conditions:
(a)
it incurs expenditures for the asset;
(b)
it incurs borrowing costs; and
(c)
it undertakes activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale.
18. Expenditures on a qualifying asset include only those expenditures that have resulted in payments of cash, transfers
of other assets or the assumption of interest-bearing liabilities. Expenditures are reduced by any progress payments
received and grants received in connection with the asset (see Ind AS 20, Accounting for Government Grants and
Disclosure of Government Assistance). The average carrying amount of the asset during a period, including borrowing
costs previously capitalised, is normally a reasonable approximation of the expenditures to which the capitalisation rate
is applied in that period.
19. The activities necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale encompass more than the physical
construction of the asset. They include technical and administrative work prior to the commencement of physical
construction, such as the activities associated with obtaining permits prior to the commencement of the physical
construction. However, such activities exclude the holding of an asset when no production or development that changes
Page 608/765
----- PAGE 609 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the asset's condition is taking place. For example, borrowing costs incurred while land is under development are
capitalised during the period in which activities related to the development are being undertaken. However, borrowing
costs incurred while land acquired for building purposes is held without any associated development activity do not
qualify for capitalisation.
Suspension of capitalisation
20. An entity shall suspend capitalisation of borrowing costs during extended periods in which it suspends active
development of a qualifying asset.
21. An entity may incur borrowing costs during an extended period in which it suspends the activities necessary to
prepare an asset for its intended use or sale. Such costs are costs of holding partially completed assets and do not
qualify for capitalisation. However, an entity does not normally suspend capitalising borrowing costs during a period
when it carries out substantial technical and administrative work. An entity also does not suspend capitalising borrowing
costs when a temporary delay is a necessary part of the process of getting an asset ready for its intended use or sale.
For example, capitalisation continues during the extended period that high water levels delay construction of a bridge, if
such high water levels are common during the construction period in the geographical region involved.
Cessation of capitalisation
22. An entity shall cease capitalising borrowing costs when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the
qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are complete.
23. An asset is normally ready for its intended use or sale when the physical construction of the asset is complete even
though routine administrative work might still continue. If minor modifications, such as the decoration of a property to the
purchaser's or user's specification, are all that are outstanding, this indicates that substantially all the activities are
complete.
24. When an entity completes the construction of a qualifying asset in parts and each part is capable of being used while
construction continues on other parts, the entity shall cease capitalising borrowing costs when it completes substantially
all the activities necessary to prepare that part for its intended use or sale.
25. A business park comprising several buildings, each of which can be used individually, is an example of a qualifying
asset for which each part is capable of being usable while construction continues on other parts. An example of a
qualifying asset that needs to be complete before any part can be used is an industrial plant involving several processes
which are carried out in sequence at different parts of the plant within the same site, such as a steel mill.
Disclosure
26. An entity shall disclose :
(a)
the amount of borrowing costs capitalised during the period; and
(b)
the capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
[Transitional provisions
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
_________________________________________________________________________________
27.
-28 Omitted*
Effective date
_________________________________________________________________________________
29.
-29B Omitted*
29C.
Ind AS 116 amended paragraph 6. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies Ind AS 116.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[28A Annual Improvements to Ind AS (2018) amended paragraph 14. An entity shall apply those amendments to
borrowing costs incurred on or after the beginning of the annual reporting period in which the entity first applies those
amendments.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[29D Annual Improvements to Ind AS (2018) amended paragraph 14 and added paragraph 28A. An entity shall apply
Page 609/765
----- PAGE 610 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
those amendments for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 April, 2019.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix A
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards (Ind ASs)
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
1. Appendix A, Changes in Existing Decommissioning, Restoration and Similar Liabilities), contained in Ind AS 16,
Property, Plant and Equipment, makes reference to this Standard also.
2. [ Appendix D, Service Concession Arrangements contained in Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers,
makes reference to this Standard also.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix 1
Note : This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 23 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 23, Borrowing Costs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 23, Borrowing Costs
1. IAS 23 provides no guidance as to how the adjustment prescribed in paragraph 6(e) is to be determined. Paragraph
6A is added in Ind AS 23 to provide the guidance.
2. The following paragraph numbers appear as 'Deleted' in IAS 23. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 23, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 23 :
(i)
paragraph 6(b)
(ii)
paragraph 6(c)
3. [ Paragraphs 27-28 related to transitional provisions given in IAS 23 have not been given in Ind AS 23, since all
transitional provisions related to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in Ind AS 101, First-time
Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards, corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial
Reporting Standards. Paragraphs 29-29B of IAS 23 have not been included in Ind AS 23 as these paragraphs relate to
effective date which are not relevant in Indian context. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 23, these paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 23.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24
Related Party Disclosures
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.).
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to ensure that an entity's financial statements contain the disclosures necessary to
draw attention to the possibility that its financial position and profit or loss may have been affected by the existence of
related parties and by transactions and outstanding balances, including commitments, with such parties.
Scope
2. This Standard shall be applied in :
(a)
identifying related party relationships and transactions;
(b)
identifying outstanding balances, including commitments, between an entity and its related parties;
(c)
identifying the circumstances in which disclosure of the items in (a) and (b) is required; and
(d)
determining the disclosures to be made about those items.
3. This Standard requires disclosure of related party relationships, transactions and outstanding balances, including
commitments, in the consolidated and separate financial statements of a parent or investors with joint control of, or
significant influence over, an investee presented in accordance with Ind AS 110, Consolidated Financial Statements, or
Page 610/765
----- PAGE 611 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Ind AS 27, Separate Financial Statements. This Standard also applies to individual financial statements.
4. Related party transactions and outstanding balances with other entities in a group are disclosed in an entity's financial
statements. Intragroup related party transactions and outstanding balances are eliminated, except for those between an
investment entity and its subsidiaries measured at fair value through profit or loss, in the preparation of consolidated
financial statements of the group.
4A. Related party disclosure requirements as laid down in this Standard do not apply in circumstances where providing
such disclosures would conflict with the reporting entity's duties of confidentiality as specifically required in terms of a
statute or by any regulator or similar competent authority.
4B. In case a statute or a regulator or a similar competent authority governing an entity prohibits the entity to disclose
certain information which is required to be disclosed as per this Standard, disclosure of such information is not
warranted. For example, banks are obliged by law to maintain confidentiality in respect of their customers' transactions
and this Standard would not override the obligation to preserve the confidentiality of customers' dealings.
Purpose of related party disclosures
5. Related party relationships are a normal feature of commerce and business. For example, entities frequently carry on
parts of their activities through subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. In those circumstances, the entity has the
ability to affect the financial and operating policies of the investee through the presence of control, joint control or
significant influence.
6. A related party relationship could have an effect on the profit or loss and financial position of an entity. Related parties
may enter into transactions that unrelated parties would not. For example, an entity that sells goods to its parent at cost
might not sell on those terms to another customer. Also, transactions between related parties may not be made at the
same amounts as between unrelated parties.
7. The profit or loss and financial position of an entity may be affected by a related party relationship even if related party
transactions do not occur. The mere existence of the relationship may be sufficient to affect the transactions of the entity
with other parties. For example, a subsidiary may terminate relations with a trading partner on acquisition by the parent
of a fellow subsidiary engaged in the same activity as the former trading partner. Alternatively, one party may refrain
from acting because of the significant influence of another-for example, a subsidiary may be instructed by its parent not
to engage in research and development.
8. For these reasons, knowledge of an entity's transactions, outstanding balances, including commitments, and
relationships with related parties may affect assessments of its operations by users of financial statements, including
assessments of the risks and opportunities facing the entity.
Definitions
9. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified :
A related party is a person or entity that is related to the entity that is preparing its financial statements (in this Standard
referred to as the 'reporting entity').
(a)
A person or a close member of that person's family is related to a reporting entity if that person :
(i)
has control or joint control of the reporting entity;
(ii)
has significant influence over the reporting entity; or
(iii)
is a member of the key management personnel of the reporting entity or of a parent of the reporting entity.
(b)
An entity is related to a reporting entity if any of the following conditions applies :
(i)
The entity and the reporting entity are members of the same group (which means that each parent, subsidiary and fellow
subsidiary is related to the others).
(ii)
One entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an associate or joint venture of a member of a group of
which the other entity is a member).
(iii)
Page 611/765
----- PAGE 612 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Both entities are joint ventures of the same third party.
(iv)
One entity is a joint venture of a third entity and the other entity is an associate of the third entity.
(v)
The entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit of employees of either the reporting entity or an entity related
to the reporting entity. If the reporting entity is itself such a plan, the sponsoring employers are also related to the
reporting entity.
(vi)
The entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person identified in (a).
(vii)
A person identified in (a)(i) has significant influence over the entity or is a member of the key management personnel of
the entity (or of a parent of the entity).
(viii)
The entity, or any member of a group of which it is a part, provides key management personnel services to the reporting
entity or to the parent of the reporting entity.
A related party transaction is a transfer of resources, services or obligations between a reporting entity and a related
party, regardless of whether a price is charged.
Close members of the family of a person are those family members who may be expected to influence, or be influenced
by, that person in their dealings with the entity including :
(a)
that person's children, spouse or domestic partner, brother, sister, father and mother;
(b)
children of that person's spouse or domestic partner; and
(c)
dependants of that person or that person's spouse or domestic partner.
Compensation includes all employee benefits (as defined in Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits) including employee benefits
to which Ind AS 102, Share-based Payments, applies. Employee benefits are all forms of consideration paid, payable or
provided by the entity, or on behalf of the entity, in exchange for services rendered to the entity. It also includes such
consideration paid on behalf of a parent of the entity in respect of the entity. Compensation includes:
(a)
short-term employee benefits, such as wages, salaries and social security contributions, paid annual leave and paid sick
leave, profit-sharing and bonuses (if payable within twelve months of the end of the period) and non-monetary benefits
(such as medical care, housing, cars and free or subsidised goods or services) for current employees;
(b)
post-employment benefits such as pensions, other retirement benefits, post-employment life insurance and
post-employment medical care;
(c)
other long-term employee benefits, including long-service leave or sabbatical leave, jubilee or other long-service
benefits, long-term disability benefits and, if they are not payable wholly within twelve months after the end of the period,
profit-sharing, bonuses and deferred compensation;
(d)
termination benefits; and
(e)
share-based payment.
Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling
the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly, including any director (whether executive or otherwise) of that entity.
Government refers to Government, Government agencies and similar bodies whether local, national or international.
A Government-related entity is an entity that is controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by a Government.
The terms 'control' and 'investment entity', 'joint control' and 'significant influence' are defined in Ind AS 110, Ind AS 111,
Joint Arrangements, and Ind AS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, respectively and are used in this
Standard with the meanings specified in those Ind ASs.
Page 612/765
----- PAGE 613 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
10. In considering each possible related party relationship, attention is directed to the substance of the relationship and
not merely the legal form.
11. In the context of this Standard, the following are not related parties :
(a)
two entities simply because they have a director or other member of key management personnel in common or because
a member of key management personnel of one entity has significant influence over the other entity.
(b)
two joint venturers simply because they share joint control of a joint venture.
(c)
(i)
providers of finance,
(ii)
trade unions,
(iii)
public utilities, and
(iv)
departments and agencies of a Government that does not control, jointly control or significantly influence the reporting
entity, simply by virtue of their normal dealings with an entity (even though they may affect the freedom of action of an
entity or participate in its decision-making process).
(d)
a customer, supplier, franchis or, distributor or general agent with whom an entity transacts a significant volume of
business, simply by virtue of the resulting economic dependence.
12. In the definition of a related party, an associate includes subsidiaries of the associate and a joint venture includes
subsidiaries of the joint venture. Therefore, for example, an associate's subsidiary and the investor that has significant
influence over the associate are related to each other.
Disclosures
All entities
13. Relationships between a parent and its subsidiaries shall be disclosed irrespective of whether there have been
transactions between them. An entity shall disclose the name of its parent and, if different, the ultimate controlling party.
If neither the entity's parent nor the ultimate controlling party produces consolidated financial statements available for
public use, the name of the next most senior parent that does so shall also be disclosed.
14. To enable users of financial statements to form a view about the effects of related party relationships on an entity, it
is appropriate to disclose the related party relationship when control exists, irrespective of whether there have been
transactions between the related parties. This is because the existence of control relationship may prevent the reporting
entity from being independent in making its financial and operating decisions. The disclosure of the name of the related
party and the nature of the related party relationship where control exists may sometimes be at least as relevant in
appraising an entity's prospects as are the operating results and the financial position presented in its financial
statements. Such a related party may establish the entity's credit standing, determine the source and price of its raw
materials, and determine to whom and at what price the product is sold.
15. The requirement to disclose related party relationships between a parent and its subsidiaries is in addition to the
disclosure requirements in Ind AS 27 and Ind AS 112, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
16. Paragraph 13 refers to the next most senior parent. This is the first parent in the group above the immediate parent
that produces consolidated financial statements available for public use.
17. An entity shall disclose key management personnel compensation in total and for each of the following categories :
(a)
short-term employee benefits;
(b)
post-employment benefits;
(c)
other long-term benefits;
(d)
Page 613/765
----- PAGE 614 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
termination benefits; and
(e)
share-based payment.
17A.
If an entity obtains key management personnel services from another entity (the 'management entity'), the entity is not
required to apply the requirements in paragraph 17 to the compensation paid or payable by the management entity to
the management entity's employees or directors.
18. If an entity has had related party transactions during the periods covered by the financial statements, it shall disclose
the nature of the related party relationship as well as information about those transactions and outstanding balances,
including commitments, necessary for users to understand the potential effect of the relationship on the financial
statements. These disclosure requirements are in addition to those in paragraph 17. At a minimum, disclosures shall
include :
(a)
the amount of the transactions;
(b)
the amount of outstanding balances, including commitments, and :
(i)
their terms and conditions, including whether they are secured, and the nature of the consideration to be provided in
settlement; and
(ii)
details of any guarantees given or received;
(c)
provisions for doubtful debts related to the amount of outstanding balances; and
(d)
the expense recognized during the period in respect of bad or doubtful debts due from related parties.
18A.
Amounts incurred by the entity for the provision of key management personnel services that are provided by a separate
management entity shall be disclosed.
19. The disclosures required by paragraph 18 shall be made separately for each of the following categories:
(a)
the parent;
(b)
entities with joint control of, or significant influence over, the entity;
(c)
subsidiaries;
(d)
associates;
(e)
joint ventures in which the entity is a joint venturer;
(f)
key management personnel of the entity or its parent; and
(g)
other related parties.
20. The classification of amounts payable to, and receivable from, related parties in the different categories as required
in paragraph 19 is an extension of the disclosure requirement in Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, for
information to be presented either in the balance sheet or in the notes. The categories are extended to provide a more
comprehensive analysis of related party balances and apply to related party transactions.
21. The following are examples of transactions that are disclosed if they are with a related party :
(a)
purchases or sales of goods (finished or unfinished);
(b)
Page 614/765
----- PAGE 615 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
purchases or sales of property and other assets;
(c)
rendering or receiving of services;
(d)
leases;
(e)
transfers of research and development;
(f)
transfers under licence agreements;
(g)
transfers under finance arrangements (including loans and equity contributions in cash or in kind);
(h)
provision of guarantees or collateral;
(i)
commitments to do something if a particular event occurs or does not occur in the future, including [executory contracts]
[Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, defines executory contracts as contracts under
which neither party has performed any of its obligations or both parties have partially performed their obligations to an
equal extent.]
(recognized and unrecognized);
(j)
settlement of liabilities on behalf of the entity or by the entity on behalf of that related party; and
(k)
management contracts including for deputation of employees.
22. Participation by a parent or subsidiary in a defined benefit plan that shares risks between group entities is a
transaction between related parties (see paragraph 42 of Ind AS 19).
23. Disclosures that related party transactions were made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm's length
transactions are made only if such terms can be substantiated.
24. Items of a similar nature may be disclosed in aggregate except when separate disclosure is necessary for an
understanding of the effects of related party transactions on the financial statements of the entity.
24A. Disclosure of details of particular transactions with individual related parties would frequently be too voluminous to
be easily understood. Accordingly, items of a similar nature may be disclosed in aggregate by type of related party.
However, this is not done in such a way as to obscure the importance of significant transactions. Hence, purchases or
sales of goods are not aggregated with purchases or sales of fixed assets. Nor a material related party transaction with
an individual party is clubbed in an aggregated disclosure.
Government-related entities
25. A reporting entity is exempt from the disclosure requirements of paragraph 18 in relation to related party transactions
and outstanding balances, including commitments, with:
(a)
a Government that has control or joint control of, or significant influence over, the reporting entity; and
(b)
another entity that is a related party because the same Government has control or joint control of, or significant influence
over, both the reporting entity and the other entity.
26. If a reporting entity applies the exemption in paragraph 25, it shall disclose the following about the transactions and
related outstanding balances referred to in paragraph 25:
(a)
the name of the Government and the nature of its relationship with the reporting entity (i.e. control, joint control or
significant influence);
(b)
the following information in sufficient detail to enable users of the entity's financial statements to understand the effect of
related party transactions on its financial statements:
(i)
Page 615/765
----- PAGE 616 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the nature and amount of each individually significant transaction; and
(ii)
for other transactions that are collectively, but not individually, significant, a qualitative or quantitative indication of their
extent. Types of transactions include those listed in paragraph 21.
27. In using its judgement to determine the level of detail to be disclosed in accordance with the requirements in
paragraph 26 (b), the reporting entity shall consider the closeness of the related party relationship and other factors
relevant in establishing the level of significance of the transaction such as whether it is:
(a)
significant in terms of size;
(b)
carried out on non-market terms;
(c)
outside normal day-to-day business operations, such as the purchase and sale of businesses;
(d)
disclosed to regulatory or supervisory authorities;
(e)
reported to senior management;
(f)
subject to shareholder approval.
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 24, Related Party Disclosures, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures
1. In the Ind AS 24, disclosures which conflict with confidentiality requirements of statute/regulations are not required to
be made since Accounting Standards can not override legal/regulatory requirements. (Paragraphs 4A. and 4B of Ind AS
24).
2. Paragraph 24A has been included in the Ind AS 24. It provides additional clarificatory guidance regarding aggregation
of transactions for disclosure.
3. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position'.
4. Paragraph 14 has been modified to explain the rationale for disclosing related party relationship when control exists.
5. In paragraph 21 an example of related party transaction '(k) management contracts including for deputation or
employees' has been added.
6. 'Definition of close members of the family of a person' in paragraph 9 has been amended to include brother, sister,
father and mother in the category of family members who may be expected to influence, or be influenced.
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 27
Separate Financial Statements
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting and disclosure requirements for investments in
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates when an entity prepares separate financial statements.
Scope
2. This Standard shall be applied in accounting for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates when an
entity elects, or is required by law, to present separate financial statements.
3. This Standard does not mandate which entities produce separate financial statements. It applies when an entity
prepares separate financial statements that comply with Indian Accounting Standards.
Definitions
4. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Consolidated financial statements are the financial statements of a group in which the assets, liabilities, equity, income,
Page 616/765
----- PAGE 617 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
expenses and cash flows of the parent and its subsidiaries are presented as those of a single economic entity.
Separate financial statements are those presented by a parent (i.e an investor with control of a subsidiary) or an investor
with joint control of, or significant influence over, an investee, in which the investments are accounted for at cost or in
accordance with Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments.
5. The following terms are defined in Appendix A of Ind AS 110, Consolidated Financial Statements, Appendix A of Ind
AS 111, Joint Arrangements, and paragraph 3 of Ind AS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures:
? associate
? control of an investee
? group
? Investment Entity
? joint control
? joint venture
? joint venturer
? parent
? significant influence
? subsidiary.
6. Separate financial statements are those presented in addition to consolidated financial statements or in addition to
financial statements in which investments in associates or joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method,
other than in the circumstances set out in paragraphs 8-8A. Separate financial statements need not be appended to, or
accompany, those statements.
7. Financial statements in which the equity method is applied are not separate financial statements. These may be
termed as 'consolidated financial statements'. Similarly, the financial statements of an entity that does not have a
subsidiary, associate or joint venturer's interest in a joint venture are not separate financial statements.
8. An entity that is exempted in accordance with paragraph 4(a) of Ind AS 110 from consolidation or paragraph 17 of Ind
AS 28 from applying the equity method may present separate financial statements as its only financial statements.
8A. An investment entity that is required, throughout the current period and all comparative periods presented, to apply
the exception to consolidation for all of its subsidiaries in accordance with paragraph 31 of Ind AS 110 presents separate
financial statements as its only financial statements.
Preparation of separate financial statements
9. Separate financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with all applicable Ind AS, except as provided in
paragraph 10.
10. When an entity prepares separate financial statements, it shall account for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures
and associates either:
(a)
at cost, or
(b)
in accordance with Ind AS 109.
The entity shall apply the same accounting for each category of investments. Investments accounted for at cost shall be
accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, when
they are classified as held for sale (or included in a disposal group that is classified as held for sale). The measurement
of investments accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 109 is not changed in such circumstances.
11. If an entity elects, in accordance with paragraph 18 of Ind AS 28, to measure its investments in associates or joint
ventures at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with Ind AS 109, it shall also account for those investments in
the same way in its separate financial statements.
11A. If a parent is required, in accordance with paragraph 31 of Ind AS 110, to measure its investment in a subsidiary at
fair value through profit or loss in accordance with Ind AS 109, it shall also account for its investment in a subsidiary in
the same way in its separate financial statements.
11B. When a parent ceases to be an investment entity, or becomes an investment entity, it shall account for the change
from the date when the change in status occurred, as follows:
(a)
when an entity ceases to be an investment entity, the entity shall, in accordance with paragraph 10, either:
Page 617/765
----- PAGE 618 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
account for an investment in a subsidiary at cost. The fair value of the subsidiary at the date of the change of status shall
be used as the deemed cost at that date; or
(b)
continue to account for an investment in a subsidiary in accordance with Ind AS 109.
(b)
when an entity becomes an investment entity, it shall account for an investment in a subsidiary at fair value through
profit or loss in accordance with Ind AS 109. The difference between the previous carrying amount of the subsidiary and
its fair value at the date of the change of status of the investor shall be recognized as a gain or loss in profit or loss. The
cumulative amount of any fair value adjustment previously recognized in other comprehensive income in respect of
those subsidiaries shall be treated as if the investment entity had disposed of those subsidiaries at the date of change in
status.
12. An entity shall recognise a dividend from a subsidiary, a joint venture or an associate in profit or loss in its separate
financial statements when its right to receive the dividend is established.
13. When a parent reorganises the structure of its group by establishing a new entity as its parent in a manner that
satisfies the following criteria:
(a)
the new parent obtains control of the original parent by issuing equity instruments in exchange for existing equity
instruments of the original parent;
(b)
the assets and liabilities of the new group and the original group are the same immediately before and after the
reorganisation; and
(c)
the owners of the original parent before the reorganisation have the same absolute and relative interests in the net
assets of the original group and the new group immediately before and after the reorganisation,
and the new parent accounts for its investment in the original parent in accordance with paragraph 10(a) in its separate
financial statements, the new parent shall measure cost at the carrying amount of its share of the equity items shown in
the separate financial statements of the original parent at the date of the reorganisation.
14. Similarly, an entity that is not a parent might establish a new entity as its parent in a manner that satisfies the criteria
in paragraph 13. The requirements in paragraph 13 apply equally to such reorganisations. In such cases, references to
'original parent' and 'original group' are to the 'original entity'.
Disclosure
15. An entity shall apply all applicable Ind ASs when providing disclosures in its separate financial statements, including
the requirements in paragraphs 16 and 17.
16. When a parent, in accordance with paragraph 4(a) of Ind AS 110, elects not to prepare consolidated financial
statements and instead prepares separate financial statements, it shall disclose in those separate financial statements:
(a)
the fact that the financial statements are separate financial statements; that the exemption from consolidation has been
used; the name and principal place of business (and country of incorporation, if different) of the entity whose
consolidated financial statements that comply with Ind ASs have been produced for public use; and the address where
those consolidated financial statements are obtainable.
(b)
a list of significant investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, including:
(i)
the name of those investees.
(ii)
the principal place of business (and country of incorporation, if different) of those investees.
(iii)
its proportion of the ownership interest (and its proportion of the voting rights, if different) held in those investees.
(c)
a description of the method used to account for the investments listed under (b).
Page 618/765
----- PAGE 619 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
16A. When an investment entity that is a parent prepares, in accordance with paragraph 8A, separate financial
statements as its only financial statements, it shall disclose that fact. The investment entity shall also present the
disclosures relating to investment entities required by Ind AS 112, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
17. When a parent (other than a parent covered by paragraphs 16-16A) or an investor with joint control of, or significant
influence over, an investee prepares separate financial statements, the parent or investor shall identify the financial
statements prepared in accordance with Ind AS 110, Ind AS 111 or Ind AS 28 to which they relate. The parent or
investor shall also disclose in its separate financial statements:
(a)
the fact that the statements are separate financial statements
(b)
a list of significant investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, including:
(i)
the name of those investees.
(ii)
the principal place of business (and country of incorporation, if different) of those investees.
(iii)
its proportion of the ownership interest (and its proportion of the voting rights, if different) held in those investees.
(c)
a description of the method used to account for the investments listed under (b).
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 27 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 27, Separate Financial Statements, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements
1. Paragraph 17 (a) of IAS 27 requires to disclose the reason for preparing separate financial statements if not required
by law. As the Companies Act mandates preparation of separate financial statements, paragraph 17 (a) has been
modified to remove such requirement.
2. IAS 27 allows the entities to use the equity method to account for investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and
associates in their Separate Financial Statements (SFS). Such option is not given in Ind AS 27, as the equity method is
not a measurement basis like cost and fair value but is a manner of consolidation and therefore would lead to
inconsistent accounting conceptually.
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 28
Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting for investments in associates and to set out the
requirements for the application of the equity method when accounting for investments in associates and joint ventures.
Scope
2. This Standard shall be applied by all entities that are investors with joint control of, or significant influence over, an
investee.
Definitions
3. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
An associate is an entity over which the investor has significant influence.
Consolidated financial statements are the financial statements of a group in which assets, liabilities, equity, income,
expenses and cash flows of the parent and its subsidiaries are presented as those of a single economic entity.
The equity method is a method of accounting whereby the investment is initially recognized at cost and adjusted
thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the investor's share of the investee's net assets. The investor's profit or loss
includes its share of the investee's profit or loss and the investor's other comprehensive income includes its share of the
investee's other comprehensive income.
A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have joint control.
Page 619/765
----- PAGE 620 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about
the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the
net assets of the arrangement.
A joint venturer is a party to a joint venture that has joint control of that joint venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not
control or joint control of those policies.
4. The following terms are defined in paragraph 4 of Ind AS 27, Separate Financial Statements, and in Appendix A of Ind
AS 110, Consolidated Financial Statements, and are used in this Standard with the meanings specified in the Ind ASs in
which they are defined:
? control of an investee
? group
? parent
? separate financial statements
? subsidiary.
Significant influence
5. If an entity holds, directly or indirectly (e.g. through subsidiaries), 20 per cent or more of the voting power of the
investee, it is presumed that the entity has significant influence, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that this is not the
case. Conversely, if the entity holds, directly or indirectly (e.g. through subsidiaries), less than 20 per cent of the voting
power of the investee, it is presumed that the entity does not have significant influence, unless such influence can be
clearly demonstrated. A substantial or majority ownership by another investor does not necessarily preclude an entity
from having significant influence.
6. The existence of significant influence by an entity is usually evidenced in one or more of the following ways:
(a)
representation on the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the investee;
(b)
participation in policy-making processes, including participation in decisions about dividends or other distributions;
(c)
material transactions between the entity and its investee;
(d)
interchange of managerial personnel; or
(e)
provision of essential technical information.
7. An entity may own share warrants, share call options, debt or equity instruments that are convertible into ordinary
shares, or other similar instruments that have the potential, if exercised or converted, to give the entity additional voting
power or to reduce another party's voting power over the financial and operating policies of another entity (i.e. potential
voting rights). The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible, including
potential voting rights held by other entities, are considered when assessing whether an entity has significant influence.
Potential voting rights are not currently exercisable or convertible when, for example, they cannot be exercised or
converted until a future date or until the occurrence of a future event.
8. In assessing whether potential voting rights contribute to significant influence, the entity examines all facts and
circumstances (including the terms of exercise of the potential voting rights and any other contractual arrangements
whether considered individually or in combination) that affect potential rights, except the intentions of management and
the financial ability to exercise or convert those potential rights.
9. An entity loses significant influence over an investee when it loses the power to participate in the financial and
operating policy decisions of that investee. The loss of significant influence can occur with or without a change in
absolute or relative ownership levels. It could occur, for example, when an associate becomes subject to the control of a
Government, court, administrator or regulator. It could also occur as a result of a contractual arrangement.
Equity method
10. Under the equity method, on initial recognition the investment in an associate or a joint venture is recognized at cost,
and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investor's share of the profit or loss of the investee
Page 620/765
----- PAGE 621 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
after the date of acquisition. The investor's share of the investee's profit or loss is recognized in the investor's profit or
loss. Distributions received from an investee reduce the carrying amount of the investment. Adjustments to the carrying
amount may also be necessary for changes in the investor's proportionate interest in the investee arising from changes
in the investee's other comprehensive income. Such changes include those arising from the revaluation of property,
plant and equipment and from foreign exchange translation differences. The investor's share of those changes is
recognized in the investor's other comprehensive income (see Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements).
11. The recognition of income on the basis of distributions received may not be an adequate measure of the income
earned by an investor on an investment in an associate or a joint venture because the distributions received may bear
little relation to the performance of the associate or joint venture. Because the investor has joint control of, or significant
influence over, the investee, the investor has an interest in the associate's or joint venture's performance and, as a
result, the return on its investment. The investor accounts for this interest by extending the scope of its financial
statements to include its share of the profit or loss of such an investee. As a result, application of the equity method
provides more informative reporting of the investor's net assets and profit or loss.
12. When potential voting rights or other derivatives containing potential voting rights exist, an entity's interest in an
associate or a joint venture is determined solely on the basis of existing ownership interests and does not reflect the
possible exercise or conversion of potential voting rights and other derivative instruments, unless paragraph 13 applies.
13. In some circumstances, an entity has, in substance, an existing ownership as a result of a transaction that currently
gives it access to the returns associated with an ownership interest. In such circumstances, the proportion allocated to
the entity is determined by taking into account the eventual exercise of those potential voting rights and other derivative
instruments that currently give the entity access to the returns.
14. Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments, does not apply to interests in associates and joint ventures that are accounted for
using the equity method. When instruments containing potential voting rights in substance currently give access to the
returns associated with an ownership interest in an associate or a joint venture, the instruments are not subject to Ind
AS 109. In all other cases, instruments containing potential voting rights in an associate or a joint venture are accounted
for in accordance with Ind AS 109.
[14A An entity also applies Ind AS 109 to other financial instruments in an associate or joint venture to which the equity
method is not applied. These include long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the entity's net investment in an
associate or joint venture (see paragraph 38). An entity applies Ind AS 109 to such long-term interests before it applies
paragraph 38 and paragraphs 40-43 of this Standard. In applying Ind AS 109, the entity does not take account of any
adjustments to the carrying amount of long-term interests that arise from applying this Standard.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
15. Unless an investment, or a portion of an investment, in an associate or a joint venture is classified as held for sale in
accordance with Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the investment, or any
retained interest in the investment not classified as held for sale, shall be classified as a non-current asset.
Application of the equity method
16. An entity with joint control of, or significant influence over, an investee shall account for its investment in an
associate or a joint venture using the equity method except when that investment qualifies for exemption in accordance
with paragraphs 17-19.
Exemptions from applying the equity method
17. An entity need not apply the equity method to its investment in an associate or a joint venture if the entity is a parent
that is exempt from preparing consolidated financial statements by the scope exception in paragraph 4(a) of Ind AS 110
or if all the following apply:
(a)
The entity is a wholly-owned subsidiary, or is a partially-owned subsidiary of another entity and its other owners,
including those not otherwise entitled to vote, have been informed about, and do not object to, the entity not applying the
equity method.
(b)
The entity's debt or equity instruments are not traded in a public market (a domestic or foreign stock exchange or an
over-the-counter market, including local and regional markets).
(c)
The entity did not file, nor is it in the process of filing, its financial statements with a securities commission or other
Page 621/765
----- PAGE 622 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
regulatory organisation, for the purpose of issuing any class of instruments in a public market.
(d)
[ The ultimate or any intermediate parent of the entity produces financial statements available for public use that comply
with Ind ASs, in which subsidiaries are consolidated or are measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance
with Ind AS 110.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
18. [ When an investment in an associate or a joint venture is held by, or is held indirectly through, an entity that is a
venture capital organisation, or a mutual fund, unit trust and similar entities including investment-linked insurance funds,
the entity may elect to measure that investment at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with Ind AS 109. An
entity shall make this election separately for each associate or joint venture, at initial recognition of the associate or joint
venture.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
19. When an entity has an investment in an associate, a portion of which is held indirectly through a venture capital
organisation, or a mutual fund, unit trust and similar entities including investment-linked insurance funds, the entity may
elect to measure that portion of the investment in the associate at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with Ind
AS 109 regardless of whether the venture capital organisation has significant influence over that portion of the
investment. If the entity makes that election, the entity shall apply the equity method to any remaining portion of its
investment in an associate that is not held through a venture capital organisation.
Classification as held for sale
20. An entity shall apply Ind AS 105 to an investment, or a portion of an investment, in an associate or a joint venture
that meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale. Any retained portion of an investment in an associate or a joint
venture that has not been classified as held for sale shall be accounted for using the equity method until disposal of the
portion that is classified as held for sale takes place. After the disposal takes place, an entity shall account for any
retained interest in the associate or joint venture in accordance with Ind AS 109 unless the retained interest continues to
be an associate or a joint venture, in which case the entity uses the equity method.
21. When an investment, or a portion of an investment, in an associate or a joint venture previously classified as held for
sale no longer meets the criteria to be so classified, it shall be accounted for using the equity method retrospectively as
from the date of its classification as held for sale. Financial statements for the periods since classification as held for
sale shall be amended accordingly.
Discontinuing the use of the equity method
22. An entity shall discontinue the use of the equity method from the date when its investment ceases to be an associate
or a joint venture as follows:
(a)
If the investment becomes a subsidiary, the entity shall account for its investment in accordance with Ind AS 103,
Business Combinations, and Ind AS 110.
(b)
If the retained interest in the former associate or joint venture is a financial asset, the entity shall measure the retained
interest at fair value. The fair value of the retained interest shall be regarded as its fair value on initial recognition as a
financial asset in accordance with Ind AS 109. The entity shall recognise in profit or loss any difference between:
(i)
the fair value of any retained interest and any proceeds from disposing of a part interest in the associate or joint venture;
and
(ii)
the carrying amount of the investment at the date the equity method was discontinued.
(c)
When an entity discontinues the use of the equity method, the entity shall account for all amounts previously recognized
in other comprehensive income in relation to that investment on the same basis as would have been required if the
investee had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
23. Therefore, if a gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income by the investee would be
reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the entity reclassifies the gain or loss from
equity to profit or loss (as a reclassification adjustment) when the equity method is discontinued. For example, if an
Page 622/765
----- PAGE 623 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
associate or a joint venture has cumulative exchange differences relating to a foreign operation and the entity
discontinues the use of the equity method, the entity shall reclassify to profit or loss the gain or loss that had previously
been recognized in other comprehensive income in relation to the foreign operation.
24. If an investment in an associate becomes an investment in a joint venture or an investment in a joint venture
becomes an investment in an associate, the entity continues to apply the equity method and does not remeasure the
retained interest.
Changes in ownership interest
25. If an entity's ownership interest in an associate or a joint venture is reduced, but the entity continues to apply the
equity method, the entity shall reclassify to profit or loss the proportion of the gain or loss that had previously been
recognized in other comprehensive income relating to that reduction in ownership interest if that gain or loss would be
required to be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities.
Equity method procedures
26. Many of the procedures that are appropriate for the application of the equity method are similar to the consolidation
procedures described in Ind AS 110. Furthermore, the concepts underlying the procedures used in accounting for the
acquisition of a subsidiary are also adopted in accounting for the acquisition of an investment in an associate or a joint
venture.
27. [ A group's share in an associate or a joint venture is the aggregate of the holdings in that associate or joint venture
by the parent and its subsidiaries. The holdings of the group's other associates or joint ventures are ignored for this
purpose. When an associate or a joint venture has subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures, the profit or loss, other
comprehensive income and net assets taken into account in applying the equity method are those recognized in the
associate's or joint venture's financial statements (including the associate's or joint venture's share of the profit or loss,
other comprehensive income and net assets of its associates and joint ventures), after any adjustments necessary to
give effect to uniform accounting policies (see paragraphs 35-36A).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
28. Gains and losses resulting from 'upstream' and 'downstream' transactions between an entity (including its
consolidated subsidiaries) and its associate or joint venture are recognized in the entity's financial statements only to the
extent of unrelated investors' interests in the associate or joint venture. 'Upstream' transactions are, for example, sales
of assets from an associate or a joint venture to the investor. 'Downstream' transactions are, for example, sales or
contributions of assets from the investor to its associate or its joint venture. The investor's share in the associate's or
joint venture's gains or losses resulting from these transactions is eliminated.
29. When downstream transactions provide evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of the assets to be sold or
contributed, or of an impairment loss of those assets, those losses shall be recognized in full by the investor. When
upstream transactions provide evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of the assets to be purchased or of an
impairment loss of those assets, the investor shall recognise its share in those losses.
30. The contribution of a non-monetary asset to an associate or a joint venture in exchange for an equity interest in the
associate or joint venture shall be accounted for in accordance with paragraph 28, except when the contribution lacks
commercial substance, as that term is described in Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment. If such a contribution
lacks commercial substance, the gain or loss is regarded as unrealised and is not recognized unless paragraph 31 also
applies. Such unrealised gains and losses shall be eliminated against the investment accounted for using the equity
method and shall not be presented as deferred gains or losses in the entity's consolidated balance sheet or in the
entity's balance sheet in which investments are accounted for using the equity method.
31. If, in addition to receiving an equity interest in an associate or a joint venture, an entity receives monetary or
non-monetary assets, the entity recognises in full in profit or loss the portion of the gain or loss on the non-monetary
contribution relating to the monetary or non-monetary assets received.
32. An investment is accounted for using the equity method from the date on which it becomes an associate or a joint
venture. On acquisition of the investment, any difference between the cost of the investment and the entity's share of the
net fair value of the investee's identifiable assets and liabilities is accounted for as follows:
(a)
Goodwill relating to an associate or a joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment. Amortisation of
that goodwill is not permitted.
(b)
Page 623/765
----- PAGE 624 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Any excess of the entity's share of the net fair value of the investee's identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost of
the investment is recognized directly in equity as capital reserve in the period in which the investment is acquired.
Appropriate adjustments to the entity's share of the associate's or joint venture's profit or loss after acquisition are made
in order to account, for example, for depreciation of the depreciable assets based on their fair values at the acquisition
date. Similarly, appropriate adjustments to the entity's share of the associate's or joint venture's profit or loss after
acquisition are made for impairment losses such as for goodwill or property, plant and equipment.
33. The most recent available financial statements of the associate or joint venture are used by the entity in applying the
equity method. When the end of the reporting period of the entity is different from that of the associate or joint venture,
the associate or joint venture prepares, for the use of the entity, financial statements as of the same date as the financial
statements of the entity unless it is impracticable to do so.
34. When, in accordance with paragraph 33, the financial statements of an associate or a joint venture used in applying
the equity method are prepared as of a date different from that used by the entity, adjustments shall be made for the
effects of significant transactions or events that occur between that date and the date of the entity's financial statements.
In any case, the difference between the end of the reporting period of the associate or joint venture and that of the entity
shall be no more than three months. The length of the reporting periods and any difference between the ends of the
reporting periods shall be the same from period to period.
35. The entity's financial statements shall be prepared using uniform accounting policies for like transactions and events
in similar circumstances unless, in case of an associate, it is impracticable to do so.
36. If an associate or a joint venture uses accounting policies other than those of the entity for like transactions and
events in similar circumstances, adjustments shall be made to make the associate's or joint venture's accounting policies
conform to those of the entity when the associate's or joint venture's financial statements are used by the entity in
applying the equity method.
36A. [ Notwithstanding the requirement in paragraph 36, if an entity that is not itself an investment entity has an interest
in an associate or joint venture that is an investment entity, the entity may, when applying the equity method, elect to
retain the fair value measurement applied by that investment entity associate or joint venture to the investment entity
associate's or joint venture's interests in subsidiaries. This election is made separately for each investment entity
associate or joint venture, at the later of the date on which (a) the investment entity associate or joint venture is initially
recognised; (b) the associate or joint venture becomes an investment entity; and (c) the investment entity associate or
joint venture first becomes a parent.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
37. If an associate or a joint venture has outstanding cumulative preference shares that are held by parties other than
the entity and are classified as equity, the entity computes its share of profit or loss after adjusting for the dividends on
such shares, whether or not the dividends have been declared.
38. If an entity's share of losses of an associate or a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint
venture, the entity discontinues recognising its share of further losses. The interest in an associate or a joint venture is
the carrying amount of the investment in the associate or joint venture determined using the equity method together with
any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the entity's net investment in the associate or joint venture. For
example, an item for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future is, in substance, an
extension of the entity's investment in that associate or joint venture. Such items may include preference shares and
long-term receivables or loans, but do not include trade receivables, trade payables or any long-term receivables for
which adequate collateral exists, such as secured loans. Losses recognized using the equity method in excess of the
entity's investment in ordinary shares are applied to the other components of the entity's interest in an associate or a
joint venture in the reverse order of their seniority (i.e. priority in liquidation).
39. After the entity's interest is reduced to zero, additional losses are provided for, and a liability is recognized, only to
the extent that the entity has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or
joint venture. If the associate or joint venture subsequently reports profits, the entity resumes recognising its share of
those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recognized.
Impairment losses
40. After application of the equity method, including recognising the associate's or joint venture's losses in accordance
with paragraph 38, the entity applies paragraphs 41A-41Cto determine whether it isany objective evidence that its net
investment in the associate or joint venture is impaired.
Page 624/765
----- PAGE 625 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
[***]
[Omitted 'Paragraph 41' by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
41A. The net investment in an associate or joint venture is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if, and only if,
there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of
the net investment (a 'loss event') and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows from
the net investment that can be reliably estimated. It may not be possible to identify a single, discrete event that caused
the impairment. Rather the combined effect of several events may have caused the impairment. Losses expected as a
result of future events, no matter how likely, are not recognized. Objective evidence that the net investment is impaired
includes observable data that comes to the attention of the entity about the following loss events:
(a)
significant financial difficulty of the associate or joint venture;
(b)
a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in payments by the associate or joint venture;
(c)
the entity, for economic or legal reasons relating to its associate's or joint venture's financial difficulty, granting to the
associate or joint venture a concession that the entity would not otherwise consider;
(d)
it becoming probable that the associate or joint venture will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation; or
(e)
the disappearance of an active market for the net investment because of financial difficulties of the associate or joint
venture.
41B. The disappearance of an active market because the associate's or joint venture's equity or financial instruments
are no longer publicly traded is not evidence of impairment. A downgrade of an associate's or joint venture's credit rating
or a decline in the fair value of the associate or joint venture, is not of itself, evidence of impairment, although it may be
evidence of impairment when considered with other available information.
41C. In addition to the types of events in paragraph 41A, objective evidence of impairment for the net investment in the
equity instruments of the associate or joint venture includes information about significant changes with an adverse effect
that have taken place in the technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the associate or joint venture
operates, and indicates that the cost of the investment in the equity instrument may not be recovered. A significant or
prolonged decline in the fair value of an investment in an equity instrument below its cost is also objective evidence of
impairment.
42. Because goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of the net investment in an associate or a joint venture is
not separately recognized, it is not tested for impairment separately by applying the requirements for impairment testing
goodwill in Ind AS 36, Impairment of Assets. Instead, the entire carrying amount of the investment is tested for
impairment in accordance with Ind AS 36 as a single asset, by comparing its recoverable amount (higher of value in use
and fair value less costs to sell) with its carrying amount, whenever application of paragraphs 41A-41C indicates that the
net investment may be impaired. An impairment loss recognized in those circumstances is not allocated to any asset,
including goodwill, that forms part of the carrying amount of the net investment in the associate or joint venture.
Accordingly, any reversal of that impairment loss is recognized in accordance with Ind AS 36 to the extent that the
recoverable amount of the net investment subsequently increases. In determining the value in use of the net investment,
an entity estimates:
(a)
its share of the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to be generated by the associate or joint
venture, including the cash flows from the operations of the associate or joint venture and the proceeds from the ultimate
disposal of the investment; or
(b)
the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise from dividends to be received from the investment
and from its ultimate disposal.
Using appropriate assumptions, both methods give the same result.
43. The recoverable amount of an investment in an associate or a joint venture shall be assessed for each associate or
joint venture, unless the associate or joint venture does not generate cash inflows from continuing use that are largely
Page 625/765
----- PAGE 626 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
independent of those from other assets of the entity.
Separate financial statements
44. An investment in an associate or a joint venture shall be accounted for in the entity's separate financial statements in
accordance with paragraph 10 of Ind AS 27.
[Effective date and transition
45. *
45A.
*
45B.
*
45C.
*
45D.
*
45E.
Annual Improvements to Ind AS - Amendments in Ind AS 112 and 28, amended paragraphs 18 and 36A. An entity shall
apply those amendments retrospectively in accordance with Ind AS 8 for annual periods beginning on or after 1st April,
2018.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[45 F *
45. G Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures, added paragraph 14A and deleted paragraph 41. An entity
shall apply those amendments retrospectively in accordance with Ind AS 8 for annual reporting periods beginning on or
after 1 April, 2019, except as specified in paragraphs 45H-K.
45. H An entity that first applies the amendments in paragraph 45G at the same time it first applies Ind AS 109 shall
apply the transition requirements in Ind AS 109 to the long-term interests described in paragraph 14A.
45. I An entity that first applies the amendments in paragraph 45G after it first applies Ind AS 109 shall apply the
transition requirements in Ind AS 109 necessary for applying the requirements set out in paragraph 14A to long-term
interests. For that purpose, references to the date of initial application in Ind AS 109 shall be read as referring to the
beginning of the annual reporting period in which the entity first applies the amendments (the date of initial application of
the amendments). The entity is not required to restate prior periods to reflect the application of the amendments. The
entity may restate prior periods only if it is possible without the use of hindsight.
45. J *
45. K If an entity does not restate prior periods applying paragraph 45I , at the date of initial application of the
amendments it shall recognise in the opening retained earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) any
difference between:
(a)
the previous carrying amount of long-term interests described in paragraph14A at that date; and
(b)
the carrying amount of those long-term interests at that date.
Appendix A
Illustrative Example-Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures. - This example portrays a hypothetical
situation illustrating how an entity (investor) accounts for long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the entity's
net investment in an associate (long-term interests) applying Ind AS 109 and Ind AS 28 based on the assumptions
presented. The entity applies Ind AS 109 in accounting for long-term interests. The entity applies Ind AS 28 to its net
investment in the associate, which includes long-term interests. The analysis in this example is not intended to represent
the only manner in which the requirements in Ind AS 28 could be applied.
Assumptions. - The investor has the following three types of interests in the associate:
(a)
O Shares-ordinary shares representing a 40% ownership interest to which the investor applies the equity method. This
interest is the least senior of the three interests, based on their relative priority in liquidation.
(b)
Page 626/765
----- PAGE 627 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
P Shares-non-cumulative preference shares that form part of the net investment in the associate and that the investor
measures at fair value through profit or loss applying Ind AS 109.
(c)
LT Loan-a long-term loan that forms part of the net investment in the associate and that the investor measures at
amortised cost applying Ind AS 109, with a stated interest rate and an effective interest rate of 5% a year. The associate
makes interest-only payments to the investor each year. The LT Loan is the most senior of the three interests.
The LT Loan is not an originated credit-impaired loan. Throughout the years illustrated, there has not been any objective
evidence that the net investment in the associate is impaired applying Ind AS 28, nor does the LT Loan become
credit-impaired applying Ind AS 109.
The associate does not have any outstanding cumulative preference shares classified as equity, as described in
paragraph 37 of Ind AS 28. Throughout the years illustrated, the associate neither declares nor pays dividends on O
Shares or P Shares.
The investor has not incurred any legal or constructive obligations, nor made payments on behalf of the associate, as
described in paragraph 39 of Ind AS 28. Accordingly, the investor does not recognise its share of the associate's losses
once the carrying amount of its net investment in the associate is reduced to zero.
The amount of the investor's initial investment in O Shares is L 200, in P Shares is L 100 and in the LT Loan is L 100.
On acquisition of the investment, the cost of the investment equals the investor's share of the net fair value of the
associate's identifiable assets and liabilities.
This table summarises the carrying amount at the end of each year for P Shares and the LT Loan applying Ind AS 109
but before applying Ind AS 28, and the associate's profit (loss) for each year.
The amounts for the LT Loan are shown net of the loss allowance.
At the end of
P Shares applying Ind AS 109 (fair value)
LT Loan applying Ind AS 109 (amortisedcost)
Profit (Loss) of the associate
Year 1
L110
L90
L50
Year 2
L90
L70
L(200)
Year 3
L50
L50
L(500)
Year 4
L40
L50
L(150)
Year 5
L60
L60
-
Year 6
L80
L70
L500
Year 7
L110
Page 627/765
----- PAGE 628 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
L90
L500
Analysis
Year 1
The investor recognises the following in Year 1:
Investments in the associate:
DR. O Shares
L200
DR. P Shares
L100
DR. LT Loan
L100
CR. Cash
L400
To recognise the initial investment in the
associate
DR. P Shares
L10
CR. Profit or loss
L10
To recognise the change in fair value (L110 ?L100)
DR. Profit or loss
L10
CR. Loss allowance (LT Loan)
L10
To recognise an increase in the loss
allowance (L90 ?L100)
DR. O Shares
L20
CR. Profit or loss
L20
To recognise the investor?s share of
the associate?s profit (L50 × 40%)
At the end of Year 1, the carrying amount of O
Shares isL220, P Shares isL110 and the LT Loan (net of loss
allowance) isL90.
Year 2
The investor recognises the following in Year 2:
DR. Profit or loss
L20
CR. P Shares
L20
To recognise the change in fair value (L90 ?L110)
DR. Profit or loss
L20
CR. Loss allowance (LT Loan)
L20
To recognise an increase in the loss
allowance (L70 ?L90)
DR. Profit or loss
L80
Page 628/765
----- PAGE 629 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
CR. O Shares
L80
To recognise the investor?s share of
the associate?s loss (L200 × 40%)
At the end of Year 2, the carrying amount of O
Shares isL140, P Shares isL90 and the LT Loan (net of loss
allowance) isL70.
Year 3
Applying paragraph 14A of Ind AS 28, the
investor applies Ind AS 109 to P Shares and the LT Loan before it
applies paragraph 38 of Ind AS 28. Accordingly, the investor
recognises the following in Year 3:
DR. Profit or loss
L40
CR. P Shares
L40
To recognise the change in fair value (L50 ?L90)
DR. Profit or loss
L20
CR. Loss allowance (LT Loan)
L20
To recognise an increase in the loss
allowance (L50 ?L70)
DR. Profit or loss
L200
CR. O Shares
L140
CR. P Shares
L50
CR. LT Loan
L10
To recognise the investor?s share of
the associate?s loss in reverse order of seniority as
specified in paragraph 38 of Ind AS 28 (L500 × 40%)
At the end of Year 3, the carrying amount of O
Shares is zero, P Shares is zero and the LT Loan (net of loss
allowance) isL40.
Year 4
Applying Ind AS 109 to its interests in the
associate, the investor recognises the following in Year 4:
DR. Profit or loss
L10
CR. P Shares
L10
To recognise the change in fair value (L40 ?L50)
Recognition of the change in fair value ofL10
in Year 4 results in the carrying amount of P Shares being
negativeL10. Consequently, the investor recognises the following
to reverse a portion of the associate?s losses previously
allocated to P Shares:
DR. P Shares
Page 629/765
----- PAGE 630 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
L10
CR. Profit or loss
L10
To reverse a portion of the associate?s
losses previously allocated to P Shares
Applying paragraph 38 of Ind AS 28, the investor
limits the recognition of the associate?s losses toL40
because the carrying amount of its net investment in the
associate is then zero. Accordingly, the investor recognises the
following:
DR. Profit or loss
L40
CR. LT Loan
L40
To recognise the investor?s share of
the associate?s loss
At the end of Year 4, the carrying amount of O
Shares is zero, P Shares is zero and the LT Loan  (net of loss
allowance) is zero. There is also an unrecognised share of the
associate?s losses ofL30 (the investor?s share of
the associate?s cumulative losses ofL340 ?L320
losses recognised cumulatively +L10 losses reversed).
Year 5
Applying Ind AS 109 to its interests in the
associate, the investor recognises the following in Year 5:
DR. P Shares
L20
CR. Profit or loss
L20
To recognise the change in fair value (L60 ?L40)
DR. Loss allowance (LT Loan)
L10
CR. Profit or loss
L10
To recognise a decrease in the loss allowance
(L60 ?L50)
After applying Ind AS 109 to P Shares and the LT
Loan, these interests have a positive carrying amount.
Consequently, the investor allocates the previously unrecognised
share of the associate?s losses ofL30 to these interests.
DR. Profit or loss
L30
CR. P Shares
L20
CR. LT Loan
L10
To recognise the previously unrecognised
share of the associate?s losses
At the end of
Year 5, the carrying amount of O Shares is zero, P Shares is zero
and the LT Loan (net of loss allowance) is zero.
Page 630/765
----- PAGE 631 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Year 6
Applying Ind AS 109 to its interests in the
associate, the investor recognises the following in Year 6:
DR. P Shares
L20
CR. Profit or loss
L20
To recognise the change in fair value (L80 ?L60)
DR. Loss allowance (LT Loan)
L10
CR. Profit or loss
L10
To recognise a decrease in the loss allowance
(L70 ?L60)
The investor allocates the associate?s
profit to each interest in the order of seniority. The investor
limits the amount of the associate?s profit it allocates to
P Shares and the LT Loan to the amount of equity method losses
previously allocated to those interests, which in this example isL60 for both interests.
DR. O Shares
L80
DR. P Shares
L60
DR. LT Loan
L60
CR. Profit or loss
L200
To recognise the investor?s share of
the associate?s profit (L500 × 40%)
At the end of Year 6, the carrying amount of O
Shares isL80, P Shares isL80 and the LT Loan (net of loss
allowance) isL70.
Year 7
The investor recognises the following in Year 7:
DR. P Shares
L30
CR. Profit or loss
L30
To recognise the change in fair value (L110 ?L80)
DR. Loss allowance (LT Loan)
L20
CR. Profit or loss
L20
To recognise a decrease in the loss allowance
(L90 ?L70)
DR. O Shares
L200
CR. Profit or loss
L200
To recognise the investor?s share of
the associate?s profit (L500 × 40%)
Page 631/765
----- PAGE 632 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
At the end of Year 7, the carrying amount of O
Shares isL280, P Shares isL110 and the LT Loan (net of loss
allowance) isL90.
Years 1?7
When recognising interest revenue on the LT Loan
in each year, the investor does not take account of any
adjustments to the carrying amount of the LT Loan that arose from
applying Ind AS 28 (paragraph 14A of Ind AS 28). Accordingly, the
investor recognises the following in each year:
DR. Cash
L5
CR. Profit or loss
L5
To recognise interest revenue on LT Loan
based on the effective interest rate of 5%
Summary of amounts recognised in profit or
loss
This table summarises the amounts recognised in
the investor?s profit or loss.
Items recognised During
Impairment (losses), including reversals,
applying Ind AS 109
Gains (losses) of P Shares applying Ind AS 109
Share of profit (loss) of the associate
recognised applying the equity method
Interest revenue applying Ind AS 109
Year 1
L(10)
L10
L20
L5
Year 2
L(20)
L(20)
L(80)
L5
Year 3
L(20)
L(40)
L(200)
L5
Year 4
?
L(10)
L(30)
L5
Year 5
L10
L20
L(30)
L5
Page 632/765
----- PAGE 633 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Year 6
L10
L20
L200
L5
Year 7
L20
L30
L200
L5]
Appendix 1
Note : This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 28, Investments in Associates and Joint
Ventures, and the corresponding International Accounting Standard (IAS) 28, Investments in Associates and Joint
Ventures, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
1. Paragraph 35 of Ind AS 28 requires use of uniform accounting policies, unless, in case of an associate, it is
impracticable, which IAS 28 does not provide. This change has been made because the investor does not have 'control'
over the associate, it may not be able to influence the associate to prepare additional financial statements or to follow
the accounting policies that are followed by the investor.
2. Paragraph 32 (b) has been modified on the lines of Ind AS 103, Business Combinations, to transfer excess of the
investor's share of the net fair value of the investee's identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost of investment in
capital reserve whereas in IAS 28, it is recognized in profit or loss.
3. Different terminology is used, as used in existing laws, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of
financial position'.
4. [ Paragraphs 45 to 45D have not been included as these paragraphs relate to effective date and transition that are not
relevant in Indian context. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 28, the paragraph
numbers are retained in Ind AS 28.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
5. [ Paragraph 41 appears as 'deleted' in IAS 28. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 28,
the paragraph number is retained in Ind AS 28.
6. Paragraph 45Fof IAS 28 has not been included as it refers to amendments due to issuance of IFRS 17, Insurance
Contracts, for which corresponding Ind AS is under formulation. Paragraph 45J of IAS 28 related to temporary
exemption from IFRS 9 in accordance with IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts, has not been included in Ind AS 28 since the
said exemption has not been given under Ind AS 104.However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 28, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 28.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 29
Financial Reporting in Hyper-inflationary Economies
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Scope
1. This Standard shall be applied to the financial statements, including the consolidated financial statements, of any
entity whose functional currency is the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy.
2. In a hyper-inflationary economy, reporting of operating results and financial position in the local currency without
restatement is not useful. Money loses purchasing power at such a rate that comparison of amounts from transactions
and other events that have occurred at different times, even within the same accounting period, is misleading.
3. This Standard does not establish an absolute rate at which hyperinflation is deemed to arise. It is a matter of
judgement when restatement of financial statements in accordance with this Standard becomes necessary.
Hyperinflation is indicated by characteristics of the economic environment of a country which include, but are not limited
to, the following:
Page 633/765
----- PAGE 634 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
the general population prefers to keep its wealth in non-monetary assets or in a relatively stable foreign currency.
Amounts of local currency held are immediately invested to maintain purchasing power;
(b)
the general population regards monetary amounts not in terms of the local currency but in terms of a relatively stable
foreign currency. Prices may be quoted in that currency;
(c)
sales and purchases on credit take place at prices that compensate for the expected loss of purchasing power during
the credit period, even if the period is short;
(d)
interest rates, wages and prices are linked to a price index; and
(e)
the cumulative inflation rate over three years is approaching, or exceeds, 100%.
4. It is preferable that all entities that report in the currency of the same hyper-inflationary economy apply this Standard
from the same date. Nevertheless, this Standard applies to the financial statements of any entity from the beginning of
the reporting period in which it identifies the existence of hyperinflation in the country in whose currency it reports.
The restatement of financial statements
5. Prices change over time as the result of various specific or general political, economic and social forces. Specific
forces such as changes in supply and demand and technological changes may cause individual prices to increase or
decrease significantly and independently of each other. In addition, general forces may result in changes in the general
level of prices and therefore in the general purchasing power of money.
6. Entities that prepare financial statements on the historical cost basis of accounting do so without regard either to
changes in the general level of prices or to increases in specific prices of recognized assets or liabilities. The exceptions
to this are those assets and liabilities that the entity is required, or chooses, to measure at fair value. For example,
property, plant and equipment may be revalued to fair value and biological assets are generally required to be measured
at fair value. Some entities, however, present financial statements that are based on a current cost approach that
reflects the effects of changes in the specific prices of assets held.
7. In a hyper-inflationary economy, financial statements, whether they are based on a historical cost approach or a
current cost approach, are useful only if they are expressed in terms of the measuring unit current at the end of the
reporting period. As a result, this Standard applies to the financial statements of entities reporting in the currency of a
hyper-inflationary economy. Presentation of the information required by this Standard as a supplement to unrestated
financial statements is not permitted. Furthermore, separate presentation of the financial statements before restatement
is discouraged.
8. The financial statements of an entity whose functional currency is the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy,
whether they are based on a historical cost approach or a current cost approach, shall be stated in terms of the
measuring unit current at the end of the reporting period. The corresponding figures for the previous period required by
Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, and any information in respect of earlier periods shall also be stated in
terms of the measuring unit current at the end of the reporting period. For the purpose of presenting comparative
amounts in a different presentation currency, paragraphs 42(b) and 43 of Ind AS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign
Exchange Rates, apply.
9. The gain or loss on the net monetary position shall be included in profit or loss and separately disclosed.
10. The restatement of financial statements in accordance with this Standard requires the application of certain
procedures as well as judgement. The consistent application of these procedures and judgements from period to period
is more important than the precise accuracy of the resulting amounts included in the restated financial statements.
Historical cost financial statements
Balance sheet
11. Balance sheet amounts not already expressed in terms of the measuring unit current at the end of the reporting
period are restated by applying a general price index.
12. Monetary items are not restated because they are already expressed in terms of the monetary unit current at the end
of the reporting period. Monetary items are money held and items to be received or paid in money.
13. Assets and liabilities linked by agreement to changes in prices, such as index linked bonds and loans, are adjusted
Page 634/765
----- PAGE 635 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
in accordance with the agreement in order to ascertain the amount outstanding at the end of the reporting period. These
items are carried at this adjusted amount in the restated balance sheet.
14. All other assets and liabilities are non-monetary. Some non-monetary items are carried at amounts current at the
end of the reporting period, such as net realisable value and fair value, so they are not restated. All other non-monetary
assets and liabilities are restated.
15. Most non-monetary items are carried at cost or cost less depreciation; hence they are expressed at amounts current
at their date of acquisition. The restated cost, or cost less depreciation, of each item is determined by applying to its
historical cost and accumulated depreciation the change in a general price index from the date of acquisition to the end
of the reporting period. For example, property, plant and equipment, inventories of raw materials and merchandise,
goodwill, patents, trademarks and similar assets are restated from the dates of their purchase. Inventories of
partly-finished and finished goods are restated from the dates on which the costs of purchase and of conversion were
incurred.
16. Detailed records of the acquisition dates of items of property, plant and equipment may not be available or capable
of estimation. In these rare circumstances, it may be necessary, in the first period of application of this Standard, to use
an independent professional assessment of the value of the items as the basis for their restatement.
17. A general price index may not be available for the periods for which the restatement of property, plant and
equipment is required by this Standard. In these circumstances, it may be necessary to use an estimate based, for
example, on the movements in the exchange rate between the functional currency and a relatively stable foreign
currency.
18. Some non-monetary items are carried at amounts current at dates other than that of acquisition or that of the
balance sheet, for example property, plant and equipment that has been revalued at some earlier date. In these cases,
the carrying amounts are restated from the date of the revaluation.
19. The restated amount of a non-monetary item is reduced, in accordance with appropriate Ind ASs, when it exceeds
its recoverable amount. For example, restated amounts of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, patents and
trademarks are reduced to recoverable amount and restated amounts of inventories are reduced to net realisable value.
20. An investee that is accounted for under the equity method may report in the currency of a hyper-inflationary
economy. The balance sheet and statement of profit and loss of such an investee are restated in accordance with this
Standard in order to calculate the investor's share of its net assets and profit or loss. When the restated financial
statements of the investee are expressed in a foreign currency they are translated at closing rates.
21. The impact of inflation is usually recognized in borrowing costs. It is not appropriate both to restate the capital
expenditure financed by borrowing and to capitalise that part of the borrowing costs that compensates for the inflation
during the same period. This part of the borrowing costs is recognized as an expense in the period in which the costs
are incurred.
22. An entity may acquire assets under an arrangement that permits it to defer payment without incurring an explicit
interest charge. Where it is impracticable to impute the amount of interest, such assets are restated from the payment
date and not the date of purchase.
23. [Refer Appendix 1]
24. At the beginning of the first period of application of this Standard, the components of owners' equity, except retained
earnings and any revaluation surplus, are restated by applying a general price index from the dates the components
were contributed or otherwise arose. Any revaluation surplus that arose in previous periods is eliminated. Restated
retained earnings are derived from all the other amounts in the restated balance sheet.
25. At the end of the first period and in subsequent periods, all components of owners' equity are restated by applying a
general price index from the beginning of the period or the date of contribution, if later. The movements for the period in
owners' equity are disclosed in accordance with Ind AS 1.
Statement of profit and loss
26. This Standard requires that all items in the statement of profit and loss are expressed in terms of the measuring unit
current at the end of the reporting period. Therefore all amounts need to be restated by applying the change in the
general price index from the dates when the items of income and expenses were initially recorded in the financial
statements.
Gain or loss on net monetary position
27. In a period of inflation, an entity holding an excess of monetary assets over monetary liabilities loses purchasing
Page 635/765
----- PAGE 636 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
power and an entity with an excess of monetary liabilities over monetary assets gains purchasing power to the extent
the assets and liabilities are not linked to a price level. This gain or loss on the net monetary position may be derived as
the difference resulting from the restatement of non-monetary assets, owners' equity and items in the statement of profit
and loss and the adjustment of index linked assets and liabilities. The gain or loss may be estimated by applying the
change in a general price index to the weighted average for the period of the difference between monetary assets and
monetary liabilities.
28. The gain or loss on the net monetary position is included in profit or loss. The adjustment to those assets and
liabilities linked by agreement to changes in prices made in accordance with paragraph 13 is offset against the gain or
loss on net monetary position. Other income and expense items, such as interest income and expense, and foreign
exchange differences related to invested or borrowed funds, are also associated with the net monetary position.
Although such items are separately disclosed, it may be helpful if they are presented together with the gain or loss on
net monetary position in the statement of profit and loss.
Current cost financial statements
Balance sheet
29. Items stated at current cost are not restated because they are already expressed in terms of the measuring unit
current at the end of the reporting period. Other items in the balance sheet are restated in accordance with paragraphs
11 to 25.
Statement of profit and loss
30. The current cost statement of profit and loss, before restatement, generally reports costs current at the time at which
the underlying transactions or events occurred. Cost of sales and depreciation are recorded at current costs at the time
of consumption; sales and other expenses are recorded at their money amounts when they occurred. Therefore all
amounts need to be restated into the measuring unit current at the end of the reporting period by applying a general
price index.
Gain or loss on net monetary position
31. The gain or loss on the net monetary position is accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 27 and 28.
Taxes
32. The restatement of financial statements in accordance with this Standard may give rise to differences between the
carrying amount of individual assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and their tax bases. These differences are
accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 12, Income Taxes.
Statement of cash flows
33. This Standard requires that all items in the statement of cash flows are expressed in terms of the measuring unit
current at the end of the reporting period.
Corresponding figures
34. Corresponding figures for the previous reporting period, whether they were based on a historical cost approach or a
current cost approach, are restated by applying a general price index so that the comparative financial statements are
presented in terms of the measuring unit current at the end of the reporting period. Information that is disclosed in
respect of earlier periods is also expressed in terms of the measuring unit current at the end of the reporting period. For
the purpose of presenting comparative amounts in a different presentation currency, paragraphs 42(b) and 43 of Ind AS
21 apply.
Consolidated financial statements
35. A parent that reports in the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy may have subsidiaries that also report in the
currencies of hyper-inflationary economies. The financial statements of any such subsidiary need to be restated by
applying a general price index of the country in whose currency it reports before they are included in the consolidated
financial statements issued by its parent. Where such a subsidiary is a foreign subsidiary, its restated financial
statements are translated at closing rates. The financial statements of subsidiaries that do not report in the currencies of
hyper-inflationary economies are dealt with in accordance with Ind AS 21.
36. If financial statements with different ends of the reporting periods are consolidated, all items, whether non-monetary
or monetary, need to be restated into the measuring unit current at the date of the consolidated financial statements.
Selection and use of the general price index
37. The restatement of financial statements in accordance with this Standard requires the use of a general price index
that reflects changes in general purchasing power. It is preferable that all entities that report in the currency of the same
Page 636/765
----- PAGE 637 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
economy use the same index.
Economies ceasing to be hyper-inflationary
38. When an economy ceases to be hyper-inflationary and an entity discontinues the preparation and presentation of
financial statements prepared in accordance with this Standard, it shall treat the amounts expressed in the measuring
unit current at the end of the previous reporting period as the basis for the carrying amounts in its subsequent financial
statements.
Disclosures
39. The following disclosures shall be made:
(a)
the fact that the financial statements and the corresponding figures for previous periods have been restated for the
changes in the general purchasing power of the functional currency and, as a result, are stated in terms of the
measuring unit current at the end of the reporting period;
(b)
whether the financial statements are based on a historical cost approach or a current cost approach; and
(c)
the identity and level of the price index at the end of the reporting period and the movement in the index during the
current and the previous reporting period.
(d)
the duration of the hyper-inflationary situation existing in the economy.
40. The disclosures required by this Standard are needed to make clear the basis of dealing with the effects of inflation
in the financial statements. They are also intended to provide other information necessary to understand that basis and
the resulting amounts.
Appendix A
Applying the Restatement Approach under Ind AS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyper-inflationary Economies
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Background
1. This Appendix provides guidance on how to apply the requirements of Ind AS 29 in a reporting period in which an
[entity identifies]
[The identification of hyperinflation is based on the entity's judgement of the criteria in paragraph 3 of Ind AS 29.]
the existence of hyperinflation in the economy of its functional currency, when that economy was not hyper-inflationary
in the prior period, and the entity therefore restates its financial statements in accordance with Ind AS 29.
Issues
2. The questions addressed in this Appendix are:
(a)
how should the requirement '...stated in terms of the measuring unit current at the end of the reporting period' in
paragraph 8 of Ind AS 29 be interpreted when an entity applies the Standard?
(b)
how should an entity account for opening deferred tax items in its restated financial statements?
Accounting Treatment
3. In the reporting period in which an entity identifies the existence of hyperinflation in the economy of its functional
currency, not having been hyper-inflationary in the prior period, the entity shall apply the requirements of Ind AS 29 as if
the economy had always been hyper-inflationary. Therefore, in relation to non-monetary items measured at historical
cost, the entity's opening balance sheet at the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements shall
be restated to reflect the effect of inflation from the date the assets were acquired and the liabilities were incurred or
assumed until the end of the reporting period. For non-monetary items carried in the opening balance sheet at amounts
current at dates other than those of acquisition or incurrence, that restatement shall reflect instead the effect of inflation
from the dates those carrying amounts were determined until the end of the reporting period.
4. At the end of the reporting period, deferred tax items are recognized and measured in accordance with Ind AS 12.
However, the deferred tax figures in the opening balance sheet for the reporting period shall be determined as follows:
(a)
the entity remeasures the deferred tax items in accordance with Ind AS 12 after it has restated the nominal carrying
Page 637/765
----- PAGE 638 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
amounts of its non-monetary items at the date of the opening balance sheet of the reporting period by applying the
measuring unit at that date.
(b)
the deferred tax items remeasured in accordance with (a) are restated for the change in the measuring unit from the
date of the opening balance sheet of the reporting period to the end of that reporting period.
The entity applies the approach in (a) and (b) in restating the deferred tax items in the opening balance sheet of any
comparative periods presented in the restated financial statements for the reporting period in which the entity applies Ind
AS 29.
5. After an entity has restated its financial statements, all corresponding figures in the financial statements for a
subsequent reporting period, including deferred tax items, are restated by applying the change in the measuring unit for
that subsequent reporting period only to the restated financial statements for the previous reporting period.
Appendix 1
Note : This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 29 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 29, Financial Reporting in Hyper-inflationary Economies, and IFRIC 7, Applying the
Restatement Approach under IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyper-inflationary Economies, issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyper-inflationary Economies and IFRIC 7
1. Ind AS 29 requires an additional disclosure regarding the duration of the hyper-inflationary situation existing in the
economy as compared to IAS 29.
2. Paragraph number 23 appears as 'Deleted' in IAS 29. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS
29, the paragraph number is retained in Ind AS 29.
3. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'.
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 32
Financial Instruments: Presentation
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. [Refer Appendix 1]
2. The objective of this Standard is to establish principles for presenting financial instruments as liabilities or equity and
for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities. It applies to the classification of financial instruments, from the
perspective of the issuer, into financial assets, financial liabilities and equity instruments; the classification of related
interest, dividends, losses and gains; and the circumstances in which financial assets and financial liabilities should be
offset.
3. The principles in this Standard complement the principles for recognising and measuring financial assets and financial
liabilities in Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments, and for disclosing information about them in Ind AS 107, Financial
Instruments: Disclosures.
Scope
4. This Standard shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments except:
(a)
those interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that are accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 110,
Consolidated Financial Statements, Ind AS 27, Separate Financial Statements, or Ind AS 28, Investments in Associates
and joint ventures. However, in some cases, Ind AS 110, Ind AS 27 or Ind AS 28 require or permit an entity to account
for an interest in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture using Ind AS 109; in those cases, entities shall apply the
requirements of this Standard. Entities shall also apply this Standard to all derivatives linked to interests in subsidiaries,
associates or joint ventures.
(b)
employers' rights and obligations under employee benefit plans, to which Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits, applies.
(c)
[Refer Appendix 1]
Page 638/765
----- PAGE 639 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(d)
insurance contracts as defined in Ind AS 104, Insurance Contracts. However, this Standard applies to derivatives that
are embedded in insurance contracts if Ind AS 109 requires the entity to account for them separately. Moreover, an
issuer shall apply this Standard to financial guarantee contracts if the issuer applies Ind AS 109 in recognising and
measuring the contracts, but shall apply Ind AS 104 if the issuer elects, in accordance with paragraph 4(d) of Ind AS
104, to apply Ind AS 104 in recognising and measuring them.
(e)
financial instruments that are within the scope of Ind AS 104 because they contain a discretionary participation feature.
The issuer of these instruments is exempt from applying to these features paragraphs 15-32 and AG25-AG35 of this
Standard regarding the distinction between financial liabilities and equity instruments. However, these instruments are
subject to all other requirements of this Standard. Furthermore, this Standard applies to derivatives that are embedded
in these instruments (see Ind AS 109).
(f)
financial instruments, contracts and obligations under share-based payment transactions to which Ind AS 102,
Share-based Payment, applies, except for -
(i)
contracts within the scope of paragraphs 8-10 of this Standard, to which this Standard applies,
(ii)
paragraphs 33 and 34 of this Standard, which shall be applied to treasury shares purchased, sold, issued or canceled in
connection with employee share option plans, employee share purchase plans, and all other share-based payment
arrangements.
5.
-7. [Refer Appendix 1]
8. This Standard shall be applied to those contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or
another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, as if the contracts were financial instruments, with
the exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a
non-financial item in accordance with the entity's expected purchase, sale or usage requirements. However, this
Standard shall be applied to those contracts that an entity designates as measured at fair value through profit or loss in
accordance with paragraph 2.5 of Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments.
9. There are various ways in which a contract to buy or sell a non-financial item can be settled net in cash or another
financial instrument or by exchanging financial instruments. These include:
(a)
when the terms of the contract permit either party to settle it net in cash or another financial instrument or by exchanging
financial instruments;
(b)
when the ability to settle net in cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, is not
explicit in the terms of the contract, but the entity has a practice of settling similar contracts net in cash or another
financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments (whether with the counter-party, by entering into offsetting
contracts or by selling the contract before its exercise or lapse);
(c)
when, for similar contracts, the entity has a practice of taking delivery of the underlying and selling it within a short period
after delivery for the purpose of generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in price or dealer's margin; and
(d)
when the non-financial item that is the subject of the contract is readily convertible to cash.
A contract to which (b) or (c) applies is not entered into for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial item
in accordance with the entity's expected purchase, sale or usage requirements, and, accordingly, is within the scope of
this Standard. Other contracts to which paragraph 8 applies are evaluated to determine whether they were entered into
and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial item in accordance with the entity's
expected purchase, sale or usage requirement, and accordingly, whether they are within the scope of this Standard.
10. A written option to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or another financial instrument, or
by exchanging financial instruments, in accordance with paragraph 9(a) or (d) is within the scope of this Standard. Such
Page 639/765
----- PAGE 640 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
a contract cannot be entered into for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial item in accordance with
the entity's expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
Definitions (see also paragraphs AG3-AG23)
11. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity
instrument of another entity.
A financial asset is any asset that is:
(a)
cash;
(b)
an equity instrument of another entity;
(c)
a contractual right:
(i)
to receive cash or another financial asset from another entity; or
(ii)
to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another entity under conditions that are potentially favourable to
the entity; or
(d)
a contract that will or may be settled in the entity's own equity instruments and is:
(i)
a non-derivative for which the entity is or may be obliged to receive a variable number of the entity's own equity
instruments; or
(ii)
a derivative that will or may be settled other than by the exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset
for a fixed number of the entity's own equity instruments. For this purpose the entity's own equity instruments do not
include puttable financial instruments classified as equity instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 16B,
instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the
entity only on liquidation and are classified as equity instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16C and 16D, or
instruments that are contracts for the future receipt or delivery of the entity's own equity instruments.
A financial liability is any liability that is:
(a)
a contractual obligation :
(i)
to deliver cash or another financial asset to another entity; or
(ii)
to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another entity under conditions that are potentially unfavourable
to the entity; or
(b)
a contract that will or may be settled in the entity's own equity instruments and is:
(i)
a non-derivative for which the entity is or may be obliged to deliver a variable number of the entity's own equity
instruments; or
(ii)
a derivative that will or may be settled other than by the exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset
for a fixed number of the entity's own equity instruments. For this purpose, rights, options or warrants to acquire a fixed
number of the entity's own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency are equity instruments if the entity
offers the rights, options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own non-derivative
equity instruments. Apart from the aforesaid, the equity conversion option embedded in a convertible bond denominated
in foreign currency to acquire a fixed number of the entity's own equity instruments is an equity instrument if the exercise
price is fixed in any currency. Also, for these purposes the entity's own equity instruments do not include puttable
Page 640/765
----- PAGE 641 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
financial instruments that are classified as equity instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 16B, instruments
that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on
liquidation and are classified as equity instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16C and 16D, or instruments that are
contracts for the future receipt or delivery of the entity's own equity instruments.
As an exception, an instrument that meets the definition of a financial liability is classified as an equity instrument if it has
all the features and meets the conditions in paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its
liabilities.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. (See Ind AS 113, Fair Value Measurement.)
A puttable instrument is a financial instrument that gives the holder the right to put the instrument back to the issuer for
cash or another financial asset or is automatically put back to the issuer on the occurrence of an uncertain future event
or the death or retirement of the instrument holder.
12. The following terms are defined in Appendix A of Ind AS 109 and are used in this Standard with the meaning
specified in Ind AS 109.
? amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability
? derecognition
? derivative
? effective interest method
? financial guarantee contract
? financial liability at fair value through profit or loss
? firm commitment
? forecast transaction
? hedge effectiveness
? hedged item
? hedging instrument
? held for trading
? regular way purchase or sale
? transaction costs.
13. In this Standard, 'contract' and 'contractual' refer to an agreement between two or more parties that has clear
economic consequences that the parties have little, if any, discretion to avoid, usually because the agreement is
enforceable by law. Contracts, and thus financial instruments, may take a variety of forms and need not be in writing.
14. In this Standard, 'entity' includes individuals, partnerships, incorporated bodies, trusts and Government agencies.
Presentation
Liabilities and equity (see also paragraphs AG13-AG14J and AG25-AG29A)
15. The issuer of a financial instrument shall classify the instrument, or its component parts, on initial recognition as a
financial liability, a financial asset or an equity instrument in accordance with the substance of the contractual
arrangement and the definitions of a financial liability, a financial asset and an equity instrument.
16. When an issuer applies the definitions in paragraph 11 to determine whether a financial instrument is an equity
instrument rather than a financial liability, the instrument is an equity instrument if, and only if, both conditions (a) and (b)
below are met.
(a)
The instrument includes no contractual obligation:
(i)
to deliver cash or another financial asset to another entity; or
(ii)
to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another entity under conditions that are potentially unfavourable
to the issuer.
(b)
If the instrument will or may be settled in the issuer's own equity instruments, it is:
(i)
Page 641/765
----- PAGE 642 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
a non-derivative that includes no contractual obligation for the issuer to deliver a variable number of its own equity
instruments; or
(ii)
a derivative that will be settled only by the issuer exchanging a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset for a fixed
number of its own equity instruments. For this purpose, rights, options or warrants to acquire a fixed number of the
entity's own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency are equity instruments if the entity offers the rights,
options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own non-derivative equity instruments.
Apart from the aforesaid, the equity conversion option embedded in a convertible bond denominated in foreign currency
to acquire a fixed number of the entity's own equity instruments is an equity instrument if the exercise price is fixed in
any currency. Also, for these purposes the issuer's own equity instruments do not include instruments that have all the
features and meet the conditions described in paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D, or instruments that
are contracts for the future receipt or delivery of the issuer's own equity instruments.
A contractual obligation, including one arising from a derivative financial instrument, that will or may result in the future
receipt or delivery of the issuer's own equity instruments, but does not meet conditions (a) and (b) above, is not an
equity instrument. As an exception, an instrument that meets the definition of a financial liability is classified as an equity
instrument if it has all the features and meets the conditions in paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D.
Puttable instruments
16A. A puttable financial instrument includes a contractual obligation for the issuer to repurchase or redeem that
instrument for cash or another financial asset on exercise of the put. As an exception to the definition of a financial
liability, an instrument that includes such an obligation is classified as an equity instrument if it has all the following
features:
(a)
It entitles the holder to a pro rata share of the entity's net assets in the event of the entity's liquidation. The entity's net
assets are those assets that remain after deducting all other claims on its assets. A pro rata share is determined by:
(i)
dividing the entity's net assets on liquidation into units of equal amount; and
(ii)
multiplying that amount by the number of the units held by the financial instrument holder.
(b)
The instrument is in the class of instruments that is subordinate to all other classes of instruments. To be in such a class
the instrument:
(i)
has no priority over other claims to the assets of the entity on liquidation, and
(ii)
does not need to be converted into another instrument before it is in the class of instruments that is subordinate to all
other classes of instruments.
(c)
All financial instruments in the class of instruments that is subordinate to all other classes of instruments have identical
features. For example, they must all be puttable, and the formula or other method used to calculate the repurchase or
redemption price is the same for all instruments in that class.
(d)
Apart from the contractual obligation for the issuer to repurchase or redeem the instrument for cash or another financial
asset, the instrument does not include any contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset to another
entity, or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another entity under conditions that are potentially
unfavourable to the entity, and it is not a contract that will or may be settled in the entity's own equity instruments as set
out in subparagraph (b) of the definition of a financial liability.
(e)
The total expected cash flows attributable to the instrument over the life of the instrument are based substantially on the
profit or loss, the change in the recognized net assets or the change in the fair value of the recognized and
unrecognized net assets of the entity over the life of the instrument (excluding any effects of the instrument).
16B.
Page 642/765
----- PAGE 643 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
For an instrument to be classified as an equity instrument, in addition to the instrument having all the above features, the
issuer must have no other financial instrument or contract that has:
(a)
total cash flows based substantially on the profit or loss, the change in the recognized net assets or the change in the
fair value of the recognized and unrecognized net assets of the entity (excluding any effects of such instrument or
contract) and
(b)
the effect of substantially restricting or fixing the residual return to the puttable instrument holders.
For the purposes of applying this condition, the entity shall not consider non-financial contracts with a holder of an
instrument described in paragraph 16A that have contractual terms and conditions that are similar to the contractual
terms and conditions of an equivalent contract that might occur between a non-instrument holder and the issuing entity.
If the entity cannot determine that this condition is met, it shall not classify the puttable instrument as an equity
instrument.
Instruments, or components of instruments, that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata
share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation
16C.
Some financial instruments include a contractual obligation for the issuing entity to deliver to another entity a pro rata
share of its net assets only on liquidation. The obligation arises because liquidation either is certain to occur and outside
the control of the entity (for example, a limited life entity) or is uncertain to occur but is at the option of the instrument
holder. As an exception to the definition of a financial liability, an instrument that includes such an obligation is classified
as an equity instrument if it has all the following features:
(a)
It entitles the holder to a pro rata share of the entity's net assets in the event of the entity's liquidation. The entity's net
assets are those assets that remain after deducting all other claims on its assets. A pro rata share is determined by:
(i)
dividing the net assets of the entity on liquidation into units of equal amount; and
(ii)
multiplying that amount by the number of the units held by the financial instrument holder.
(b)
The instrument is in the class of instruments that is subordinate to all other classes of instruments. To be in such a class
the instrument:
(i)
has no priority over other claims to the assets of the entity on liquidation, and
(ii)
does not need to be converted into another instrument before it is in the class of instruments that is subordinate to all
other classes of instruments.
(c)
All financial instruments in the class of instruments that is subordinate to all other classes of instruments must have an
identical contractual obligation for the issuing entity to deliver a pro rata share of its net assets on liquidation.
16D.
For an instrument to be classified as an equity instrument, in addition to the instrument having all the above features, the
issuer must have no other financial instrument or contract that has:
(a)
total cash flows based substantially on the profit or loss, the change in the recognized net assets or the change in the
fair value of the recognized and unrecognized net assets of the entity (excluding any effects of such instrument or
contract) and
(b)
the effect of substantially restricting or fixing the residual return to the instrument holders.
For the purposes of applying this condition, the entity shall not consider non-financial contracts with a holder of an
instrument described in paragraph 16C that have contractual terms and conditions that are similar to the contractual
terms and conditions of an equivalent contract that might occur between a non-instrument holder and the issuing entity.
Page 643/765
----- PAGE 644 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
If the entity cannot determine that this condition is met, it shall not classify the instrument as an equity instrument.
Reclassification of puttable instruments and instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another
party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation
16E.
An entity shall classify a financial instrument as an equity instrument in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 16B or
paragraphs 16C and 16D from the date when the instrument has all the features and meets the conditions set out in
those paragraphs. An entity shall reclassify a financial instrument from the date when the instrument ceases to have all
the features or meet all the conditions set out in those paragraphs. For example, if an entity redeems all its issued
non-puttable instruments and any puttable instruments that remain outstanding have all the features and meet all the
conditions in paragraphs 16A and 16B, the entity shall reclassify the puttable instruments as equity instruments from the
date when it redeems the non-puttable instruments.
16F.
An entity shall account as follows for the reclassification of an instrument in accordance with paragraph 16E:
(a)
It shall reclassify an equity instrument as a financial liability from the date when the instrument ceases to have all the
features or meet the conditions in paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D. The financial liability shall be
measured at the instrument's fair value at the date of reclassification. The entity shall recognise in equity any difference
between the carrying value of the equity instrument and the fair value of the financial liability at the date of
reclassification.
(b)
It shall reclassify a financial liability as equity from the date when the instrument has all the features and meets the
conditions set out in paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D. An equity instrument shall be measured at
the carrying value of the financial liability at the date of reclassification.
No contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset (paragraph 16(a))
17. With the exception of the circumstances described in paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D, a
critical feature in differentiating a financial liability from an equity instrument is the existence of a contractual obligation of
one party to the financial instrument (the issuer) either to deliver cash or another financial asset to the other party (the
holder) or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with the holder under conditions that are potentially
unfavourable to the issuer. Although the holder of an equity instrument may be entitled to receive a pro rata share of any
dividends or other distributions of equity, the issuer does not have a contractual obligation to make such distributions
because it cannot be required to deliver cash or another financial asset to another party.
18. The substance of a financial instrument, rather than its legal form, governs its classification in the entity's balance
sheet. Substance and legal form are commonly consistent, but not always. Some financial instruments take the legal
form of equity but are liabilities in substance and others may combine features associated with equity instruments and
features associated with financial liabilities. For example:
(a)
a preference share that provides for mandatory redemption by the issuer for a fixed or determinable amount at a fixed or
determinable future date, or gives the holder the right to require the issuer to redeem the instrument at or after a
particular date for a fixed or determinable amount, is a financial liability.
(b)
a financial instrument that gives the holder the right to put it back to the issuer for cash or another financial asset (a
'puttable instrument') is a financial liability, except for those instruments classified as equity instruments in accordance
with paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D. The financial instrument is a financial liability even when the
amount of cash or other financial assets is determined on the basis of an index or other item that has the potential to
increase or decrease. The existence of an option for the holder to put the instrument back to the issuer for cash or
another financial asset means that the puttable instrument meets the definition of a financial liability, except for those
instruments classified as equity instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D.
For example, open-ended mutual funds, unit trusts, partnerships and some co-operative entities may provide their
unit-holders or members with a right to redeem their interests in the issuer at any time for cash, which results in the
unit-holders' or members' interests being classified as financial liabilities, except for those instruments classified as
equity instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D. However, classification as
Page 644/765
----- PAGE 645 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
a financial liability does not preclude the use of descriptors such as 'net asset value attributable to unit-holders' and
'change in net asset value attributable to unit-holders' in the financial statements of an entity that has no contributed
equity (such as some mutual funds and unit trusts) or the use of additional disclosure to show that total members'
interests comprise items such as reserves that meet the definition of equity and puttable instruments that do not.
19. If an entity does not have an unconditional right to avoid delivering cash or another financial asset to settle a
contractual obligation, the obligation meets the definition of a financial liability, except for those instruments classified as
equity instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D. For example:
(a)
a restriction on the ability of an entity to satisfy a contractual obligation, such as lack of access to foreign currency or the
need to obtain approval for payment from a regulatory authority, does not negate the entity's contractual obligation or the
holder's contractual right under the instrument.
(b)
a contractual obligation that is conditional on a counter-party exercising its right to redeem is a financial liability because
the entity does not have the unconditional right to avoid delivering cash or another financial asset.
20. A financial instrument that does not explicitly establish a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial
asset may establish an obligation indirectly through its terms and conditions. For example:
(a)
a financial instrument may contain a non-financial obligation that must be settled if, and only if, the entity fails to make
distributions or to redeem the instrument. If the entity can avoid a transfer of cash or another financial asset only by
settling the non-financial obligation, the financial instrument is a financial liability.
(b)
a financial instrument is a financial liability if it provides that on settlement the entity will deliver either:
(i)
cash or another financial asset; or
(ii)
its own shares whose value is determined to exceed substantially the value of the cash or other financial asset.
Although the entity does not have an explicit contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset, the value of
the share settlement alternative is such that the entity will settle in cash. In any event, the holder has in substance been
guaranteed receipt of an amount that is at least equal to the cash settlement option (see paragraph 21).
Settlement in the entity's own equity instruments (paragraph 16(b))
21. A contract is not an equity instrument solely because it may result in the receipt or delivery of the entity's own equity
instruments. An entity may have a contractual right or obligation to receive or deliver a number of its own shares or other
equity instruments that varies so that the fair value of the entity's own equity instruments to be received or delivered
equals the amount of the contractual right or obligation. Such a contractual right or obligation may be for a fixed amount
or an amount that fluctuates in part or in full in response to changes in a variable other than the market price of the
entity's own equity instruments (e.g. an interest rate, a commodity price or a financial instrument price). Two examples
are (a) a contract to deliver as many of the entity's own equity instruments as are equal in value to Rs. 100, and (b) a
contract to deliver as many of the entity's own equity instruments as are equal in value to the value of 100 ounces of
gold. Such a contract is a financial liability of the entity even though the entity must or can settle it by delivering its own
equity instruments. It is not an equity instrument because the entity uses a variable number of its own equity instruments
as a means to settle the contract. Accordingly, the contract does not evidence a residual interest in the entity's assets
after deducting all of its liabilities.
22. Except as stated in paragraph 22A, a contract that will be settled by the entity (receiving or) delivering a fixed
number of its own equity instruments in exchange for a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset is an equity
instrument. For example, an issued share option that gives the counter-party a right to buy a fixed number of the entity's
shares for a fixed price or for a fixed stated principal amount of a bond is an equity instrument. Changes in the fair value
of a contract arising from variations in market interest rates that do not affect the amount of cash or other financial
assets to be paid or received, or the number of equity instruments to be received or delivered, on settlement of the
contract do not preclude the contract from being an equity instrument. Any consideration received (such as the premium
received for a written option or warrant on the entity's own shares) is added directly to equity. Any consideration paid
(such as the premium paid for a purchased option) is deducted directly from equity. Changes in the fair value of an
Page 645/765
----- PAGE 646 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
equity instrument are not recognized in the financial statements.
22A. If the entity's own equity instruments to be received, or delivered, by the entity upon settlement of a contract are
puttable financial instruments with all the features and meeting the conditions described in paragraphs 16A and 16B, or
instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the
entity only on liquidation with all the features and meeting the conditions described in paragraphs 16C and 16D, the
contract is a financial asset or a financial liability. This includes a contract that will be settled by the entity receiving or
delivering a fixed number of such instruments in exchange for a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset.
23. With the exception of the circumstances described in paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D, a
contract that contains an obligation for an entity to purchase its own equity instruments for cash or another financial
asset gives rise to a financial liability for the present value of the redemption amount (for example, for the present value
of the forward repurchase price, option exercise price or other redemption amount). This is the case even if the contract
itself is an equity instrument. One example is an entity's obligation under a forward contract to purchase its own equity
instruments for cash. The financial liability is recognized initially at the present value of the redemption amount, and is
reclassified from equity. Subsequently, the financial liability is measured in accordance with Ind AS 109. If the contract
expires without delivery, the carrying amount of the financial liability is reclassified to equity. An entity's contractual
obligation to purchase its own equity instruments gives rise to a financial liability for the present value of the redemption
amount even if the obligation to purchase is conditional on the counter-party exercising a right to redeem (e.g. a written
put option that gives the counter-party the right to sell an entity's own equity instruments to the entity for a fixed price).
24. A contract that will be settled by the entity delivering or receiving a fixed number of its own equity instruments in
exchange for a variable amount of cash or another financial asset is a financial asset or financial liability. An example is
a contract for the entity to deliver 100 of its own equity instruments in return for an amount of cash calculated to equal
the value of 100 ounces of gold.
Contingent settlement provisions
25. A financial instrument may require the entity to deliver cash or another financial asset, or otherwise to settle it in
such a way that it would be a financial liability, in the event of the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future
events (or on the outcome of uncertain circumstances) that are beyond the control of both the issuer and the holder of
the instrument, such as a change in a stock market index, consumer price index, interest rate or taxation requirements,
or the issuer's future revenues, net income or debt-to-equity ratio. The issuer of such an instrument does not have the
unconditional right to avoid delivering cash or another financial asset (or otherwise to settle it in such a way that it would
be a financial liability). Therefore, it is a financial liability of the issuer unless:
(a)
the part of the contingent settlement provision that could require settlement in cash or another financial asset (or
otherwise in such a way that it would be a financial liability) is not genuine;
(b)
the issuer can be required to settle the obligation in cash or another financial asset (or otherwise to settle it in such a
way that it would be a financial liability) only in the event of liquidation of the issuer; or
(c)
the instrument has all the features and meets the conditions in paragraphs 16A and 16B.
Settlement options
26. When a derivative financial instrument gives one party a choice over how it is settled (e.g. the issuer or the holder
can choose settlement net in cash or by exchanging shares for cash), it is a financial asset or a financial liability unless
all of the settlement alternatives would result in it being an equity instrument.
27. An example of a derivative financial instrument with a settlement option that is a financial liability is a share option
that the issuer can decide to settle net in cash or by exchanging its own shares for cash. Similarly, some contracts to
buy or sell a non-financial item in exchange for the entity's own equity instruments are within the scope of this Standard
because they can be settled either by delivery of the non-financial item or net in cash or another financial instrument
(see paragraphs 8-10). Such contracts are financial assets or financial liabilities and not equity instruments.
Compound financial instruments (see also paragraphs AG30-AG35)
28. The issuer of a non-derivative financial instrument shall evaluate the terms of the financial instrument to determine
whether it contains both a liability and an equity component. Such components shall be classified separately as financial
liabilities, financial assets or equity instruments in accordance with paragraph 15.
Page 646/765
----- PAGE 647 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
29. An entity recognises separately the components of a financial instrument that (a) creates a financial liability of the
entity and (b) grants an option to the holder of the instrument to convert it into an equity instrument of the entity. For
example, a bond or similar instrument convertible by the holder into a fixed number of ordinary shares of the entity is a
compound financial instrument. From the perspective of the entity, such an instrument comprises two components: a
financial liability (a contractual arrangement to deliver cash or another financial asset) and an equity instrument (a call
option granting the holder the right, for a specified period of time, to convert it into a fixed number of ordinary shares of
the entity). The economic effect of issuing such an instrument is substantially the same as issuing simultaneously a debt
instrument with an early settlement provision and warrants to purchase ordinary shares, or issuing a debt instrument
with detachable share purchase warrants. Accordingly, in all cases, the entity presents the liability and equity
components separately in its balance sheet.
30. Classification of the liability and equity components of a convertible instrument is not revised as a result of a change
in the likelihood that a conversion option will be exercised, even when exercise of the option may appear to have
become economically advantageous to some holders. Holders may not always act in the way that might be expected
because, for example, the tax consequences resulting from conversion may differ among holders. Furthermore, the
likelihood of conversion will change from time to time. The entity's contractual obligation to make future payments
remains outstanding until it is extinguished through conversion, maturity of the instrument or some other transaction.
31. Ind AS 109 deals with the measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. Equity instruments are
instruments that evidence a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Therefore, when
the initial carrying amount of a compound financial instrument is allocated to its equity and liability components, the
equity component is assigned the residual amount after deducting from the fair value of the instrument as a whole the
amount separately determined for the liability component. The value of any derivative features (such as a call option)
embedded in the compound financial instrument other than the equity component (such as an equity conversion option)
is included in the liability component. The sum of the carrying amounts assigned to the liability and equity components
on initial recognition is always equal to the fair value that would be ascribed to the instrument as a whole. No gain or
loss arises from initially recognising the components of the instrument separately.
32. Under the approach described in paragraph 31, the issuer of a bond convertible into ordinary shares first determines
the carrying amount of the liability component by measuring the fair value of a similar liability (including any embedded
non-equity derivative features) that does not have an associated equity component. The carrying amount of the equity
instrument represented by the option to convert the instrument into ordinary shares is then determined by deducting the
fair value of the financial liability from the fair value of the compound financial instrument as a whole.
Treasury shares (see also paragraph AG36)
33. If an entity reacquires its own equity instruments, those instruments ('treasury shares') shall be deducted from
equity. No gain or loss shall be recognized in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of an entity's own
equity instruments. Such treasury shares may be acquired and held by the entity or by other members of the
consolidated group. Consideration paid or received shall be recognized directly in equity.
34. The amount of treasury shares held is disclosed separately either in the balance sheet or in the notes, in accordance
with Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements. An entity provides disclosure in accordance with Ind AS 24,
Related Party Disclosures, if the entity reacquires its own equity instruments from related parties.
Interest, dividends, losses and gains (see also paragraph AG37)
35. Interest, dividends, losses and gains relating to a financial instrument or a component that is a financial liability shall
be recognized as income or expense in profit or loss. Distributions to holders of an equity instrument shall be recognized
by the entity directly in equity. Transaction costs of an equity transaction shall be accounted for as a deduction from
equity.
35A. Income tax relating to distributions to holders of an equity instrument and to transaction costs of an equity
transaction shall be accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 12, Income Taxes.
36. The classification of a financial instrument as a financial liability or an equity instrument determines whether interest,
dividends, losses and gains relating to that instrument are recognized as income or expense in profit or loss. Thus,
dividend payments on shares wholly recognized as liabilities are recognized as expenses in the same way as interest on
a bond. Similarly, gains and losses associated with redemptions or refinancings of financial liabilities are recognized in
profit or loss, whereas redemptions or refinancings of equity instruments are recognized as changes in equity. Changes
in the fair value of an equity instrument are not recognized in the financial statements.
Page 647/765
----- PAGE 648 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
37. An entity typically incurs various costs in issuing or acquiring its own equity instruments. Those costs might include
registration and other regulatory fees, amounts paid to legal, accounting and other professional advisers, printing costs
and stamp duties. The transaction costs of an equity transaction are accounted for as a deduction from equity to the
extent they are incremental costs directly attributable to the equity transaction that otherwise would have been avoided.
The costs of an equity transaction that is abandoned are recognized as an expense.
38. Transaction costs that relate to the issue of a compound financial instrument are allocated to the liability and equity
components of the instrument in proportion to the allocation of proceeds. Transaction costs that relate jointly to more
than one transaction (for example, costs of a concurrent offering of some shares and a stock exchange listing of other
shares) are allocated to those transactions using a basis of allocation that is rational and consistent with similar
transactions.
39. The amount of transaction costs accounted for as a deduction from equity in the period is disclosed separately in
accordance with Ind AS 1.
40. Dividends classified as an expense may be presented in the statement of profit and loss either with interest on other
liabilities or as a separate item. In addition to the requirements of this Standard, disclosure of interest and dividends is
subject to the requirements of Ind AS 1 and Ind AS 107. In some circumstances, because of the differences between
interest and dividends with respect to matters such as tax deductibility, it is desirable to disclose them separately in the
statement of profit and loss. Disclosures of the tax effects are made in accordance with Ind AS 12.
41. Gains and losses related to changes in the carrying amount of a financial liability are recognized as income or
expense in profit or loss even when they relate to an instrument that includes a right to the residual interest in the assets
of the entity in exchange for cash or another financial asset (see paragraph 18(b)). Under Ind AS 1 the entity presents
any gain or loss arising from remeasurement of such an instrument separately in the statement of profit and loss when it
is relevant in explaining the entity's performance.
Offsetting a financial asset and a financial liability (see also paragraphs AG38A-AG 38F and AG39)
42. A financial asset and a financial liability shall be offset and the net amount presented in the balance sheet when, and
only when, an entity:
(a)
currently has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts; and
(b)
intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
In accounting for a transfer of a financial asset that does not qualify for derecognition, the entity shall not offset the
transferred asset and the associated liability (see Ind AS 109, paragraph 3.2.22).
43. This Standard requires the presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities on a net basis when doing so
reflects an entity's expected future cash flows from settling two or more separate financial instruments. When an entity
has the right to receive or pay a single net amount and intends to do so, it has, in effect, only a single financial asset or
financial liability. In other circumstances, financial assets and financial liabilities are presented separately from each
other consistently with their characteristics as resources or obligations of the entity. An entity shall disclose the
information required in paragraphs 13B-13E of Ind AS 107 for recognized financial instruments that are within the scope
of paragraph 13A of Ind AS 107.
44. Offsetting a recognized financial asset and a recognized financial liability and presenting the net amount differs from
the derecognition of a financial asset or a financial liability. Although offsetting does not give rise to recognition of a gain
or loss, the derecognition of a financial instrument not only results in the removal of the previously recognized item from
the balance sheet but also may result in recognition of a gain or loss.
45. A right of set-off is a debtor's legal right, by contract or otherwise, to settle or otherwise eliminate all or a portion of
an amount due to a creditor by applying against that amount an amount due from the creditor. In unusual circumstances,
a debtor may have a legal right to apply an amount due from a third party against the amount due to a creditor provided
that there is an agreement between the three parties that clearly establishes the debtor's right of set-off. Because the
right of set-off is a legal right, the conditions supporting the right may vary from one legal jurisdiction to another and the
laws applicable to the relationships between the parties need to be considered.
46. The existence of an enforceable right to set off a financial asset and a financial liability affects the rights and
obligations associated with a financial asset and a financial liability and may affect an entity's exposure to credit and
liquidity risk. However, the existence of the right, by itself, is not a sufficient basis for offsetting. In the absence of an
Page 648/765
----- PAGE 649 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
intention to exercise the right or to settle simultaneously, the amount and timing of an entity's future cash flows are not
affected. When an entity intends to exercise the right or to settle simultaneously, presentation of the asset and liability on
a net basis reflects more appropriately the amounts and timing of the expected future cash flows, as well as the risks to
which those cash flows are exposed. An intention by one or both parties to settle on a net basis without the legal right to
do so is not sufficient to justify offsetting because the rights and obligations associated with the individual financial asset
and financial liability remain unaltered.
47. An entity's intentions with respect to settlement of particular assets and liabilities may be influenced by its normal
business practices, the requirements of the financial markets and other circumstances that may limit the ability to settle
net or to settle simultaneously. When an entity has a right of set-off, but does not intend to settle net or to realise the
asset and settle the liability simultaneously, the effect of the right on the entity's credit risk exposure is disclosed in
accordance with paragraph 36 of Ind AS 107.
48. Simultaneous settlement of two financial instruments may occur through, for example, the operation of a clearing
house in an organised financial market or a face-to-face exchange. In these circumstances the cash flows are, in effect,
equivalent to a single net amount and there is no exposure to credit or liquidity risk. In other circumstances, an entity
may settle two instruments by receiving and paying separate amounts, becoming exposed to credit risk for the full
amount of the asset or liquidity risk for the full amount of the liability. Such risk exposures may be significant even
though relatively brief. Accordingly, realisation of a financial asset and settlement of a financial liability are treated as
simultaneous only when the transactions occur at the same moment.
49. The conditions set out in paragraph 42 are generally not satisfied and offsetting is usually inappropriate when:
(a)
several different financial instruments are used to emulate the features of a single financial instrument (a 'synthetic
instrument');
(b)
financial assets and financial liabilities arise from financial instruments having the same primary risk exposure (for
example, assets and liabilities within a portfolio of forward contracts or other derivative instruments) but involve different
counter-parties;
(c)
financial or other assets are pledged as collateral for non-recourse financial liabilities;
(d)
financial assets are set aside in trust by a debtor for the purpose of discharging an obligation without those assets
having been accepted by the creditor in settlement of the obligation (for example, a sinking fund arrangement); or
(e)
obligations incurred as a result of events giving rise to losses are expected to be recovered from a third party by virtue of
a claim made under an insurance contract.
50. An entity that undertakes a number of financial instrument transactions with a single counter-party may enter into a
'master netting arrangement' with that counter-party. Such an agreement provides for a single net settlement of all
financial instruments covered by the agreement in the event of default on, or termination of, any one contract. These
arrangements are commonly used by financial institutions to provide protection against loss in the event of bankruptcy or
other circumstances that result in a counter-party being unable to meet its obligations. A master netting arrangement
commonly creates a right of set-off that becomes enforceable and affects the realisation or settlement of individual
financial assets and financial liabilities only following a specified event of default or in other circumstances not expected
to arise in the normal course of business. A master netting arrangement does not provide a basis for offsetting unless
both of the criteria in paragraph 42 are satisfied. When financial assets and financial liabilities subject to a master netting
arrangement are not offset, the effect of the arrangement on an entity's exposure to credit risk is disclosed in
accordance with paragraph 36 of Ind AS 107.
[Effective date and transition
96. *
96A.
*
96B.
*
Page 649/765
----- PAGE 650 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
96C.
*
97. *
97A.
*
97B.
*
97C.
*
97D.
*
97E.
*
97F.
*
97G.
*
97H.
*
97I.
*
97J.
*
97K.
*
97L.
*
97M.
*
97N.
*
97O.
*
97P.
*
* Refer Appendix 1
97Q.
As a consequence of issuance of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, paragraph AG21 is amended.
An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 115.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[97R Omitted*
97S.
Ind AS 116 amended paragraphs AG9 and AG10. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 116.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix A
Application Guidance
Ind AS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
AG1 This Application Guidance explains the application of particular aspects of the Standard.
AG2 The Standard does not deal with the recognition or measurement of financial instruments. Requirements about the
recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities are set out in Ind AS 109.
Page 650/765
----- PAGE 651 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Definitions (paragraphs 11-14)
Financial assets and financial liabilities
AG3 Currency (cash) is a financial asset because it represents the medium of exchange and is therefore the basis on
which all transactions are measured and recognized in financial statements. A deposit of cash with a bank or similar
financial institution is a financial asset because it represents the contractual right of the depositor to obtain cash from the
institution or to draw a cheque or similar instrument against the balance in favour of a creditor in payment of a financial
liability.
AG4 Common examples of financial assets representing a contractual right to receive cash in the future and
corresponding financial liabilities representing a contractual obligation to deliver cash in the future are:
(a)
trade accounts receivable and payable;
(b)
notes receivable and payable;
(c)
loans receivable and payable; and
(d)
bonds receivable and payable.
In each case, one party's contractual right to receive (or obligation to pay) cash is matched by the other party's
corresponding obligation to pay (or right to receive).
AG5 Another type of financial instrument is one for which the economic benefit to be received or given up is a financial
asset other than cash. For example, a note payable in Government bonds gives the holder the contractual right to
receive and the issuer the contractual obligation to deliver Government bonds, not cash. The bonds are financial assets
because they represent obligations of the issuing Government to pay cash. The note is, therefore, a financial asset of
the note holder and a financial liability of the note issuer.
AG6 'Perpetual' debt instruments (such as 'perpetual' bonds, debentures and capital notes) normally provide the holder
with the contractual right to receive payments on account of interest at fixed dates extending into the indefinite future,
either with no right to receive a return of principal or a right to a return of principal under terms that make it very unlikely
or very far in the future. For example, an entity may issue a financial instrument requiring it to make annual payments in
perpetuity equal to a stated interest rate of 8 per cent applied to a stated par or principal amount of Rs. 1,000. Assuming
8 per cent to be the market rate of interest for the instrument when issued, the issuer assumes a contractual obligation
to make a stream of future interest payments having a fair value (present value) of Rs. 1,000 on initial recognition. The
holder and issuer of the instrument have a financial asset and a financial liability, respectively.
AG7 A contractual right or contractual obligation to receive, deliver or exchange financial instruments is itself a financial
instrument. A chain of contractual rights or contractual obligations meets the definition of a financial instrument if it will
ultimately lead to the receipt or payment of cash or to the acquisition or issue of an equity instrument.
AG8 The ability to exercise a contractual right or the requirement to satisfy a contractual obligation may be absolute, or it
may be contingent on the occurrence of a future event. For example, a financial guarantee is a contractual right of the
lender to receive cash from the guarantor, and a corresponding contractual obligation of the guarantor to pay the lender,
if the borrower defaults. The contractual right and obligation exist because of a past transaction or event (assumption of
the guarantee), even though the lender's ability to exercise its right and the requirement for the guarantor to perform
under its obligation are both contingent on a future act of default by the borrower. A contingent right and obligation meet
the definition of a financial asset and a financial liability, even though such assets and liabilities are not always
recognized in the financial statements. Some of these contingent rights and obligations may be insurance contracts
within the scope of Ind AS 104.
[AG9 A lease typically creates an entitlement of the lessor to receive, and an obligation of the lessee to pay, a stream of
payments that are substantially the same as blended payments of principal and interest under a loan agreement. The
lessor accounts for its investment in the amount receivable under a finance lease rather than the underlying asset itself
that is subject to the finance lease. Accordingly, a lessor regards a finance lease as a financial instrument. Under Ind AS
116, a lessor does not recognise its entitlement to receive lease payments under an operating lease. The lessor
continues to account for the underlying asset itself rather than any amount receivable in the future under the contract.
Accordingly, a lessor does not regard an operating lease as a financial instrument, except as regards individual
Page 651/765
----- PAGE 652 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
payments currently due and payable by lessee.
AG10 Physical assets (such as inventories, property, plant and equipment), right-of-use assets and intangible assets
(such as patents and trademarks) are not financial assets. Control of such physical assets, right-of-use assets and
intangible assets creates an opportunity to generate an inflow of cash or another financial asset, but it does not give rise
to a present right to receive cash or another financial asset.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
AG11 Assets (such as prepaid expenses) for which the future economic benefit is the receipt of goods or services,
rather than the right to receive cash or another financial asset, are not financial assets. Similarly, items such as deferred
revenue and most warranty obligations are not financial liabilities because the outflow of economic benefits associated
with them is the delivery of goods and services rather than a contractual obligation to pay cash or another financial
asset.
AG12 Liabilities or assets that are not contractual (such as income taxes that are created as a result of statutory
requirements imposed by Governments) are not financial liabilities or financial assets. Accounting for income taxes is
dealt with in Ind AS 12. Similarly, constructive obligations, as defined in Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and
Contingent Assets, do not arise from contracts and are not financial liabilities.
Equity instruments
AG13 Examples of equity instruments include non-puttable ordinary shares, some puttable instruments (see paragraphs
16A and 16B), some instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of
the net assets of the entity only on liquidation (see paragraphs 16C and 16D), some types of preference shares (see
paragraphs AG25 and AG26), and warrants or written call options that allow the holder to subscribe for or purchase a
fixed number of non-puttable ordinary shares in the issuing entity in exchange for a fixed amount of cash or another
financial asset. An entity's obligation to issue or purchase a fixed number of its own equity instruments in exchange for a
fixed amount of cash or another financial asset is an equity instrument of the entity (except as stated in paragraph 22A).
However, if such a contract contains an obligation for the entity to pay cash or another financial asset (other than a
contract classified as equity in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D), it also gives rise
to a liability for the present value of the redemption amount (see paragraph AG27(a)). An issuer of non-puttable ordinary
shares assumes a liability when it formally acts to make a distribution and becomes legally obliged to the shareholders
to do so. This may be the case following the declaration of a dividend or when the entity is being wound up and any
assets remaining after the satisfaction of liabilities become distributable to shareholders.
AG14 A purchased call option or other similar contract acquired by an entity that gives it the right to reacquire a fixed
number of its own equity instruments in exchange for delivering a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset is not a
financial asset of the entity (except as stated in paragraph 22A). Instead, any consideration paid for such a contract is
deducted from equity.
The class of instruments that is subordinate to all other classes (paragraphs 16A(b) and 16C(b))
AG14A One of the features of paragraphs 16A and 16C is that the financial instrument is in the class of instruments that
is subordinate to all other classes.
AG14B When determining whether an instrument is in the subordinate class, an entity evaluates the instrument's claim
on liquidation as if it were to liquidate on the date when it classifies the instrument. An entity shall reassess the
classification if there is a change in relevant circumstances. For example, if the entity issues or redeems another
financial instrument, this may affect whether the instrument in question is in the class of instruments that is subordinate
to all other classes.
AG14C An instrument that has a preferential right on liquidation of the entity is not an instrument with an entitlement to a
pro rata share of the net assets of the entity. For example, an instrument has a preferential right on liquidation if it
entitles the holder to a fixed dividend on liquidation, in addition to a share of the entity's net assets, when other
instruments in the subordinate class with a right to a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity do not have the same
right on liquidation.
AG14D If an entity has only one class of financial instruments, that class shall be treated as if it were subordinate to all
other classes.
Total expected cash flows attributable to the instrument over the life of the instrument (paragraph 16A(e))
AG14E The total expected cash flows of the instrument over the life of the instrument must be substantially based on the
profit or loss, change in the recognized net assets or fair value of the recognized and unrecognized net assets of the
Page 652/765
----- PAGE 653 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
entity over the life of the instrument. Profit or loss and the change in the recognized net assets shall be measured in
accordance with relevant Ind ASs.
Transactions entered into by an instrument holder other than as owner of the entity (paragraphs 16A and 16C)
AG14F The holder of a puttable financial instrument or an instrument that imposes on the entity an obligation to deliver
to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation may enter into transactions with the
entity in a role other than that of an owner. For example, an instrument holder may also be an employee of the entity.
Only the cash flows and the contractual terms and conditions of the instrument that relate to the instrument holder as an
owner of the entity shall be considered when assessing whether the instrument should be classified as equity under
paragraph 16A or paragraph 16C.
AG14G An example is a limited partnership that has limited and general partners. Some general partners may provide a
guarantee to the entity and may be remunerated for providing that guarantee. In such situations, the guarantee and the
associated cash flows relate to the instrument holders in their role as guarantors and not in their roles as owners of the
entity. Therefore, such a guarantee and the associated cash flows would not result in the general partners being
considered subordinate to the limited partners, and would be disregarded when assessing whether the contractual terms
of the limited partnership instruments and the general partnership instruments are identical.
AG14H Another example is a profit or loss sharing arrangement that allocates profit or loss to the instrument holders on
the basis of services rendered or business generated during the current and previous years. Such arrangements are
transactions with instrument holders in their role as non-owners and should not be considered when assessing the
features listed in paragraph 16A or paragraph 16C. However, profit or loss sharing arrangements that allocate profit or
loss to instrument holders based on the nominal amount of their instruments relative to others in the class represent
transactions with the instrument holders in their roles as owners and should be considered when assessing the features
listed in paragraph 16A or paragraph 16C.
AG14I The cash flows and contractual terms and conditions of a transaction between the instrument holder (in the role
as a non-owner) and the issuing entity must be similar to an equivalent transaction that might occur between a
non-instrument holder and the issuing entity.
No other financial instrument or contract with total cash flows that substantially fixes or restricts the residual return to the
instrument holder (paragraphs 16B and 16D)
AG14J A condition for classifying as equity a financial instrument that otherwise meets the criteria in paragraph 16A or
paragraph 16C is that the entity has no other financial instrument or contract that has (a) total cash flows based
substantially on the profit or loss, the change in the recognized net assets or the change in the fair value of the
recognized and unrecognized net assets of the entity and (b) the effect of substantially restricting or fixing the residual
return. The following instruments, when entered into on normal commercial terms with unrelated parties, are unlikely to
prevent instruments that otherwise meet the criteria in paragraph 16A or paragraph 16C from being classified as equity:
(a)
instruments with total cash flows substantially based on specific assets of the entity.
(b)
instruments with total cash flows based on a percentage of revenue.
(c)
contracts designed to reward individual employees for services rendered to the entity.
(d)
contracts requiring the payment of an insignificant percentage of profit for services rendered or goods provided.
Derivative financial instruments
AG15 Financial instruments include primary instruments (such as receivables, payables and equity instruments) and
derivative financial instruments (such as financial options, futures and forwards, interest rate swaps and currency
swaps). Derivative financial instruments meet the definition of a financial instrument and, accordingly, are within the
scope of this Standard.
AG16 Derivative financial instruments create rights and obligations that have the effect of transferring between the
parties to the instrument one or more of the financial risks inherent in an underlying primary financial instrument. On
inception, derivative financial instruments give one party a contractual right to exchange financial assets or financial
liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially favourable, or a contractual obligation to exchange
financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable. However,
Page 653/765
----- PAGE 654 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
they [generally]
[This is true of most, but not all derivatives, e.g. in some cross-currency interest rate swaps principal is exchanged on
inception (and re-exchanged on maturity).]
do not result in a transfer of the underlying primary financial instrument on inception of the contract, nor does such a
transfer necessarily take place on maturity of the contract. Some instruments embody both a right and an obligation to
make an exchange. Because the terms of the exchange are determined on inception of the derivative instrument, as
prices in financial markets change those terms may become either favourable or unfavourable.
AG17 A put or call option to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities (i.e. financial instruments other than an
entity's own equity instruments) gives the holder a right to obtain potential future economic benefits associated with
changes in the fair value of the financial instrument underlying the contract. Conversely, the writer of an option assumes
an obligation to forgo potential future economic benefits or bear potential losses of economic benefits associated with
changes in the fair value of the underlying financial instrument. The contractual right of the holder and obligation of the
writer meet the definition of a financial asset and a financial liability, respectively. The financial instrument underlying an
option contract may be any financial asset, including shares in other entities and interest-bearing instruments. An option
may require the writer to issue a debt instrument, rather than transfer a financial asset, but the instrument underlying the
option would constitute a financial asset of the holder if the option were exercised. The option-holder's right to exchange
the financial asset under potentially favourable conditions and the writer's obligation to exchange the financial asset
under potentially unfavourable conditions are distinct from the underlying financial asset to be exchanged upon exercise
of the option. The nature of the holder's right and of the writer's obligation are not affected by the likelihood that the
option will be exercised.
AG18 Another example of a derivative financial instrument is a forward contract to be settled in six months' time in which
one party (the purchaser) promises to deliver Rs.1,000,000 cash in exchange for Rs.1,000,000 face amount of fixed rate
Government bonds, and the other party (the seller) promises to deliver Rs.1,000,000 face amount of fixed rate
Government bonds in exchange for Rs.1,000,000 cash. During the six months, both parties have a contractual right and
a contractual obligation to exchange financial instruments. If the market price of the Government bonds rises above
Rs.1,000,000, the conditions will be favourable to the purchaser and unfavourable to the seller; if the market price falls
below Rs.1,000,000, the effect will be the opposite. The purchaser has a contractual right (a financial asset) similar to
the right under a call option held and a contractual obligation (a financial liability) similar to the obligation under a put
option written; the seller has a contractual right (a financial asset) similar to the right under a put option held and a
contractual obligation (a financial liability) similar to the obligation under a call option written. As with options, these
contractual rights and obligations constitute financial assets and financial liabilities separate and distinct from the
underlying financial instruments (the bonds and cash to be exchanged). Both parties to a forward contract have an
obligation to perform at the agreed time, whereas performance under an option contract occurs only if and when the
holder of the option chooses to exercise it.
AG19 Many other types of derivative instruments embody a right or obligation to make a future exchange, including
interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate caps, collars and floors, loan commitments, note issuance facilities and
letters of credit. An interest rate swap contract may be viewed as a variation of a forward contract in which the parties
agree to make a series of future exchanges of cash amounts, one amount calculated with reference to a floating interest
rate and the other with reference to a fixed interest rate. Futures contracts are another variation of forward contracts,
differing primarily in that the contracts are standardised and traded on an exchange.
Contracts to buy or sell non-financial items (paragraphs 8-10)
AG20 Contracts to buy or sell non-financial items do not meet the definition of a financial instrument because the
contractual right of one party to receive a non-financial asset or service and the corresponding obligation of the other
party do not establish a present right or obligation of either party to receive, deliver or exchange a financial asset. For
example, contracts that provide for settlement only by the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item (e.g. an option,
futures or forward contract on silver) are not financial instruments. Many commodity contracts are of this type. Some are
standardised in form and traded on organised markets in much the same fashion as some derivative financial
instruments. For example, a commodity futures contract may be bought and sold readily for cash because it is listed for
trading on an exchange and may change hands many times. However, the parties buying and selling the contract are, in
effect, trading the underlying commodity. The ability to buy or sell a commodity contract for cash, the ease with which it
may be bought or sold and the possibility of negotiating a cash settlement of the obligation to receive or deliver the
Page 654/765
----- PAGE 655 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
commodity do not alter the fundamental character of the contract in a way that creates a financial instrument.
Nevertheless, some contracts to buy or sell non-financial items that can be settled net or by exchanging financial
instruments, or in which the non-financial item is readily convertible to cash, are within the scope of the Standard as if
they were financial instruments (see paragraph 8).
[AG21 Except as required by Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, a contract that involves the receipt
or delivery of physical assets does not give rise to a financial asset of one party and a financial liability of the other party
unless any corresponding payment is deferred past the date on which the physical assets are transferred. Such is the
case with the purchase or sale of goods on trade credit.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
AG22 Some contracts are commodity-linked, but do not involve settlement through the physical receipt or delivery of a
commodity. They specify settlement through cash payments that are determined according to a formula in the contract,
rather than through payment of fixed amounts. For example, the principal amount of a bond may be calculated by
applying the market price of oil prevailing at the maturity of the bond to a fixed quantity of oil. The principal is indexed by
reference to a commodity price, but is settled only in cash. Such a contract constitutes a financial instrument.
AG23 The definition of a financial instrument also encompasses a contract that gives rise to a non-financial asset or
non-financial liability in addition to a financial asset or financial liability. Such financial instruments often give one party
an option to exchange a financial asset for a non-financial asset. For example, an oil-linked bond may give the holder
the right to receive a stream of fixed periodic interest payments and a fixed amount of cash on maturity, with the option
to exchange the principal amount for a fixed quantity of oil. The desirability of exercising this option will vary from time to
time depending on the fair value of oil relative to the exchange ratio of cash for oil (the exchange price) inherent in the
bond. The intentions of the bondholder concerning the exercise of the option do not affect the substance of the
component assets. The financial asset of the holder and the financial liability of the issuer make the bond a financial
instrument, regardless of the other types of assets and liabilities also created.
AG24 [Refer Appendix 1]
Presentation
Liabilities and equity (paragraphs 15-27)
No contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset (paragraphs 17-20)
AG25 Preference shares may be issued with various rights. In determining whether a preference share is a financial
liability or an equity instrument, an issuer assesses the particular rights attaching to the share to determine whether it
exhibits the fundamental characteristic of a financial liability. For example, a preference share that provides for
redemption on a specific date or at the option of the holder contains a financial liability because the issuer has an
obligation to transfer financial assets to the holder of the share. The potential inability of an issuer to satisfy an obligation
to redeem a preference share when contractually required to do so, whether because of a lack of funds, a statutory
restriction or insufficient profits or reserves, does not negate the obligation. An option of the issuer to redeem the shares
for cash does not satisfy the definition of a financial liability because the issuer does not have a present obligation to
transfer financial assets to the shareholders. In this case, redemption of the shares is solely at the discretion of the
issuer. An obligation may arise, however, when the issuer of the shares exercises its option, usually by formally notifying
the shareholders of an intention to redeem the shares.
AG26 When preference shares are non-redeemable, the appropriate classification is determined by the other rights that
attach to them. Classification is based on an assessment of the substance of the contractual arrangements and the
definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument. When distributions to holders of the preference shares,
whether cumulative or non-cumulative, are at the discretion of the issuer, the shares are equity instruments. The
classification of a preference share as an equity instrument or a financial liability is not affected by, for example:
(a)
a history of making distributions;
(b)
an intention to make distributions in the future;
(c)
a possible negative impact on the price of ordinary shares of the issuer if distributions are not made (because of
restrictions on paying dividends on the ordinary shares if dividends are not paid on the preference shares);
(d)
Page 655/765
----- PAGE 656 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the amount of the issuer's reserves;
(e)
an issuer's expectation of a profit or loss for a period; or
(f)
an ability or inability of the issuer to influence the amount of its profit or loss for the period.
Settlement in the entity's own equity instruments (paragraphs 21-24)
AG27 The following examples illustrate how to classify different types of contracts on an entity's own equity instruments:
(a)
A contract that will be settled by the entity receiving or delivering a fixed number of its own shares for no future
consideration, or exchanging a fixed number of its own shares for a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset, is
an equity instrument (except as stated in paragraph 22A). Accordingly, any consideration received or paid for such a
contract is added directly to or deducted directly from equity. One example is an issued share option that gives the
counter-party a right to buy a fixed number of the entity's shares for a fixed amount of cash. However, if the contract
requires the entity to purchase (redeem) its own shares for cash or another financial asset at a fixed or determinable
date or on demand, the entity also recognises a financial liability for the present value of the redemption amount (with
the exception of instruments that have all the features and meet the conditions in paragraphs 16A and 16B or
paragraphs 16C and 16D). One example is an entity's obligation under a forward contract to repurchase a fixed number
of its own shares for a fixed amount of cash.
(b)
An entity's obligation to purchase its own shares for cash gives rise to a financial liability for the present value of the
redemption amount even if the number of shares that the entity is obliged to repurchase is not fixed or if the obligation is
conditional on the counter-party exercising a right to redeem (except as stated in paragraphs 16A and 16B or
paragraphs 16C and 16D). One example of a conditional obligation is an issued option that requires the entity to
repurchase its own shares for cash if the counter-party exercises the option.
(c)
A contract that will be settled in cash or another financial asset is a financial asset or financial liability even if the amount
of cash or another financial asset that will be received or delivered is based on changes in the market price of the
entity's own equity (except as stated in paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D). One example is a net
cash-settled share option.
(d)
A contract that will be settled in a variable number of the entity's own shares whose value equals a fixed amount or an
amount based on changes in an underlying variable (e.g. a commodity price) is a financial asset or a financial liability.
An example is a written option to buy gold that, if exercised, is settled net in the entity's own instruments by the entity
delivering as many of those instruments as are equal to the value of the option contract. Such a contract is a financial
asset or financial liability even if the underlying variable is the entity's own share price rather than gold. Similarly, a
contract that will be settled in a fixed number of the entity's own shares, but the rights attaching to those shares will be
varied so that the settlement value equals a fixed amount or an amount based on changes in an underlying variable, is a
financial asset or a financial liability.
Contingent settlement provisions (paragraph 25)
AG28 Paragraph 25 requires that if a part of a contingent settlement provision that could require settlement in cash or
another financial asset (or in another way that would result in the instrument being a financial liability) is not genuine, the
settlement provision does not affect the classification of a financial instrument. Thus, a contract that requires settlement
in cash or a variable number of the entity's own shares only on the occurrence of an event that is extremely rare, highly
abnormal and very unlikely to occur is an equity instrument. Similarly, settlement in a fixed number of an entity's own
shares may be contractually precluded in circumstances that are outside the control of the entity, but if these
circumstances have no genuine possibility of occurring, classification as an equity instrument is appropriate.
Treatment in consolidated financial statements
AG29 In consolidated financial statements, an entity presents non-controlling interests-i.e. the interests of other parties
in the equity and income of its subsidiaries-in accordance with Ind AS 1 and Ind AS 110. When classifying a financial
instrument (or a component of it) in consolidated financial statements, an entity considers all terms and conditions
agreed between members of the group and the holders of the instrument in determining whether the group as a whole
Page 656/765
----- PAGE 657 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
has an obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset in respect of the instrument or to settle it in a manner that
results in liability classification. When a subsidiary in a group issues a financial instrument and a parent or other group
entity agrees additional terms directly with the holders of the instrument (e.g. a guarantee), the group may not have
discretion over distributions or redemption. Although the subsidiary may appropriately classify the instrument without
regard to these additional terms in its individual financial statements, the effect of other agreements between members
of the group and the holders of the instrument is considered in order to ensure that consolidated financial statements
reflect the contracts and transactions entered into by the group as a whole. To the extent that there is such an obligation
or settlement provision, the instrument (or the component of it that is subject to the obligation) is classified as a financial
liability in consolidated financial statements.
AG29A Some types of instruments that impose a contractual obligation on the entity are classified as equity instruments
in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D. Classification in accordance with those
paragraphs is an exception to the principles otherwise applied in this Standard to the classification of an instrument. This
exception is not extended to the classification of non-controlling interests in the consolidated financial statements.
Therefore, instruments classified as equity instruments in accordance with either paragraphs 16A and 16B or
paragraphs 16C and 16D in the separate or individual financial statements that are non-controlling interests are
classified as liabilities in the consolidated financial statements of the group.
Compound financial instruments (paragraphs 28-32)
AG30 Paragraph 28 applies only to issuers of non-derivative compound financial instruments. Paragraph 28 does not
deal with compound financial instruments from the perspective of holders. Ind AS 109 deals with the classification and
measurement of financial assets that are compound financial instruments from the holder's perspective.
AG31 A common form of compound financial instrument is a debt instrument with an embedded conversion option, such
as a bond convertible into ordinary shares of the issuer, and without any other embedded derivative features. Paragraph
28 requires the issuer of such a financial instrument to present the liability component and the equity component
separately in the balance sheet, as follows:
(a)
The issuer's obligation to make scheduled payments of interest and principal is a financial liability that exists as long as
the instrument is not converted. On initial recognition, the fair value of the liability component is the present value of the
contractually determined stream of future cash flows discounted at the rate of interest applied at that time by the market
to instruments of comparable credit status and providing substantially the same cash flows, on the same terms, but
without the conversion option.
(b)
The equity instrument is an embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the issuer. This option has value on
initial recognition even when it is out of the money.
AG32 On conversion of a convertible instrument at maturity, the entity derecognises the liability component and
recognises it as equity. The original equity component remains as equity (although it may be transferred from one line
item within equity to another). There is no gain or loss on conversion at maturity.
AG33 When an entity extinguishes a convertible instrument before maturity through an early redemption or repurchase
in which the original conversion privileges are unchanged, the entity allocates the consideration paid and any transaction
costs for the repurchase or redemption to the liability and equity components of the instrument at the date of the
transaction. The method used in allocating the consideration paid and transaction costs to the separate components is
consistent with that used in the original allocation to the separate components of the proceeds received by the entity
when the convertible instrument was issued, in accordance with paragraphs 28-32.
AG34 Once the allocation of the consideration is made, any resulting gain or loss is treated in accordance with
accounting principles applicable to the related component, as follows:
(a)
the amount of gain or loss relating to the liability component is recognized in profit or loss; and
(b)
the amount of consideration relating to the equity component is recognized in equity.
AG35 An entity may amend the terms of a convertible instrument to induce early conversion, for example by offering a
more favourable conversion ratio or paying other additional consideration in the event of conversion before a specified
date. The difference, at the date the terms are amended, between the fair value of the consideration the holder receives
Page 657/765
----- PAGE 658 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
on conversion of the instrument under the revised terms and the fair value of the consideration the holder would have
received under the original terms is recognized as a loss in profit or loss.
Treasury shares (paragraphs 33 and 34)
AG36 An entity's own equity instruments are not recognized as a financial asset regardless of the reason for which they
are reacquired. Paragraph 33 requires an entity that reacquires its own equity instruments to deduct those equity
instruments from equity. However, when an entity holds its own equity on behalf of others, e.g. a financial institution
holding its own equity on behalf of a client, there is an agency relationship and as a result those holdings are not
included in the entity's balance sheet.
Interest, dividends, losses and gains (paragraphs 35-41)
AG37 The following example illustrates the application of paragraph 35 to a compound financial instrument. Assume that
a non-cumulative preference share is mandatorily redeemable for cash in five years, but that dividends are payable at
the discretion of the entity before the redemption date. Such an instrument is a compound financial instrument, with the
liability component being the present value of the redemption amount. The unwinding of the discount on this component
is recognized in profit or loss and classified as interest expense. Any dividends paid relate to the equity component and,
accordingly, are recognized as a distribution of profit or loss. A similar treatment would apply if the redemption was not
mandatory but at the option of the holder, or if the share was mandatorily convertible into a variable number of ordinary
shares calculated to equal a fixed amount or an amount based on changes in an underlying variable (e.g. commodity).
However, if any unpaid dividends are added to the redemption amount, the entire instrument is a liability. In such a case,
any dividends are classified as interest expense.
Offsetting a financial asset and a financial liability (paragraphs 42-50)
AG38 [Refer Appendix 1]
Criterion that an entity 'currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off the recognized amounts' (paragraph 42(a))
AG38A A right of set-off may be currently available or it may be contingent on a future event (for example, the right may
be triggered or exercisable only on the occurrence of some future event, such as the default, insolvency or bankruptcy of
one of the counter-parties). Even if the right of set-off is not contingent on a future event, it may only be legally
enforceable in the normal course of business, or in the event of default, or in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy, of
one or all of the counter-parties.
AG38B To meet the criterion in paragraph 42(a), an entity must currently have a legally enforceable right of set off. This
means that the right of set-off:
(a)
must not be contingent on a future event; and
(b)
must be legally enforceable in all of the following circumstances:
(i)
the normal course of business;
(ii)
the event of default; and
(iii)
the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the entity and all of the counter-parties.
AG38C The nature and extent of the right of set-off, including any conditions attached to its exercise and whether it
would remain in the event of default or insolvency or bankruptcy, may vary from one legal jurisdiction to another.
Consequently, it cannot be assumed that the right of set-off is automatically available outside of the normal course of
business. For example, the bankruptcy or insolvency laws of a jurisdiction may prohibit, or restrict, the right of set-off in
the event of bankruptcy or insolvency in some circumstances.
AG38D The laws applicable to the relationships between the parties (for example, contractual provisions, the laws
governing the contract, or the default, insolvency or bankruptcy laws applicable to the parties) need to be considered to
ascertain whether the right of set-off is enforceable in the normal course of business, in an event of default, and in the
event of insolvency or bankruptcy, of the entity and all of the counter-parties (as specified in paragraph AG38B (b)).
Criterion that an entity 'intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability
simultaneously' (paragraph 42(b))
AG38E To meet the criterion in paragraph 42(b) an entity must intend either to settle on a net basis or to realise the
Page 658/765
----- PAGE 659 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Although the entity may have a right to settle net, it may still realise the
asset and settle the liability separately.
AG38F If an entity can settle amounts in a manner such that the outcome is, in effect, equivalent to net settlement, the
entity will meet the net settlement criterion in paragraph 42(b). This will occur if, and only if, the gross settlement
mechanism has features that eliminate or result in insignificant credit and liquidity risk, and that will process receivables
and payables in a single settlement process or cycle. For example, a gross settlement system that has all of the
following characteristics would meet the net settlement criterion in paragraph 42(b):
(a)
financial assets and financial liabilities eligible for set-off are submitted at the same point in time for processing;
(b)
once the financial assets and financial liabilities are submitted for processing, the parties are committed to fulfill the
settlement obligation;
(c)
there is no potential for the cash flows arising from the assets and liabilities to change once they have been submitted
for processing (unless the processing fails-see (d) below);
(d)
assets and liabilities that are collateralised with securities will be settled on a securities transfer or similar system (for
example, delivery versus payment), so that if the transfer of securities fails, the processing of the related receivable or
payable for which the securities are collateral will also fail (and vice versa);
(e)
any transactions that fail, as outlined in (d), will be re-entered for processing until they are settled;
(f)
settlement is carried out through the same settlement institution (for example, a settlement bank, a central bank or a
central securities depository); and
(g)
an intra-day credit facility is in place that will provide sufficient overdraft amounts to enable the processing of payments
at the settlement date for each of the parties, and it is virtually certain that the intra-day credit facility will be honoured if
called upon.
AG39 The Standard does not provide special treatment for so-called 'synthetic instruments', which are groups of
separate financial instruments acquired and held to emulate the characteristics of another instrument. For example, a
floating rate long-term debt combined with an interest rate swap that involves receiving floating payments and making
fixed payments synthesises a fixed rate long-term debt. Each of the individual financial instruments that together
constitute a 'synthetic instrument' represents a contractual right or obligation with its own terms and conditions and each
may be transferred or settled separately. Each financial instrument is exposed to risks that may differ from the risks to
which other financial instruments are exposed. Accordingly, when one financial instrument in a 'synthetic instrument' is
an asset and another is a liability, they are not offset and presented in an entity's balance sheet on a net basis unless
they meet the criteria for offsetting in paragraph 42.
Appendix B
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
This appendix lists the appendices which are part of other Indian Accounting Standards and makes reference to Ind AS
32, Financial Instruments: Presentation.
1. [ Appendix D, Service Concession Arrangements contained in Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
2. Appendix D, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, contained in Ind AS 109, Financial
Instruments.
Appendix 1
Note : This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 32 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 32, Financial Instruments; Presentation, issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board.
Page 659/765
----- PAGE 660 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Comparison with IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation
1. As an exception to the definition of 'financial liability' in paragraph 11 (b) (ii), Ind AS 32 considers the equity
conversion option embedded in a convertible bond denominated in foreign currency to acquire a fixed number of entity's
own equity instruments is considered an equity instrument if the exercise price is fixed in any currency. This exception is
not provided in IAS 32.
2. [ Paragraphs 96-97P and 97R related to Transitional Provisions and Effective date given in IAS 32 have not been
given in Ind AS 32, since all transitional provisions related to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been
included in Ind AS 101, First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption
of International Financial Reporting Standards and paragraphs related to Effective date are not relevant in Indian
context. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 32, these paragraph numbers are
retained in Ind AS 32.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
3. Different terminology is used, as used in existing laws e.g.,the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of
financial position' and 'Statement of profit and loss is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'.
4. Requirements regarding presentation of dividends classified as an expense in the separate income statement, where
separate income statement is presented, have been deleted. This change is consequential to the removal of option
regarding two statement approach in Ind AS 1. Ind AS 1 requires that the components of profit or loss and components
of other comprehensive income shall be presented as a part of the statement of profit and loss.
5. The following paragraph numbers appear as 'Deleted' in IAS 32. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 32, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 32:
(i)
paragraph 1
(ii)
paragraph 4(c)
(iii)
paragraphs 5-7
(iv)
AG24 of Appendix A
(v)
AG38 of Appendix A
6. Following references to Illustrative Examples which are not integral part of IAS 32 have not been included in Ind AS
32:
(i)
Reference to Example 7 of Illustrative Examples in paragraph 18(b)
(ii)
Reference to Example 8 of Illustrative Example in paragraph 18(b)
(iii)
Reference to Example 9-12 of Illustrative Example given in heading above paragraph 28
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 33
Earnings per Share
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to prescribe principles for the determination and presentation of earnings per share,
so as to improve performance comparisons between different entities in the same reporting period and between different
reporting periods for the same entity. Even though earnings per share data have limitations because of the different
accounting policies that may be used for determining 'earnings', a consistently determined denominator enhances
financial reporting. The focus of this Standard is on the denominator of the earnings per share calculation.
Scope
2. This Indian Accounting Standard shall apply to companies that have issued [ordinary shares]
[In Indian context, the term 'ordinary shares' is equivalent to 'equity shares'.]
Page 660/765
----- PAGE 661 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
to which Indian Accounting Standards (Ind ASs) notified under the Companies Act apply.
[Refer Appendix 1]
3. An entity that discloses earnings per share shall calculate and disclose earnings per share in accordance with this
Standard.
4. When an entity presents both consolidated financial statements and separate financial statements prepared in
accordance with Ind AS 110, Consolidated Financial Statements, and Ind AS 27, Separate Financial Statements,
respectively, the disclosures required by this Standard shall be presented both in the consolidated financial statements
and separate financial statements. In consolidated financial statements such disclosures shall be based on consolidated
information and in separate financial statements such disclosures shall be based on information given in separate
financial statements. An entity shall not present in consolidated financial statements, earnings per share based on the
information given in separate financial statements and shall not present in separate financial statements, earnings per
share based on the information given in consolidated financial statements.
4A. [Refer Appendix 1]
Definitions
5. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Anti-dilution is an increase in earnings per share or a reduction in loss per share resulting from the assumption that
convertible instruments are converted, that options or warrants are exercised, or that ordinary shares are issued upon
the satisfaction of specified conditions.
A contingent share agreement is an agreement to issue shares that is dependent on the satisfaction of specified
conditions.
Contingently issuable ordinary shares are ordinary shares issuable for little or no cash or other consideration upon the
satisfaction of specified conditions in a contingent share agreement.
Dilution is a reduction in earnings per share or an increase in loss per share resulting from the assumption that
convertible instruments are converted, that options or warrants are exercised, or that ordinary shares are issued upon
the satisfaction of specified conditions.
Options, warrants and their equivalents are financial instruments that give the holder the right to purchase ordinary
shares.
An ordinary share is an equity instrument that is subordinate to all other classes of equity instruments.
A potential ordinary share is a financial instrument or other contract that may entitle its holder to ordinary shares.
Put options on ordinary shares are contracts that give the holder the right to sell ordinary shares at a specified price for a
given period.
6. Ordinary shares participate in profit for the period only after other types of shares such as preference shares have
participated. An entity may have more than one class of ordinary shares. Ordinary shares of the same class have the
same rights to receive dividends.
7. Examples of potential ordinary shares are:
(a)
financial liabilities or equity instruments, including preference shares, that are convertible into ordinary shares;
(b)
options and warrants;
(c)
shares that would be issued upon the satisfaction of conditions resulting from contractual arrangements, such as the
purchase of a business or other assets.
8. Terms defined in Ind AS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, are used in this Standard with the meanings
specified in paragraph 11 of Ind AS 32, unless otherwise noted. Ind AS 32 defines financial instrument, financial asset,
financial liability and equity instrument, and provides guidance on applying those definitions. Ind AS 113, Fair Value
Measurement, defines fair value and sets out requirements for applying that definition.
Measurement
Basic earnings per share
9. An entity shall calculate basic earnings per share amounts for profit or loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of
the parent entity and, if presented, profit or loss from continuing operations attributable to those equity holders.
10. Basic earnings per share shall be calculated by dividing profit or loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the
Page 661/765
----- PAGE 662 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
parent entity (the numerator) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (the denominator) during
the period.
11. The objective of basic earnings per share information is to provide a measure of the interests of each ordinary share
of a parent entity in the performance of the entity over the reporting period.
Earnings
12. For the purpose of calculating basic earnings per share, the amounts attributable to ordinary equity holders of the
parent entity in respect of:
(a)
profit or loss from continuing operations attributable to the parent entity; and
(b)
profit or loss attributable to the parent entity
shall be the amounts in (a) and (b) adjusted for the after-tax amounts of preference dividends, differences arising on the
settlement of preference shares, and other similar effects of preference shares classified as equity.
Where any item of income or expense which is otherwise required to be recognized in profit or loss in accordance with
Indian Accounting Standards is debited or credited to securities premium account/other reserves, the amount in respect
thereof shall be deducted from profit or loss from continuing operations for the purpose of calculating basic earnings per
share.
13. All items of income and expense attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent entity that are recognized in a
period, including tax expense and dividends on preference shares classified as liabilities are included in the
determination of profit or loss for the period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent entity (see Ind AS 1).
14. The after-tax amount of preference dividends that is deducted from profit or loss is:
(a)
the after-tax amount of any preference dividends on non-cumulative preference shares declared in respect of the period;
and
(b)
the after-tax amount of the preference dividends for cumulative preference shares required for the period, whether or not
the dividends have been declared. The amount of preference dividends for the period does not include the amount of
any preference dividends for cumulative preference shares paid or declared during the current period in respect of
previous periods.
15. Preference shares that provide for a low initial dividend to compensate an entity for selling the preference shares at
a discount, or an above-market dividend in later periods to compensate investors for purchasing preference shares at a
premium, are sometimes referred to as increasing rate preference shares. Any original issue discount or premium on
increasing rate preference shares is amortised to retained earnings using the effective interest method and treated as a
preference dividend for the purposes of calculating earnings per share (irrespective of whether such discount or
premium is debited or credited to securities premium account in view of requirements of any law).
16. Preference shares may be repurchased under an entity's tender offer to the holders. The excess of the fair value of
the consideration paid to the preference shareholders over the carrying amount of the preference shares represents a
return to the holders of the preference shares and a charge to retained earnings for the entity. This amount is deducted
in calculating profit or loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent entity.
17. Early conversion of convertible preference shares may be induced by an entity through favourable changes to the
original conversion terms or the payment of additional consideration. The excess of the fair value of the ordinary shares
or other consideration paid over the fair value of the ordinary shares issuable under the original conversion terms is a
return to the preference shareholders, and is deducted in calculating profit or loss attributable to ordinary equity holders
of the parent entity.
18. Any excess of the carrying amount of preference shares over the fair value of the consideration paid to settle them is
added in calculating profit or loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent entity.
Shares
19. For the purpose of calculating basic earnings per share, the number of ordinary shares shall be the weighted
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
20. Using the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period reflects the possibility that the
amount of shareholders' capital varied during the period as a result of a larger or smaller number of shares being
Page 662/765
----- PAGE 663 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
outstanding at any time. The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period is the number
of ordinary shares outstanding at the beginning of the period, adjusted by the number of ordinary shares bought back or
issued during the period multiplied by a time-weighting factor. The time weighting factor is the number of days that the
shares are outstanding as a proportion of the total number of days in the period; a reasonable approximation of the
weighted average is adequate in many circumstances.
21. Shares are usually included in the weighted average number of shares from the date consideration is receivable
(which is generally the date of their issue), for example:
(a)
ordinary shares issued in exchange for cash are included when cash is receivable;
(b)
ordinary shares issued on the voluntary reinvestment of dividends on ordinary or preference shares are included when
dividends are reinvested;
(c)
ordinary shares issued as a result of the conversion of a debt instrument to ordinary shares are included from the date
that interest ceases to accrue;
(d)
ordinary shares issued in place of interest or principal on other financial instruments are included from the date that
interest ceases to accrue;
(e)
ordinary shares issued in exchange for the settlement of a liability of the entity are included from the settlement date;
(f)
ordinary shares issued as consideration for the acquisition of an asset other than cash are included as of the date on
which the acquisition is recognized; and
(g)
ordinary shares issued for the rendering of services to the entity are included as the services are rendered.
The timing of the inclusion of ordinary shares is determined by the terms and conditions attaching to their issue. Due
consideration is given to the substance of any contract associated with the issue.
22. Ordinary shares issued as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination are included in the
weighted average number of shares from the acquisition date. This is because the acquirer incorporates into its
statement of profit and loss the acquiree's profits and losses from that date.
23. Ordinary shares that will be issued upon the conversion of a mandatorily convertible instrument are included in the
calculation of basic earnings per share from the date the contract is entered into.
24. Contingently issuable shares are treated as outstanding and are included in the calculation of basic earnings per
share only from the date when all necessary conditions are satisfied (i.e. the events have occurred). Shares that are
issuable solely after the passage of time are not contingently issuable shares, because the passage of time is a
certainty. Outstanding ordinary shares that are contingently returnable (i.e. subject to recall) are not treated as
outstanding and are excluded from the calculation of basic earnings per share until the date the shares are no longer
subject to recall.
25. [Refer Appendix 1]
26. The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period and for all periods presented shall
be adjusted for events, other than the conversion of potential ordinary shares, that have changed the number of ordinary
shares outstanding without a corresponding change in resources.
27. Ordinary shares may be issued, or the number of ordinary shares outstanding may be reduced, without a
corresponding change in resources. Examples include:
(a)
a capitalisation or bonus issue (sometimes referred to as a stock dividend);
(b)
a bonus element in any other issue, for example a bonus element in a rights issue to existing shareholders;
(c)
a share split; and
(d)
Page 663/765
----- PAGE 664 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
a reverse share split (consolidation of shares).
28. In a capitalisation or bonus issue or a share split, ordinary shares are issued to existing shareholders for no
additional consideration. Therefore, the number of ordinary shares outstanding is increased without an increase in
resources. The number of ordinary shares outstanding before the event is adjusted for the proportionate change in the
number of ordinary shares outstanding as if the event had occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented. For
example, on a two-for-one bonus issue, the number of ordinary shares outstanding before the issue is multiplied by
three to obtain the new total number of ordinary shares, or by two to obtain the number of additional ordinary shares.
29. A consolidation of ordinary shares generally reduces the number of ordinary shares outstanding without a
corresponding reduction in resources. However, when the overall effect is a share repurchase at fair value, the reduction
in the number of ordinary shares outstanding is the result of a corresponding reduction in resources. An example is a
share consolidation combined with a special dividend. The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for
the period in which the combined transaction takes place is adjusted for the reduction in the number of ordinary shares
from the date the special dividend is recognized.
Diluted earnings per share
30. An entity shall calculate diluted earnings per share amounts for profit or loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of
the parent entity and, if presented, profit or loss from continuing operations attributable to those equity holders.
31. For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, an entity shall adjust profit or loss attributable to ordinary
equity holders of the parent entity, and the weighted average number of shares outstanding, for the effects of all dilutive
potential ordinary shares.
32. The objective of diluted earnings per share is consistent with that of basic earnings per share-to provide a measure
of the interest of each ordinary share in the performance of an entity-while giving effect to all dilutive potential ordinary
shares outstanding during the period. As a result:
(a)
profit or loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent entity is increased by the after-tax amount of dividends
and interest recognized in the period in respect of the dilutive potential ordinary shares and is adjusted for any other
changes in income or expense that would result from the conversion of the dilutive potential ordinary shares; and
(b)
the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding is increased by the weighted average number of additional
ordinary shares that would have been outstanding assuming the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Earnings
33. For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, an entity shall adjust profit or loss attributable to ordinary
equity holders of the parent entity, as calculated in accordance with paragraph 12, by the after-tax effect of:
(a)
any dividends or other items related to dilutive potential ordinary shares deducted in arriving at profit or loss attributable
to ordinary equity holders of the parent entity as calculated in accordance with paragraph 12;
(b)
any interest recognized in the period related to dilutive potential ordinary shares; and
(c)
any other changes in income or expense that would result from the conversion of the dilutive potential ordinary shares.
34. After the potential ordinary shares are converted into ordinary shares, the items identified in paragraph 33(a)-(c) no
longer arise. Instead, the new ordinary shares are entitled to participate in profit or loss attributable to ordinary equity
holders of the parent entity. Therefore, profit or loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent entity calculated
in accordance with paragraph 12 is adjusted for the items identified in paragraph 33(a)-(c) and any related taxes. The
expenses associated with potential ordinary shares include transaction costs and discounts accounted for in accordance
with the effective interest method (see Ind AS 109).
35. The conversion of potential ordinary shares may lead to consequential changes in income or expenses. For
example, the reduction of interest expense related to potential ordinary shares and the resulting increase in profit or
reduction in loss may lead to an increase in the expense related to a non-discretionary employee profit-sharing plan. For
the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, profit or loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent
entity is adjusted for any such consequential changes in income or expense.
Shares
Page 664/765
----- PAGE 665 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
36. For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, the number of ordinary shares shall be the weighted
average number of ordinary shares calculated in accordance with paragraphs 19 and 26, plus the weighted average
number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into
ordinary shares. Dilutive potential ordinary shares shall be deemed to have been converted into ordinary shares at the
beginning of the period or, if later, the date of the issue of the potential ordinary shares.
37. Dilutive potential ordinary shares shall be determined independently for each period presented. The number of
dilutive potential ordinary shares included in the year-to-date period is not a weighted average of the dilutive potential
ordinary shares included in each interim computation.
38. Potential ordinary shares are weighted for the period they are outstanding. Potential ordinary shares that are
canceled or allowed to lapse during the period are included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share only for the
portion of the period during which they are outstanding. Potential ordinary shares that are converted into ordinary shares
during the period are included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share from the beginning of the period to the
date of conversion; from the date of conversion, the resulting ordinary shares are included in both basic and diluted
earnings per share.
39. The number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares is determined
from the terms of the potential ordinary shares. When more than one basis of conversion exists, the calculation assumes
the most advantageous conversion rate or exercise price from the standpoint of the holder of the potential ordinary
shares.
40. A subsidiary, joint venture or associate may issue to parties other than the parent or investors with joint control of, or
significant influence over, the investee potential ordinary shares that are convertible into either ordinary shares of the
subsidiary, joint venture or associate, or ordinary shares of the parent or investors with joint control of, or significant
influence (the reporting entity) over, the investee. If these potential ordinary shares of the subsidiary, joint venture or
associate have a dilutive effect on the basic earnings per share of the reporting entity, they are included in the
calculation of diluted earnings per share.
Dilutive potential ordinary shares
41. Potential ordinary shares shall be treated as dilutive when, and only when, their conversion to ordinary shares would
decrease earnings per share or increase loss per share from continuing operations.
42. An entity uses profit or loss from continuing operations attributable to the parent entity as the control number to
establish whether potential ordinary shares are dilutive or anti-dilutive. Profit or loss from continuing operations
attributable to the parent entity is adjusted in accordance with paragraph 12 and excludes items relating to discontinued
operations.
43. Potential ordinary shares are anti-dilutive when their conversion to ordinary shares would increase earnings per
share or decrease loss per share from continuing operations. The calculation of diluted earnings per share does not
assume conversion, exercise, or other issue of potential ordinary shares that would have an anti-dilutive effect on
earnings per share.
44. In determining whether potential ordinary shares are dilutive or anti-dilutive, each issue or series of potential ordinary
shares is considered separately rather than in aggregate. The sequence in which potential ordinary shares are
considered may affect whether they are dilutive. Therefore, to maximise the dilution of basic earnings per share, each
issue or series of potential ordinary shares is considered in sequence from the most dilutive to the least dilutive, i.e.
dilutive potential ordinary shares with the lowest 'earnings per incremental share' are included in the diluted earnings per
share calculation before those with a higher earnings per incremental share. Options and warrants are generally
included first because they do not affect the numerator of the calculation.
Options, warrants and their equivalents
45. For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, an entity shall assume the exercise of dilutive options and
warrants of the entity. The assumed proceeds from these instruments shall be regarded as having been received from
the issue of ordinary shares at the average market price of ordinary shares during the period. The difference between
the number of ordinary shares issued and the number of ordinary shares that would have been issued at the average
market price of ordinary shares during the period shall be treated as an issue of ordinary shares for no consideration.
46. Options and warrants are dilutive when they would result in the issue of ordinary shares for less than the average
market price of ordinary shares during the period. The amount of the dilution is the average market price of ordinary
shares during the period minus the issue price. Therefore, to calculate diluted earnings per share, potential ordinary
Page 665/765
----- PAGE 666 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
shares are treated as consisting of both the following:
(a)
a contract to issue a certain number of the ordinary shares at their average market price during the period. Such
ordinary shares are assumed to be fairly priced and to be neither dilutive nor anti-dilutive. They are ignored in the
calculation of diluted earnings per share.
(b)
a contract to issue the remaining ordinary shares for no consideration. Such ordinary shares generate no proceeds and
have no effect on profit or loss attributable to ordinary shares outstanding. Therefore, such shares are dilutive and are
added to the number of ordinary shares outstanding in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
47. Options and warrants have a dilutive effect only when the average market price of ordinary shares during the period
exceeds the exercise price of the options or warrants (ie they are 'in the money'). Previously reported earnings per share
are not retroactively adjusted to reflect changes in prices of ordinary shares.
47A.
For share options and other share-based payment arrangements to which Ind AS 102, Share-based Payment, applies,
the issue price referred to in paragraph 46 and the exercise price referred to in paragraph 47 shall include the fair value
(measured in accordance with Ind AS 102) of any goods or services to be supplied to the entity in the future under the
share option or other share-based payment arrangement.
48. Employee share options with fixed or determinable terms and non-vested ordinary shares are treated as options in
the calculation of diluted earnings per share, even though they may be contingent on vesting. They are treated as
outstanding on the grant date. Performance-based employee share options are treated as contingently issuable shares
because their issue is contingent upon satisfying specified conditions in addition to the passage of time.
Convertible instruments
49. The dilutive effect of convertible instruments shall be reflected in diluted earnings per share in accordance with
paragraphs 33 and 36.
50. Convertible preference shares are anti-dilutive whenever the amount of the dividend on such shares declared in or
accumulated for the current period per ordinary share obtainable on conversion exceeds basic earnings per share.
Similarly, convertible debt is anti-dilutive whenever its interest (net of tax and other changes in income or expense) per
ordinary share obtainable on conversion exceeds basic earnings per share.
51. The redemption or induced conversion of convertible preference shares may affect only a portion of the previously
outstanding convertible preference shares. In such cases, any excess consideration referred to in paragraph 17 is
attributed to those shares that are redeemed or converted for the purpose of determining whether the remaining
outstanding preference shares are dilutive. The shares redeemed or converted are considered separately from those
shares that are not redeemed or converted.
Contingently issuable shares
52. As in the calculation of basic earnings per share, contingently issuable ordinary shares are treated as outstanding
and included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share if the conditions are satisfied (i.e. the events have
occurred). Contingently issuable shares are included from the beginning of the period (or from the date of the contingent
share agreement, if later). If the conditions are not satisfied, the number of contingently issuable shares included in the
diluted earnings per share calculation is based on the number of shares that would be issuable if the end of the period
were the end of the contingency period. Restatement is not permitted if the conditions are not met when the contingency
period expires.
53. If attainment or maintenance of a specified amount of earnings for a period is the condition for contingent issue and
if that amount has been attained at the end of the reporting period but must be maintained beyond the end of the
reporting period for an additional period, then the additional ordinary shares are treated as outstanding, if the effect is
dilutive, when calculating diluted earnings per share. In that case, the calculation of diluted earnings per share is based
on the number of ordinary shares that would be issued if the amount of earnings at the end of the reporting period were
the amount of earnings at the end of the contingency period. Because earnings may change in a future period, the
calculation of basic earnings per share does not include such contingently issuable ordinary shares until the end of the
contingency period because not all necessary conditions have been satisfied.
54. The number of ordinary shares contingently issuable may depend on the future market price of the ordinary shares.
In that case, if the effect is dilutive, the calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the number of ordinary
Page 666/765
----- PAGE 667 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
shares that would be issued if the market price at the end of the reporting period were the market price at the end of the
contingency period. If the condition is based on an average of market prices over a period of time that extends beyond
the end of the reporting period, the average for the period of time that has lapsed is used. Because the market price may
change in a future period, the calculation of basic earnings per share does not include such contingently issuable
ordinary shares until the end of the contingency period because not all necessary conditions have been satisfied.
55. The number of ordinary shares contingently issuable may depend on future earnings and future prices of the
ordinary shares. In such cases, the number of ordinary shares included in the diluted earnings per share calculation is
based on both conditions (i.e. earnings to date and the current market price at the end of the reporting period).
Contingently issuable ordinary shares are not included in the diluted earnings per share calculation unless both
conditions are met.
56. In other cases, the number of ordinary shares contingently issuable depends on a condition other than earnings or
market price (for example, the opening of a specific number of retail stores). In such cases, assuming that the present
status of the condition remains unchanged until the end of the contingency period, the contingently issuable ordinary
shares are included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share according to the status at the end of the reporting
period.
57. Contingently issuable potential ordinary shares (other than those covered by a contingent share agreement, such as
contingently issuable convertible instruments) are included in the diluted earnings per share calculation as follows:
(a)
an entity determines whether the potential ordinary shares may be assumed to be issuable on the basis of the
conditions specified for their issue in accordance with the contingent ordinary share provisions in paragraphs 52-56; and
(b)
if those potential ordinary shares should be reflected in diluted earnings per share, an entity determines their impact on
the calculation of diluted earnings per share by following the provisions for options and warrants in paragraphs 45-48,
the provisions for convertible instruments in paragraphs 49-51, the provisions for contracts that may be settled in
ordinary shares or cash in paragraphs 58-61, or other provisions, as appropriate.
However, exercise or conversion is not assumed for the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share unless
exercise or conversion of similar outstanding potential ordinary shares that are not contingently issuable is assumed.
Contracts that may be settled in ordinary shares or cash
58. When an entity has issued a contract that may be settled in ordinary shares or cash at the entity's option, the entity
shall presume that the contract will be settled in ordinary shares, and the resulting potential ordinary shares shall be
included in diluted earnings per share if the effect is dilutive.
59. When such a contract is presented for accounting purposes as an asset or a liability, or has an equity component
and a liability component, the entity shall adjust the numerator for any changes in profit or loss that would have resulted
during the period if the contract had been classified wholly as an equity instrument. That adjustment is similar to the
adjustments required in paragraph 33.
60. For contracts that may be settled in ordinary shares or cash at the holder's option, the more dilutive of cash
settlement and share settlement shall be used in calculating diluted earnings per share.
61. An example of a contract that may be settled in ordinary shares or cash is a debt instrument that, on maturity, gives
the entity the unrestricted right to settle the principal amount in cash or in its own ordinary shares. Another example is a
written put option that gives the holder a choice of settling in ordinary shares or cash.
Purchased options
62. Contracts such as purchased put options and purchased call options (ie options held by the entity on its own
ordinary shares) are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because including them would be
anti-dilutive. The put option would be exercised only if the exercise price were higher than the market price and the call
option would be exercised only if the exercise price were lower than the market price.
Written put options
63. Contracts that require the entity to repurchase its own shares, such as written put options and forward purchase
contracts, are reflected in the calculation of diluted earnings per share if the effect is dilutive. If these contracts are 'in the
money' during the period (i.e. the exercise or settlement price is above the average market price for that period), the
potential dilutive effect on earnings per share shall be calculated as follows:
(a)
Page 667/765
----- PAGE 668 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
it shall be assumed that at the beginning of the period sufficient ordinary shares will be issued (at the average market
price during the period) to raise proceeds to satisfy the contract;
(b)
it shall be assumed that the proceeds from the issue are used to satisfy the contract (i.e. to buy back ordinary shares);
and
(c)
the incremental ordinary shares (the difference between the number of ordinary shares assumed issued and the number
of ordinary shares received from satisfying the contract) shall be included in the calculation of diluted earnings per
share.
Retrospective adjustments
64. If the number of ordinary or potential ordinary shares outstanding increases as a result of a capitalisation, bonus
issue or share split, or decreases as a result of a reverse share split, the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per
share for all periods presented shall be adjusted retrospectively. If these changes occur after the reporting period but
before the financial statements are approved for issue, the per share calculations for those and any prior period financial
statements presented shall be based on the new number of shares. The fact that per share calculations reflect such
changes in the number of shares shall be disclosed. In addition, basic and diluted earnings per share of all periods
presented shall be adjusted for the effects of errors and adjustments resulting from changes in accounting policies
accounted for retrospectively.
65. An entity does not restate diluted earnings per share of any prior period presented for changes in the assumptions
used in earnings per share calculations or for the conversion of potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
Presentation
66. An entity shall present in the statement of profit and loss basic and diluted earnings per share for profit or loss from
continuing operations attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the parent entity and for profit or loss attributable to
the ordinary equity holders of the parent entity for the period for each class of ordinary shares that has a different right to
share in profit for the period. An entity shall present basic and diluted earnings per share with equal prominence for all
periods presented.
67. Earnings per share is presented for every period for which a statement of profit and loss is presented. If diluted
earnings per share is reported for at least one period, it shall be reported for all periods presented, even if it equals basic
earnings per share. If basic and diluted earnings per share are equal, dual presentation can be accomplished in one line
in the statement of profit and loss.
67A.
[Refer Appendix 1]
68. An entity that reports a discontinued operation shall disclose the basic and diluted amounts per share for the
discontinued operation either in the statement of profit and loss or in the notes.
68A. [Refer Appendix 1]
69. An entity shall present basic and diluted earnings per share, even if the amounts are negative (i.e. a loss per share).
Disclosure
70. An entity shall disclose the following:
(a)
the amounts used as the numerators in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share, and a reconciliation of those
amounts to profit or loss attributable to the parent entity for the period. The reconciliation shall include the individual
effect of each class of instruments that affects earnings per share.
(b)
the weighted average number of ordinary shares used as the denominator in calculating basic and diluted earnings per
share, and a reconciliation of these denominators to each other. The reconciliation shall include the individual effect of
each class of instruments that affects earnings per share.
(c)
instruments (including contingently issuable shares) that could potentially dilute basic earnings per share in the future,
but were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because they are anti-dilutive for the period(s)
presented.
(d)
Page 668/765
----- PAGE 669 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
a description of ordinary share transactions or potential ordinary share transactions, other than those accounted for in
accordance with paragraph 64, that occur after the reporting period and that would have changed significantly the
number of ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares outstanding at the end of the period if those transactions had
occurred before the end of the reporting period.
71. Examples of transactions in paragraph 70(d) include:
(a)
an issue of shares for cash;
(b)
an issue of shares when the proceeds are used to repay debt or preference shares outstanding at the end of the
reporting period;
(c)
the redemption of ordinary shares outstanding;
(d)
the conversion or exercise of potential ordinary shares outstanding at the end of the reporting period into ordinary
shares;
(e)
an issue of options, warrants, or convertible instruments; and
(f)
the achievement of conditions that would result in the issue of contingently issuable shares. Earnings per share amounts
are not adjusted for such transactions occurring after the reporting period because such transactions do not affect the
amount of capital used to produce profit or loss for the period.
72. Financial instruments and other contracts generating potential ordinary shares may incorporate terms and conditions
that affect the measurement of basic and diluted earnings per share. These terms and conditions may determine
whether any potential ordinary shares are dilutive and, if so, the effect on the weighted average number of shares
outstanding and any consequent adjustments to profit or loss attributable to ordinary equity holders. The disclosure of
the terms and conditions of such financial instruments and other contracts is encouraged, if not otherwise required (see
Ind AS 107, Financial Instruments: Disclosures).
73. If an entity discloses, in addition to basic and diluted earnings per share, amounts per share using a reported
component of the statement of profit and loss other than one required by this Standard, such amounts shall be
calculated using the weighted average number of ordinary shares determined in accordance with this Standard. Basic
and diluted amounts per share relating to such a component shall be disclosed with equal prominence and presented in
the notes. An entity shall indicate the basis on which the numerator(s) is (are) determined, including whether amounts
per share are before tax or after tax. If a component of the statement of profit and loss is used that is not reported as a
line item in the statement of profit and loss, a reconciliation shall be provided between the component used and a line
item that is reported in the statement of profit and loss.
73A.
[Refer Appendix 1]
Appendix A
Application guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Profit or loss attributable to the parent entity
A1 For the purpose of calculating earnings per share based on the consolidated financial statements, profit or loss
attributable to the parent entity refers to profit or loss of the consolidated entity after adjusting for non-controlling
interests.
Rights issues
A2 The issue of ordinary shares at the time of exercise or conversion of potential ordinary shares does not usually give
rise to a bonus element. This is because the potential ordinary shares are usually issued for fair value, resulting in a
proportionate change in the resources available to the entity. In a rights issue, however, the exercise price is often less
than the fair value of the shares. Therefore, as noted in paragraph 27(b), such a rights issue includes a bonus element.
If a rights issue is offered to all existing shareholders, the number of ordinary shares to be used in calculating basic and
diluted earnings per share for all periods before the rights issue is the number of ordinary shares outstanding before the
Page 669/765
----- PAGE 670 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
issue, multiplied by the following factor:
Fair value per share immediately before the exercise of rightsTheoretical ex-rights fair value per share
The theoretical ex-rights fair value per share is calculated by adding the aggregate fair value of the shares immediately
before the exercise of the rights to the proceeds from the exercise of the rights, and dividing by the number of shares
outstanding after the exercise of the rights. Where the rights are to be publicly traded separately from the shares before
the exercise date, fair value is measured at the close of the last day on which the shares are traded together with the
rights.
Control number
A3 To illustrate the application of the control number notion described in paragraphs 42 and 43, assume that an entity
has profit from continuing operations attributable to the parent entity of Rs. 4,800, a loss from discontinued operations
attributable to the parent entity of (Rs. 7,200), a loss attributable to the parent entity of (Rs. 2,400), and 2,000 ordinary
shares and 400 potential ordinary shares outstanding. The entity's basic earnings per share is Rs. 2.40 for continuing
operations, (Rs. 3.60) for discontinued operations and (Rs. 1.20) for the loss. The 400 potential ordinary shares are
included in the diluted earnings per share calculation because the resulting Rs. 2.00 earnings per share for continuing
operations is dilutive, assuming no profit or loss impact of those 400 potential ordinary shares. Because profit from
continuing operations attributable to the parent entity is the control number, the entity also includes those 400 potential
ordinary shares in the calculation of the other earnings per share amounts, even though the resulting earnings per share
amounts are anti-dilutive to their comparable basic earnings per share amounts, i.e. the loss per share is less [(Rs. 3.00)
per share for the loss from discontinued operations and (Rs.1.00) per share for the loss].
Average market price of ordinary shares
A4 For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, the average market price of ordinary shares assumed to be
issued is calculated on the basis of the average market price of the ordinary shares during the period. Theoretically,
every market transaction for an entity's ordinary shares could be included in the determination of the average market
price. As a practical matter, however, a simple average of weekly or monthly prices is usually adequate.
A5 Generally, closing market prices are adequate for calculating the average market price. When prices fluctuate widely,
however, an average of the high and low prices usually produces a more representative price. The method used to
calculate the average market price is used consistently unless it is no longer representative because of changed
conditions. For example, an entity that uses closing market prices to calculate the average market price for several
years of relatively stable prices might change to an average of high and low prices if prices start fluctuating greatly and
the closing market prices no longer produce a representative average price.
Options, warrants and their equivalents
A6 Options or warrants to purchase convertible instruments are assumed to be exercised to purchase the convertible
instrument whenever the average prices of both the convertible instrument and the ordinary shares obtainable upon
conversion are above the exercise price of the options or warrants. However, exercise is not assumed unless
conversion of similar outstanding convertible instruments, if any, is also assumed.
A7 Options or warrants may permit or require the tendering of debt or other instruments of the entity (or its parent or a
subsidiary) in payment of all or a portion of the exercise price. In the calculation of diluted earnings per share, those
options or warrants have a dilutive effect if (a) the average market price of the related ordinary shares for the period
exceeds the exercise price or (b) the selling price of the instrument to be tendered is below that at which the instrument
may be tendered under the option or warrant agreement and the resulting discount establishes an effective exercise
price below the market price of the ordinary shares obtainable upon exercise. In the calculation of diluted earnings per
share, those options or warrants are assumed to be exercised and the debt or other instruments are assumed to be
tendered. If tendering cash is more advantageous to the option or warrant holder and the contract permits tendering
cash, tendering of cash is assumed. Interest (net of tax) on any debt assumed to be tendered is added back as an
adjustment to the numerator.
A8 Similar treatment is given to preference shares that have similar provisions or to other instruments that have
conversion options that permit the investor to pay cash for a more favourable conversion rate.
A9 The underlying terms of certain options or warrants may require the proceeds received from the exercise of those
instruments to be applied to redeem debt or other instruments of the entity (or its parent or a subsidiary). In the
calculation of diluted earnings per share, those options or warrants are assumed to be exercised and the proceeds
applied to purchase the debt at its average market price rather than to purchase ordinary shares. However, the excess
Page 670/765
----- PAGE 671 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
proceeds received from the assumed exercise over the amount used for the assumed purchase of debt are considered
(i.e. assumed to be used to buy back ordinary shares) in the diluted earnings per share calculation. Interest (net of tax)
on any debt assumed to be purchased is added back as an adjustment to the numerator.
Written put options
A10 To illustrate the application of paragraph 63, assume that an entity has outstanding 120 written put options on its
ordinary shares with an exercise price of Rs. 35. The average market price of its ordinary shares for the period is Rs. 28.
In calculating diluted earnings per share, the entity assumes that it issued 150 shares at Rs. 28 per share at the
beginning of the period to satisfy its put obligation of Rs. 4,200. The difference between the 150 ordinary shares issued
and the 120 ordinary shares received from satisfying the put option (30 incremental ordinary shares) is added to the
denominator in calculating diluted earnings per share.
Instruments of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates
A11 Potential ordinary shares of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate convertible into either ordinary shares of the
subsidiary, joint venture or associate, or ordinary shares of the parent or investors with joint control of, or significant
influence (the reporting entity) over, the investee are included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share as follows:
(a)
instruments issued by a subsidiary, joint venture or associate that enable their holders to obtain ordinary shares of the
subsidiary, joint venture or associate are included in calculating the diluted earnings per share data of the subsidiary,
joint venture or associate. Those earnings per share are then included in the reporting entity's earnings per share
calculations based on the reporting entity's holding of the instruments of the subsidiary, joint venture or associate.
(b)
instruments of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate that are convertible into the reporting entity's ordinary shares are
considered among the potential ordinary shares of the reporting entity for the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per
share. Likewise, options or warrants issued by a subsidiary, joint venture or associate to purchase ordinary shares of the
reporting entity are considered among the potential ordinary shares of the reporting entity in the calculation of
consolidated diluted earnings per share.
A12 For the purpose of determining the earnings per share effect of instruments issued by a reporting entity that are
convertible into ordinary shares of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the instruments are assumed to be converted
and the numerator (profit or loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent entity) adjusted as necessary in
accordance with paragraph 33.
In addition to those adjustments, the numerator is adjusted for any change in the profit or loss recorded by the reporting
entity (such as dividend income or equity method income) that is attributable to the increase in the number of ordinary
shares of the subsidiary, joint venture or associate outstanding as a result of the assumed conversion. The denominator
of the diluted earnings per share calculation is not affected because the number of ordinary shares of the reporting entity
outstanding would not change upon assumed conversion.
Participating equity instruments and two-class ordinary shares
A13 The equity of some entities includes:
(a)
instruments that participate in dividends with ordinary shares according to a predetermined formula (for example, two for
one) with, at times, an upper limit on the extent of participation (for example, up to, but not beyond, a specified amount
per share).
(b)
a class of ordinary shares with a different dividend rate from that of another class of ordinary shares but without prior or
senior rights.
A14 For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, conversion is assumed for those instruments described in
paragraph A13 that are convertible into ordinary shares if the effect is dilutive. For those instruments that are not
convertible into a class of ordinary shares, profit or loss for the period is allocated to the different classes of shares and
participating equity instruments in accordance with their dividend rights or other rights to participate in undistributed
earnings. To calculate basic and diluted earnings per share:
(a)
profit or loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent entity is adjusted (a profit reduced and a loss increased)
by the amount of dividends declared in the period for each class of shares and by the contractual amount of dividends
Page 671/765
----- PAGE 672 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(or interest on participating bonds) that must be paid for the period (for example, unpaid cumulative dividends).
(b)
the remaining profit or loss is allocated to ordinary shares and participating equity instruments to the extent that each
instrument shares in earnings as if all of the profit or loss for the period had been distributed. The total profit or loss
allocated to each class of equity instrument is determined by adding together the amount allocated for dividends and the
amount allocated for a participation feature.
(c)
the total amount of profit or loss allocated to each class of equity instrument is divided by the number of outstanding
instruments to which the earnings are allocated to determine the earnings per share for the instrument.
For the calculation of diluted earnings per share, all potential ordinary shares assumed to have been issued are included
in outstanding ordinary shares.
Partly paid shares
A15 Where ordinary shares are issued but not fully paid, they are treated in the calculation of basic earnings per share
as a fraction of an ordinary share to the extent that they were entitled to participate in dividends during the period
relative to a fully paid ordinary share.
A16 To the extent that partly paid shares are not entitled to participate in dividends during the period they are treated as
the equivalent of warrants or options in the calculation of diluted earnings per share. The unpaid balance is assumed to
represent proceeds used to purchase ordinary shares. The number of shares included in diluted earnings per share is
the difference between the number of shares subscribed and the number of shares assumed to be purchased.
Appendix 1
Note : This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 33 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 33, Earnings per Share, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 33, Earnings per Share
1. IAS 33 provides that when an entity presents both consolidated financial statements and separate financial
statements, it may give EPS related information in consolidated financial statements only, whereas, the Ind AS 33
requires EPS related information to be disclosed both in consolidated financial statements and separate financial
statements.
2. Different terminology is used, as used in existing laws e.g., the term 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of
'Statement of comprehensive income'. The words 'approval of the financial statements for issue' have been used instead
of 'authorisation of the financial statements for issue' in the context of financial statements considered for the purpose of
events after the reporting period.
3. Paragraph 2 of IAS 33 requires that the entire standard applies to:
(a)
the separate or individual financial statements of an entity:
(i)
whose ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares are traded in a public market (a domestic or foreign stock exchange
or an over-the-counter market, including local and regional markets) or
(ii)
that files, or is in the process of filing, its financial statements with a Securities Regulator or other regulatory organisation
for the purpose of issuing ordinary shares in a public market; and
(b)
the consolidated financial statements of a group with a parent:
(i)
whose ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares are traded in a public market (a domestic or foreign stock exchange
or an over-the-counter market, including local and regional markets) or
(ii)
that files, or is in the process of filing, its financial statements with a Securities Regulator or other regulatory organisation
for the purpose of issuing ordinary shares in a public market.
It also requires that an entity that discloses earnings per share shall calculate and disclose earnings per share in
accordance with this Standard.
Page 672/765
----- PAGE 673 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
The above have been deleted in the Ind AS as the applicability or exemptions to the Ind ASs is governed by the
Companies Act and the Rules made thereunder. However, the paragraph number has been retained in Ind AS 33 to
maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 33.
4. Paragraph 4 has been modified in Ind AS 33 to clarify that an entity shall not present in separate financial statements,
earnings per share based on the information given in consolidated financial statements, besides requiring as in IAS 33,
that earnings per share based on the information given in separate financial statements shall not be presented in the
consolidated financial statements.
5. In Ind AS 33, a paragraph has been added after paragraph 12 on the following lines:
"Where any item of income or expense which is otherwise required to be recognized in profit or loss in accordance with
accounting standards is debited or credited to securities premium account/other reserves, the amount in respect thereof
shall be deducted from profit or loss from continuing operations for the purpose of calculating basic earnings per share."
6. In Ind AS 33, paragraph 15 has been amended by adding the phrase, 'irrespective of whether such discount or
premium is debited or credited to securities premium account in view of requirements of any law' to further clarify that
such discount or premium shall also be amortised to retained earnings.
7. Requirements regarding disclosure of amounts per share using a reported component, basic and diluted earnings per
share and basic and diluted earnings per share for discontinued operations in the separate income statement, where
separate income statement is presented under following paragraphs of IAS 33 have been deleted:
(i)
paragraph 4A
(ii)
paragraph 67A
(iii)
paragraph 68A
(iv)
paragraph 73A
This change is consequential to the removal of option regarding the two statement approach in Ind AS 1. Ind AS 1 only
requires that the components of profit or loss and components of other comprehensive income shall be presented as a
part of the statement of profit and loss. However, paragraph numbers have been retained in Ind AS 33 to maintain
consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 33.
8. Paragraph number 25 appears as 'Deleted' in IAS 33. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS
33, the paragraph number is retained in Ind AS 33.
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 34
Interim Financial Reporting
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the minimum content of an interim financial report and to prescribe the
principles for recognition and measurement in complete or condensed financial statements for an interim period. Timely
and reliable interim financial reporting improves the ability of investors, creditors, and others to understand an entity's
capacity to generate earnings and cash flows and its financial condition and liquidity.
Scope
1. This Standard does not mandate which entities should be required to publish interim financial reports, how frequently,
or how soon after the end of an interim period. However, Governments, securities regulators, stock exchanges, and
accountancy bodies often require entities whose debt or equity securities are publicly traded to publish interim [financial
reports]
[Unaudited Financial Results required to be prepared and presented under Clause 41 of Listing Agreement with stock
exchanges is not an 'Interim Financial Report' as defined in paragraph 4 of this Standard when it reclassifies items in its
financial statements in accordance with paragraphs 40A-40D of Ind AS 1.]
. This Standard applies if an entity is required or elects to publish an interim financial report in accordance with Indian
Accounting Standards (Ind ASs). [Refer Appendix 1]
2. Each financial report, annual or interim, is evaluated on its own for conformity to Ind ASs. The fact that an entity may
Page 673/765
----- PAGE 674 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
not have provided interim financial reports during a particular financial year or may have provided interim financial
reports that do not comply with this Standard does not prevent the entity's annual financial statements from conforming
to Ind ASs if they otherwise do so.
3. If an entity's interim financial report is described as complying with Ind ASs, it must comply with all of the requirements
of this Standard. Paragraph 19 requires certain disclosures in that regard.
Definitions
4. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Interim period is a financial reporting period shorter than a full financial year.
Interim financial report means a financial report containing either a complete set of financial statements (as described in
Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, or a set of condensed financial statements (as described in this
Standard) for an interim period.
Content of an interim financial report
5. Ind AS 1 defines a complete set of financial statements as including the following components:
(a)
a balance sheet as at the end of the period ;
(b)
a statement of profit and loss for the period;
(c)
a statement of changes in equity for the period;
(d)
a statement of cash flows for the period;
(e)
[ notes, comprising significant accounting policies and other explanatory information;]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(ea)
comparative information in respect of the preceding period as specified in paragraphs 38 and 38A of Ind AS 1; and
(f)
a balance sheet as at the beginning of the preceding period when an entity applies an accounting policy retrospectively
or makes a retrospective restatement of items in its financial statements, or
6. In the interest of timeliness and cost considerations and to avoid repetition of information previously reported, an
entity may be required to or may elect to provide less information at interim dates as compared with its annual financial
statements. This Standard defines the minimum content of an interim financial report as including condensed financial
statements and selected explanatory notes. The interim financial report is intended to provide an update on the latest
complete set of annual financial statements. Accordingly, it focuses on new activities, events, and circumstances and
does not duplicate information previously reported.
7. Nothing in this Standard is intended to prohibit or discourage an entity from publishing a complete set of financial
statements (as described in Ind AS 1) in its interim financial report, rather than condensed financial statements and
selected explanatory notes. Nor does this Standard prohibit or discourage an entity from including in condensed interim
financial statements more than the minimum line items or selected explanatory notes as set out in this Standard. The
recognition and measurement guidance in this Standard applies also to complete financial statements for an interim
period, and such statements would include all of the disclosures required by this Standard (particularly the selected note
disclosures in paragraph 16A) as well as those required by other Ind ASs.
Minimum components of an interim financial report
8. An interim financial report shall include, at a minimum, the following components:
(a)
a condensed balance sheet ;
(b)
a condensed statement of profit and loss;
(c)
a condensed statement of changes in equity;
(d)
Page 674/765
----- PAGE 675 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
a condensed statement of cash flows; and
(e)
selected explanatory notes.
8A. [Refer Appendix 1]
Form and content of interim financial statements
9. If an entity publishes a complete set of financial statements in its interim financial report, the form and content of those
statements shall conform to the requirements of Ind AS 1 for a complete set of financial statements.
10. If an entity publishes a set of condensed financial statements in its interim financial report, those condensed
statements shall include, at a minimum, each of the headings and subtotals that were included in its most recent annual
financial statements and the selected explanatory notes as required by this Standard. Additional line items or notes shall
be included if their omission would make the condensed interim financial statements misleading.
11. In the statement that presents the components of profit or loss for an interim period, an entity shall present basic and
diluted earnings per share for that period when the entity is within the scope of Ind AS 33, Earnings per Share.
11A. [Refer Appendix 1]
12. [Refer Appendix 1]
13. [Refer Appendix 1]
14. An interim financial report is prepared on a consolidated basis if the entity's most recent annual financial statements
were consolidated statements. The parent's separate financial statements are not consistent or comparable with the
consolidated statements in the most recent annual financial report. If an entity's annual financial report included the
parent's separate financial statements in addition to consolidated financial statements, this Standard neither requires nor
prohibits the inclusion of the parent's separate statements in the entity's interim financial report.
Significant events and transactions
15. An entity shall include in its interim financial report an explanation of events and transactions that are significant to
an understanding of the changes in financial position and performance of the entity since the end of the last annual
reporting period. Information disclosed in relation to those events and transactions shall update the relevant information
presented in the most recent annual financial report.
15A. A user of an entity's interim financial report will have access to the most recent annual financial report of that entity.
Therefore, it is unnecessary for the notes to an interim financial report to provide relatively insignificant updates to the
information that was reported in the notes in the most recent annual financial report.
15B.
The following is a list of events and transactions for which disclosures would be required if they are significant: the list is
not exhaustive.
(a)
the write-down of inventories to net realisable value and the reversal of such a write-down;
(b)
[ recognition of a loss from the impairment of financial assets, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, assets
arising from contracts with customers, or other assets, and the reversal of such an impairment loss;]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(c)
the reversal of any provisions for the costs of restructuring;
(d)
acquisitions and disposals of items of property, plant and equipment;
(e)
commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment;
(f)
litigation settlements;
(g)
corrections of prior period errors;
(h)
changes in the business or economic circumstances that affect the fair value of the entity's financial assets and financial
liabilities, whether those assets or liabilities are recognized at fair value or amortised cost;
Page 675/765
----- PAGE 676 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(i)
any loan default or breach of a loan agreement that has not been remedied on or before the end of the reporting period;
(j)
related party transactions;
(k)
transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments;
(l)
changes in the classification of financial assets as a result of a change in the purpose or use of those assets; and
(m)
changes in contingent liabilities or contingent assets.
15C.
Individual Ind ASs provide guidance regarding disclosure requirements for many of the items listed in paragraph 15B.
When an event or transaction is significant to an understanding of the changes in an entity's financial position or
performance since the last annual reporting period, its interim financial report should provide an explanation of and an
update to the relevant information included in the financial statements of the last annual reporting period.
16.
-18. [Refer Appendix 1]
Other Disclosures
16A. [ In addition to disclosing significant events and transactions in accordance with paragraphs 15-15C, an entity shall
include the following information, in the notes to its interim financial statements or elsewhere in the interim financial
report. The following disclosures shall be given either in the interim financial statements or incorporated by
cross-reference from the interim financial statements to some other statement (such as management commentary or
risk report) that is available to users of the financial statements on the same terms as the interim financial statements
and at the same time. If users of the financial statements do not have access to the information incorporated by
cross-reference on the same terms and at the same time, the interim financial report is incomplete. The information shall
normally be reported on a financial year-to-date basis.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 365(E), dated 30.3.2016 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(a)
a statement that the same accounting policies and methods of computation are followed in the interim financial
statements as compared with the most recent annual financial statements or, if those policies or methods have been
changed, a description of the nature and effect of the change.
(b)
explanatory comments about the seasonality or cyclicality of interim operations.
(c)
the nature and amount of items affecting assets, liabilities, equity, net income or cash flows that are unusual because of
their nature, size or incidence.
(d)
the nature and amount of changes in estimates of amounts reported in prior interim periods of the current financial year
or changes in estimates of amounts reported in prior financial years.
(e)
issues, repurchases and repayments of debt and equity securities.
(f)
dividends paid (aggregate or per share) separately for [ordinary shares and other shares]
[Here 'ordinary' shares refer to 'equity' shares]
.
(g)
the following segment information (disclosure of segment information is required in an entity's interim financial report
only if Ind AS 108, Operating Segments, requires that entity to disclose segment information in its annual financial
statements):
(i)
revenues from external customers, if included in the measure of segment profit or loss reviewed by the chief operating
Page 676/765
----- PAGE 677 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
decision maker or otherwise regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker.
(ii)
inter-segment revenues, if included in the measure of segment profit or loss reviewed by the chief operating decision
maker or otherwise regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker.
(iii)
a measure of segment profit or loss.
(iv)
a measure of total assets and liabilities for a particular reportable segment if such amounts are regularly provided to the
chief operating decision maker and if there has been a material change from the amount disclosed in the last annual
financial statements for that reportable segment.
(v)
a description of differences from the last annual financial statements in the basis of segmentation or in the basis of
measurement of segment profit or loss.
(vi)
a reconciliation of the total of the reportable segments' measures of profit or loss to the entity's profit or loss before tax
expense (tax income) and discontinued operations. However, if an entity allocates to reportable segments items such as
tax expense (tax income), the entity may reconcile the total of the segments' measures of profit or loss to profit or loss
after those items. Material reconciling items shall be separately identified and described in that reconciliation.
(h)
events after the interim period that have not been reflected in the financial statements for the interim period.
(i)
the effect of changes in the composition of the entity during the interim period, including business combinations,
obtaining or losing control of subsidiaries and long-term investments, restructurings, and discontinued operations. In the
case of business combinations, the entity shall disclose the information required by Ind AS 103, Business Combinations.
(j)
for financial instruments, the disclosures about fair value required by paragraphs 91-93(h), 94-96, 98 and 99 of Ind AS
113, Fair Value Measurement, and paragraphs 25, 26 and 28-30 of Ind AS 107, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
(k)
for entities becoming, or ceasing to be, investment entities, as defined in Ind AS 110, Consolidated Financial
Statements, the disclosures in Ind AS 112, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities paragraph 9B.
(l)
[ the disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers required by paragraphs 114-115 of Ind AS 115, Revenue
from Contracts with Customers.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Disclosure of compliance with Ind ASs
19. If an entity's interim financial report is in compliance with this Standard, that fact shall be disclosed. An interim
financial report shall not be described as complying with Ind ASs unless it complies with all of the requirements of Ind
ASs.
Periods for which interim financial statements are required to be presented
20. Interim reports shall include interim financial statements (condensed or complete) for periods as follows:
(a)
balance sheet as of the end of the current interim period and a comparative balance sheet as of the end of the
immediately preceding financial year.
(b)
statements of profit and loss for the current interim period and cumulatively for the current financial year to date, with
comparative statements of profit and loss for the comparable interim periods (current and year-to-date) of the
immediately preceding financial year.
(c)
statement of changes in equity cumulatively for the current financial year to date, with a comparative statement for the
comparable year-to-date period of the immediately preceding financial year.
(d)
Page 677/765
----- PAGE 678 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
statement of cash flows cumulatively for the current financial year to date, with a comparative statement for the
comparable year-to-date period of the immediately preceding financial year.
21. For an entity whose business is highly seasonal, financial information for the twelve months up to the end of the
interim period and comparative information for the prior twelve-month period may be useful. Accordingly, entities whose
business is highly seasonal are encouraged to consider reporting such information in addition to the information called
for in the preceding paragraph.
22. [Refer Appendix 1]
Materiality
23. In deciding how to recognise, measure, classify, or disclose an item for interim financial reporting purposes,
materiality shall be assessed in relation to the interim period financial data. In making assessments of materiality, it shall
be recognized that interim measurements may rely on estimates to a greater extent than measurements of annual
financial data.
24. Ind AS 1 and Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, define an item as material
if its omission or misstatement could influence the economic decisions of users of the financial statements. Ind AS 1
requires separate disclosure of material items, including (for example) discontinued operations, and Ind AS 8 requires
disclosure of changes in accounting estimates, errors, and changes in accounting policies. The two Standards do not
contain quantified guidance as to materiality.
25. While judgement is always required in assessing materiality, this Standard bases the recognition and disclosure
decision on data for the interim period by itself for reasons of understandability of the interim figures. Thus, for example,
unusual items, changes in accounting policies or estimates, and errors are recognized and disclosed on the basis of
materiality in relation to interim period data to avoid misleading inferences that might result from non-disclosure. The
overriding goal is to ensure that an interim financial report includes all information that is relevant to understanding an
entity's financial position and performance during the interim period.
Disclosure in annual financial statements
26. If an estimate of an amount reported in an interim period is changed significantly during the final interim period of the
financial year but a separate financial report is not published for that final interim period, the nature and amount of that
change in estimate shall be disclosed in a note to the annual financial statements for that financial year.
27. Ind AS 8 requires disclosure of the nature and (if practicable) the amount of a change in estimate that either has a
material effect in the current period or is expected to have a material effect in subsequent periods. Paragraph 16A(d) of
this Standard requires similar disclosure in an interim financial report. Examples include changes in estimate in the final
interim period relating to inventory write-downs, restructurings, or impairment losses that were reported in an earlier
interim period of the financial year. The disclosure required by the preceding paragraph is consistent with the Ind AS 8
requirement and is intended to be narrow in scope-relating only to the change in estimate. An entity is not required to
include additional interim period financial information in its annual financial statements.
Recognition and measurement
Same accounting policies as annual
28. An entity shall apply the same accounting policies in its interim financial statements as are applied in its annual
financial statements, except for accounting policy changes made after the date of the most recent annual financial
statements that are to be reflected in the next annual financial statements. However, the frequency of an entity's
reporting (annual, half-yearly, or quarterly) shall not affect the measurement of its annual results. To achieve that
objective, measurements for interim reporting purposes shall be made on a year-to-date basis.
29. Requiring that an entity apply the same accounting policies in its interim financial statements as in its annual
statements may seem to suggest that interim period measurements are made as if each interim period stands alone as
an independent reporting period. However, by providing that the frequency of an entity's reporting shall not affect the
measurement of its annual results, paragraph 28 acknowledges that an interim period is a part of a larger financial year.
Year-to-date measurements may involve changes in estimates of amounts reported in prior interim periods of the current
financial year. But the principles for recognising assets, liabilities, income, and expenses for interim periods are the
same as in annual financial statements.
30. To illustrate:
(a)
the principles for recognising and measuring losses from inventory write-downs, restructurings, or impairments in an
Page 678/765
----- PAGE 679 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
interim period are the same as those that an entity would follow if it prepared only annual financial statements. However,
if such items are recognized and measured in one interim period and the estimate changes in a subsequent interim
period of that financial year, the original estimate is changed in the subsequent interim period either by accrual of an
additional amount of loss or by reversal of the previously recognized amount;
(b)
a cost that does not meet the definition of an asset at the end of an interim period is not deferred in the balance sheet
either to await future information as to whether it has met the definition of an asset or to smooth earnings over interim
periods within a financial year; and
(c)
income tax expense is recognized in each interim period based on the best estimate of the weighted average annual
income tax rate expected for the full financial year. Amounts accrued for income tax expense in one interim period may
have to be adjusted in a subsequent interim period of that financial year if the estimate of the annual income tax rate
changes.
31. Under the Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements in accordance with Indian
Accounting Standards (the Framework) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, recognition is the
'process of incorporating in the balance sheet or statement of profit and loss an item that meets the definition of an
element and satisfies the criteria for recognition'. The definitions of assets, liabilities, income, and expenses are
fundamental to recognition, at the end of both annual and interim financial reporting periods.
32. For assets, the same tests of future economic benefits apply at interim dates and at the end of an entity's financial
year. Costs that, by their nature, would not qualify as assets at financial year-end would not qualify at interim dates
either. Similarly, a liability at the end of an interim reporting period must represent an existing obligation at that date, just
as it must at the end of an annual reporting period.
33. An essential characteristic of income (revenue) and expenses is that the related inflows and outflows of assets and
liabilities have already taken place. If those inflows or outflows have taken place, the related revenue and expense are
recognized; otherwise they are not recognized. The Framework says that 'expenses are recognized in the statement of
profit and loss when a decrease in future economic benefits related to a decrease in an asset or an increase of a liability
has arisen that can be measured reliably... [The] Framework does not allow the recognition of items in the balance sheet
which do not meet the definition of assets or liabilities.'
34. In measuring the assets, liabilities, income, expenses, and cash flows reported in its financial statements, an entity
that reports only annually is able to take into account information that becomes available throughout the financial year.
Its measurements are, in effect, on a year-to-date basis.
35. An entity that reports half-yearly uses information available by mid-year or shortly thereafter in making the
measurements in its financial statements for the first six-month period and information available by year-end or shortly
thereafter for the twelve-month period. The twelve-month measurements will reflect possible changes in estimates of
amounts reported for the first six-month period. The amounts reported in the interim financial report for the first
six-month period are not retrospectively adjusted. Paragraphs 16A(d) and 26 require, however, that the nature and
amount of any significant changes in estimates be disclosed.
36. An entity that reports more frequently than half-yearly measures income and expenses on a year-to-date basis for
each interim period using information available when each set of financial statements is being prepared. Amounts of
income and expenses reported in the current interim period will reflect any changes in estimates of amounts reported in
prior interim periods of the financial year. The amounts reported in prior interim periods are not retrospectively adjusted.
Paragraphs 16A(d) and 26 require, however, that the nature and amount of any significant changes in estimates be
disclosed.
Revenues received seasonally, cyclically, or occasionally
37. Revenues that are received seasonally, cyclically, or occasionally within a financial year shall not be anticipated or
deferred as of an interim date if anticipation or deferral would not be appropriate at the end of the entity's financial year.
38. Examples include dividend revenue, royalties, and Government grants. Additionally, some entities consistently earn
more revenues in certain interim periods of a financial year than in other interim periods, for example, seasonal
revenues of retailers. Such revenues are recognized when they occur.
Costs incurred unevenly during the financial year
39. Costs that are incurred unevenly during an entity's financial year shall be anticipated or deferred for interim reporting
Page 679/765
----- PAGE 680 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
purposes if, and only if, it is also appropriate to anticipate or defer that type of cost at the end of the financial year.
40. [Refer Appendix 1]
Use of estimates
41. The measurement procedures to be followed in an interim financial report shall be designed to ensure that the
resulting information is reliable and that all material financial information that is relevant to an understanding of the
financial position or performance of the entity is appropriately disclosed. While measurements in both annual and interim
financial reports are often based on reasonable estimates, the preparation of interim financial reports generally will
require a greater use of estimation methods than annual financial reports.
42. [Refer Appendix 1]
Restatement of previously reported interim periods
43. A change in accounting policy, other than one for which the transition is specified by a new Ind AS, shall be reflected
by:
(a)
restating the financial statements of prior interim periods of the current financial year and the comparable interim periods
of any prior financial years that will be restated in the annual financial statements in accordance with Ind AS 8; or
(b)
when it is impracticable to determine the cumulative effect at the beginning of the financial year of applying a new
accounting policy to all prior periods, adjusting the financial statements of prior interim periods of the current financial
year, and comparable interim periods of prior financial years to apply the new accounting policy prospectively from the
earliest date practicable.
44. One objective of the preceding principle is to ensure that a single accounting policy is applied to a particular class of
transactions throughout an entire financial year. Under Ind AS 8, a change in accounting policy is reflected by
retrospective application, with restatement of prior period financial data as far back as is practicable. However, if the
cumulative amount of the adjustment relating to prior financial years is impracticable to determine, then under Ind AS 8
the new policy is applied prospectively from the earliest date practicable. The effect of the principle in paragraph 43 is to
require that within the current financial year any change in accounting policy is applied either retrospectively or, if that is
not practicable, prospectively, from no later than the beginning of the financial year.
45. To allow accounting changes to be reflected as of an interim date within the financial year would allow two differing
accounting policies to be applied to a particular class of transactions within a single financial year. The result would be
interim allocation difficulties, obscured operating results, and complicated analysis and understandability of interim
period information.
[Effective date and transition
46. *
47. *
48. *
49. *
50. *
51. *
52. *
53. *
54. *
* Refer Appendix 1
55. As a consequence of issuance of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, paragraph 15B and 16A are
amended. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 115.]
[Inserted by Notification No. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix A
Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Background
1. An entity is required to assess goodwill for impairment at the end of each reporting period, and, if required, to
recognise an impairment loss at that date in accordance with Ind AS 36. However, at the end of a subsequent reporting
Page 680/765
----- PAGE 681 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
period, conditions may have so changed that the impairment loss would have been reduced or avoided had the
impairment assessment been made only at that date. This appendix provides guidance on whether such impairment
losses should ever be reversed.
2. The appendix addresses the interaction between the requirements of Ind AS 34 and the recognition of impairment
losses on goodwill in Ind AS 36, and the effect of that interaction on subsequent interim and annual financial statements.
Issue
3. Ind AS 34 paragraph 28 requires an entity to apply the same accounting policies in its interim financial statements as
are applied in its annual financial statements. It also states that 'the frequency of an entity's reporting (annual,
half-yearly, or quarterly) shall not affect the measurement of its annual results. To achieve that objective, measurements
for interim reporting purposes shall be made on a year-to-date basis.'
4. Ind AS 36 paragraph 124 states that 'An impairment loss recognized for goodwill shall not be reversed in a
subsequent period.'
5.
-6. [Refer Appendix 1]
7. The appendix addresses the following issue:
Should an entity reverse impairment losses recognized in an interim period on goodwill if a loss would not have been
recognized, or a smaller loss would have been recognized, had an impairment assessment been made only at the end
of a subsequent reporting period?
Accounting Principle
8. An entity shall not reverse an impairment loss recognized in a previous interim period in respect of goodwill.
9. An entity shall not extend this accounting principle by analogy to other areas of potential conflict between Ind AS 34
and other Indian Accounting Standards.
Appendix B
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
1. Appendix C, Levies, contained in Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Appendix 1
Note : This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 34 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 34, Interim Financial Reporting, and IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment,
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 34, Interim Financial Reporting, and IFRIC 10
1. With regard to preparation of statement of profit and loss, International Accounting Standard (IAS) 34, Interim
Financial Reporting, provides option either to follow single statement approach or to follow two statement approaches.
But, Ind AS 34 allows only single statement approach on the lines of Ind AS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements,
which also allows only single statement approach. Paragraphs 8A and 11A of IAS 34 which provides the option are
deleted. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 34, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind
AS 34.
2. Different terminology is used in Ind AS 34 e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position' and 'Statement of Profit and Loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income' or 'Statement of
profit or loss and other comprehensive income'.
3. Last sentence of paragraph 1 of IAS 34 is deleted in Ind AS 34 since it is felt that the requirement to present interim
financial report should be governed by the relevant law or regulation and not by way of an encouragement through an
Accounting Standard.
4. The following paragraph numbers appear as 'Deleted' in IAS 34. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 34, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 34:
(i)
paragraph 13
(ii)
paragraph16
(iii)
Page 681/765
----- PAGE 682 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
paragraphs17-18
(iv)
paragraphs 5-6 of Appendix A
5. Paragraph 12 of IAS 34 making reference to Implementation Guidance included in IAS 1 has been deleted in Ind AS
34, as Implementation Guidance is not an integral part of IAS 1. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 34, the paragraph number is retained in Ind AS 34.
6. Following paragraphs making references to Illustrative examples which are not integral part of IAS 34 have been
deleted in Ind AS 34. The paragraph numbers have been retained in Ind AS 34 in order to maintain consistency with
paragraph numbers of IAS 34:
(i)
Paragraph 22 making reference to Illustration A of 'Illustrative Examples' illustrating the periods required to be presented
by an entity that reports half yearly and an entity that reports quarterly.
(ii)
Paragraph 40 making reference to Illustration B of 'Illustrative Examples' illustrating the general recognition and
measurement principles set out in paragraphs 28-39.
(iii)
Paragraph 42 making reference to Illustration C of 'Illustrative Examples' illustrating the use of estimates in interim
periods.
7. [ Paragraphs 46-54 related to effective date have not been included in Ind AS 34 as these are not relevant in Indian
context. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 34, these paragraph numbers are
retained in Ind AS 34.]
[Inserted by Notification No. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 36
Impairment of Assets
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the procedures that an entity applies to ensure that its assets are carried
at no more than their recoverable amount. An asset is carried at more than its recoverable amount if its carrying amount
exceeds the amount to be recovered through use or sale of the asset. If this is the case, the asset is described as
impaired and the Standard requires the entity to recognise an impairment loss. The Standard also specifies when an
entity should reverse an impairment loss and prescribes disclosures.
Scope
2. This Standard shall be applied in accounting for the impairment of all assets, other than:
(a)
inventories (see Ind AS 2, Inventories);
(b)
[ contract assets and assets arising from costs to obtain or fulfil a contract that are recognised in accordance with Ind AS
115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers;]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(c)
deferred tax assets (see Ind AS 12, Income Taxes);
(d)
assets arising from employee benefits (see Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits);
(e)
financial assets that are within the scope of Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments;
(f)
[Refer Appendix 1];
(g)
biological assets related to agricultural activity within the scope of Ind AS 41 Agriculture that are measured at fair value
less costs to sell ;
Page 682/765
----- PAGE 683 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(h)
deferred acquisition costs, and intangible assets, arising from an insurer's contractual rights under insurance contracts
within the scope of Ind AS 104, Insurance Contracts; and
(i)
non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale in accordance with Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets
Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
3. This Standard does not apply to inventories, assets arising from construction contracts, deferred tax assets, assets
arising from employee benefits, or assets classified as held for sale (or included in a disposal group that is classified as
held for sale) because Indian Accounting Standards applicable to these assets contain requirements for recognising and
measuring these assets.
4. This Standard applies to financial assets classified as:
(a)
subsidiaries, as defined in Ind AS 110, Consolidated Financial Statements;
(b)
associates, as defined in Ind AS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures; and
(c)
joint ventures, as defined in Ind AS 111, Joint Arrangements.
For impairment of other financial assets, refer to Ind AS 109.
5. This Standard does not apply to financial assets within the scope of Ind AS 109, or biological assets related to
agricultural activity measured at fair value less costs to sell within the scope of Ind AS 41. However, this Standard
applies to assets that are carried at revalued amount (i.e. fair value at the date of the revaluation less any subsequent
accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses) in accordance with other Ind ASs, such as
the revaluation model in Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment and Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets. The only
difference between an asset's fair value and its fair value less costs of disposal is the direct incremental costs
attributable to the disposal of the asset.
(a)
If the disposal costs are negligible, the recoverable amount of the revalued asset is necessarily close to, or greater than,
its revalued amount. In this case, after the revaluation requirements have been applied, it is unlikely that the revalued
asset is impaired and recoverable amount need not be estimated.
(b)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(c)
If the disposal costs are not negligible, the fair value less costs of disposal of the revalued asset is necessarily less than
its fair value. Therefore, the revalued asset will be impaired if its value in use is less than its revalued amount. In this
case, after the revaluation requirements have been applied, an entity applies this Standard to determine whether the
asset may be impaired.
Definitions
6. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognized after deducting any accumulated depreciation
(amortisation) and accumulated impairment losses thereon.
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely
independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Corporate assets are assets other than goodwill that contribute to the future cash flows of both the cash-generating unit
under review and other cash-generating units.
Costs of disposal are incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of an asset or cash-generating unit, excluding
finance costs and income tax expense.
Depreciable amount is the cost of an asset, or other amount substituted for cost in the financial statements, less its
residual value.
[Depreciation (Amortisation)
[In the case of an intangible asset, the term 'amortisation' is generally used instead of 'depreciation'. The two terms have
the same meaning.]
Page 683/765
----- PAGE 684 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
is the systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an asset over its useful life.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 274(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. (See Ind AS 113, Fair Value Measurement.)
An impairment loss is the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit exceeds its
recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its
value in use.
Useful life is either:
(a)
the period of time over which an asset is expected to be used by the entity; or
(b)
the number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from the asset by the entity.
Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from an asset or cash-generating unit.
Identifying an asset that may be impaired
7. Paragraphs 8-17 specify when recoverable amount shall be determined. These requirements use the term 'an asset'
but apply equally to an individual asset or a cash-generating unit. The remainder of this Standard is structured as
follows:
(a)
paragraphs 18-57 set out the requirements for measuring recoverable amount. These requirements also use the term
'an asset' but apply equally to an individual asset and a cash-generating unit.
(b)
paragraphs 58-108 set out the requirements for recognising and measuring impairment losses. Recognition and
measurement of impairment losses for individual assets other than goodwill are dealt with in paragraphs 58-64.
Paragraphs 65-108 deal with the recognition and measurement of impairment losses for cash-generating units and
goodwill.
(c)
paragraphs 109-116 set out the requirements for reversing an impairment loss recognized in prior periods for an asset
or a cash-generating unit. Again, these requirements use the term 'an asset' but apply equally to an individual asset or a
cash-generating unit. Additional requirements for an individual asset are set out in paragraphs 117-121, for a
cash-generating unit in paragraphs 122 and 123, and for goodwill in paragraphs 124 and 125.
(d)
paragraphs 126-133 specify the information to be disclosed about impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses
for assets and cash-generating units. Paragraphs 134-137 specify additional disclosure requirements for
cash-generating units to which goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite useful lives have been allocated for
impairment testing purposes.
8. An asset is impaired when its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. Paragraphs 12-14 describe some
indications that an impairment loss may have occurred. If any of those indications is present, an entity is required to
make a formal estimate of recoverable amount. Except as described in paragraph 10, this Standard does not require an
entity to make a formal estimate of recoverable amount if no indication of an impairment loss is present.
9. An entity shall assess at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that an asset may be
impaired. If any such indication exists, the entity shall estimate the recoverable amount of the asset.
10. Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, an entity shall also:
(a)
test an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life or an intangible asset not yet available for use for impairment
annually by comparing its carrying amount with its recoverable amount. This impairment test may be performed at any
time during an annual period, provided it is performed at the same time every year. Different intangible assets may be
tested for impairment at different times. However, if such an intangible asset was initially recognized during the current
annual period, that intangible asset shall be tested for impairment before the end of the current annual period.
(b)
test goodwill acquired in a business combination for impairment annually in accordance with paragraphs 80-99.
Page 684/765
----- PAGE 685 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
11. The ability of an intangible asset to generate sufficient future economic benefits to recover its carrying amount is
usually subject to greater uncertainty before the asset is available for use than after it is available for use. Therefore, this
Standard requires an entity to test for impairment, at least annually, the carrying amount of an intangible asset that is not
yet available for use.
12. In assessing whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired, an entity shall consider, as a minimum,
the following indications:
External sources of information
(a)
there are observable indications that the asset's value has declined during the period significantly more than would be
expected as a result of the passage of time or normal use.
(b)
significant changes with an adverse effect on the entity have taken place during the period, or will take place in the near
future, in the technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the entity operates or in the market to which
an asset is dedicated.
(c)
market interest rates or other market rates of return on investments have increased during the period, and those
increases are likely to affect the discount rate used in calculating an asset's value in use and decrease the asset's
recoverable amount materially.
(d)
the carrying amount of the net assets of the entity is more than its market capitalisation.
Internal sources of information
(e)
evidence is available of obsolescence or physical damage of an asset.
(f)
[ significant changes with an adverse effect on the entity have taken place during the period, or are expected to take
place in the near future, in the extent to which, or manner in which, an asset is used or is expected to be used. These
changes include the asset becoming idle, plans to discontinue or restructure the operation to which an asset belongs,
plans to dispose of an asset before the previously expected date, and reassessing the useful life of an asset as finite
rather than indefinite.]
[Once an asset meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale (or is included in a disposal group that is classified as
held for sale), it is excluded from the scope of this Standard and is accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 105,
Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.]
(g)
evidence is available from internal reporting that indicates that the economic performance of an asset is, or will be,
worse than expected.
Dividend from a subsidiary, joint venture or associate
(h)
for an investment in a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the investor recognises a dividend from the investment and
evidence is available that:
(i)
the carrying amount of the investment in the separate financial statements exceeds the carrying amounts in the
consolidated financial statements of the investee's net assets, including associated goodwill; or
(ii)
the dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the subsidiary, joint venture or associate in the period the
dividend is declared.
13. The list in paragraph 12 is not exhaustive. An entity may identify other indications that an asset may be impaired and
these would also require the entity to determine the asset's recoverable amount or, in the case of goodwill, perform an
impairment test in accordance with paragraphs 80-99.
14. Evidence from internal reporting that indicates that an asset may be impaired includes the existence of:
(a)
cash flows for acquiring the asset, or subsequent cash needs for operating or maintaining it, that are significantly higher
Page 685/765
----- PAGE 686 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
than those originally budgeted;
(b)
actual net cash flows or operating profit or loss flowing from the asset that are significantly worse than those budgeted;
(c)
a significant decline in budgeted net cash flows or operating profit, or a significant increase in budgeted loss, flowing
from the asset; or
(d)
operating losses or net cash outflows for the asset, when current period amounts are aggregated with budgeted
amounts for the future.
15. As indicated in paragraph 10, this Standard requires an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life or not yet
available for use and goodwill to be tested for impairment, at least annually. Apart from when the requirements in
paragraph 10 apply, the concept of materiality applies in identifying whether the recoverable amount of an asset needs
to be estimated. For example, if previous calculations show that an asset's recoverable amount is significantly greater
than its carrying amount, the entity need not re-estimate the asset's recoverable amount if no events have occurred that
would eliminate that difference. Similarly, previous analysis may show that an asset's recoverable amount is not
sensitive to one (or more) of the indications listed in paragraph 12.
16. As an illustration of paragraph 15, if market interest rates or other market rates of return on investments have
increased during the period, an entity is not required to make a formal estimate of an asset's recoverable amount in the
following cases:
(a)
if the discount rate used in calculating the asset's value in use is unlikely to be affected by the increase in these market
rates. For example, increases in short-term interest rates may not have a material effect on the discount rate used for an
asset that has a long remaining useful life.
(b)
if the discount rate used in calculating the asset's value in use is likely to be affected by the increase in these market
rates but previous sensitivity analysis of recoverable amount shows that:
(i)
it is unlikely that there will be a material decrease in recoverable amount because future cash flows are also likely to
increase (e.g. in some cases, an entity may be able to demonstrate that it adjusts its revenues to compensate for any
increase in market rates); or
(ii)
the decrease in recoverable amount is unlikely to result in a material impairment loss.
17. If there is an indication that an asset may be impaired, this may indicate that the remaining useful life, the
depreciation (amortisation) method or the residual value for the asset needs to be reviewed and adjusted in accordance
with the Standard applicable to the asset, even if no impairment loss is recognized for the asset.
Measuring recoverable amount
18. This Standard defines recoverable amount as the higher of an asset's or cash-generating unit's fair value less costs
of disposal and its value in use. Paragraphs 19-57 set out the requirements for measuring recoverable amount. These
requirements use the term 'an asset' but apply equally to an individual asset or a cash-generating unit.
19. It is not always necessary to determine both an asset's fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. If either
of these amounts exceeds the asset's carrying amount, the asset is not impaired and it is not necessary to estimate the
other amount.
20. It may be possible to measure fair value less costs of disposal, even if there is not a quoted price in an active market
for an identical asset. However, sometimes it will not be possible to measure fair value less costs of disposal because
there is no basis for making a reliable estimate of the price at which an orderly transaction to sell the asset would take
place between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. In this case, the entity
may use the asset's value in use as its recoverable amount.
21. If there is no reason to believe that an asset's value in use materially exceeds its fair value less costs of disposal, the
asset's fair value less costs of disposal may be used as its recoverable amount. This will often be the case for an asset
that is held for disposal. This is because the value in use of an asset held for disposal will consist mainly of the net
disposal proceeds, as the future cash flows from continuing use of the asset until its disposal are likely to be negligible.
Page 686/765
----- PAGE 687 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
22. Recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are
largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. If this is the case, recoverable amount is determined
for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs (see paragraphs 65-103), unless either:
(a)
the asset's fair value less costs of disposal is higher than its carrying amount; or
(b)
the asset's value in use can be estimated to be close to its fair value less costs of disposal and fair value less costs of
disposal can be measured.
23. In some cases, estimates, averages and computational short cuts may provide reasonable approximations of the
detailed computations illustrated in this Standard for determining fair value less costs of disposal or value in use.
Measuring the recoverable amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life
24. Paragraph 10 requires an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life to be tested for impairment annually by
comparing its carrying amount with its recoverable amount, irrespective of whether there is any indication that it may be
impaired. However, the most recent detailed calculation of such an asset's recoverable amount made in a preceding
period may be used in the impairment test for that asset in the current period, provided all of the following criteria are
met:
(a)
if the intangible asset does not generate cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of those from
other assets or groups of assets and is therefore tested for impairment as part of the cash-generating unit to which it
belongs, the assets and liabilities making up that unit have not changed significantly since the most recent recoverable
amount calculation;
(b)
the most recent recoverable amount calculation resulted in an amount that exceeded the asset's carrying amount by a
substantial margin; and
(c)
based on an analysis of events that have occurred and circumstances that have changed since the most recent
recoverable amount calculation, the likelihood that a current recoverable amount determination would be less than the
asset's carrying amount is remote.
Fair value less costs of disposal
25.
-27. [Refer Appendix 1]
28. Costs of disposal, other than those that have been recognized as liabilities, are deducted in measuring fair value
less costs of disposal. Examples of such costs are legal costs, stamp duty and similar transaction taxes, costs of
removing the asset, and direct incremental costs to bring an asset into condition for its sale. However, termination
benefits (as defined in Ind AS 19) and costs associated with reducing or reorganising a business following the disposal
of an asset are not direct incremental costs to dispose of the asset.
29. Sometimes, the disposal of an asset would require the buyer to assume a liability and only a single fair value less
costs of disposal is available for both the asset and the liability. Paragraph 78 explains how to deal with such cases.
Value in use
30. The following elements shall be reflected in the calculation of an asset's value in use:
(a)
an estimate of the future cash flows the entity expects to derive from the asset;
(b)
expectations about possible variations in the amount or timing of those future cash flows;
(c)
the time value of money, represented by the current market risk-free rate of interest;
(d)
the price for bearing the uncertainty inherent in the asset; and
(e)
other factors, such as illiquidity, that market participants would reflect in pricing the future cash flows the entity expects
to derive from the asset.
Page 687/765
----- PAGE 688 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
31. Estimating the value in use of an asset involves the following steps:
(a)
estimating the future cash inflows and outflows to be derived from continuing use of the asset and from its ultimate
disposal; and
(b)
applying the appropriate discount rate to those future cash flows.
32. The elements identified in paragraph 30(b), (d) and (e) can be reflected either as adjustments to the future cash
flows or as adjustments to the discount rate. Whichever approach an entity adopts to reflect expectations about possible
variations in the amount or timing of future cash flows, the result shall be to reflect the expected present value of the
future cash flows, i.e. the weighted average of all possible outcomes. Appendix A provides additional guidance on the
use of present value techniques in measuring an asset's value in use.
Basis for estimates of future cash flows
33. In measuring value in use an entity shall:
(a)
base cash flow projections on reasonable and supportable assumptions that represent management's best estimate of
the range of economic conditions that will exist over the remaining useful life of the asset. Greater weight shall be given
to external evidence.
(b)
base cash flow projections on the most recent financial budgets/forecasts approved by management, but shall exclude
any estimated future cash inflows or outflows expected to arise from future restructurings or from improving or
enhancing the asset's performance. Projections based on these budgets/forecasts shall cover a maximum period of five
years, unless a longer period can be justified.
(c)
estimate cash flow projections beyond the period covered by the most recent budgets/forecasts by extrapolating the
projections based on the budgets/forecasts using a steady or declining growth rate for subsequent years, unless an
increasing rate can be justified. This growth rate shall not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the products,
industries, or country or countries in which the entity operates, or for the market in which the asset is used, unless a
higher rate can be justified.
34. Management assesses the reasonableness of the assumptions on which its current cash flow projections are based
by examining the causes of differences between past cash flow projections and actual cash flows. Management shall
ensure that the assumptions on which its current cash flow projections are based are consistent with past actual
outcomes, provided the effects of subsequent events or circumstances that did not exist when those actual cash flows
were generated make this appropriate.
35. Detailed, explicit and reliable financial budgets/forecasts of future cash flows for periods longer than five years are
generally not available. For this reason, management's estimates of future cash flows are based on the most recent
budgets/forecasts for a maximum of five years. Management may use cash flow projections based on financial
budgets/forecasts over a period longer than five years if it is confident that these projections are reliable and it can
demonstrate its ability, based on past experience, to forecast cash flows accurately over that longer period.
36. Cash flow projections until the end of an asset's useful life are estimated by extrapolating the cash flow projections
based on the financial budgets/forecasts using a growth rate for subsequent years. This rate is steady or declining,
unless an increase in the rate matches objective information about patterns over a product or industry life-cycle. If
appropriate, the growth rate is zero or negative.
37. When conditions are favourable, competitors are likely to enter the market and restrict growth. Therefore, entities will
have difficulty in exceeding the average historical growth rate over the long term (say, twenty years) for the products,
industries, or country or countries in which the entity operates, or for the market in which the asset is used.
38. In using information from financial budgets/forecasts, an entity considers whether the information reflects reasonable
and supportable assumptions and represents management's best estimate of the set of economic conditions that will
exist over the remaining useful life of the asset.
Composition of estimates of future cash flows
39. Estimates of future cash flows shall include:
(a)
Page 688/765
----- PAGE 689 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
projections of cash inflows from the continuing use of the asset;
(b)
projections of cash outflows that are necessarily incurred to generate the cash inflows from continuing use of the asset
(including cash outflows to prepare the asset for use) and can be directly attributed, or allocated on a reasonable and
consistent basis, to the asset; and
(c)
net cash flows, if any, to be received (or paid) for the disposal of the asset at the end of its useful life.
40. Estimates of future cash flows and the discount rate reflect consistent assumptions about price increases attributable
to general inflation. Therefore, if the discount rate includes the effect of price increases attributable to general inflation,
future cash flows are estimated in nominal terms. If the discount rate excludes the effect of price increases attributable
to general inflation, future cash flows are estimated in real terms (but include future specific price increases or
decreases).
41. Projections of cash outflows include those for the day-to-day servicing of the asset as well as future overheads that
can be attributed directly, or allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis, to the use of the asset.
42. When the carrying amount of an asset does not yet include all the cash outflows to be incurred before it is ready for
use or sale, the estimate of future cash outflows includes an estimate of any further cash outflow that is expected to be
incurred before the asset is ready for use or sale. For example, this is the case for a building under construction or for a
development project that is not yet completed.
43. To avoid double-counting, estimates of future cash flows do not include:
(a)
cash inflows from assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from the asset
under review (for example, financial assets such as receivables); and
(b)
cash outflows that relate to obligations that have been recognized as liabilities (for example, payables, pensions or
provisions).
44. Future cash flows shall be estimated for the asset in its current condition. Estimates of future cash flows shall not
include estimated future cash inflows or outflows that are expected to arise from:
(a)
a future restructuring to which an entity is not yet committed; or
(b)
improving or enhancing the asset's performance.
45. Because future cash flows are estimated for the asset in its current condition, value in use does not reflect:
(a)
future cash outflows or related cost savings (for example reductions in staff costs) or benefits that are expected to arise
from a future restructuring to which an entity is not yet committed; or
(b)
future cash outflows that will improve or enhance the asset's performance or the related cash inflows that are expected
to arise from such outflows.
46. A restructuring is a programme that is planned and controlled by management and materially changes either the
scope of the business undertaken by an entity or the manner in which the business is conducted. Ind AS 37, Provisions,
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, contains guidance clarifying when an entity is committed to a restructuring.
47. When an entity becomes committed to a restructuring, some assets are likely to be affected by this restructuring.
Once the entity is committed to the restructuring:
(a)
its estimates of future cash inflows and cash outflows for the purpose of determining value in use reflect the cost savings
and other benefits from the restructuring (based on the most recent financial budgets/forecasts approved by
management); and
(b)
its estimates of future cash outflows for the restructuring are included in a restructuring provision in accordance with Ind
AS 37.
48. Until an entity incurs cash outflows that improve or enhance the asset's performance, estimates of future cash flows
Page 689/765
----- PAGE 690 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
do not include the estimated future cash inflows that are expected to arise from the increase in economic benefits
associated with the cash outflow.
49. Estimates of future cash flows include future cash outflows necessary to maintain the level of economic benefits
expected to arise from the asset in its current condition. When a cash-generating unit consists of assets with different
estimated useful lives, all of which are essential to the ongoing operation of the unit, the replacement of assets with
shorter lives is considered to be part of the day-to-day servicing of the unit when estimating the future cash flows
associated with the unit. Similarly, when a single asset consists of components with different estimated useful lives, the
replacement of components with shorter lives is considered to be part of the day-to-day servicing of the asset when
estimating the future cash flows generated by the asset.
50. Estimates of future cash flows shall not include:
(a)
cash inflows or outflows from financing activities; or
(b)
income tax receipts or payments.
51. Estimated future cash flows reflect assumptions that are consistent with the way the discount rate is determined.
Otherwise, the effect of some assumptions will be counted twice or ignored. Because the time value of money is
considered by discounting the estimated future cash flows, these cash flows exclude cash inflows or outflows from
financing activities. Similarly, because the discount rate is determined on a pre-tax basis, future cash flows are also
estimated on a pre-tax basis.
52. The estimate of net cash flows to be received (or paid) for the disposal of an asset at the end of its useful life shall
be the amount that an entity expects to obtain from the disposal of the asset in an arm's length transaction between
knowledgeable, willing parties, after deducting the estimated costs of disposal.
53. The estimate of net cash flows to be received (or paid) for the disposal of an asset at the end of its useful life is
determined in a similar way to an asset's fair value less costs of disposal, except that, in estimating those net cash flows:
(a)
an entity uses prices prevailing at the date of the estimate for similar assets that have reached the end of their useful life
and have operated under conditions similar to those in which the asset will be used.
(c)
the entity adjusts those prices for the effect of both future price increases due to general inflation and specific future
price increases or decreases. However, if estimates of future cash flows from the asset's continuing use and the
discount rate exclude the effect of general inflation, the entity also excludes this effect from the estimate of net cash
flows on disposal.
53A.
Fair value differs from value in use. Fair value reflects the assumptions market participants would use when pricing the
asset. In contrast, value in use reflects the effects of factors that may be specific to the entity and not applicable to
entities in general. For example, fair value does not reflect any of the following factors to the extent that they would not
be generally available to market participants:
(a)
additional value derived from the grouping of assets (such as the creation of a portfolio of investment properties in
different locations);
(b)
synergies between the asset being measured and other assets;
(c)
legal rights or legal restrictions that are specific only to the current owner of the asset; and
(d)
tax benefits or tax burdens that are specific to the current owner of the asset.
Foreign currency future cash flows
54. Future cash flows are estimated in the currency in which they will be generated and then discounted using a
discount rate appropriate for that currency. An entity translates the present value using the spot exchange rate at the
date of the value in use calculation.
Discount rate
Page 690/765
----- PAGE 691 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
55. The discount rate (rates) shall be a pre-tax rate (rates) that reflect(s) current market assessments of:
(a)
the time value of money; and
(b)
the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
56. A rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset is the
return that investors would require if they were to choose an investment that would generate cash flows of amounts,
timing and risk profile equivalent to those that the entity expects to derive from the asset. This rate is estimated from the
rate implicit in current market transactions for similar assets or from the weighted average cost of capital of a listed entity
that has a single asset (or a portfolio of assets) similar in terms of service potential and risks to the asset under review.
However, the discount rate(s) used to measure an asset's value in use shall not reflect risks for which the future cash
flow estimates have been adjusted. Otherwise, the effect of some assumptions will be double-counted.
57. When an asset-specific rate is not directly available from the market, an entity uses surrogates to estimate the
discount rate. Appendix A provides additional guidance on estimating the discount rate in such circumstances.
Recognising and measuring an impairment loss
58. Paragraphs 59-64 set out the requirements for recognising and measuring impairment losses for an individual asset
other than goodwill. Recognising and measuring impairment losses for cash-generating units and goodwill are dealt with
in paragraphs 65-108.
59. If, and only if, the recoverable amount of an asset is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset
shall be reduced to its recoverable amount. That reduction is an impairment loss.
60. An impairment loss shall be recognized immediately in profit or loss, unless the asset is carried at revalued amount
in accordance with another Standard (for example, in accordance with the revaluation model in Ind AS 16). Any
impairment loss of a revalued asset shall be treated as a revaluation decrease in accordance with that other Standard.
61. An impairment loss on a non-revalued asset is recognized in profit or loss. However, an impairment loss on a
revalued asset is recognized in other comprehensive income to the extent that the impairment loss does not exceed the
amount in the revaluation surplus for that same asset. Such an impairment loss on a revalued asset reduces the
revaluation surplus for that asset.
62. When the amount estimated for an impairment loss is greater than the carrying amount of the asset to which it
relates, an entity shall recognise a liability if, and only if, that is required by another Standard.
63. After the recognition of an impairment loss, the depreciation (amortisation) charge for the asset shall be adjusted in
future periods to allocate the asset's revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any), on a systematic basis over
its remaining useful life.
64. If an impairment loss is recognized, any related deferred tax assets or liabilities are determined in accordance with
Ind AS 12 by comparing the revised carrying amount of the asset with its tax base.
Cash-generating units and goodwill
65. Paragraphs 66-108 and Appendix C set out the requirements for identifying the cash-generating unit to which an
asset belongs and determining the carrying amount of, and recognising impairment losses for, cash-generating units
and goodwill.
Identifying the cash-generating unit to which an asset belongs
66. If there is any indication that an asset may be impaired, recoverable amount shall be estimated for the individual
asset. If it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of the individual asset, an entity shall determine the
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs (the asset's cash-generating unit).
67. The recoverable amount of an individual asset cannot be determined if:
(a)
the asset's value in use cannot be estimated to be close to its fair value less costs of disposal (for example, when the
future cash flows from continuing use of the asset cannot be estimated to be negligible); and
(b)
the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets.
In such cases, value in use and, therefore, recoverable amount, can be determined only for the asset's cash-generating
unit.
Example
Page 691/765
----- PAGE 692 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
A mining entity owns
a private railway to support its mining activities. The private
railway could be sold only for scrap value and it does not
generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash
inflows from the other assets of the mine.
It is not possible to estimate the
recoverable amount of the private railway because its value in
use cannot be determined and is probably different from scrap
value. Therefore, the entity estimates the recoverable amount of
the cash-generating unit to which the private railway belongs,
i.e. the mine as a whole.
68. As defined in paragraph 6, an asset's cash-generating unit is the smallest group of assets that includes the asset
and generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Identification of an asset's cash-generating unit involves judgement. If recoverable amount cannot be determined for an
individual asset, an entity identifies the lowest aggregation of assets that generate largely independent cash inflows.
Example
A bus company
provides services under contract with a municipality that
requires minimum service on each of five separate routes. Assets
devoted to each route and the cash flows from each route can be
identified separately. One of the routes operates at a
significant loss.
Because the entity does not have the option
to curtail any one bus route, the lowest level of identifiable
cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows
from other assets or groups of assets is the cash inflows
generated by the five routes together. The cash-generating unit
for each route is the bus company as a whole.
69. Cash inflows are inflows of cash and cash equivalents received from parties external to the entity. In identifying
whether cash inflows from an asset (or group of assets) are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets
(or groups of assets), an entity considers various factors including how management monitors the entity's operations
(such as by product lines, businesses, individual locations, districts or regional areas) or how management makes
decisions about continuing or disposing of the entity's assets and operations.
70. If an active market exists for the output produced by an asset or group of assets, that asset or group of assets shall
be identified as a cash-generating unit, even if some or all of the output is used internally. If the cash inflows generated
by any asset or cash-generating unit are affected by internal transfer pricing, an entity shall use management's best
estimate of future price(s) that could be achieved in arm's length transactions in estimating:
(a)
the future cash inflows used to determine the asset's or cash-generating unit's value in use; and
(b)
the future cash outflows used to determine the value in use of any other assets or cash-generating units that are
affected by the internal transfer pricing.
71. Even if part or all of the output produced by an asset or a group of assets is used by other units of the entity (for
example, products at an intermediate stage of a production process), this asset or group of assets forms a separate
cash-generating unit if the entity could sell the output on an active market. This is because the asset or group of assets
could generate cash inflows that would be largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
In using information based on financial budgets/forecasts that relates to such a cash-generating unit, or to any other
asset or cash-generating unit affected by internal transfer pricing, an entity adjusts this information if internal transfer
prices do not reflect management's best estimate of future prices that could be achieved in arm's length transactions.
72. Cash-generating units shall be identified consistently from period to period for the same asset or types of assets,
unless a change is justified.
Page 692/765
----- PAGE 693 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
73. If an entity determines that an asset belongs to a cash-generating unit different from that in previous periods, or that
the types of assets aggregated for the asset's cash-generating unit have changed, paragraph 130 requires disclosures
about the cash-generating unit, if an impairment loss is recognized or reversed for the cash-generating unit.
Recoverable amount and carrying amount of a cash-generating unit
74. The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is the higher of the cash-generating unit's fair value less costs of
disposal and its value in use. For the purpose of determining the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit, any
reference in paragraphs 19-57 to 'an asset' is read as a reference to 'a cash-generating unit'.
75. The carrying amount of a cash-generating unit shall be determined on a basis consistent with the way the
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is determined.
76. The carrying amount of a cash-generating unit:
(a)
includes the carrying amount of only those assets that can be attributed directly, or allocated on a reasonable and
consistent basis, to the cash-generating unit and will generate the future cash inflows used in determining the
cash-generating unit's value in use; and
(b)
does not include the carrying amount of any recognized liability, unless the recoverable amount of the cash-generating
unit cannot be determined without consideration of this liability.
This is because fair value less costs of disposal and value in use of a cash-generating unit are determined excluding
cash flows that relate to assets that are not part of the cash-generating unit and liabilities that have been recognized
(see paragraphs 28 and 43).
77. When assets are grouped for recoverability assessments, it is important to include in the cash-generating unit all
assets that generate or are used to generate the relevant stream of cash inflows. Otherwise, the cash-generating unit
may appear to be fully recoverable when in fact an impairment loss has occurred. In some cases, although some assets
contribute to the estimated future cash flows of a cash-generating unit, they cannot be allocated to the cash-generating
unit on a reasonable and consistent basis. This might be the case for goodwill or corporate assets such as head office
assets. Paragraphs 80-103 explain how to deal with these assets in testing a cash-generating unit for impairment.
78. It may be necessary to consider some recognized liabilities to determine the recoverable amount of a
cash-generating unit. This may occur if the disposal of a cash-generating unit would require the buyer to assume the
liability. In this case, the fair value less costs of disposal (or the estimated cash flow from ultimate disposal) of the
cash-generating unit is the price to sell the assets of the cash-generating unit and the liability together, less the costs of
disposal. To perform a meaningful comparison between the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit and its
recoverable amount, the carrying amount of the liability is deducted in determining both the cash-generating unit's value
in use and its carrying amount.
Example
A company operates a
mine in a country where legislation requires that the owner must
restore the site on completion of its mining operations. The cost
of restoration includes the replacement of the overburden, which
must be removed before mining operations commence. A provision
for the costs to replace the overburden was recognized as soon as
the overburden was removed. The amount provided was recognized as
part of the cost of the mine and is being depreciated over the
mine's useful life. The carrying amount of the provision for
restoration costs is Rs. 500, which is equal to the present value
of the restoration costs.
The entity is testing
the mine for impairment. The cash-generating unit for the mine is
the mine as a whole. The entity has received various offers to
buy the mine at a price of around Rs. 800. This price reflects
the fact that the buyer will assume the obligation to restore the
overburden. Disposal costs for the mine are negligible. The value
Page 693/765
----- PAGE 694 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
in use of the mine is approximately Rs. 1,200, excluding
restoration costs. The carrying amount of the mine is Rs. 1,000.
The cash-generating unit's fair value less
costs of disposal is Rs. 800. This amount considers restoration
costs that have already been provided for. As a consequence, the
value in use for the cash-generating unit is determined after
consideration of the restoration costs and is estimated to be Rs.
700 (Rs. 1,200 less Rs. 500). The carrying amount of the
cash-generating unit is Rs. 500, which is the carrying amount of
the mine (Rs. 1,000) less the carrying amount of the provision
for restoration costs (Rs. 500). Therefore, the recoverable
amount of the cash-generating unit exceeds its carrying amount.
79. For practical reasons, the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is sometimes determined after consideration
of assets that are not part of the cash-generating unit (for example, receivables or other financial assets) or liabilities that
have been recognized (for example, payables, pensions and other provisions). In such cases, the carrying amount of the
cash-generating unit is increased by the carrying amount of those assets and decreased by the carrying amount of
those liabilities.
Goodwill
Allocating goodwill to cash-generating units
80. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination shall, from the acquisition date,
be allocated to each of the acquirer's cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, that is expected to
benefit from the synergies of the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are
assigned to those units or groups of units. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is so allocated shall:
(a)
represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes; and
(b)
not be larger than an operating segment as defined by paragraph 5 of Ind AS 108, Operating Segments, before
aggregation.
81. Goodwill recognized in a business combination is an asset representing the future economic benefits arising from
other assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognized. Goodwill
does not generate cash flows independently of other assets or groups of assets, and often contributes to the cash flows
of multiple cash-generating units. Goodwill sometimes cannot be allocated on a non-arbitrary basis to individual
cash-generating units, but only to groups of cash-generating units. As a result, the lowest level within the entity at which
the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes sometimes comprises a number of cash-generating units to
which the goodwill relates, but to which it cannot be allocated. References in paragraphs 83-99 and Appendix C to a
cash-generating unit to which goodwill is allocated should be read as references also to a group of cash-generating units
to which goodwill is allocated.
82. Applying the requirements in paragraph 80 results in goodwill being tested for impairment at a level that reflects the
way an entity manages its operations and with which the goodwill would naturally be associated. Therefore, the
development of additional reporting systems is typically not necessary.
83. A cash-generating unit to which goodwill is allocated for the purpose of impairment testing may not coincide with the
level at which goodwill is allocated in accordance with Ind AS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates,
for the purpose of measuring foreign currency gains and losses. For example, if an entity is required by Ind AS 21 to
allocate goodwill to relatively low levels for the purpose of measuring foreign currency gains and losses, it is not required
to test the goodwill for impairment at that same level unless it also monitors the goodwill at that level for internal
management purposes.
84. If the initial allocation of goodwill acquired in a business combination cannot be completed before the end of the
annual period in which the business combination is effected, that initial allocation shall be completed before the end of
the first annual period beginning after the acquisition date.
85. In accordance with Ind AS 103, Business Combinations, if the initial accounting for a business combination can be
determined only provisionally by the end of the period in which the combination is effected, the acquirer:
Page 694/765
----- PAGE 695 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
accounts for the combination using those provisional values; and
(b)
recognises any adjustments to those provisional values as a result of completing the initial accounting within the
measurement period, which will not exceed twelve months from the acquisition date.
In such circumstances, it might also not be possible to complete the initial allocation of the goodwill recognized in the
combination before the end of the annual period in which the combination is effected. When this is the case, the entity
discloses the information required by paragraph 133.
86. If goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and the entity disposes of an operation within that unit, the
goodwill associated with the operation disposed of shall be:
(a)
included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal; and
(b)
measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit
retained, unless the entity can demonstrate that some other method better reflects the goodwill associated with the
operation disposed of.
Example
An entity sells for
Rs. 100 an operation that was part of a cash-generating unit to
which goodwill has been allocated. The goodwill allocated to the
unit cannot be identified or associated with an asset group at a
level lower than that unit, except arbitrarily. The recoverable
amount of the portion of the cash-generating unit retained is Rs.
300.
Because the goodwill allocated to the
cash-generating unit cannot be non-arbitrarily identified or
associated with an asset group at a level lower than that unit,
the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is
measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation
disposed of and the portion of the unit retained. Therefore, 25
per cent of the goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit is
included in the carrying amount of the operation that is sold.
87. If an entity reorganises its reporting structure in a way that changes the composition of one or more cash-generating
units to which goodwill has been allocated, the goodwill shall be reallocated to the units affected. This reallocation shall
be performed using a relative value approach similar to that used when an entity disposes of an operation within a
cash-generating unit, unless the entity can demonstrate that some other method better reflects the goodwill associated
with the reorganised units.
Example
Goodwill had
previously been allocated to cash-generating unit A. The goodwill
allocated to A cannot be identified or associated with an asset
group at a level lower than A, except arbitrarily. A is to be
divided and integrated into three other cash-generating units, B,
C and D.
Because the goodwill allocated to A cannot be
non-arbitrarily identified or associated with an asset group at a
level lower than A, it is reallocated to units B, C and D on the
basis of the relative values of the three portions of A before
those portions are integrated with B, C and D.
Testing cash-generating units with goodwill for impairment
88. When, as described in paragraph 81, goodwill relates to a cash-generating unit but has not been allocated to that
Page 695/765
----- PAGE 696 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
unit, the unit shall be tested for impairment, whenever there is an indication that the unit may be impaired, by comparing
the unit's carrying amount, excluding any goodwill, with its recoverable amount. Any impairment loss shall be recognized
in accordance with paragraph 104.
89. If a cash-generating unit described in paragraph 88 includes in its carrying amount an intangible asset that has an
indefinite useful life or is not yet available for use and that asset can be tested for impairment only as part of the
cash-generating unit, paragraph 10 requires the unit also to be tested for impairment annually.
90. A cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated shall be tested for impairment annually, and whenever
there is an indication that the unit may be impaired, by comparing the carrying amount of the unit, including the goodwill,
with the recoverable amount of the unit. If the recoverable amount of the unit exceeds the carrying amount of the unit,
the unit and the goodwill allocated to that unit shall be regarded as not impaired. If the carrying amount of the unit
exceeds the recoverable amount of the unit, the entity shall recognise the impairment loss in accordance with paragraph
104.
91.
-95. [Refer Appendix 1]
Timing of impairment tests
96. The annual impairment test for a cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated may be performed at
any time during an annual period, provided the test is performed at the same time every year. Different cash-generating
units may be tested for impairment at different times. However, if some or all of the goodwill allocated to a
cash-generating unit was acquired in a business combination during the current annual period, that unit shall be tested
for impairment before the end of the current annual period.
97. If the assets constituting the cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment at
the same time as the unit containing the goodwill, they shall be tested for impairment before the unit containing the
goodwill. Similarly, if the cash-generating units constituting a group of cash-generating units to which goodwill has been
allocated are tested for impairment at the same time as the group of units containing the goodwill, the individual units
shall be tested for impairment before the group of units containing the goodwill.
98. At the time of impairment testing a cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated, there may be an
indication of an impairment of an asset within the unit containing the goodwill. In such circumstances, the entity tests the
asset for impairment first, and recognises any impairment loss for that asset before testing for impairment the
cash-generating unit containing the goodwill. Similarly, there may be an indication of an impairment of a cash-generating
unit within a group of units containing the goodwill. In such circumstances, the entity tests the cash-generating unit for
impairment first, and recognises any impairment loss for that unit, before testing for impairment the group of units to
which the goodwill is allocated.
99. The most recent detailed calculation made in a preceding period of the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit
to which goodwill has been allocated may be used in the impairment test of that unit in the current period provided all of
the following criteria are met:
(a)
the assets and liabilities making up the unit have not changed significantly since the most recent recoverable amount
calculation;
(b)
the most recent recoverable amount calculation resulted in an amount that exceeded the carrying amount of the unit by
a substantial margin; and
(c)
based on an analysis of events that have occurred and circumstances that have changed since the most recent
recoverable amount calculation, the likelihood that a current recoverable amount determination would be less than the
current carrying amount of the unit is remote.
Corporate assets
100. Corporate assets include group or divisional assets such as the building of a headquarters or a division of the
entity, EDP equipment or a research centre. The structure of an entity determines whether an asset meets this
Standard's definition of corporate assets for a particular cash-generating unit. The distinctive characteristics of corporate
assets are that they do not generate cash inflows independently of other assets or groups of assets and their carrying
amount cannot be fully attributed to the cash-generating unit under review.
Page 696/765
----- PAGE 697 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
101. Because corporate assets do not generate separate cash inflows, the recoverable amount of an individual
corporate asset cannot be determined unless management has decided to dispose of the asset. As a consequence, if
there is an indication that a corporate asset may be impaired, recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating
unit or group of cash-generating units to which the corporate asset belongs, and is compared with the carrying amount
of this cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units. Any impairment loss is recognized in accordance with
paragraph 104.
102. In testing a cash-generating unit for impairment, an entity shall identify all the corporate assets that relate to the
cash-generating unit under review. If a portion of the carrying amount of a corporate asset:
(a)
can be allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis to that unit, the entity shall compare the carrying amount of the
unit, including the portion of the carrying amount of the corporate asset allocated to the unit, with its recoverable amount.
Any impairment loss shall be recognized in accordance with paragraph 104.
(b)
cannot be allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis to that unit, the entity shall:
(i)
compare the carrying amount of the unit, excluding the corporate asset, with its recoverable amount and recognise any
impairment loss in accordance with paragraph 104;
(ii)
identify the smallest group of cash-generating units that includes the cash-generating unit under review and to which a
portion of the carrying amount of the corporate asset can be allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis; and
(iii)
compare the carrying amount of that group of cash-generating units, including the portion of the carrying amount of the
corporate asset allocated to that group of units, with the recoverable amount of the group of units. Any impairment loss
shall be recognized in accordance with paragraph 104.
103. [Refer Appendix 1]
Impairment loss for a cash-generating unit
104. An impairment loss shall be recognized for a cash-generating unit (the smallest group of cash-generating units to
which goodwill or a corporate asset has been allocated) if, and only if, the recoverable amount of the unit (group of units)
is less than the carrying amount of the unit (group of units). The impairment loss shall be allocated to reduce the
carrying amount of the assets of the unit (group of units) in the following order:
(a)
first, to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit (group of units); and
(b)
then, to the other assets of the unit (group of units) pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit
(group of units).
These reductions in carrying amounts shall be treated as impairment losses on individual assets and recognized in
accordance with paragraph 60.
105. In allocating an impairment loss in accordance with paragraph 104, an entity shall not reduce the carrying amount
of an asset below the highest of:
(a)
its fair value less costs of disposal (if measurable);
(b)
its value in use (if determinable); and
(c)
zero.
The amount of the impairment loss that would otherwise have been allocated to the asset shall be allocated pro rata to
the other assets of the unit (group of units).
106. If it is not practicable to estimate the recoverable amount of each individual asset of a cash-generating unit, this
Standard requires an arbitrary allocation of an impairment loss between the assets of that unit, other than goodwill,
because all assets of a cash-generating unit work together.
107. If the recoverable amount of an individual asset cannot be determined (see paragraph 67):
Page 697/765
----- PAGE 698 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
an impairment loss is recognized for the asset if its carrying amount is greater than the higher of its fair value less costs
of disposal and the results of the allocation procedures described in paragraphs 104 and 105; and
(b)
no impairment loss is recognized for the asset if the related cash-generating unit is not impaired. This applies even if the
asset's fair value less costs of disposal is less than its carrying amount.
Example
A machine has
suffered physical damage but is still working, although not as
well as before it was damaged. The machine's fair value less
costs of disposal is less than its carrying amount. The machine
does not generate independent cash inflows. The smallest
identifiable group of assets that includes the machine and
generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash
inflows from other assets is the production line to which the
machine belongs. The recoverable amount of the production line
shows that the production line taken as a whole is not impaired.
Assumption 1:
budgets/forecasts approved by management reflect no commitment of
management to replace the machine.
The recoverable
amount of the machine alone cannot be estimated because the
machine's value in use:
(a)
may differ from its fair value less costs of disposal; and
(b)
can be determined only for the cash-generating unit to which the
machine belongs (the production line).
The production
line is not impaired. Therefore, no impairment loss is recognized
for the machine. Nevertheless, the entity may need to reassess
the depreciation period or the depreciation method for the
machine. Perhaps a shorter depreciation period or a faster
depreciation method is required to reflect the expected remaining
useful life of the machine or the pattern in which economic
benefits are expected to be consumed by the entity.
Assumption 2:
budgets/forecasts approved by management reflect a commitment of
management to replace the machine and sell it in the near future.
Cash flows from continuing use of the machine until its disposal
are estimated to be negligible.
The machine's value in use can be estimated
to be close to its fair value less costs of disposal. Therefore,
the recoverable amount of the machine can be determined and no
consideration is given to the cash-generating unit to which the
machine belongs (i.e. the production line). Because the machine's
fair value less costs of disposal is less than its carrying
amount, an impairment loss is recognized for the machine.
108. After the requirements in paragraphs 104 and 105 have been applied, a liability shall be recognized for any
remaining amount of an impairment loss for a cash-generating unit if, and only if, that is required by another Indian
Accounting Standard.
Page 698/765
----- PAGE 699 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Reversing an impairment loss
109. Paragraphs 110-116 set out the requirements for reversing an impairment loss recognized for an asset or a
cash-generating unit in prior periods. These requirements use the term 'an asset' but apply equally to an individual asset
or a cash-generating unit. Additional requirements for an individual asset are set out in paragraphs 117-121, for a
cash-generating unit in paragraphs 122 and 123 and for goodwill in paragraphs 124 and 125.
110. An entity shall assess at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that an impairment loss
recognized in prior periods for an asset other than goodwill may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such
indication exists, the entity shall estimate the recoverable amount of that asset.
111. In assessing whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognized in prior periods for an asset other
than goodwill may no longer exist or may have decreased, an entity shall consider, as a minimum, the following
indications:
External sources of information
(a)
there are observable indications that the asset's value has increased significantly during the period.
(b)
significant changes with a favourable effect on the entity have taken place during the period, or will take place in the
near future, in the technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the entity operates or in the market to
which the asset is dedicated.
(c)
market interest rates or other market rates of return on investments have decreased during the period, and those
decreases are likely to affect the discount rate used in calculating the asset's value in use and increase the asset's
recoverable amount materially.
Internal sources of information
(d)
significant changes with a favourable effect on the entity have taken place during the period, or are expected to take
place in the near future, in the extent to which, or manner in which, the asset is used or is expected to be used. These
changes include costs incurred during the period to improve or enhance the asset's performance or restructure the
operation to which the asset belongs.
(e)
evidence is available from internal reporting that indicates that the economic performance of the asset is, or will be,
better than expected.
112. Indications of a potential decrease in an impairment loss in paragraph 111 mainly mirror the indications of a
potential impairment loss in paragraph 12.
113. If there is an indication that an impairment loss recognized for an asset other than goodwill may no longer exist or
may have decreased, this may indicate that the remaining useful life, the depreciation (amortisation) method or the
residual value may need to be reviewed and adjusted in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standard applicable to
the asset, even if no impairment loss is reversed for the asset.
114. An impairment loss recognized in prior periods for an asset other than goodwill shall be reversed if, and only if,
there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset's recoverable amount since the last impairment
loss was recognized. If this is the case, the carrying amount of the asset shall, except as described in paragraph 117, be
increased to its recoverable amount. That increase is a reversal of an impairment loss.
115. A reversal of an impairment loss reflects an increase in the estimated service potential of an asset, either from use
or from sale, since the date when an entity last recognized an impairment loss for that asset. Paragraph 130 requires an
entity to identify the change in estimates that causes the increase in estimated service potential. Examples of changes in
estimates include:
(a)
a change in the basis for recoverable amount (i.e. whether recoverable amount is based on fair value less costs of
disposal or value in use);
(b)
if recoverable amount was based on value in use, a change in the amount or timing of estimated future cash flows or in
the discount rate; or
Page 699/765
----- PAGE 700 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(c)
if recoverable amount was based on fair value less costs of disposal, a change in estimate of the components of fair
value less costs of disposal.
116. An asset's value in use may become greater than the asset's carrying amount simply because the present value of
future cash inflows increases as they become closer. However, the service potential of the asset has not increased.
Therefore, an impairment loss is not reversed just because of the passage of time (sometimes called the 'unwinding' of
the discount), even if the recoverable amount of the asset becomes higher than its carrying amount.
Reversing an impairment loss for an individual asset
117. The increased carrying amount of an asset other than goodwill attributable to a reversal of an impairment loss shall
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of amortisation or depreciation) had no
impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years.
118. Any increase in the carrying amount of an asset other than goodwill above the carrying amount that would have
been determined (net of amortisation or depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior
years is a revaluation. In accounting for such a revaluation, an entity applies the Indian Accounting Standard applicable
to the asset.
119. A reversal of an impairment loss for an asset other than goodwill shall be recognized immediately in profit or loss,
unless the asset is carried at revalued amount in accordance with another Indian Accounting Standard (for example, the
revaluation model in Ind AS 16). Any reversal of an impairment loss of a revalued asset shall be treated as a revaluation
increase in accordance with that other Indian Accounting Standard.
120. A reversal of an impairment loss on a revalued asset is recognized in other comprehensive income and increases
the revaluation surplus for that asset. However, to the extent that an impairment loss on the same revalued asset was
previously recognized in profit or loss, a reversal of that impairment loss is also recognized in profit or loss.
121. After a reversal of an impairment loss is recognized, the depreciation (amortisation) charge for the asset shall be
adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset's revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any), on a systematic
basis over its remaining useful life.
Reversing an impairment loss for a cash-generating unit
122. A reversal of an impairment loss for a cash-generating unit shall be allocated to the assets of the unit, except for
goodwill, pro rata with the carrying amounts of those assets. These increases in carrying amounts shall be treated as
reversals of impairment losses for individual assets and recognized in accordance with paragraph 119.
123. In allocating a reversal of an impairment loss for a cash-generating unit in accordance with paragraph 122, the
carrying amount of an asset shall not be increased above the lower of:
(a)
its recoverable amount (if determinable); and
(b)
the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of amortisation or depreciation) had no impairment loss been
recognized for the asset in prior periods.
The amount of the reversal of the impairment loss that would otherwise have been allocated to the asset shall be
allocated pro rata to the other assets of the unit, except for goodwill.
Reversing an impairment loss for goodwill
124. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill shall not be reversed in a subsequent period.
125. Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets, prohibits the recognition of internally generated goodwill. Any increase in the
recoverable amount of goodwill in the periods following the recognition of an impairment loss for that goodwill is likely to
be an increase in internally generated goodwill, rather than a reversal of the impairment loss recognized for the acquired
goodwill.
Disclosure
126. An entity shall disclose the following for each class of assets:
(a)
the amount of impairment losses recognized in profit or loss during the period and the line item(s) of the statement of
profit and loss in which those impairment losses are included.
(b)
the amount of reversals of impairment losses recognized in profit or loss during the period and the line item(s) of the
Page 700/765
----- PAGE 701 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
statement of profit and loss in which those impairment losses are reversed.
(c)
the amount of impairment losses on revalued assets recognized in other comprehensive income during the period.
(d)
the amount of reversals of impairment losses on revalued assets recognized in other comprehensive income during the
period.
127. A class of assets is a grouping of assets of similar nature and use in an entity's operations.
128. The information required in paragraph 126 may be presented with other information disclosed for the class of
assets. For example, this information may be included in a reconciliation of the carrying amount of property, plant and
equipment, at the beginning and end of the period, as required by Ind AS 16.
129. An entity that reports segment information in accordance with Ind AS 108, shall disclose the following for each
reportable segment:
(a)
the amount of impairment losses recognized in profit or loss and in other comprehensive income during the period.
(b)
the amount of reversals of impairment losses recognized in profit or loss and in other comprehensive income during the
period.
130. An entity shall disclose the following for an individual asset (including goodwill) or a cash-generating unit, for which
an impairment loss has been recognized or reversed during the period:
(a)
the events and circumstances that led to the recognition or reversal of the impairment loss.
(b)
the amount of the impairment loss recognized or reversed.
(c)
for an individual asset:
(i)
the nature of the asset; and
(ii)
if the entity reports segment information in accordance with Ind AS 108, the reportable segment to which the asset
belongs.
(d)
for a cash-generating unit:
(i)
a description of the cash-generating unit (such as whether it is a product line, a plant, a business operation, a
geographical area, or a reportable segment as defined in Ind AS 108);
(ii)
the amount of the impairment loss recognized or reversed by class of assets and, if the entity reports segment
information in accordance with Ind AS 108, by reportable segment; and
(iii)
if the aggregation of assets for identifying the cash-generating unit has changed since the previous estimate of the
cash-generating unit's recoverable amount (if any), a description of the current and former way of aggregating assets
and the reasons for changing the way the cash-generating unit is identified.
(e)
the recoverable amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) and whether the recoverable amount of the asset
(cash-generating unit) is its fair value less costs of disposal or its value in use.
(f)
if the recoverable amount is fair value less costs of disposal, the entity shall disclose the following information:
(i)
the level of the fair value hierarchy (see Ind AS 113) within which the fair value measurement of the asset
(cash-generating unit) is categorised in its entirety (without taking into account whether the 'costs of disposal' are
observable);
Page 701/765
----- PAGE 702 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(ii)
for fair value measurements categorised within Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, a description of the
valuation technique(s) used to measure fair value less costs of disposal. If there has been a change in valuation
technique, the entity shall disclose that change and the reason(s) for making it; and
(iii)
for fair value measurements categorised within Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, each key assumption on
which management has based its determination of fair value less costs of disposal. Key assumptions are those to which
the asset's (cash-generating unit's) recoverable amount is most sensitive. The entity shall also disclose the discount
rate(s) used in the current measurement and previous measurement if fair value less costs of disposal is measured
using a present value technique.
(g)
if recoverable amount is value in use, the discount rate(s) used in the current estimate and previous estimate (if any) of
value in use.
131. An entity shall disclose the following information for the aggregate impairment losses and the aggregate reversals
of impairment losses recognized during the period for which no information is disclosed in accordance with paragraph
130:
(a)
the main classes of assets affected by impairment losses and the main classes of assets affected by reversals of
impairment losses.
(b)
the main events and circumstances that led to the recognition of these impairment losses and reversals of impairment
losses.
132. An entity is encouraged to disclose assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount of assets
(cash-generating units) during the period. However, paragraph 134 requires an entity to disclose information about the
estimates used to measure the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit when goodwill or an intangible asset with
an indefinite useful life is included in the carrying amount of that unit.
133. If, in accordance with paragraph 84, any portion of the goodwill acquired in a business combination during the
period has not been allocated to a cash-generating unit (group of units) at the end of the reporting period, the amount of
the unallocated goodwill shall be disclosed together with the reasons why that amount remains unallocated.
Estimates used to measure recoverable amounts of cash-generating units containing goodwill or intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives
134. An entity shall disclose the information required by (a)-(f) for each cash-generating unit (group of units) for which
the carrying amount of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite useful lives allocated to that unit (group of units) is
significant in comparison with the entity's total carrying amount of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite useful
lives:
(a)
the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the unit (group of units).
(b)
the carrying amount of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives allocated to the unit (group of units).
(c)
the basis on which the unit's (group of units') recoverable amount has been determined (i.e. value in use or fair value
less costs of disposal).
(d)
if the unit's (group of units') recoverable amount is based on value in use:
(i)
each key assumption on which management has based its cash flow projections for the period covered by the most
recent budgets/forecasts. Key assumptions are those to which the unit's (group of units') recoverable amount is most
sensitive.
(ii)
a description of management's approach to determining the value(s) assigned to each key assumption, whether those
value(s) reflect past experience or, if appropriate, are consistent with external sources of information, and, if not, how
Page 702/765
----- PAGE 703 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
and why they differ from past experience or external sources of information.
(iii)
the period over which management has projected cash flows based on financial budgets/forecasts approved by
management and, when a period greater than five years is used for a cash-generating unit (group of units), an
explanation of why that longer period is justified.
(iv)
the growth rate used to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond the period covered by the most recent
budgets/forecasts, and the justification for using any growth rate that exceeds the long-term average growth rate for the
products, industries, or country or countries in which the entity operates, or for the market to which the unit (group of
units) is dedicated.
(v)
the discount rate(s) applied to the cash flow projections.
(e)
if the unit's (group of units') recoverable amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal, the valuation technique(s)
used to measure fair value less costs of disposal. An entity is not required to provide the disclosures required by Ind AS
113. If fair value less costs of disposal is not measured using a quoted price for an identical unit (group of units), an
entity shall disclose the following information:
(i)
each key assumption on which management has based its determination of fair value less costs of disposal. Key
assumptions are those to which the unit's (group of units') recoverable amount is most sensitive.
(ii)
a description of management's approach to determining the value (or values) assigned to each key assumption, whether
those values reflect past experience or, if appropriate, are consistent with external sources of information, and, if not,
how and why they differ from past experience or external sources of information.
(iiA)
the level of the fair value hierarchy (see Ind AS 113 within which the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety
(without giving regard to the observability of 'costs of disposal').
(iiB)
if there has been a change in valuation technique, the change and the reason(s) for making it.
If fair value less costs of disposal is measured using discounted cash flow projections, an entity shall disclose the
following information:
(iii)
the period over which management has projected cash flows.
(iv)
the growth rate used to extrapolate cash flow projections.
(v)
the discount rate(s) applied to the cash flow projections.
(f)
if a reasonably possible change in a key assumption on which management has based its determination of the unit's
(group of units') recoverable amount would cause the unit's (group of units') carrying amount to exceed its recoverable
amount:
(i)
the amount by which the unit's (group of units') recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount.
(ii)
the value assigned to the key assumption.
(iii)
the amount by which the value assigned to the key assumption must change, after incorporating any consequential
effects of that change on the other variables used to measure recoverable amount, in order for the unit's (group of units')
recoverable amount to be equal to its carrying amount.
135. If some or all of the carrying amount of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is allocated across
multiple cash-generating units (groups of units), and the amount so allocated to each unit (group of units) is not
Page 703/765
----- PAGE 704 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
significant in comparison with the entity's total carrying amount of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite useful
lives, that fact shall be disclosed, together with the aggregate carrying amount of goodwill or intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives allocated to those units (groups of units). In addition, if the recoverable amounts of any of those
units (groups of units) are based on the same key assumption(s) and the aggregate carrying amount of goodwill or
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives allocated to them is significant in comparison with the entity's total carrying
amount of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, an entity shall disclose that fact, together with:
(a)
the aggregate carrying amount of goodwill allocated to those units (groups of units).
(b)
the aggregate carrying amount of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives allocated to those units (groups of units).
(c)
a description of the key assumption(s).
(d)
a description of management's approach to determining the value(s) assigned to the key assumption(s), whether those
value(s) reflect past experience or, if appropriate, are consistent with external sources of information, and, if not, how
and why they differ from past experience or external sources of information.
(e)
if a reasonably possible change in the key assumption(s) would cause the aggregate of the units' (groups of units')
carrying amounts to exceed the aggregate of their recoverable amounts:
(i)
the amount by which the aggregate of the units' (groups of units') recoverable amounts exceeds the aggregate of their
carrying amounts.
(ii)
the value(s) assigned to the key assumption(s).
(iii)
the amount by which the value(s) assigned to the key assumption(s) must change, after incorporating any consequential
effects of the change on the other variables used to measure recoverable amount, in order for the aggregate of the units'
(groups of units') recoverable amounts to be equal to the aggregate of their carrying amounts.
136. The most recent detailed calculation made in a preceding period of the recoverable amount of a cash-generating
unit (group of units) may, in accordance with paragraph 24 or 99, be carried forward and used in the impairment test for
that unit (group of units) in the current period provided specified criteria are met. When this is the case, the information
for that unit (group of units) that is incorporated into the disclosures required by paragraphs 134 and 135 relate to the
carried forward calculation of recoverable amount.
[Refer Appendix 1]
[Transition provisions and effective date
138. *
139. *
140. *
140A.
*
140B.
*
140C.
*
140D.
*
140E.
*
140F.
*
140G.
Page 704/765
----- PAGE 705 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
*
140H.
*
140I.
*
140J.
*
140K.
*
* Refer Appendix
140L.
As a consequence of issuance of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, paragraph 2 is amended. An
entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 115.]
[Inserted by Notification No. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix A
Using present value techniques to measure value in use
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS. It provides guidance on the use of present value techniques in measuring
value in use. Although the guidance uses the term 'asset', it equally applies to a group of assets forming a
cash-generating unit.
The components of a present value measurement
A1 The following elements together capture the economic differences between assets:
(a)
an estimate of the future cash flow, or in more complex cases, series of future cash flows the entity expects to derive
from the asset;
(b)
expectations about possible variations in the amount or timing of those cash flows;
(c)
the time value of money, represented by the current market risk-free rate of interest;
(d)
the price for bearing the uncertainty inherent in the asset; and
(e)
other, sometimes unidentifiable, factors (such as illiquidity) that market participants would reflect in pricing the future
cash flows the entity expects to derive from the asset.
A2 This appendix contrasts two approaches to computing present value, either of which may be used to estimate the
value in use of an asset, depending on the circumstances. Under the 'traditional' approach, adjustments for factors
(b)-(e) described in paragraph A1 are embedded in the discount rate. Under the 'expected cash flow' approach, factors
(b), (d) and (e) cause adjustments in arriving at risk-adjusted expected cash flows. Whichever approach an entity adopts
to reflect expectations about possible variations in the amount or timing of future cash flows, the result should be to
reflect the expected present value of the future cash flows, i.e. the weighted average of all possible outcomes.
General principles
A3 The techniques used to estimate future cash flows and interest rates will vary from one situation to another
depending on the circumstances surrounding the asset in question. However, the following general principles govern
any application of present value techniques in measuring assets:
(a)
interest rates used to discount cash flows should reflect assumptions that are consistent with those inherent in the
estimated cash flows. Otherwise, the effect of some assumptions will be double-counted or ignored. For example, a
discount rate of 12 per cent might be applied to contractual cash flows of a loan receivable. That rate reflects
expectations about future defaults from loans with particular characteristics. That same 12 per cent rate should not be
used to discount expected cash flows because those cash flows already reflect assumptions about future defaults.
(b)
estimated cash flows and discount rates should be free from both bias and factors unrelated to the asset in question. For
Page 705/765
----- PAGE 706 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
example, deliberately understating estimated net cash flows to enhance the apparent future profitability of an asset
introduces a bias into the measurement.
(c)
estimated cash flows or discount rates should reflect the range of possible outcomes rather than a single most likely,
minimum or maximum possible amount.
Traditional and expected cash flow approaches to present value
Traditional approach
A4 Accounting applications of present value have traditionally used a single set of estimated cash flows and a single
discount rate, often described as 'the rate commensurate with the risk'. In effect, the traditional approach assumes that a
single discount rate convention can incorporate all the expectations about the future cash flows and the appropriate risk
premium. Therefore, the traditional approach places most of the emphasis on selection of the discount rate.
A5 In some circumstances, such as those in which comparable assets can be observed in the marketplace, a traditional
approach is relatively easy to apply. For assets with contractual cash flows, it is consistent with the manner in which
marketplace participants describe assets, as in 'a 12 per cent bond'.
A6 However, the traditional approach may not appropriately address some complex measurement problems, such as
the measurement of non-financial assets for which no market for the item or a comparable item exists. A proper search
for 'the rate commensurate with the risk' requires analysis of at least two items-an asset that exists in the marketplace
and has an observed interest rate and the asset being measured. The appropriate discount rate for the cash flows being
measured must be inferred from the observable rate of interest in that other asset. To draw that inference, the
characteristics of the other asset's cash flows must be similar to those of the asset being measured. Therefore, the
measurer must do the following:
(a)
identify the set of cash flows that will be discounted;
(b)
identify another asset in the marketplace that appears to have similar cash flow characteristics;
(c)
compare the cash flow sets from the two items to ensure that they are similar (for example, are both sets contractual
cash flows, or is one contractual and the other an estimated cash flow?);
(d)
evaluate whether there is an element in one item that is not present in the other (for example, is one less liquid than the
other?); and
(e)
evaluate whether both sets of cash flows are likely to behave (i.e. vary) in a similar fashion in changing economic
conditions.
Expected cash flow approach
A7 The expected cash flow approach is, in some situations, a more effective measurement tool than the traditional
approach. In developing a measurement, the expected cash flow approach uses all expectations about possible cash
flows instead of the single most likely cash flow. For example, a cash flow might be Rs. 100, Rs. 200 or Rs. 300 with
probabilities of 10 per cent, 60 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively. The expected cash flow is Rs. 220. The expected
cash flow approach thus differs from the traditional approach by focusing on direct analysis of the cash flows in question
and on more explicit statements of the assumptions used in the measurement.
A8 The expected cash flow approach also allows use of present value techniques when the timing of cash flows is
uncertain. For example, a cash flow of Rs.. 1,000 may be received in one year, two years or three years with
probabilities of 10 per cent, 60 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively. The example below shows the computation of
expected present value in that situation.
Present value of Rs. 1,000 in 1 year at 5%
Rs. 952.38
Probability
10.00%
Rs. 95.24
Present value of Rs. 1,000 in 2 years at 5.25%
Page 706/765
----- PAGE 707 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Rs. 902.73
Probability
60.00%
Rs. 541.64
Present value of Rs. 1,000 in 3 years at 5.50%
Rs. 851.61
Probability
30.00%
Rs. 255.48
Expected present value
Rs. 892.36
A9 The expected present value of Rs. 892.36 differs from the traditional notion of a best estimate of Rs. 902.73 (the 60
per cent probability). A traditional present value computation applied to this example requires a decision about which of
the possible timings of cash flows to use and, accordingly, would not reflect the probabilities of other timings. This is
because the discount rate in a traditional present value computation cannot reflect uncertainties in timing.
A10 The use of probabilities is an essential element of the expected cash flow approach. Some question whether
assigning probabilities to highly subjective estimates suggests greater precision than, in fact, exists. However, the
proper application of the traditional approach (as described in paragraph A6) requires the same estimates and
subjectivity without providing the computational transparency of the expected cash flow approach.
A11 Many estimates developed in current practice already incorporate the elements of expected cash flows informally.
In addition, accountants often face the need to measure an asset using limited information about the probabilities of
possible cash flows. For example, an accountant might be confronted with the following situations:
(a)
the estimated amount falls somewhere between Rs. 50 and Rs. 250, but no amount in the range is more likely than any
other amount. Based on that limited information, the estimated expected cash flow is Rs. 150 [(50 + 250)/2].
(b)
the estimated amount falls somewhere between Rs. 50 and Rs. 250, and the most likely amount is Rs. 100. However,
the probabilities attached to each amount are unknown. Based on that limited information, the estimated expected cash
flow is Rs. 133.33 [(50 + 100 + 250)/3].
(c)
the estimated amount will be Rs. 50 (10 per cent probability), Rs. 250 (30 per cent probability), or Rs. 100. (60 per cent
probability). Based on that limited information, the estimated expected cash flow is Rs. 140 [(50 × 0.10) + (250 × 0.30) +
(100 × 0.60)].
In each case, the estimated expected cash flow is likely to provide a better estimate of value in use than the minimum,
most likely or maximum amount taken alone.
A12 The application of an expected cash flow approach is subject to a cost-benefit constraint. In some cases, an entity
may have access to extensive data and may be able to develop many cash flow scenarios. In other cases, an entity may
not be able to develop more than general statements about the variability of cash flows without incurring substantial
cost. The entity needs to balance the cost of obtaining additional information against the additional reliability that
information will bring to the measurement.
A13 Some maintain that expected cash flow techniques are inappropriate for measuring a single item or an item with a
limited number of possible outcomes. They offer an example of an asset with two possible outcomes: a 90 per cent
probability that the cash flow will be Rs. 10 and a 10 per cent probability that the cash flow will be Rs. 1,000. They
observe that the expected cash flow in that example is Rs. 109 and criticise that result as not representing either of the
amounts that may ultimately be paid.
A14 Assertions like the one just outlined reflect underlying disagreement with the measurement objective. If the
objective is accumulation of costs to be incurred, expected cash flows may not produce a representationally faithful
estimate of the expected cost. However, this Standard is concerned with measuring the recoverable amount of an asset.
The recoverable amount of the asset in this example is not likely to be Rs. 10, even though that is the most likely cash
flow. This is because a measurement of Rs. 10 does not incorporate the uncertainty of the cash flow in the
measurement of the asset. Instead, the uncertain cash flow is presented as if it were a certain cash flow. No rational
Page 707/765
----- PAGE 708 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
entity would sell an asset with these characteristics for Rs. 10.
Discount rate
A15 Whichever approach an entity adopts for measuring the value in use of an asset, interest rates used to discount
cash flows should not reflect risks for which the estimated cash flows have been adjusted. Otherwise, the effect of some
assumptions will be double-counted.
A16 When an asset-specific rate is not directly available from the market, an entity uses surrogates to estimate the
discount rate. The purpose is to estimate, as far as possible, a market assessment of:
(a)
the time value of money for the periods until the end of the asset's useful life; and
(b)
factors (b), (d) and (e) described in paragraph A1, to the extent those factors have not caused adjustments in arriving at
estimated cash flows.
A17 As a starting point in making such an estimate, the entity might take into account the following rates:
(a)
the entity's weighted average cost of capital determined using techniques such as the Capital Asset Pricing Model;
(b)
the entity's incremental borrowing rate; and
(c)
other market borrowing rates.
A18 However, these rates must be adjusted:
(a)
to reflect the way that the market would assess the specific risks associated with the asset's estimated cash flows; and
(b)
to exclude risks that are not relevant to the asset's estimated cash flows or for which the estimated cash flows have
been adjusted.
Consideration should be given to risks such as country risk, currency risk and price risk.
A19 The discount rate is independent of the entity's capital structure and the way the entity financed the purchase of the
asset, because the future cash flows expected to arise from an asset do not depend on the way in which the entity
financed the purchase of the asset.
A20 Paragraph 55 requires the discount rate used to be a pre-tax rate. Therefore, when the basis used to estimate the
discount rate is post-tax, that basis is adjusted to reflect a pre-tax rate.
A21 An entity normally uses a single discount rate for the estimate of an asset's value in use. However, an entity uses
separate discount rates for different future periods where value in use is sensitive to a difference in risks for different
periods or to the term structure of interest rates.
Appendix B
References to matters contained in other Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
This appendix lists the appendices which are part of other Indian Accounting Standards and makes reference to Ind AS
36, Impairment of Assets.
1. Appendix A Intangible Assets-Web site Costs contained in Ind AS 38, Intangible Assets.
2. Appendix A Changes in Existing Decommissioning, Restoration and Similar Liabilities contained in Ind AS 16,
Property, Plant and Equipment.
Appendix C
Impairment testing cash-generating units with goodwill and non-controlling interests
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
C1 In accordance with Ind AS 103, the acquirer measures and recognises goodwill as of the acquisition date as the
excess of (a) over (b) below:
(a)
the aggregate of:
(i)
the consideration transferred measured in accordance with Ind AS 103, which generally requires acquisition-date fair
Page 708/765
----- PAGE 709 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
value;
(ii)
the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree measured in accordance with Ind AS 103; and
(iii)
in a business combination achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer's previously held equity
interest in the acquiree.
(b)
the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed measured in
accordance with Ind AS 103.
Allocation of goodwill
C2 Paragraph 80 of this Standard requires goodwill acquired in a business combination to be allocated to each of the
acquirer's cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, expected to benefit from the synergies of the
combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units, or groups of
units. It is possible that some of the synergies resulting from a business combination will be allocated to a
cash-generating unit in which the non-controlling interest does not have an interest.
Testing for impairment
C3 Testing for impairment involves comparing the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit with the carrying
amount of the cash-generating unit.
C4 If an entity measures non-controlling interests as its proportionate interest in the net identifiable assets of a
subsidiary at the acquisition date, rather than at fair value, goodwill attributable to non-controlling interests is included in
the recoverable amount of the related cash-generating unit but is not recognized in the parent's consolidated financial
statements. As a consequence, an entity shall gross up the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the unit to include
the goodwill attributable to the non-controlling interest. This adjusted carrying amount is then compared with the
recoverable amount of the unit to determine whether the cash-generating unit is impaired.
Allocating an impairment loss
C5 Paragraph 104 requires any identified impairment loss to be allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of goodwill
allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in
the unit.
C6 If a subsidiary, or part of a subsidiary, with a non-controlling interest is itself a cash-generating unit, the impairment
loss is allocated between the parent and the non-controlling interest on the same basis as that on which profit or loss is
allocated.
C7 If a subsidiary, or part of a subsidiary, with a non-controlling interest is part of a larger cash-generating unit, goodwill
impairment losses are allocated to the parts of the cash-generating unit that have a non-controlling interest and the parts
that do not. The impairment losses should be allocated to the parts of the cash-generating unit on the basis of:
(a)
to the extent that the impairment relates to goodwill in the cash-generating unit, the relative carrying values of the
goodwill of the parts before the impairment; and
(b)
to the extent that the impairment relates to identifiable assets in the cash-generating unit, the relative carrying values of
the net identifiable assets of the parts before the impairment. Any such impairment is allocated to the assets of the parts
of each unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the part.
In those parts that have a non-controlling interest, the impairment loss is allocated between the parent and the
non-controlling interest on the same basis as that on which profit or loss is allocated.
C8 If an impairment loss attributable to a non-controlling interest relates to goodwill that is not recognized in the parent's
consolidated financial statements (see paragraph C4), that impairment is not recognized as a goodwill impairment loss.
In such cases, only the impairment loss relating to the goodwill that is allocated to the parent is recognized as a goodwill
impairment loss.
C9 [Refer Appendix 1]
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 36 and the corresponding International
Page 709/765
----- PAGE 710 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Accounting Standard (IAS) 36, Impairment of Assets, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets
1. Paragraph 2(f) is deleted in Ind AS 36 as Ind AS 40 requires cost model. To maintain consistency with IAS 36, this
paragraph number has been retained. Further, for this reason, paragraph 5 of Ind AS 36 has been modified by deleting
reference to fair value measurement of investment property.
2. The transitional provisions given in IAS 36 have not been given in Ind AS 36, since all transitional provisions related to
Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in Ind AS 101, First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting
Standards, corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
3. Different terminology is used, as used in existing laws e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of
financial position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'.
4. Following Paragraphs have been deleted as a consequence of Ind AS 113, Fair Value Measurement. However, the
paragraph numbering has been retained to make it consistent with paragraph numbering of IAS 36:
(i)
Paragraph 5(b)
(ii)
Paragraphs 25-27
5. Paragraphs 91-95 appear as 'Deleted' in IAS 36. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 36,
the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 36.
6. Following references to Illustrative Examples which are not integral part of IAS 36 have not been included in Ind AS
36:
(i)
Reference to Example 5 of Illustrative Examples in paragraph 47 illustrating effects of a future restructuring on a value in
use calculation
(ii)
Reference to Example 6 of Illustrative Examples in paragraph 48
(iii)
Reference to Example 3 of Illustrative Examples in paragraph 64
(iv)
Reference to Example 1 of Illustrative Examples in paragraph 69 giving examples of identification of a cash generating
unit
7. Following paragraphs making references to Illustrative examples which are not integral part of IAS 36 have been
deleted in Ind AS 36. The paragraph numbers have been retained in Ind AS 36 in order to maintain consistency with
paragraph numbers of IAS 36:
(i)
paragraph 103 making reference to Example 8 of Illustrative Examples illustrating the application of requirements given
regarding corporate assets.
(ii)
paragraph 137 making reference to Example 9 of Illustrative Examples illustrating the disclosures required by
paragraphs 134 and 135.
(iii)
paragraph C9 of Appendix C making reference to Example 7 of Illustrative Examples illustrating the impairment testing
of a non-wholly-owned cash-generating unit with goodwill.
8. [ Paragraphs 138 to 140K related to effective date have not been included in Ind AS 36 as these are not relevant in
Indian context. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 36, these paragraph numbers
are retained in Ind AS 36.]
[Inserted by Notification No. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 37
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles).
Objective
Page 710/765
----- PAGE 711 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
The objective of this Standard is to ensure that appropriate recognition criteria and measurement bases are applied to
provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets and that sufficient information is disclosed in the notes to enable
users to understand their nature, timing and amount.
Scope
1. This Standard shall be applied by all entities in accounting for provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets,
except:
(a)
those resulting from executory contracts, except where the contract is onerous; and
(b)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(c)
those covered by another Standard.
2. This Standard does not apply to financial instruments (including guarantees) that are within the scope of Ind AS 109,
Financial Instruments.
3. Executory contracts are contracts under which neither party has performed any of its obligations or both parties have
partially performed their obligations to an equal extent. This Standard does not apply to executory contracts unless they
are onerous.
4. [Refer Appendix 1]
5. [ When another Standard deals with a specific type of provision, contingent liability or contingent asset, an entity
applies that Standard instead of this Standard. For example, some types of provisions are addressed in Standards on:
(a)
[Omitted];
(b)
income taxes (see Ind AS 12, Income Taxes);
(c)
[ leases (see Ind AS 116, Leases). However, this Standard applies to any lease that becomes onerous before the
commencement date of the lease as defined in Ind AS 116. This Standard also applies to short-term leases and leases
for which the underlying asset is of low value accounted for in accordance with paragraph 6 of Ind AS 116 and that have
become onerous;]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(e)
insurance contracts (see Ind AS 104, Insurance Contracts). However, this Standard applies to provisions, contingent
liabilities and contingent assets of an insurer, other than those arising from its contractual obligations and rights under
insurance contracts within the scope of Ind AS 104;
(f)
contingent consideration of an acquirer in a business combination (see Ind AS 103, Business Combinations); and
(g)
revenue from contracts with customers (see Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers). However, as Ind AS
115 contains no specific requirement to address contracts with customers that are, or have become, onerous, this
Standard applies to such cases.]
6. [ ***]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
7. This Standard defines provisions as liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. The term 'provision' is also used in the
context of items such as depreciation, impairment of assets and doubtful debts: these are adjustments to the carrying
amounts of assets and are not addressed in this Standard.
8. Other Standards specify whether expenditures are treated as assets or as expenses. These issues are not addressed
in this Standard. Accordingly, this Standard neither prohibits nor requires capitalisation of the costs recognized when a
provision is made.
9. This Standard applies to provisions for restructurings (including discontinued operations). When a restructuring meets
the definition of a discontinued operation, additional disclosures may be required by Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets
Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Page 711/765
----- PAGE 712 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Definitions
10. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
A provision is a liability of uncertain timing or amount.
A liability is a present obligation of the entity arising from past events, the settlement of which is expected to result in an
outflow from the entity of resources embodying economic benefits.
An obligating event is an event that creates a legal or constructive obligation that results in an entity having no realistic
alternative to settling that obligation.
A legal obligation is an obligation that derives from:
(a)
a contract (through its explicit or implicit terms);
(b)
legislation; or
(c)
other operation of law.
A constructive obligation is an obligation that derives from an entity's actions where:
(a)
by an established pattern of past practice, published policies or a sufficiently specific current statement, the entity has
indicated to other parties that it will accept certain responsibilities; and
(b)
as a result, the entity has created a valid expectation on the part of those other parties that it will discharge those
responsibilities.
A contingent liability is:
(a)
a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or
non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the entity; or
(b)
a present obligation that arises from past events but is not recognized because:
(i)
it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; or
(ii)
the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the entity.
An onerous contract is a contract in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed
the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
A restructuring is a programme that is planned and controlled by management, and materially changes either:
(a)
the scope of a business undertaken by an entity; or
(b)
the manner in which that business is conducted.
Provisions and other liabilities
11. Provisions can be distinguished from other liabilities such as trade payables and accruals because there is
uncertainty about the timing or amount of the future expenditure required in settlement. By contrast:
(a)
trade payables are liabilities to pay for goods or services that have been received or supplied and have been invoiced or
formally agreed with the supplier; and
(b)
accruals are liabilities to pay for goods or services that have been received or supplied but have not been paid, invoiced
or formally agreed with the supplier, including amounts due to employees (for example, amounts relating to accrued
vacation pay). Although it is sometimes necessary to estimate the amount or timing of accruals, the uncertainty is
generally much less than for provisions.
Page 712/765
----- PAGE 713 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Accruals are often reported as part of trade and other payables, whereas provisions are reported separately.
Relationship between provisions and contingent liabilities
12. In a general sense, all provisions are contingent because they are uncertain in timing or amount. However, within
this Standard the term 'contingent' is used for liabilities and assets that are not recognized because their existence will
be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the
control of the entity. In addition, the term 'contingent liability' is used for liabilities that do not meet the recognition criteria.
13. This Standard distinguishes between:
(a)
provisions - which are recognized as liabilities (assuming that a reliable estimate can be made) because they are
present obligations and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle
the obligations; and
(b)
contingent liabilities - which are not recognized as liabilities because they are either:
(i)
possible obligations, as it has yet to be confirmed whether the entity has a present obligation that could lead to an
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits; or
(ii)
present obligations that do not meet the recognition criteria in this Standard (because either it is not probable that an
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, or a sufficiently reliable
estimate of the amount of the obligation cannot be made).
Recognition
Provisions
14. A provision shall be recognized when:
(a)
an entity has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event;
(b)
it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; and
(c)
a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If these conditions are not met, no provision shall be recognized.
Present obligation
15. In rare cases, it is not clear whether there is a present obligation. In these cases, a past event is deemed to give rise
to a present obligation if, taking account of all available evidence, it is more likely than not that a present obligation
exists at the end of the reporting period.
16. In almost all cases it will be clear whether a past event has given rise to a present obligation. In rare cases, for
example in a lawsuit, it may be disputed either whether certain events have occurred or whether those events result in a
present obligation. In such a case, an entity determines whether a present obligation exists at the end of the reporting
period by taking account of all available evidence, including, for example, the opinion of experts. The evidence
considered includes any additional evidence provided by events after the reporting period. On the basis of such
evidence:
(a)
where it is more likely than not that a present obligation exists at the end of the reporting period, the entity recognises a
provision (if the recognition criteria are met); and
(b)
where it is more likely that no present obligation exists at the end of the reporting period, the entity discloses a
contingent liability, unless the possibility of an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits is remote (see
paragraph 86).
Past event
17. A past event that leads to a present obligation is called an obligating event. For an event to be an obligating event, it
is necessary that the entity has no realistic alternative to settling the obligation created by the event. This is the case
only:
Page 713/765
----- PAGE 714 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
where the settlement of the obligation can be enforced by law; or
(b)
in the case of a constructive obligation, where the event (which may be an action of the entity) creates valid expectations
in other parties that the entity will discharge the obligation.
18. Financial statements deal with the financial position of an entity at the end of its reporting period and not its possible
position in the future. Therefore, no provision is recognized for costs that need to be incurred to operate in the future.
The only liabilities recognized in an entity's balance sheet are those that exist at the end of the reporting period.
19. It is only those obligations arising from past events existing independently of an entity's future actions (i.e. the future
conduct of its business) that are recognized as provisions. Examples of such obligations are penalties or clean-up costs
for unlawful environmental damage, both of which would lead to an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits
in settlement regardless of the future actions of the entity. Similarly, an entity recognises a provision for the
decommissioning costs of an oil installation or a nuclear power station to the extent that the entity is obliged to rectify
damage already caused. In contrast, because of commercial pressures or legal requirements, an entity may intend or
need to carry out expenditure to operate in a particular way in the future (for example, by fitting smoke filters in a certain
type of factory). Because the entity can avoid the future expenditure by its future actions, for example by changing its
method of operation, it has no present obligation for that future expenditure and no provision is recognized.
20. An obligation always involves another party to whom the obligation is owed. It is not necessary, however, to know
the identity of the party to whom the obligation is owed-indeed the obligation may be to the public at large. Because an
obligation always involves a commitment to another party, it follows that a management or board decision does not give
rise to a constructive obligation at the end of the reporting period unless the decision has been communicated before the
end of the reporting period to those affected by it in a sufficiently specific manner to raise a valid expectation in them that
the entity will discharge its responsibilities.
21. An event that does not give rise to an obligation immediately may do so at a later date, because of changes in the
law or because an act (for example, a sufficiently specific public statement) by the entity gives rise to a constructive
obligation. For example, when environmental damage is caused there may be no obligation to remedy the
consequences. However, the causing of the damage will become an obligating event when a new law requires the
existing damage to be rectified or when the entity publicly accepts responsibility for rectification in a way that creates a
constructive obligation.
22. Where details of a proposed new law have yet to be finalised, an obligation arises only when the legislation is
virtually certain to be enacted as drafted. For the purpose of this Standard, such an obligation is treated as a legal
obligation. Differences in circumstances surrounding enactment make it impossible to specify a single event that would
make the enactment of a law virtually certain. In many cases it will be impossible to be virtually certain of the enactment
of a law until it is enacted.
Probable outflow of resources embodying economic benefits
23. For a liability to qualify for recognition there must be not only a present obligation but also the probability of an
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits to settle that obligation. For the purpose of [this Standard]
[The interpretation of 'probable' in this Standard as 'more likely than not' does not necessarily apply in other Indian
Accounting Standards.]
, an outflow of resources or other event is regarded as probable if the event is more likely than not to occur, i.e. the
probability that the event will occur is greater than the probability that it will not. Where it is not probable that a present
obligation exists, an entity discloses a contingent liability, unless the possibility of an outflow of resources embodying
economic benefits is remote (see paragraph 86).
24. Where there are a number of similar obligations (e.g. product warranties or similar contracts) the probability that an
outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. Although the
likelihood of outflow for any one item may be small, it may well be probable that some outflow of resources will be
needed to settle the class of obligations as a whole. If that is the case, a provision is recognized (if the other recognition
criteria are met).
Reliable estimate of the obligation
25. The use of estimates is an essential part of the preparation of financial statements and does not undermine their
reliability. This is especially true in the case of provisions, which by their nature are more uncertain than most other
Page 714/765
----- PAGE 715 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
items in the balance sheet. Except in extremely rare cases, an entity will be able to determine a range of possible
outcomes and can therefore make an estimate of the obligation that is sufficiently reliable to use in recognising a
provision.
26. In the extremely rare case where no reliable estimate can be made, a liability exists that cannot be recognized. That
liability is disclosed as a contingent liability (see paragraph 86).
Contingent liabilities
27. An entity shall not recognise a contingent liability.
28. A contingent liability is disclosed, as required by paragraph 86, unless the possibility of an outflow of resources
embodying economic benefits is remote.
29. Where an entity is jointly and severally liable for an obligation, the part of the obligation that is expected to be met by
other parties is treated as a contingent liability. The entity recognises a provision for the part of the obligation for which
an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits is probable, except in the extremely rare circumstances where no
reliable estimate can be made.
30. Contingent liabilities may develop in a way not initially expected. Therefore, they are assessed continually to
determine whether an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits has become probable. If it becomes probable
that an outflow of future economic benefits will be required for an item previously dealt with as a contingent liability, a
provision is recognized in the financial statements of the period in which the change in probability occurs (except in the
extremely rare circumstances where no reliable estimate can be made).
Contingent assets
31. An entity shall not recognise a contingent asset.
32. Contingent assets usually arise from unplanned or other unexpected events that give rise to the possibility of an
inflow of economic benefits to the entity. An example is a claim that an entity is pursuing through legal processes, where
the outcome is uncertain.
33. Contingent assets are not recognized in financial statements since this may result in the recognition of income that
may never be realised. However, when the realisation of income is virtually certain, then the related asset is not a
contingent asset and its recognition is appropriate.
34. A contingent asset is disclosed, as required by paragraph 89, where an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
35. Contingent assets are assessed continually to ensure that developments are appropriately reflected in the financial
statements. If it has become virtually certain that an inflow of economic benefits will arise, the asset and the related
income are recognized in the financial statements of the period in which the change occurs. If an inflow of economic
benefits has become probable, an entity discloses the contingent asset (see paragraph 89).
Measurement
Best estimate
36. The amount recognized as a provision shall be the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present
obligation at the end of the reporting period.
37. The best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation is the amount that an entity would
rationally pay to settle the obligation at the end of the reporting period or to transfer it to a third party at that time. It will
often be impossible or prohibitively expensive to settle or transfer an obligation at the end of the reporting period.
However, the estimate of the amount that an entity would rationally pay to settle or transfer the obligation gives the best
estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period.
38. The estimates of outcome and financial effect are determined by the judgement of the management of the entity,
supplemented by experience of similar transactions and, in some cases, reports from independent experts. The
evidence considered includes any additional evidence provided by events after the reporting period.
39. Uncertainties surrounding the amount to be recognized as a provision are dealt with by various means according to
the circumstances. Where the provision being measured involves a large population of items, the obligation is estimated
by weighting all possible outcomes by their associated probabilities. The name for this statistical method of estimation is
'expected value'. The provision will therefore be different depending on whether the probability of a loss of a given
amount is, for example, 60 per cent or 90 per cent. Where there is a continuous range of possible outcomes, and each
point in that range is as likely as any other, the mid-point of the range is used.
Example
An entity sells goods
Page 715/765
----- PAGE 716 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
with a warranty under which customers are covered for the cost of
repairs of any manufacturing defects that become apparent within
the first six months after purchase. If minor defects were
detected in all products sold, repair costs of Rs. 1 million
would result. If major defects were detected in all products
sold, repair costs of Rs. 4 million would result. The entity's
past experience and future expectations indicate that, for the
coming year, 75 per cent of the goods sold will have no defects,
20 per cent of the goods sold will have minor defects and 5 per
cent of the goods sold will have major defects. In accordance
with paragraph 24, an entity assesses the probability of an
outflow for the warranty obligations as a whole.
The expected value of
the cost of repairs is:
(75% of nil) + (20% of 1m) + (5% of 4m) = Rs.
400,000
40. Where a single obligation is being measured, the individual most likely outcome may be the best estimate of the
liability. However, even in such a case, the entity considers other possible outcomes. Where other possible outcomes
are either mostly higher or mostly lower than the most likely outcome, the best estimate will be a higher or lower amount.
For example, if an entity has to rectify a serious fault in a major plant that it has constructed for a customer, the
individual most likely outcome may be for the repair to succeed at the first attempt at a cost of Rs 1,000, but a provision
for a larger amount is made if there is a significant chance that further attempts will be necessary.
41. The provision is measured before tax, as the tax consequences of the provision, and changes in it, are dealt with
under Ind AS 12.
Risks and uncertainties
42. The risks and uncertainties that inevitably surround many events and circumstances shall be taken into account in
reaching the best estimate of a provision.
43. Risk describes variability of outcome. A risk adjustment may increase the amount at which a liability is measured.
Caution is needed in making judgements under conditions of uncertainty, so that income or assets are not overstated
and expenses or liabilities are not understated. However, uncertainty does not justify the creation of excessive
provisions or a deliberate overstatement of liabilities. For example, if the projected costs of a particularly adverse
outcome are estimated on a prudent basis, that outcome is not then deliberately treated as more probable than is
realistically the case. Care is needed to avoid duplicating adjustments for risk and uncertainty with consequent
overstatement of a provision.
44. Disclosure of the uncertainties surrounding the amount of the expenditure is made under paragraph 85(b).
Present value
45. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of a provision shall be the present value of the
expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
46. Because of the time value of money, provisions relating to cash outflows that arise soon after the reporting period
are more onerous than those where cash outflows of the same amount arise later. Provisions are therefore discounted,
where the effect is material.
47. The discount rate (or rates) shall be a pre-tax rate (or rates) that reflect(s) current market assessments of the time
value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The discount rate(s) shall not reflect risks for which future cash flow
estimates have been adjusted.
Future events
48. Future events that may affect the amount required to settle an obligation shall be reflected in the amount of a
provision where there is sufficient objective evidence that they will occur.
49. Expected future events may be particularly important in measuring provisions. For example, an entity may believe
that the cost of cleaning up a site at the end of its life will be reduced by future changes in technology. The amount
recognized reflects a reasonable expectation of technically qualified, objective observers, taking account of all available
evidence as to the technology that will be available at the time of the clean-up. Thus it is appropriate to include, for
Page 716/765
----- PAGE 717 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
example, expected cost reductions associated with increased experience in applying existing technology or the
expected cost of applying existing technology to a larger or more complex clean-up operation than has previously been
carried out. However, an entity does not anticipate the development of a completely new technology for cleaning up
unless it is supported by sufficient objective evidence.
50. The effect of possible new legislation is taken into consideration in measuring an existing obligation when sufficient
objective evidence exists that the legislation is virtually certain to be enacted. The variety of circumstances that arise in
practice makes it impossible to specify a single event that will provide sufficient, objective evidence in every case.
Evidence is required both of what legislation will demand and of whether it is virtually certain to be enacted and
implemented in due course. In many cases sufficient objective evidence will not exist until the new legislation is enacted.
Expected disposal of assets
51. Gains from the expected disposal of assets shall not be taken into account in measuring a provision.
52. Gains on the expected disposal of assets are not taken into account in measuring a provision, even if the expected
disposal is closely linked to the event giving rise to the provision. Instead, an entity recognises gains on expected
disposals of assets at the time specified by the Standard dealing with the assets concerned.
Reimbursements
53. Where some or all of the expenditure required to settle a provision is expected to be reimbursed by another party,
the reimbursement shall be recognized when, and only when, it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received if
the entity settles the obligation. The reimbursement shall be treated as a separate asset. The amount recognized for the
reimbursement shall not exceed the amount of the provision.
54. In the statement of profit and loss, the expense relating to a provision may be presented net of the amount
recognized for a reimbursement.
55. Sometimes, an entity is able to look to another party to pay part or all of the expenditure required to settle a provision
(for example, through insurance contracts, indemnity clauses or suppliers' warranties). The other party may either
reimburse amounts paid by the entity or pay the amounts directly.
56. In most cases the entity will remain liable for the whole of the amount in question so that the entity would have to
settle the full amount if the third party failed to pay for any reason. In this situation, a provision is recognized for the full
amount of the liability, and a separate asset for the expected reimbursement is recognized when it is virtually certain that
reimbursement will be received if the entity settles the liability.
57. In some cases, the entity will not be liable for the costs in question if the third party fails to pay. In such a case the
entity has no liability for those costs and they are not included in the provision.
58. As noted in paragraph 29, an obligation for which an entity is jointly and severally liable is a contingent liability to the
extent that it is expected that the obligation will be settled by the other parties.
Changes in provisions
59. Provisions shall be reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If it
is no longer probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation,
the provision shall be reversed.
60. Where discounting is used, the carrying amount of a provision increases in each period to reflect the passage of
time. This increase is recognized as borrowing cost.
Use of provisions
61. A provision shall be used only for expenditures for which the provision was originally recognized.
62. Only expenditures that relate to the original provision are set against it. Setting expenditures against a provision that
was originally recognized for another purpose would conceal the impact of two different events.
Application of the recognition and measurement rules
Future operating losses
63. Provisions shall not be recognized for future operating losses.
64. Future operating losses do not meet the definition of a liability in paragraph 10 and the general recognition criteria
set out for provisions in paragraph 14.
65. An expectation of future operating losses is an indication that certain assets of the operation may be impaired. An
entity tests these assets for impairment under Ind AS 36, Impairment of Assets.
Onerous contracts
66. If an entity has a contract that is onerous, the present obligation under the contract shall be recognized and
Page 717/765
----- PAGE 718 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
measured as a provision.
67. Many contracts (for example, some routine purchase orders) can be canceled without paying compensation to the
other party, and therefore there is no obligation. Other contracts establish both rights and obligations for each of the
contracting parties. Where events make such a contract onerous, the contract falls within the scope of this Standard and
a liability exists which is recognized. Executory contracts that are not onerous fall outside the scope of this Standard.
68. This Standard defines an onerous contract as a contract in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations
under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it. The unavoidable costs under a
contract reflect the least net cost of exiting from the contract, which is the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and any
compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil it.
69. Before a separate provision for an onerous contract is established, an entity recognises any impairment loss that has
occurred on assets dedicated to that contract (see Ind AS 36).
Restructuring
70. The following are examples of events that may fall under the definition of restructuring:
(a)
sale or termination of a line of business;
(b)
the closure of business locations in a country or region or the relocation of business activities from one country or region
to another;
(c)
changes in management structure, for example, eliminating a layer of management; and
(d)
fundamental reorganisations that have a material effect on the nature and focus of the entity's operations.
71. A provision for restructuring costs is recognized only when the general recognition criteria for provisions set out in
paragraph 14 are met. Paragraphs 72-83 set out how the general recognition criteria apply to restructurings.
72. A constructive obligation to restructure arises only when an entity:
(a)
has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring identifying at least:
(i)
the business or part of a business concerned;
(ii)
the principal locations affected;
(iii)
the location, function, and approximate number of employees who will be compensated for terminating their services;
(iv)
the expenditures that will be undertaken; and
(v)
when the plan will be implemented; and
(b)
has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement that plan or
announcing its main features to those affected by it.
73. Evidence that an entity has started to implement a restructuring plan would be provided, for example, by dismantling
plant or selling assets or by the public announcement of the main features of the plan. A public announcement of a
detailed plan to restructure constitutes a constructive obligation to restructure only if it is made in such a way and in
sufficient detail (i.e. setting out the main features of the plan) that it gives rise to valid expectations in other parties such
as customers, suppliers and employees (or their representatives) that the entity will carry out the restructuring.
74. For a plan to be sufficient to give rise to a constructive obligation when communicated to those affected by it, its
implementation needs to be planned to begin as soon as possible and to be completed in a time frame that makes
significant changes to the plan unlikely. If it is expected that there will be a long delay before the restructuring begins or
that the restructuring will take an unreasonably long time, it is unlikely that the plan will raise a valid expectation on the
part of others that the entity is at present committed to restructuring, because the time frame allows opportunities for the
entity to change its plans.
Page 718/765
----- PAGE 719 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
75. A management or board decision to restructure taken before the end of the reporting period does not give rise to a
constructive obligation at the end of the reporting period unless the entity has, before the end of the reporting period:
(a)
started to implement the restructuring plan; or
(b)
announced the main features of the restructuring plan to those affected by it, in a sufficiently specific manner to raise a
valid expectation in them that the entity will carry out the restructuring.
If an entity starts to implement a restructuring plan, or announces its main features to those affected, only after the
reporting period, disclosure is required under, Ind AS 10, Events after the Reporting Period, if the restructuring is
material and non-disclosure could influence the economic decisions that users make on the basis of the financial
statements.
76. Although a constructive obligation is not created solely by a management decision, an obligation may result from
other earlier events together with such a decision. For example, negotiations with employee representatives for
termination payments, or with purchasers for the sale of an operation, may have been concluded subject only to board
approval. Once that approval has been obtained and communicated to the other parties, the entity has a constructive
obligation to restructure, if the conditions of paragraph 72 are met.
77. In some countries, the ultimate authority is vested in a board whose membership includes representatives of
interests other than those of management (e.g. employees) or notification to such representatives may be necessary
before the board decision is taken. Because a decision by such a board involves communication to these
representatives, it may result in a constructive obligation to restructure.
78. No obligation arises for the sale of an operation until the entity is committed to the sale, i.e. there is a binding sale
agreement.
79. Even when an entity has taken a decision to sell an operation and announced that decision publicly, it cannot be
committed to the sale until a purchaser has been identified and there is a binding sale agreement. Until there is a
binding sale agreement, the entity will be able to change its mind and indeed will have to take another course of action if
a purchaser cannot be found on acceptable terms. When the sale of an operation is envisaged as part of a restructuring,
the assets of the operation are reviewed for impairment, under Ind AS 36. When a sale is only part of a restructuring, a
constructive obligation can arise for the other parts of the restructuring before a binding sale agreement exists.
80. A restructuring provision shall include only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those that
are both:
(a)
necessarily entailed by the restructuring; and
(b)
not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
81. A restructuring provision does not include such costs as:
(a)
retraining or relocating continuing staff;
(b)
marketing; or
(c)
investment in new systems and distribution networks.
These expenditures relate to the future conduct of the business and are not liabilities for restructuring at the end of the
reporting period. Such expenditures are recognized on the same basis as if they arose independently of a restructuring.
82. Identifiable future operating losses up to the date of a restructuring are not included in a provision, unless they relate
to an onerous contract as defined in paragraph 10.
83. As required by paragraph 51, gains on the expected disposal of assets are not taken into account in measuring a
restructuring provision, even if the sale of assets is envisaged as part of the restructuring.
Disclosure
84. For each class of provision, an entity shall disclose:
(a)
the carrying amount at the beginning and end of the period;
Page 719/765
----- PAGE 720 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
additional provisions made in the period, including increases to existing provisions;
(c)
amounts used (i.e. incurred and charged against the provision) during the period ;
(d)
unused amounts reversed during the period ; and
(e)
the increase during the period in the discounted amount arising from the passage of time and the effect of any change in
the discount rate.
Comparative information is not required.
85. An entity shall disclose the following for each class of provision:
(a)
a brief description of the nature of the obligation and the expected timing of any resulting outflows of economic benefits;
(b)
an indication of the uncertainties about the amount or timing of those outflows. Where necessary to provide adequate
information, an entity shall disclose the major assumptions made concerning future events, as addressed in paragraph
48; and
(c)
the amount of any expected reimbursement, stating the amount of any asset that has been recognized for that expected
reimbursement.
86. Unless the possibility of any outflow in settlement is remote, an entity shall disclose for each class of contingent
liability at the end of the reporting period a brief description of the nature of the contingent liability and, where
practicable:
(a)
an estimate of its financial effect, measured under paragraphs 36-52;
(b)
an indication of the uncertainties relating to the amount or timing of any outflow; and
(c)
the possibility of any reimbursement.
87. In determining which provisions or contingent liabilities may be aggregated to form a class, it is necessary to
consider whether the nature of the items is sufficiently similar for a single statement about them to fulfil the requirements
of paragraphs 85(a) and (b) and 86(a) and (b). Thus, it may be appropriate to treat as a single class of provision
amounts relating to warranties of different products, but it would not be appropriate to treat as a single class amounts
relating to normal warranties and amounts that are subject to legal proceedings.
88. Where a provision and a contingent liability arise from the same set of circumstances, an entity makes the
disclosures required by paragraphs 84-86 in a way that shows the link between the provision and the contingent liability.
89. Where an inflow of economic benefits is probable, an entity shall disclose a brief description of the nature of the
contingent assets at the end of the reporting period, and, where practicable, an estimate of their financial effect,
measured using the principles set out for provisions in paragraphs 36-52.
90. It is important that disclosures for contingent assets avoid giving misleading indications of the likelihood of income
arising.
91. Where any of the information required by paragraphs 86 and 89 is not disclosed because it is not practicable to do
so, that fact shall be stated.
92. In extremely rare cases, disclosure of some or all of the information required by paragraphs 84-89 can be expected
to prejudice seriously the position of the entity in a dispute with other parties on the subject matter of the provision,
contingent liability or contingent asset. In such cases, an entity need not disclose the information, but shall disclose the
general nature of the dispute, together with the fact that, and reason why, the information has not been disclosed.
[Transitional Provisions
93. *
94. *
Effective date
Page 720/765
----- PAGE 721 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
95. *
96. *
97. *
98. *
99. *
100. As a consequence of issuance of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, paragraph 5 is amended
and paragraph 6 is deleted. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 115.]
[Inserted by notification No. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[101 Omitted*
102. Ind AS 116, amended paragraph 5. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies Ind AS 116.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix A
Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Background
1. The purpose of decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds, hereafter referred to as
'decommissioning funds' or 'funds', is to segregate assets to fund some or all of the costs of decommissioning plant
(such as a nuclear plant) or certain equipment (such as cars), or in undertaking environmental rehabilitation (such as
rectifying pollution of water or restoring mined land), together referred to as 'decommissioning'.
2. Contributions to these funds may be voluntary or required by regulation or law. The funds may have one of the
following structures:
(a)
funds that are established by a single contributor to fund its own decommissioning obligations, whether for a particular
site, or for a number of geographically dispersed sites.
(b)
funds that are established with multiple contributors to fund their individual or joint decommissioning obligations, when
contributors are entitled to reimbursement for decommissioning expenses to the extent of their contributions plus any
actual earnings on those contributions less their share of the costs of administering the fund. Contributors may have an
obligation to make additional contributions, for example, in the event of the bankruptcy of another contributor.
(c)
funds that are established with multiple contributors to fund their individual or joint decommissioning obligations when
the required level of contributions is based on the current activity of a contributor and the benefit obtained by that
contributor is based on its past activity. In such cases there is a potential mismatch in the amount of contributions made
by a contributor (based on current activity) and the value realisable from the fund (based on past activity).
3. Such funds generally have the following features:
(a)
the fund is separately administered by independent trustees.
(b)
entities (contributors) make contributions to the fund, which are invested in a range of assets that may include both debt
and equity investments, and are available to help pay the contributors' decommissioning costs. The trustees determine
how contributions are invested, within the constraints set by the fund's governing documents and any applicable
legislation or other regulations.
(c)
the contributors retain the obligation to pay decommissioning costs. However, contributors are able to obtain
reimbursement of decommissioning costs from the fund up to the lower of the decommissioning costs incurred and the
contributor's share of assets of the fund.
(d)
the contributors may have restricted access or no access to any surplus of assets of the fund over those used to meet
eligible decommissioning costs.
Scope
4. This Appendix applies to accounting in the financial statements of a contributor for interests arising from
Page 721/765
----- PAGE 722 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
decommissioning funds that have both of the following features:
(a)
the assets are administered separately (either by being held in a separate legal entity or as segregated assets within
another entity); and
(b)
a contributor's right to access the assets is restricted.
5. A residual interest in a fund that extends beyond a right to reimbursement, such as a contractual right to distributions
once all the decommissioning has been completed or on winding up the fund, may be an equity instrument within the
scope of Ind AS 109 and is not within the scope of this Appendix.
Issues
6. The issues addressed in this Appendix are:
(a)
how should a contributor account for its interest in a fund?
(b)
when a contributor has an obligation to make additional contributions, for example, in the event of the bankruptcy of
another contributor, how should that obligation be accounted for?
Accounting Principles
Accounting for an interest in a fund
7. The contributor shall recognise its obligation to pay decommissioning costs as a liability and recognise its interest in
the fund separately unless the contributor is not liable to pay decommissioning costs even if the fund fails to pay.
8. The contributor shall determine whether it has control or joint control of, or significant influence over, the fund by
reference to Ind AS 110, Consolidated Financial Statements, Ind AS 111, Joint Arrangements, and Ind AS 28,
Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. If it does, the contributor shall account for its interest in the fund in
accordance with those Standards.
9. If a contributor does not have control or joint control of, or significant influence over, the fund, the contributor shall
recognise the right to receive reimbursement from the fund as a reimbursement in accordance with Ind AS 37. This
reimbursement shall be measured at the lower of:
(a)
the amount of the decommissioning obligation recognized; and
(b)
the contributor's share of the fair value of the net assets of the fund attributable to contributors.
Changes in the carrying value of the right to receive reimbursement other than contributions to and payments from the
fund shall be recognized in profit or loss in the period in which these changes occur.
Accounting for obligations to make additional contributions
10. When a contributor has an obligation to make potential additional contributions, for example, in the event of the
bankruptcy of another contributor or if the value of the investment assets held by the fund decreases to an extent that
they are insufficient to fulfil the fund's reimbursement obligations, this obligation is a contingent liability that is within the
scope of Ind AS 37. The contributor shall recognise a liability only if it is probable that additional contributions will be
made.
Disclosure
11. A contributor shall disclose the nature of its interest in a fund and any restrictions on access to the assets in the
fund.
12. When a contributor has an obligation to make potential additional contributions that is not recognized as a liability
(see paragraph 10), it shall make the disclosures required by paragraph 86 of Ind AS 37.
13. When a contributor accounts for its interest in the fund in accordance with paragraph 9, it shall make the disclosures
required by paragraph 85(c) of Ind AS 37.
Appendix B
[Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market-Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment]
[This Appendix is in the context of European Union. However, if similar regulations exist in other countries including
India the principles as enunciated in this Appendix shall apply.]
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Page 722/765
----- PAGE 723 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Background
1. Paragraph 17 of Ind AS 37 specifies that an obligating event is a past event that leads to a present obligation that an
entity has no realistic alternative to settling.
2. Paragraph 19 of Ind AS 37 states that provisions are recognized only for 'obligations arising from past events existing
independently of an entity's future actions'.
3. The European Union's Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WE&EE), which regulates the
collection, treatment, recovery and environmentally sound disposal of waste equipment, has given rise to questions
about when the liability for the decommissioning of WE&EE should be recognized. The Directive distinguishes between
'new' and 'historical' waste and between waste from private households and waste from sources other than private
households. New waste relates to products sold after 13 August 2005. All household equipment sold before that date is
deemed to give rise to historical waste for the purposes of the Directive.
4. The Directive states that the cost of waste management for historical household equipment should be borne by
producers of that type of equipment that are in the market during a period to be specified in the applicable legislation of
each Member State (the measurement period). The Directive states that each Member State shall establish a
mechanism to have producers contribute to costs proportionately 'e.g. in proportion to their respective share of the
market by type of equipment.'
5. Several terms used in this Appendix such as 'market share' and 'measurement period' may be defined very differently
in the applicable legislation of individual Member States. For example, the length of the measurement period might be a
year or only one month. Similarly, the measurement of market share and the formulae for computing the obligation may
differ in the various national legislations. However, all of these examples affect only the measurement of the liability,
which is not within the scope of this Appendix.
Scope
6. This Appendix provides guidance on the recognition, in the financial statements of producers, of liabilities for waste
management under the EU Directive on WE&EE in respect of sales of historical household equipment.
7. This Appendix addresses neither new waste nor historical waste from sources other than private households. The
liability for such waste management is adequately covered in Ind AS 37. However, if, in national legislation, new waste
from private households is treated in a similar manner to historical waste from private households, the principles of this
Appendix apply by reference to the hierarchy in paragraphs 10-12 of Ind AS 8. The Ind AS 8 hierarchy is also relevant
for other regulations that impose obligations in a way that is similar to the cost attribution model specified in the EU
Directive.
Issue
8. This Appendix determines in the context of the decommissioning of WE&EE what constitutes the obligating event in
accordance with paragraph 14(a) of Ind AS 37 for the recognition of a provision for waste management costs:
? the manufacture or sale of the historical household equipment?
? participation in the market during the measurement period?
? the incurrence of costs in the performance of waste management activities?
Accounting Principles
9. Participation in the market during the measurement period is the obligating event in accordance with paragraph 14(a)
of Ind AS 37. As a consequence, a liability for waste management costs for historical household equipment does not
arise as the products are manufactured or sold. Because the obligation for historical household equipment is linked to
participation in the market during the measurement period, rather than to production or sale of the items to be disposed
of, there is no obligation unless and until a market share exists during the measurement period. The timing of the
obligating event may also be independent of the particular period in which the activities to perform the waste
management are undertaken and the related costs incurred.
Appendix C
Levies
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Background
1. A Government may impose a levy on an entity. An issue arises when to recognise a liability to pay a levy that is
accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Scope
Page 723/765
----- PAGE 724 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
2. This Appendix addresses the accounting for a liability to pay a levy if that liability is within the scope of Ind AS 37. It
also addresses the accounting for a liability to pay a levy whose timing and amount is certain.
3. This Appendix does not address the accounting for the costs that arise from recognising a liability to pay a levy.
Entities should apply other Standards to decide whether the recognition of a liability to pay a levy gives rise to an asset
or an expense.
4. For the purposes of this Appendix, a levy is an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits that is imposed by
Governments on entities in accordance with legislation (i.e. laws and/or regulations), other than:
(a)
those outflows of resources that are within the scope of other Standards (such as income taxes that are within the scope
of Ind AS 12, Income Taxes); and
(b)
fines or other penalties that are imposed for breaches of the legislation.
'Government' refers to Government, Government agencies and similar bodies whether local, national or international.
5. A payment made by an entity for the acquisition of an asset, or for the rendering of services under a contractual
agreement with a Government, does not meet the definition of a levy.
6. An entity is not required to apply this Appendix to liabilities that arise from emissions trading schemes.
Issues
7. To clarify the accounting for a liability to pay a levy, this Appendix addresses the following issues:
(a)
what is the obligating event that gives rise to the recognition of a liability to pay a levy?
(b)
does economic compulsion to continue to operate in a future period create a constructive obligation to pay a levy that
will be triggered by operating in that future period?
(c)
does the going concern assumption imply that an entity has a present obligation to pay a levy that will be triggered by
operating in a future period?
(d)
does the recognition of a liability to pay a levy arise at a point in time or does it, in some circumstances, arise
progressively over time?
(e)
what is the obligating event that gives rise to the recognition of a liability to pay a levy that is triggered if a minimum
threshold is reached?
(f)
are the principles for recognising in the annual financial statements and in the interim financial report a liability to pay a
levy the same?
Accounting Principles
8. The obligating event that gives rise to a liability to pay a levy is the activity that triggers the payment of the levy, as
identified by the legislation. For example, if the activity that triggers the payment of the levy is the generation of revenue
in the current period and the calculation of that levy is based on the revenue that was generated in a previous period,
the obligating event for that levy is the generation of revenue in the current period. The generation of revenue in the
previous period is necessary, but not sufficient, to create a present obligation.
9. An entity does not have a constructive obligation to pay a levy that will be triggered by operating in a future period as
a result of the entity being economically compelled to continue to operate in that future period.
10. The preparation of financial statements under the going concern assumption does not imply that an entity has a
present obligation to pay a levy that will be triggered by operating in a future period.
11. The liability to pay a levy is recognized progressively if the obligating event occurs over a period of time (i.e. if the
activity that triggers the payment of the levy, as identified by the legislation, occurs over a period of time). For example, if
the obligating event is the generation of revenue over a period of time, the corresponding liability is recognized as the
entity generates that revenue.
12. If an obligation to pay a levy is triggered when a minimum threshold is reached, the accounting for the liability that
arises from that obligation shall be consistent with the principles established in paragraphs 8-14 of this Appendix (in
Page 724/765
----- PAGE 725 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
particular, paragraphs 8 and 11). For example, if the obligating event is the reaching of a minimum activity threshold
(such as a minimum amount of revenue or sales generated or outputs produced), the corresponding liability is
recognized when that minimum activity threshold is reached.
13. An entity shall apply the same recognition principles in the interim financial report that it applies in the annual
financial statements. As a result, in the interim financial report, a liability to pay a levy:
(a)
shall not be recognized if there is no present obligation to pay the levy at the end of the interim reporting period; and
(b)
shall be recognized if a present obligation to pay the levy exists at the end of the interim reporting period.
14. An entity shall recognise an asset if it has prepaid a levy but does not yet have a present obligation to pay that levy.
Appendix D
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This Appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
This appendix lists the appendices which are part of other Indian Accounting Standards and makes references to Ind AS
37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
(i)
[ Appendix D, Service Concession Arrangements and Appendix E, Service Concession Arrangements: Disclosures,
contained in Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(ii)
Appendix A, Changes in Existing Decommissioning, Restoration and Similar Liabilities, contained in Ind AS 16, Property,
Plant and Equipment.
[***]
[Omitted 'Appendix B, Evaluating the Substance of Transactions involving the Legal Form of a Lease contained in Ind
AS 17, Leases' by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 37 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, IFRIC 5, Rights to Interests
arising from Decommissioning Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds, IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from
Participating in Specific Market-Waste electrical and Electronic Equipment and IFRIC 21, Levies, issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, IFRIC 5, IFRIC 6 and IFRIC
1. The transitional provisions given in IAS 37 and IFRIC 5 and IFRIC 6 have not been given in Ind AS 37, since all
transitional provisions related to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in Ind AS 101, First-time
Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards, corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial
Reporting Standards.
2. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position' and 'Statement of profit and loss is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'. Words 'approval of
the financial statements for issue have been used instead of 'authorisation of the financial statements for issue' in the
context of financial statements considered for the purpose of events after the reporting period.
3. [ The following paragraph numbers have been omitted in IAS 37. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 37, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 37:
(i)
paragraph 1(b)
(ii)
paragraph 4
(iii)
paragraph 5(a)
(iv)
paragraph 6.]
Page 725/765
----- PAGE 726 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
4. [ Paragraphs 93-99 and 101 related to Transitional Provisions and Effective date given in IAS 37 have not been given
in Ind AS 37, since all transitional provisions related to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in
Ind AS 101, First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of
International Financial Reporting Standards and paragraph related to Effective date are not relevant in Indian context.
However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS 37, these paragraph numbers are retained in
Ind AS 37.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 38
Intangible Assets
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting treatment for intangible assets that are not dealt with
specifically in another Standard. This Standard requires an entity to recognise an intangible asset if, and only if,
specified criteria are met. The Standard also specifies how to measure the carrying amount of intangible assets and
requires specified disclosures about intangible assets.
Scope
2. This Standard shall be applied in accounting for intangible assets, except:
(a)
intangible assets that are within the scope of another Standard;
(b)
financial assets, as defined in Ind AS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation;
(c)
the recognition and measurement of exploration and evaluation assets (see Ind AS 106, Exploration for and Evaluation
of Mineral Resources); and
(d)
expenditure on the development and extraction of minerals, oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative resources.
3. If another Standard prescribes the accounting for a specific type of intangible asset, an entity applies that Standard
instead of this Standard. For example, this Standard does not apply to:
(a)
[ intangible assets held by an entity for sale in the ordinary course of business (see Ind AS 2, Inventories).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(b)
deferred tax assets (see Ind AS 12, Income Taxes).
(c)
[ leases of intangible assets accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 116, Leases.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(d)
assets arising from employee benefits (see Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits).
(e)
financial assets as defined in Ind AS 32. The recognition and measurement of some financial assets are covered by Ind
AS 110, Consolidated Financial Statements, Ind AS 27, Separate Financial Statements, and Ind AS 28, Investments in
Associates and Joint Ventures.
(f)
goodwill acquired in a business combination (see Ind AS 103, Business Combinations).
(g)
deferred acquisition costs, and intangible assets, arising from an insurer's contractual rights under insurance contracts
within the scope of Ind AS 104, Insurance Contracts. Ind AS 104 sets out specific disclosure requirements for those
deferred acquisition costs but not for those intangible assets. Therefore, the disclosure requirements in this Standard
apply to those intangible assets.
(h)
Page 726/765
----- PAGE 727 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
non-current intangible assets classified as held for sale (or included in a disposal group that is classified as held for sale)
in accordance with Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
(i)
[ assets arising from contracts with customers that are recognised in accordance with Ind AS 115, Revenue from
Contracts with Customers.]
[Inserted by Notification No. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
4. Some intangible assets may be contained in or on a physical substance such as a compact disc (in the case of
computer software), legal documentation (in the case of a licence or patent) or film. In determining whether an asset that
incorporates both intangible and tangible elements should be treated under Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment,
or as an intangible asset under this Standard, an entity uses judgement to assess which element is more significant. For
example, computer software for a computer-controlled machine tool that cannot operate without that specific software is
an integral part of the related hardware and it is treated as property, plant and equipment. The same applies to the
operating system of a computer. When the software is not an integral part of the related hardware, computer software is
treated as an intangible asset.
5. This Standard applies to, among other things, expenditure on advertising, training, start-up, research and
development activities. Research and development activities are directed to the development of knowledge. Therefore,
although these activities may result in an asset with physical substance (e.g. a prototype), the physical element of the
asset is secondary to its intangible component, i.e. the knowledge embodied in it.
6. [ Rights held by a lease under licensing agreements for items such as motion picture films, video recordings, plays,
manuscripts, patents and copyrights are within the scope of this Standard and are excluded from the scope of Ind AS
116.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
7. Exclusions from the scope of a Standard may occur if activities or transactions are so specialised that they give rise to
accounting issues that may need to be dealt with in a different way. Such issues arise in the accounting for expenditure
on the exploration for, or development and extraction of, oil, gas and mineral deposits in extractive industries and in the
case of insurance contracts. Therefore, this Standard does not apply to expenditure on such activities and contracts.
However, this Standard applies to other intangible assets used (such as computer software), and other expenditure
incurred (such as start-up costs), in extractive industries or by insurers.
7AA. The amortisation method specified in this Standard does not apply to an entity that opts to amortise the intangible
assets arising from service concession arrangements in respect of toll roads recognized in the financial statements for
the period ending immediately before the beginning of the first Ind AS reporting period as per the exception given in
paragraph D22 of Appendix D to Ind AS 101.
Definitions
8. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Amortisation is the systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an intangible asset over its useful life.
An asset is a resource:
(a)
controlled by an entity as a result of past events; and
(b)
from which future economic benefits are expected to flow to the entity.
Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognized in the balance sheet after deducting any accumulated
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses thereon.
Cost is the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of other consideration given to acquire an asset at
the time of its acquisition or construction, or, when applicable, the amount attributed to that asset when initially
recognized in accordance with the specific requirements of other Indian Accounting Standards, e.g. Ind AS 102,
Share-based Payment.
Depreciable amount is the cost of an asset, or other amount substituted for cost, less its residual value.
Development is the application of research findings or other knowledge to a plan or design for the production of new or
substantially improved materials, devices, products, processes, systems or services before the start of commercial
production or use.
Entity-specific value is the present value of the cash flows an entity expects to arise from the continuing use of an asset
Page 727/765
----- PAGE 728 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
and from its disposal at the end of its useful life or expects to incur when settling a liability.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. (See Ind AS 113, Fair Value Measurement.)
An impairment loss is the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
An intangible asset is an identifiable non-monetary asset without physical substance.
Monetary assets are money held and assets to be received in fixed or determinable amounts of money.
Research is original and planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical
knowledge and understanding.
The residual value of an intangible asset is the estimated amount that an entity would currently obtain from disposal of
the asset, after deducting the estimated costs of disposal, if the asset were already of the age and in the condition
expected at the end of its useful life.
Useful life is:
(a)
the period over which an asset is expected to be available for use by an entity; or
(b)
the number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from the asset by an entity.
Intangible assets
9. Entities frequently expend resources, or incur liabilities, on the acquisition, development, maintenance or
enhancement of intangible resources such as scientific or technical knowledge, design and implementation of new
processes or systems, licences, intellectual property, market knowledge and trademarks (including brand names and
publishing titles). Common examples of items encompassed by these broad headings are computer software, patents,
copyrights, motion picture films, customer lists, mortgage servicing rights, fishing licences, import quotas, franchises,
customer or supplier relationships, customer loyalty, market share and marketing rights.
10. Not all the items described in paragraph 9 meet the definition of an intangible asset, i.e. identifiability, control over a
resource and existence of future economic benefits. If an item within the scope of this Standard does not meet the
definition of an intangible asset, expenditure to acquire it or generate it internally is recognized as an expense when it is
incurred. However, if the item is acquired in a business combination, it forms part of the goodwill recognized at the
acquisition date (see paragraph 68).
Identifiability
11. The definition of an intangible asset requires an intangible asset to be identifiable to distinguish it from goodwill.
Goodwill recognized in a business combination is an asset representing the future economic benefits arising from other
assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognized. The future
economic benefits may result from synergy between the identifiable assets acquired or from assets that, individually, do
not qualify for recognition in the financial statements.
12. An asset is identifiable if it either:
(a)
is separable, i.e. is capable of being separated or divided from the entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or
exchanged, either individually or together with a related contract, identifiable asset or liability, regardless of whether the
entity intends to do so; or
(b)
arises from contractual or other legal rights, regardless of whether those rights are transferable or separable from the
entity or from other rights and obligations.
Control
13. An entity controls an asset if the entity has the power to obtain the future economic benefits flowing from the
underlying resource and to restrict the access of others to those benefits. The capacity of an entity to control the future
economic benefits from an intangible asset would normally stem from legal rights that are enforceable in a court of law.
In the absence of legal rights, it is more difficult to demonstrate control. However, legal enforceability of a right is not a
necessary condition for control because an entity may be able to control the future economic benefits in some other
way.
14. Market and technical knowledge may give rise to future economic benefits. An entity controls those benefits if, for
example, the knowledge is protected by legal rights such as copyrights, a restraint of trade agreement (where permitted)
Page 728/765
----- PAGE 729 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
or by a legal duty on employees to maintain confidentiality.
15. An entity may have a team of skilled staff and may be able to identify incremental staff skills leading to future
economic benefits from training. The entity may also expect that the staff will continue to make their skills available to
the entity. However, an entity usually has insufficient control over the expected future economic benefits arising from a
team of skilled staff and from training for these items to meet the definition of an intangible asset. For a similar reason,
specific management or technical talent is unlikely to meet the definition of an intangible asset, unless it is protected by
legal rights to use it and to obtain the future economic benefits expected from it, and it also meets the other parts of the
definition.
16. An entity may have a portfolio of customers or a market share and expect that, because of its efforts in building
customer relationships and loyalty, the customers will continue to trade with the entity. However, in the absence of legal
rights to protect, or other ways to control, the relationships with customers or the loyalty of the customers to the entity,
the entity usually has insufficient control over the expected economic benefits from customer relationships and loyalty for
such items (e.g. portfolio of customers, market shares, customer relationships and customer loyalty) to meet the
definition of intangible assets. In the absence of legal rights to protect customer relationships, exchange transactions for
the same or similar non-contractual customer relationships (other than as part of a business combination) provide
evidence that the entity is nonetheless able to control the expected future economic benefits flowing from the customer
relationships. Because such exchange transactions also provide evidence that the customer relationships are separable,
those customer relationships meet the definition of an intangible asset.
Future economic benefits
17. The future economic benefits flowing from an intangible asset may include revenue from the sale of products or
services, cost savings, or other benefits resulting from the use of the asset by the entity. For example, the use of
intellectual property in a production process may reduce future production costs rather than increase future revenues.
Recognition and measurement
18. The recognition of an item as an intangible asset requires an entity to demonstrate that the item meets:
(a)
the definition of an intangible asset (see paragraphs 8-17); and
(b)
the recognition criteria (see paragraphs 21-23).
This requirement applies to costs incurred initially to acquire or internally generate an intangible asset and those
incurred subsequently to add to, replace part of, or service it.
19. Paragraphs 25-32 deal with the application of the recognition criteria to separately acquired intangible assets, and
paragraphs 33-43 deal with their application to intangible assets acquired in a business combination. Paragraph 44
deals with the initial measurement of intangible assets acquired by way of a Government grant, paragraphs 45-47 with
exchanges of intangible assets, and paragraphs 48-50 with the treatment of internally generated goodwill. Paragraphs
51-67 deal with the initial recognition and measurement of internally generated intangible assets.
20. The nature of intangible assets is such that, in many cases, there are no additions to such an asset or replacements
of part of it. Accordingly, most subsequent expenditures are likely to maintain the expected future economic benefits
embodied in an existing intangible asset rather than meet the definition of an intangible asset and the recognition criteria
in this Standard. In addition, it is often difficult to attribute subsequent expenditure directly to a particular intangible asset
rather than to the business as a whole. Therefore, only rarely will subsequent expenditure-expenditure incurred after the
initial recognition of an acquired intangible asset or after completion of an internally generated intangible asset-be
recognized in the carrying amount of an asset. Consistently with paragraph 63, subsequent expenditure on brands,
mastheads, publishing titles, customer lists and items similar in substance (whether externally acquired or internally
generated) is always recognized in profit or loss as incurred. This is because such expenditure cannot be distinguished
from expenditure to develop the business as a whole.
21. An intangible asset shall be recognized if, and only if:
(a)
it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the entity; and
(b)
the cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
22. An entity shall assess the probability of expected future economic benefits using reasonable and supportable
Page 729/765
----- PAGE 730 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
assumptions that represent management's best estimate of the set of economic conditions that will exist over the useful
life of the asset.
23. An entity uses judgement to assess the degree of certainty attached to the flow of future economic benefits that are
attributable to the use of the asset on the basis of the evidence available at the time of initial recognition, giving greater
weight to external evidence.
24. An intangible asset shall be measured initially at cost.
Separate acquisition
25. Normally, the price an entity pays to acquire separately an intangible asset will reflect expectations about the
probability that the expected future economic benefits embodied in the asset will flow to the entity. In other words, the
entity expects there to be an inflow of economic benefits, even if there is uncertainty about the timing or the amount of
the inflow. Therefore, the probability recognition criterion in paragraph 21(a) is always considered to be satisfied for
separately acquired intangible assets.
26. In addition, the cost of a separately acquired intangible asset can usually be measured reliably. This is particularly so
when the purchase consideration is in the form of cash or other monetary assets.
27. The cost of a separately acquired intangible asset comprises:
(a)
its purchase price, including import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade discounts and
rebates; and
(b)
any directly attributable cost of preparing the asset for its intended use.
28. Examples of directly attributable costs are:
(a)
costs of employee benefits (as defined in Ind AS 19) arising directly from bringing the asset to its working condition;
(b)
professional fees arising directly from bringing the asset to its working condition; and
(c)
costs of testing whether the asset is functioning properly.
29. Examples of expenditures that are not part of the cost of an intangible asset are:
(a)
costs of introducing a new product or service (including costs of advertising and promotional activities);
(b)
costs of conducting business in a new location or with a new class of customer (including costs of staff training); and
(c)
administration and other general overhead costs.
30. Recognition of costs in the carrying amount of an intangible asset ceases when the asset is in the condition
necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Therefore, costs incurred in using or
redeploying an intangible asset are not included in the carrying amount of that asset. For example, the following costs
are not included in the carrying amount of an intangible asset:
(a)
costs incurred while an asset capable of operating in the manner intended by management has yet to be brought into
use; and
(b)
initial operating losses, such as those incurred while demand for the asset's output builds up.
31. Some operations occur in connection with the development of an intangible asset, but are not necessary to bring the
asset to the condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. These
incidental operations may occur before or during the development activities. Because incidental operations are not
necessary to bring an asset to the condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by
management, the income and related expenses of incidental operations are recognized immediately in profit or loss, and
included in their respective classifications of income and expense.
32. If payment for an intangible asset is deferred beyond normal credit terms, its cost is the cash price equivalent. The
difference between this amount and the total payments is recognized as interest expense over the period of credit
Page 730/765
----- PAGE 731 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
unless it is capitalised in accordance with Ind AS 23, Borrowing Costs.
Acquisition as part of a business combination
33. In accordance with Ind AS 103, Business Combinations, if an intangible asset is acquired in a business combination,
the cost of that intangible asset is its fair value at the acquisition date. The fair value of an intangible asset will reflect
market participants' expectations at the acquisition date about the probability that the expected future economic benefits
embodied in the asset will flow to the entity. In other words, the entity expects there to be an inflow of economic benefits,
even if there is uncertainty about the timing or the amount of the inflow. Therefore, the probability recognition criterion in
paragraph 21(a) is always considered to be satisfied for intangible assets acquired in business combinations. If an asset
acquired in a business combination is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights, sufficient information
exists to measure reliably the fair value of the asset. Thus, the reliable measurement criterion in paragraph 21(b) is
always considered to be satisfied for intangible assets acquired in business combinations.
34. In accordance with this Standard and Ind AS 103, an acquirer recognises at the acquisition date, separately from
goodwill, an intangible asset of the acquiree, irrespective of whether the asset had been recognized by the acquiree
before the business combination. This means that the acquirer recognises as an asset separately from goodwill an
in-process research and development project of the acquiree if the project meets the definition of an intangible asset. An
acquiree's in-process research and development project meets the definition of an intangible asset when it:
(a)
meets the definition of an asset; and
(b)
is identifiable, i.e. is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights.
Intangible asset acquired in a business combination
35. If an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights,
sufficient information exists to measure reliably the fair value of the asset. When, for the estimates used to measure an
intangible asset's fair value, there is a range of possible outcomes with different probabilities that uncertainty enters into
the measurement of the asset's fair value.
36. An intangible asset acquired in a business combination might be separable, but only together with a related contract,
identifiable asset or liability. In such cases, the acquirer recognises the intangible asset separately from goodwill, but
together with the related item.
37. The acquirer may recognise a group of complementary intangible assets as a single asset provided the individual
assets have similar useful lives. For example, the terms 'brand' and 'brand name' are often used as synonym for
trademarks and other marks. However, the former are general marketing terms that are typically used to refer to a group
of complimentary assets such as a trademark (or service mark) and its related trade name, formulas, recipes and
technological expertise.
38.
-41. [Refer Appendix 1]
Subsequent expenditure on an acquired in-process research and development project
42. Research or development expenditure that:
(a)
relates to an in-process research or development project acquired separately or in a business combination and
recognized as an intangible asset; and
(b)
is incurred after the acquisition of that project
shall be accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 54-62.
43. Applying the requirements in paragraphs 54-62 means that subsequent expenditure on an in-process research or
development project acquired separately or in a business combination and recognized as an intangible asset is:
(a)
recognized as an expense when incurred if it is research expenditure;
(b)
recognized as an expense when incurred if it is development expenditure that does not satisfy the criteria for recognition
as an intangible asset in paragraph 57; and
(c)
Page 731/765
----- PAGE 732 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
added to the carrying amount of the acquired in-process research or development project if it is development
expenditure that satisfies the recognition criteria in paragraph 57.
44. [ In some cases, an intangible asset may be acquired free of charge, or for nominal consideration, by way of a
Government grant. This may happen when a Government transfers or allocates to an entity intangible assets such as
airport landing rights, licences to operate radio or television stations, import licences or quotas or rights to access other
restricted resources. In accordance with Ind AS 20, Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government
Assistance, an entity may choose to recognise both the intangible asset and the grant initially at fair value. If an entity
chooses not to recognise the asset initially at fair value, the entity recognises the asset initially at a nominal amount (the
other treatment permitted by Ind AS 20) plus any expenditure that is directly attributable to preparing the asset for its
intended use.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 903(E), dated 20.9.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2013).]
45. One or more intangible assets may be acquired in exchange for a non-monetary asset or assets, or a combination of
monetary and non-monetary assets. The following discussion refers simply to an exchange of one non-monetary asset
for another, but it also applies to all exchanges described in the preceding sentence. The cost of such an intangible
asset is measured at fair value unless (a) the exchange transaction lacks commercial substance or (b) the fair value of
neither the asset received nor the asset given up is reliably measurable. The acquired asset is measured in this way
even if an entity cannot immediately derecognise the asset given up. If the acquired asset is not measured at fair value,
its cost is measured at the carrying amount of the asset given up.
46. An entity determines whether an exchange transaction has commercial substance by considering the extent to which
its future cash flows are expected to change as a result of the transaction. An exchange transaction has commercial
substance if:
(a)
the configuration (i.e. risk, timing and amount) of the cash flows of the asset received differs from the configuration of the
cash flows of the asset transferred; or
(b)
the entity-specific value of the portion of the entity's operations affected by the transaction changes as a result of the
exchange; and
(c)
the difference in (a) or (b) is significant relative to the fair value of the assets exchanged.
For the purpose of determining whether an exchange transaction has commercial substance, the entity-specific value of
the portion of the entity's operations affected by the transaction shall reflect post-tax cash flows. The result of these
analyses may be clear without an entity having to perform detailed calculations.
47. Paragraph 21(b) specifies that a condition for the recognition of an intangible asset is that the cost of the asset can
be measured reliably. The fair value of an intangible asset is reliably measurable if (a) the variability in the range of
reasonable fair value measurements is not significant for that asset or (b) the probabilities of the various estimates within
the range can be reasonably assessed and used when measuring fair value. If an entity is able to measure reliably the
fair value of either the asset received or the asset given up, then the fair value of the asset given up is used to measure
cost unless the fair value of the asset received is more clearly evident.
Internally generated goodwill
48. Internally generated goodwill shall not be recognized as an asset.
49. In some cases, expenditure is incurred to generate future economic benefits, but it does not result in the creation of
an intangible asset that meets the recognition criteria in this Standard. Such expenditure is often described as
contributing to internally generated goodwill. Internally generated goodwill is not recognized as an asset because it is not
an identifiable resource (i.e. it is not separable nor does it arise from contractual or other legal rights) controlled by the
entity that can be measured reliably at cost.
50. Differences between the fair value of an entity and the carrying amount of its identifiable net assets at any time may
capture a range of factors that affect the fair value of the entity. However, such differences do not represent the cost of
intangible assets controlled by the entity.
Internally generated intangible assets
51. It is sometimes difficult to assess whether an internally generated intangible asset qualifies for recognition because
of problems in:
Page 732/765
----- PAGE 733 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
identifying whether and when there is an identifiable asset that will generate expected future economic benefits; and
(b)
determining the cost of the asset reliably. In some cases, the cost of generating an intangible asset internally cannot be
distinguished from the cost of maintaining or enhancing the entity's internally generated goodwill or of running
day-to-day operations.
Therefore, in addition to complying with the general requirements for the recognition and initial measurement of an
intangible asset, an entity applies the requirements and guidance in paragraphs 52-67 to all internally generated
intangible assets.
52. To assess whether an internally generated intangible asset meets the criteria for recognition, an entity classifies the
generation of the asset into:
(a)
a research phase; and
(b)
a development phase.
Although the terms 'research' and 'development' are defined, the terms 'research phase' and 'development phase' have
a broader meaning for the purpose of this Standard.
53. If an entity cannot distinguish the research phase from the development phase of an internal project to create an
intangible asset, the entity treats the expenditure on that project as if it were incurred in the research phase only.
Research phase
54. No intangible asset arising from research (or from the research phase of an internal project) shall be recognized.
Expenditure on research (or on the research phase of an internal project) shall be recognized as an expense when it is
incurred.
55. In the research phase of an internal project, an entity cannot demonstrate that an intangible asset exists that will
generate probable future economic benefits. Therefore, this expenditure is recognized as an expense when it is
incurred.
56. Examples of research activities are:
(a)
activities aimed at obtaining new knowledge;
(b)
the search for, evaluation and final selection of, applications of research findings or other knowledge;
(c)
the search for alternatives for materials, devices, products, processes, systems or services; and
(d)
the formulation, design, evaluation and final selection of possible alternatives for new or improved materials, devices,
products, processes, systems or services.
Development phase
57. An intangible asset arising from development (or from the development phase of an internal project) shall be
recognized if, and only if, an entity can demonstrate all of the following:
(a)
the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale.
(b)
its intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it.
(c)
its ability to use or sell the intangible asset.
(d)
how the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits. Among other things, the entity can
demonstrate the existence of a market for the output of the intangible asset or the intangible asset itself or, if it is to be
used internally, the usefulness of the intangible asset.
(e)
the availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the
Page 733/765
----- PAGE 734 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
intangible asset.
(f)
its ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.
58. In the development phase of an internal project, an entity can, in some instances, identify an intangible asset and
demonstrate that the asset will generate probable future economic benefits. This is because the development phase of a
project is further advanced than the research phase.
59. Examples of development activities are:
(a)
the design, construction and testing of pre-production or pre-use prototypes and models;
(b)
the design of tools, jigs, moulds and dies involving new technology;
(c)
the design, construction and operation of a pilot plant that is not of a scale economically feasible for commercial
production; and
(d)
the design, construction and testing of a chosen alternative for new or improved materials, devices, products, processes,
systems or services.
60. To demonstrate how an intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits, an entity assesses the
future economic benefits to be received from the asset using the principles in Ind AS 36, Impairment of Assets. If the
asset will generate economic benefits only in combination with other assets, the entity applies the concept of
cash-generating units in Ind AS 36.
61. Availability of resources to complete, use and obtain the benefits from an intangible asset can be demonstrated by,
for example, a business plan showing the technical, financial and other resources needed and the entity's ability to
secure those resources. In some cases, an entity demonstrates the availability of external finance by obtaining a
lender's indication of its willingness to fund the plan.
62. An entity's costing systems can often measure reliably the cost of generating an intangible asset internally, such as
salary and other expenditure incurred in securing copyrights or licences or developing computer software.
63. Internally generated brands, mastheads, publishing titles, customer lists and items similar in substance shall not be
recognized as intangible assets.
64. Expenditure on internally generated brands, mastheads, publishing titles, customer lists and items similar in
substance cannot be distinguished from the cost of developing the business as a whole. Therefore, such items are not
recognized as intangible assets.
Cost of an internally generated intangible asset
65. The cost of an internally generated intangible asset for the purpose of paragraph 24 is the sum of expenditure
incurred from the date when the intangible asset first meets the recognition criteria in paragraphs 21, 22 and 57.
Paragraph 71 prohibits reinstatement of expenditure previously recognized as an expense.
66. The cost of an internally generated intangible asset comprises all directly attributable costs necessary to create,
produce, and prepare the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Examples of directly
attributable costs are:
(a)
costs of materials and services used or consumed in generating the intangible asset;
(b)
costs of employee benefits (as defined in Ind AS 19) arising from the generation of the intangible asset;
(c)
fees to register a legal right; and
(d)
amortisation of patents and licences that are used to generate the intangible asset.
Ind AS 23 specifies criteria for the recognition of interest as an element of the cost of an internally generated intangible
asset.
67. The following are not components of the cost of an internally generated intangible asset:
(a)
Page 734/765
----- PAGE 735 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
selling, administrative and other general overhead expenditure unless this expenditure can be directly attributed to
preparing the asset for use;
(b)
identified inefficiencies and initial operating losses incurred before the asset achieves planned performance; and
(c)
expenditure on training staff to operate the asset.
Example illustrating paragraph 65
An entity is
developing a new production process. During 20X5, expenditure
incurred was Rs.1,000, of which Rs.900 was incurred before 1
December 20X5 and Rs.100 was incurred between 1 December 20X5 and
31 December 20X5. The entity is able to demonstrate that, at 1
December 20X5, the production process met the criteria for
recognition as an intangible asset. The recoverable amount of the
know-how embodied in the process (including future cash outflows
to complete the process before it is available for use) is
estimated to be Rs.500.
At the end of
20X5, the production process is recognized as an intangible asset
at a cost of Rs.100 (expenditure incurred since the date when the
recognition criteria were met, i.e. 1 December 20X5). The Rs.900
expenditure incurred before 1 December 20X5 is recognized as an
expense because the recognition criteria were not met until 1
December 20X5. This expenditure does not form part of the cost of
the production process recognized in the balance sheet.
During 20X6,
expenditure incurred is Rs.2,000. At the end of 20X6, the
recoverable amount of the know-how embodied in the process
(including future cash outflows to complete the process before it
is available for use) is estimated to be Rs.1,900.
At the end of 20X6, the cost of the
production process is Rs.2,100 (Rs.100 expenditure recognized at
the end of 20X5 plus Rs.2,000 expenditure recognized in 20X6).
The entity recognises an impairment loss of Rs.200 to adjust the
carrying amount of the process before impairment loss (Rs.2,100)
to its recoverable amount (Rs.1,900). This impairment loss will
be reversed in a subsequent period if the requirements for the
reversal of an impairment loss in Ind AS 36 are met.
Recognition of an expense
68. Expenditure on an intangible item shall be recognized as an expense when it is incurred unless:
(a)
it forms part of the cost of an intangible asset that meets the recognition criteria (see paragraphs 18-67); or
(b)
the item is acquired in a business combination and cannot be recognized as an intangible asset. If this is the case, it
forms part of the amount recognized as goodwill at the acquisition date (see Ind AS 103).
69. In some cases, expenditure is incurred to provide future economic benefits to an entity, but no intangible asset or
other asset is acquired or created that can be recognized. In the case of the supply of goods, the entity recognises such
expenditure as an expense when it has a right to access those goods. In the case of the supply of services, the entity
recognises the expenditure as an expense when it receives the services. For example, expenditure on research is
recognized as an expense when it is incurred (see paragraph 54), except when it is acquired as part of a business
combination. Other examples of expenditure that is recognized as an expense when it is incurred include:
Page 735/765
----- PAGE 736 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(a)
expenditure on start-up activities (i.e. start-up costs), unless this expenditure is included in the cost of an item of
property, plant and equipment in accordance with Ind AS 16. Start-up costs may consist of establishment costs such as
legal and secretarial costs incurred in establishing a legal entity, expenditure to open a new facility or business (i.e.
pre-opening costs) or expenditures for starting new operations or launching new products or processes (i.e.
pre-operating costs).
(b)
expenditure on training activities.
(c)
expenditure on advertising and promotional activities (including mail order catalogues).
(d)
expenditure on relocating or reorganising part or all of an entity.
69A.
An entity has a right to access goods when it owns them. Similarly, it has a right to access goods when they have been
constructed by a supplier in accordance with the terms of a supply contract and the entity could demand delivery of them
in return for payment. Services are received when they are performed by a supplier in accordance with a contract to
deliver them to the entity and not when the entity uses them to deliver another service, for example, to deliver an
advertisement to customers.
70. Paragraph 68 does not preclude an entity from recognising a prepayment as an asset when payment for goods has
been made in advance of the entity obtaining a right to access those goods. Similarly, paragraph 68 does not preclude
an entity from recognising a prepayment as an asset when payment for services has been made in advance of the entity
receiving those services.
Past expenses not to be recognized as an asset
71. Expenditure on an intangible item that was initially recognized as an expense shall not be recognized as part of the
cost of an intangible asset at a later date.
Measurement after recognition
72. An entity shall choose either the cost model in paragraph 74 or the revaluation model in paragraph 75 as its
accounting policy. If an intangible asset is accounted for using the revaluation model, all the other assets in its class
shall also be accounted for using the same model, unless there is no active market for those assets.
73. A class of intangible assets is a grouping of assets of a similar nature and use in an entity's operations. The items
within a class of intangible assets are revalued simultaneously to avoid selective revaluation of assets and the reporting
of amounts in the financial statements representing a mixture of costs and values as at different dates.
Cost model
74. After initial recognition, an intangible asset shall be carried at its cost less any accumulated amortisation and any
accumulated impairment losses.
Revaluation model
75. After initial recognition, an intangible asset shall be carried at a revalued amount, being its fair value at the date of
the revaluation less any subsequent accumulated amortisation and any subsequent accumulated impairment losses. For
the purpose of revaluations under this Standard, fair value shall be measured by reference to an active market.
Revaluations shall be made with such regularity that at the end of the reporting period the carrying amount of the asset
does not differ materially from its fair value.
76. The revaluation model does not allow:
(a)
the revaluation of intangible assets that have not previously been recognized as assets; or
(b)
the initial recognition of intangible assets at amounts other than cost.
77. [ The revaluation model is applied after an asset has been initially recognised at cost. However, if only part of the
cost of an intangible asset is recognised as an asset because the asset did not meet the criteria for recognition until part
of the way through the process (see paragraph 65), the revaluation model may be applied to the whole of that asset.
Also, the revaluation model may be applied to an intangible asset that was received by way of a Government grant and
recognised at a nominal amount (see paragraph 44).]
Page 736/765
----- PAGE 737 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 903(E), dated 20.9.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2013).]
78. It is uncommon for an active market to exist for an intangible asset, although this may happen. For example, in some
jurisdictions, an active market may exist for freely transferable taxi licences, fishing licences or production quotas.
However, an active market cannot exist for brands, newspaper mastheads, music and film publishing rights, patents or
trademarks, because each such asset is unique. Also, although intangible assets are bought and sold, contracts are
negotiated between individual buyers and sellers, and transactions are relatively infrequent. For these reasons, the price
paid for one asset may not provide sufficient evidence of the fair value of another. Moreover, prices are often not
available to the public.
79. The frequency of revaluations depends on the volatility of the fair values of the intangible assets being revalued. If
the fair value of a revalued asset differs materially from its carrying amount, a further revaluation is necessary. Some
intangible assets may experience significant and volatile movements in fair value, thus necessitating annual revaluation.
Such frequent revaluations are unnecessary for intangible assets with only insignificant movements in fair value.
80. When an intangible asset is revalued, the carrying amount of that asset is adjusted to the revalued amount. At the
date of the revaluation, the asset is treated in one of the following ways:
(a)
the gross carrying amount is adjusted in a manner that is consistent with the revaluation of the carrying amount of the
asset. For example, the gross carrying amount may be restated by reference to observable market data or it may be
restated proportionately to the change in the carrying amount. The accumulated amortisation at the date of the
revaluation is adjusted to equal the difference between the gross carrying amount and the carrying amount of the asset
after taking into account accumulated impairment losses; or
(b)
the accumulated amortisation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset.
The amount of the adjustment of accumulated amortisation forms part of the increase or decrease in the carrying
amount that is accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 85 and 86.
81. If an intangible asset in a class of revalued intangible assets cannot be revalued because there is no active market
for this asset, the asset shall be carried at its cost less any accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
82. If the fair value of a revalued intangible asset can no longer be measured by reference to an active market, the
carrying amount of the asset shall be its revalued amount at the date of the last revaluation by reference to the active
market less any subsequent accumulated amortisation and any subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
83. The fact that an active market no longer exists for a revalued intangible asset may indicate that the asset may be
impaired and that it needs to be tested in accordance with Ind AS 36.
84. If the fair value of the asset can be measured by reference to an active market at a subsequent measurement date,
the revaluation model is applied from that date.
85. If an intangible asset's carrying amount is increased as a result of a revaluation, the increase shall be recognized in
other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity under the heading of revaluation surplus. However, the
increase shall be recognized in profit or loss to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same asset
previously recognized in profit or loss.
86. If an intangible asset's carrying amount is decreased as a result of a revaluation, the decrease shall be recognized in
profit or loss. However, the decrease shall be recognized in other comprehensive income to the extent of any credit
balance in the revaluation surplus in respect of that asset. The decrease recognized in other comprehensive income
reduces the amount accumulated in equity under the heading of revaluation surplus.
87. The cumulative revaluation surplus included in equity may be transferred directly to retained earnings when the
surplus is realised. The whole surplus may be realised on the retirement or disposal of the asset. However, some of the
surplus may be realised as the asset is used by the entity; in such a case, the amount of the surplus realised is the
difference between amortisation based on the revalued carrying amount of the asset and amortisation that would have
been recognized based on the asset's historical cost. The transfer from revaluation surplus to retained earnings is not
made through profit or loss.
Useful life
88. An entity shall assess whether the useful life of an intangible asset is finite or indefinite and, if finite, the length of, or
number of production or similar units constituting, that useful life. An intangible asset shall be regarded by the entity as
having an indefinite useful life when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to
Page 737/765
----- PAGE 738 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash inflows for the entity.
89. The accounting for an intangible asset is based on its useful life. An intangible asset with a finite useful life is
amortised (see paragraphs 97-106), and an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is not (see paragraphs
107-110).
90. Many factors are considered in determining the useful life of an intangible asset, including:
(a)
the expected usage of the asset by the entity and whether the asset could be managed efficiently by another
management team;
(b)
typical product life cycles for the asset and public information on estimates of useful lives of similar assets that are used
in a similar way;
(c)
technical, technological, commercial or other types of obsolescence;
(d)
the stability of the industry in which the asset operates and changes in the market demand for the products or services
output from the asset;
(e)
expected actions by competitors or potential competitors;
(f)
the level of maintenance expenditure required to obtain the expected future economic benefits from the asset and the
entity's ability and intention to reach such a level;
(g)
the period of control over the asset and legal or similar limits on the use of the asset, such as the expiry dates of related
leases; and
(h)
whether the useful life of the asset is dependent on the useful life of other assets of the entity.
91. The term 'indefinite' does not mean 'infinite'. The useful life of an intangible asset reflects only that level of future
maintenance expenditure required to maintain the asset at its standard of performance assessed at the time of
estimating the asset's useful life, and the entity's ability and intention to reach such a level. A conclusion that the useful
life of an intangible asset is indefinite should not depend on planned future expenditure in excess of that required to
maintain the asset at that standard of performance.
92. Given the history of rapid changes in technology, computer software and many other intangible assets are
susceptible to technological obsolescence. Therefore, it will often be the case that their useful life is short. Expected
future reductions in the selling price of an item that was produced using an intangible asset could indicate the
expectation of technological or commercial obsolescence of the asset, which, in turn, might reflect a reduction of the
future economic benefits embodied in the asset.
93. The useful life of an intangible asset may be very long or even indefinite. Uncertainty justifies estimating the useful
life of an intangible asset on a prudent basis, but it does not justify choosing a life that is unrealistically short.
94. The useful life of an intangible asset that arises from contractual or other legal rights shall not exceed the period of
the contractual or other legal rights, but may be shorter depending on the period over which the entity expects to use the
asset. If the contractual or other legal rights are conveyed for a limited term that can be renewed, the useful life of the
intangible asset shall include the renewal period(s) only if there is evidence to support renewal by the entity without
significant cost. The useful life of a reacquired right recognized as an intangible asset in a business combination is the
remaining contractual period of the contract in which the right was granted and shall not include renewal periods.
95. There may be both economic and legal factors influencing the useful life of an intangible asset. Economic factors
determine the period over which future economic benefits will be received by the entity. Legal factors may restrict the
period over which the entity controls access to these benefits. The useful life is the shorter of the periods determined by
these factors.
96. Existence of the following factors, among others, indicates that an entity would be able to renew the contractual or
other legal rights without significant cost:
(a)
Page 738/765
----- PAGE 739 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
there is evidence, possibly based on experience, that the contractual or other legal rights will be renewed. If renewal is
contingent upon the consent of a third party, this includes evidence that the third party will give its consent;
(b)
there is evidence that any conditions necessary to obtain renewal will be satisfied; and
(c)
the cost to the entity of renewal is not significant when compared with the future economic benefits expected to flow to
the entity from renewal.
If the cost of renewal is significant when compared with the future economic benefits expected to flow to the entity from
renewal, the 'renewal' cost represents, in substance, the cost to acquire a new intangible asset at the renewal date.
Intangible assets with finite useful lives
Amortisation period and amortisation method
97. The depreciable amount of an intangible asset with a finite useful life shall be allocated on a systematic basis over
its useful life. Amortisation shall begin when the asset is available for use, i.e. when it is in the location and condition
necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Amortisation shall cease at the
earlier of the date that the asset is classified as held for sale (or included in a disposal group that is classified as held for
sale) in accordance with Ind AS 105 and the date that the asset is derecognized. The amortisation method used shall
reflect the pattern in which the asset's future economic benefits are expected to be consumed by the entity. If that
pattern cannot be determined reliably, the straight-line method shall be used. The amortisation charge for each period
shall be recognized in profit or loss unless this or another Standard permits or requires it to be included in the carrying
amount of another asset.
98. A variety of amortisation methods can be used to allocate the depreciable amount of an asset on a systematic basis
over its useful life. These methods include the straight-line method, the diminishing balance method and the units of
production method. The method used is selected on the basis of the expected pattern of consumption of the expected
future economic benefits embodied in the asset and is applied consistently from period to period, unless there is a
change in the expected pattern of consumption of those future economic benefits.
98A. There is a rebuttable presumption that an amortisation method that is based on the revenue generated by an
activity that includes the use of an intangible asset is inappropriate. The revenue generated by an activity that includes
the use of an intangible asset typically reflects factors that are not directly linked to the consumption of the economic
benefits embodied in the intangible asset. For example, revenue is affected by other inputs and processes, selling
activities and changes in sales volumes and prices. The price component of revenue may be affected by inflation, which
has no bearing upon the way in which an asset is consumed. This presumption can be overcome only in the limited
circumstances:
(a)
in which the intangible asset is expressed as a measure of revenue, as described in paragraph 98C; or
(b)
when it can be demonstrated that revenue and the consumption of the economic benefits of the intangible asset are
highly correlated.
98B. In choosing an appropriate amortisation method in accordance with paragraph 98, an entity could determine the
predominant limiting factor that is inherent in the intangible asset. For example, the contract that sets out the entity's
rights over its use of an intangible asset might specify the entity's use of the intangible asset as a predetermined number
of years (i.e. time), as a number of units produced or as a fixed total amount of revenue to be generated. Identification of
such a predominant limiting factor could serve as the starting point for the identification of the appropriate basis of
amortisation, but another basis may be applied if it more closely reflects the expected pattern of consumption of
economic benefits.
98C. In the circumstance in which the predominant limiting factor that is inherent in an intangible asset is the
achievement of a revenue threshold, the revenue to be generated can be an appropriate basis for amortisation. For
example, an entity could acquire a concession to explore and extract gold from a gold mine. The expiry of the contract
might be based on a fixed amount of total revenue to be generated from the extraction (for example, a contract may
allow the extraction of gold from the mine until total cumulative revenue from the sale of gold reaches Rs.2 billion) and
not be based on time or on the amount of gold extracted. In another example, the right to operate a toll road could be
based on a fixed total amount of revenue to be generated from cumulative tolls charged (for example, a contract could
Page 739/765
----- PAGE 740 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
allow operation of the toll road until the cumulative amount of tolls generated from operating the road reaches Rs.100
million). In the case in which revenue has been established as the predominant limiting factor in the contract for the use
of the intangible asset, the revenue that is to be generated might be an appropriate basis for amortising the intangible
asset, provided that the contract specifies a fixed total amount of revenue to be generated on which amortisation is to be
determined.
99. Amortisation is usually recognized in profit or loss. However, sometimes the future economic benefits embodied in
an asset are absorbed in producing other assets. In this case, the amortisation charge constitutes part of the cost of the
other asset and is included in its carrying amount. For example, the amortisation of intangible assets used in a
production process is included in the carrying amount of inventories (see Ind AS 2, Inventories).
Residual value
100. The residual value of an intangible asset with a finite useful life shall be assumed to be zero unless:
(a)
there is a commitment by a third party to purchase the asset at the end of its useful life; or
(b)
there is an active market (as defined in Ind AS 113) for the asset and:
(i)
residual value can be determined by reference to that market; and
(ii)
it is probable that such a market will exist at the end of the asset's useful life.
101. The depreciable amount of an asset with a finite useful life is determined after deducting its residual value. A
residual value other than zero implies that an entity expects to dispose of the intangible asset before the end of its
economic life.
102. An estimate of an asset's residual value is based on the amount recoverable from disposal using prices prevailing
at the date of the estimate for the sale of a similar asset that has reached the end of its useful life and has operated
under conditions similar to those in which the asset will be used. The residual value is reviewed at least at each financial
year-end. A change in the asset's residual value is accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate in accordance
with Ind AS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
103. The residual value of an intangible asset may increase to an amount equal to or greater than the asset's carrying
amount. If it does, the asset's amortisation charge is zero unless and until its residual value subsequently decreases to
an amount below the asset's carrying amount.
Review of amortisation period and amortisation method
104. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life shall be
reviewed at least at each financial year-end. If the expected useful life of the asset is different from previous estimates,
the amortisation period shall be changed accordingly. If there has been a change in the expected pattern of
consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset, the amortisation method shall be changed to reflect
the changed pattern. Such changes shall be accounted for as changes in accounting estimates in accordance with Ind
AS 8.
105. During the life of an intangible asset, it may become apparent that the estimate of its useful life is inappropriate. For
example, the recognition of an impairment loss may indicate that the amortisation period needs to be changed.
106. Over time, the pattern of future economic benefits expected to flow to an entity from an intangible asset may
change. For example, it may become apparent that a diminishing balance method of amortisation is appropriate rather
than a straight-line method. Another example is if use of the rights represented by a licence is deferred pending action
on other components of the business plan. In this case, economic benefits that flow from the asset may not be received
until later periods.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives
107. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life shall not be amortised.
108. In accordance with Ind AS 36, an entity is required to test an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life for
impairment by comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying amount
(a)
annually, and
(b)
Page 740/765
----- PAGE 741 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
Review of useful life assessment
109. The useful life of an intangible asset that is not being amortised shall be reviewed each period to determine
whether events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life assessment for that asset. If they do not,
the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite shall be accounted for as a change in an accounting
estimate in accordance with Ind AS 8.
110. In accordance with Ind AS 36, reassessing the useful life of an intangible asset as finite rather than indefinite is an
indicator that the asset may be impaired. As a result, the entity tests the asset for impairment by comparing its
recoverable amount, determined in accordance with Ind AS 36, with its carrying amount, and recognising any excess of
the carrying amount over the recoverable amount as an impairment loss.
Recoverability of the carrying amount-impairment losses
111. To determine whether an intangible asset is impaired, an entity applies Ind AS 36. That Standard explains when
and how an entity reviews the carrying amount of its assets, how it determines the recoverable amount of an asset and
when it recognises or reverses an impairment loss.
Retirements and disposals
112. An intangible asset shall be derecognized:
(a)
on disposal; or
(b)
when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
113. [ The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an intangible asset shall be determined as the difference
between the net disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of the asset. It shall be recognised in profit or loss
when the asset is derecognised (unless Ind AS 116 requires otherwise on a sale and leaseback). Gains shall not be
classified as revenue.
114. The disposal of an intangible asset may occur in a variety of ways (e.g. by sale, by entering into a finance lease, or
by donation). The date of disposal of an intangible asset is the date that the recipient obtains control of that asset in
accordance with the requirements for determining when a performance obligation is satisfied in Ind AS 115, Revenue
from Contracts with Customers. Ind AS 116 applies to disposal by a sale and leaseback.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
115. If in accordance with the recognition principle in paragraph 21 an entity recognises in the carrying amount of an
asset the cost of a replacement for part of an intangible asset, then it derecognises the carrying amount of the replaced
part. If it is not practicable for an entity to determine the carrying amount of the replaced part, it may use the cost of the
replacement as an indication of what the cost of the replaced part was at the time it was acquired or internally
generated.
115A.
In the case of a reacquired right in a business combination, if the right is subsequently reissued (sold) to a third party,
the related carrying amount, if any, shall be used in determining the gain or loss on reissue.
116. [ The amount of consideration to be included in the gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an intangible asset
is determined in accordance with the requirements for determining the transaction price in paragraphs 47-72 of Ind AS
115. Subsequent changes to the estimated amount of the consideration included in the gain or loss shall be accounted
for in accordance with the requirements for changes in the transaction price in Ind AS 115.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
117. Amortisation of an intangible asset with a finite useful life does not cease when the intangible asset is no longer
used, unless the asset has been fully depreciated or is classified as held for sale (or included in a disposal group that is
classified as held for sale) in accordance with Ind AS 105.
Disclosure
General
118. An entity shall disclose the following for each class of intangible assets, distinguishing between internally generated
intangible assets and other intangible assets:
(a)
whether the useful lives are indefinite or finite and, if finite, the useful lives or the amortisation rates used;
Page 741/765
----- PAGE 742 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(b)
the amortisation methods used for intangible assets with finite useful lives;
(c)
the gross carrying amount and any accumulated amortisation (aggregated with accumulated impairment losses) at the
beginning and end of the period;
(d)
the line item(s) of the statement of profit and loss in which any amortisation of intangible assets is included;
(e)
a reconciliation of the carrying amount at the beginning and end of the period showing:
(i)
additions, indicating separately those from internal development, those acquired separately, and those acquired through
business combinations;
(ii)
assets classified as held for sale or included in a disposal group classified as held for sale in accordance with Ind AS
105 and other disposals;
(iii)
increases or decreases during the period resulting from revaluations under paragraphs 75, 85 and 86 and from
impairment losses recognized or reversed in other comprehensive income in accordance with Ind AS 36 (if any);
(iv)
impairment losses recognized in profit or loss during the period in accordance with Ind AS 36 (if any);
(v)
impairment losses reversed in profit or loss during the period in accordance with Ind AS 36 (if any);
(vi)
any amortisation recognized during the period;
(vii)
net exchange differences arising on the translation of the financial statements into the presentation currency, and on the
translation of a foreign operation into the presentation currency of the entity; and
(viii)
other changes in the carrying amount during the period.
119. A class of intangible assets is a grouping of assets of a similar nature and use in an entity's operations. Examples
of separate classes may include:
(a)
brand names;
(b)
mastheads and publishing titles;
(c)
computer software;
(d)
licences and franchises;
(e)
copyrights, patents and other industrial property rights, service and operating rights;
(f)
recipes, formulae, models, designs and prototypes; and
(g)
intangible assets under development.
The classes mentioned above are disaggregated (aggregated) into smaller (larger) classes if this results in more
relevant information for the users of the financial statements.
120. An entity discloses information on impaired intangible assets in accordance with Ind AS 36 in addition to the
information required by paragraph 118(e)(iii)-(v).
121. Ind AS 8 requires an entity to disclose the nature and amount of a change in an accounting estimate that has a
material effect in the current period or is expected to have a material effect in subsequent periods. Such disclosure may
Page 742/765
----- PAGE 743 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
arise from changes in:
(a)
the assessment of an intangible asset's useful life;
(b)
the amortisation method; or
(c)
residual values.
122. An entity shall also disclose:
(a)
for an intangible asset assessed as having an indefinite useful life, the carrying amount of that asset and the reasons
supporting the assessment of an indefinite useful life. In giving these reasons, the entity shall describe the factor(s) that
played a significant role in determining that the asset has an indefinite useful life.
(b)
a description, the carrying amount and remaining amortisation period of any individual intangible asset that is material to
the entity's financial statements.
(c)
for intangible assets acquired by way of a Government grant and initially recognized at fair value (see paragraph 44):
(i)
the fair value initially recognized for these assets;
(ii)
their carrying amount; and
(iii)
whether they are measured after recognition under the cost model or the revaluation model.
(d)
the existence and carrying amounts of intangible assets whose title is restricted and the carrying amounts of intangible
assets pledged as security for liabilities.
(e)
the amount of contractual commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets.
123. When an entity describes the factor(s) that played a significant role in determining that the useful life of an
intangible asset is indefinite, the entity considers the list of factors in paragraph 90.
Intangible assets measured after recognition using the revaluation model
124. If intangible assets are accounted for at revalued amounts, an entity shall disclose the following:
a. by class of intangible assets:
(i)
the effective date of the revaluation;
(ii)
the carrying amount of revalued intangible assets; and
(iii)
the carrying amount that would have been recognized had the revalued class of intangible assets been measured after
recognition using the cost model in paragraph 74; and
b. the amount of the revaluation surplus that relates to intangible assets at the beginning and end of the period,
indicating the changes during the period and any restrictions on the distribution of the balance to shareholders.
c. [Refer Appendix 1]
125. It may be necessary to aggregate the classes of revalued assets into larger classes for disclosure purposes.
However, classes are not aggregated if this would result in the combination of a class of intangible assets that includes
amounts measured under both the cost and revaluation models.
Research and development expenditure
126. An entity shall disclose the aggregate amount of research and development expenditure recognized as an expense
during the period.
127. Research and development expenditure comprises all expenditure that is directly attributable to research or
development activities (see paragraphs 66 and 67 for guidance on the type of expenditure to be included for the purpose
Page 743/765
----- PAGE 744 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
of the disclosure requirement in paragraph 126).
Other information
128. An entity is encouraged, but not required, to disclose the following information:
(a)
a description of any fully amortised intangible asset that is still in use; and
(b)
a brief description of significant intangible assets controlled by the entity but not recognized as assets because they did
not meet the recognition criteria in this Standard or because they were acquired or generated before this standard was
effective.
[Transitional provisions and effective date
129. *
130. *
130A.
*
130B.
*
130C.
*
130D.
*
130E.
*
130F.
*
130G.
*
130H.
*
130I.
*
130J.
*
* Refer Appendix 1
130K.
As a consequence of issuance of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, paragraphs 3,114,116 and in
Appendix A paragraph 6 are amended. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 115.]
[Inserted by Notification No. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[130L Ind AS 116 amended paragraphs 3, 6, 113 and 114. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind
AS 116.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix A
Intangible Assets-Web Site Costs
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
Issue
1. An entity may incur internal expenditure on the development and operation of its own web site for internal or external
access. A web site designed for external access may be used for various purposes such as to promote and advertise an
entity's own products and services, provide electronic services, and sell products and services. A web site designed for
internal access may be used to store company policies and customer details, and search relevant information.
2. The stages of a web site's development can be described as follows:
(a)
Planning - includes undertaking feasibility studies, defining objectives and specifications, evaluating alternatives and
Page 744/765
----- PAGE 745 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
selecting preferences.
(b)
Application and Infrastructure Development - includes obtaining a domain name, purchasing and developing hardware
and operating software, installing developed applications and stress testing.
(c)
Graphical Design Development - includes designing the appearance of web pages.
(d)
Content Development - includes creating, purchasing, preparing and uploading information, either textual or graphical in
nature, on the web site before the completion of the web site's development. This information may either be stored in
separate databases that are integrated into (or accessed from) the web site or coded directly into the web pages.
3. Once development of a web site has been completed, the Operating stage begins. During this stage, an entity
maintains and enhances the applications, infrastructure, graphical design and content of the web site.
4. When accounting for internal expenditure on the development and operation of an entity's own web site for internal or
external access, the issues are:
(a)
whether the web site is an internally generated intangible asset that is subject to the requirements of Ind AS 38; and
(b)
the appropriate accounting treatment of such expenditure.
5. This Appendix does not apply to expenditure on purchasing, developing, and operating hardware (e.g. web servers,
staging servers, production servers and Internet connections) of a web site. Such expenditure is accounted for under Ind
AS 16. Additionally, when an entity incurs expenditure on an Internet service provider hosting the entity's web site, the
expenditure is recognized as an expense under paragraph 88 of Ind AS 1 and the Framework for the Preparation and
Presentation of Financial Statements in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards issued by The Institute of
Chartered Accountants of India when the services are received.
6. [ Ind AS 38 does not apply to intangible assets held by an entity for sale in the ordinary course of business (see Ind
AS 2 and Ind AS 115) or leases of intangible assets accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 116. Accordingly, this
Appendix does not apply to expenditure on the development or operation of a web site (or web site software) for sale to
another entity or that is accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 116.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Accounting Principles
7. An entity's own web site that arises from development and is for internal or external access is an internally generated
intangible asset that is subject to the requirements of Ind AS 38.
8. A web site arising from development shall be recognized as an intangible asset if, and only if, in addition to complying
with the general requirements described in paragraph 21 of Ind AS 38 for recognition and initial measurement, an entity
can satisfy the requirements in paragraph 57 of Ind AS 38. In particular, an entity may be able to satisfy the requirement
to demonstrate how its web site will generate probable future economic benefits in accordance with paragraph 57 (d) of
Ind AS 38 when, for example, the web site is capable of generating revenues, including direct revenues from enabling
orders to be placed. An entity is not able to demonstrate how a web site developed solely or primarily for promoting and
advertising its own products and services will generate probable future economic benefits, and consequently all
expenditure on developing such a web site shall be recognized as an expense when incurred.
9. Any internal expenditure on the development and operation of an entity's own web site shall be accounted for in
accordance with Ind AS 38. The nature of each activity for which expenditure is incurred (e.g. training employees and
maintaining the web site) and the web site's stage of development or post-development shall be evaluated to determine
the appropriate accounting treatment. For example:
(a)
the Planning stage is similar in nature to the research phase in paragraphs 54-56 of Ind AS 38. Expenditure incurred in
this stage shall be recognized as an expense when it is incurred.
(b)
the Application and Infrastructure Development stage, the Graphical Design stage and the Content Development stage,
to the extent that content is developed for purposes other than to advertise and promote an entity's own products and
services, are similar in nature to the development phase in paragraphs 57-64 of Ind AS 38. Expenditure incurred in
Page 745/765
----- PAGE 746 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
these stages shall be included in the cost of a web site recognized as an intangible asset in accordance with paragraph
8 of this Appendix when the expenditure can be directly attributed and is necessary to creating, producing or preparing
the web site for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. For example, expenditure on
purchasing or creating content (other than content that advertises and promotes an entity's own products and services)
specifically for a web site, or expenditure to enable use of the content (e.g. a fee for acquiring a licence to reproduce) on
the web site, shall be included in the cost of development when this condition is met. However, in accordance with
paragraph 71 of Ind AS 38, expenditure on an intangible item that was initially recognized as an expense in previous
financial statements shall not be recognized as part of the cost of an intangible asset at a later date (e.g. if the costs of a
copyright have been fully amortised, and the content is subsequently provided on a web site).
(c)
expenditure incurred in the Content Development stage, to the extent that content is developed to advertise and
promote an entity's own products and services (e.g. digital photographs of products), shall be recognized as an expense
when incurred in accordance with paragraph 69(c) of Ind AS 38. For example, when accounting for expenditure on
professional services for taking digital photographs of an entity's own products and for enhancing their display,
expenditure shall be recognized as an expense as the professional services are received during the process, not when
the digital photographs are displayed on the web site.
(d)
the Operating stage begins once development of a web site is complete. Expenditure incurred in this stage shall be
recognized as an expense when it is incurred unless it meets the recognition criteria in paragraph 18 of Ind AS 38.
10. A web site that is recognized as an intangible asset under paragraph 8 of this Appendix shall be measured after
initial recognition by applying the requirements of paragraphs 72-87 of Ind AS 38. The best estimate of a web site's
useful life should be short.
Appendix B
References to matters contained in other Indian Accounting Standards
This appendix is an integral part of the Ind AS.
This appendix lists the appendices which are part of other Indian Accounting Standards and make reference to Ind AS
38, Intangible Assets.
1. [ Appendix D, Service Concession Arrangements contained in Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
2. Appendix E, Service Concession Arrangements: Disclosures contained in Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with
Customers.]
[***]
[Omitted '3. Appendix C, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, contained in Ind AS 17, Leases' by
Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
4. Appendix B, Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine, contained in Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and
Equipment.
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 38 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 38, Intangible Assets, and SIC 32, Intangible Assets-Web Site Costs, issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 38, Intangible Assets and SIC 32
1. [ ***.]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 903(E), dated 20.9.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2013).]
2. [ Paragraphs 129 to 130J related to transitional provisions and effective date have not been included in Ind AS 38 as
transitional provisions given in IAS 38 have not been given in Ind AS 38, since all transitional provisions related to Ind
ASs, wherever considered appropriate, have been included in Ind AS 101, First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting
Standards, corresponding to IFRS 1, Firsttime Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and paragraphs
related to Effective date are not relevant in Indian context. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 38, these paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 38.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Page 746/765
----- PAGE 747 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
3. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position' and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of comprehensive income'.
4. Paragraph 7AA has been inserted to scope out the entity that opts to amortise the intangible assets arising from
service concession arrangements in respect of toll roads recognized in the financial statements for the period ending
immediately before the beginning of the first Ind AS reporting period as per the exception given in paragraph D22 of
Appendix D to Ind AS 101.
5. Following Paragraph numbers appear as 'Deleted' in IAS 38. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 38, the paragraph number have been retained in Ind AS 38.
(i)
paragraphs 38-41
(ii)
paragraph 124(c)
6. Following references to Illustrative Examples which are not integral part of IAS 38 or SIC 32 have not been included in
Ind AS 38:
(i)
Reference to Illustrative Examples in paragraph 89 illustrating the determination of useful life for different intangible
assets, and the subsequent accounting for those assets based on the useful life determinations.
(ii)
Reference in paragraph 9 of SIC 32 to additional guidance provided in examples.
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 40
Investment Property
(This Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.)
Objective
1. The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting treatment for investment property and related disclosure
requirements.
Scope
2. This Standard shall be applied in the recognition, measurement and disclosure of investment property.
[***]
[Omitted '3.' by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
4. This Standard does not apply to:
(a)
biological assets related to agricultural activity (see Ind AS 41, Agriculture and Ind AS 16 Property, Plant and
Equipment); and
(b)
mineral rights and mineral reserves such as oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative resources.
Definitions
5. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognized in the balance sheet.
Cost is the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of other consideration given to acquire an asset at
the time of its acquisition or construction or, where applicable, the amount attributed to that asset when initially
recognized in accordance with the specific requirements of other Ind ASs, e.g. Ind AS 102, Share-based Payment.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. (See Ind AS 113, Fair Value Measurement).
[Investment property is property (land or a building-or part of a building-or both) held (by the owner or by the lessee as a
right-of-use asset) to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both, rather than for:
(a)
use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes; or
(b)
sale in the ordinary course of business.
Owner-occupied property is property held (by the owner or by the lessee as a right-of-use asset) for use in the
Page 747/765
----- PAGE 748 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Classification of property as investment property or owner-occupied property
6. [Refer Appendix 1]
7. [ Investment property is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both. Therefore, an investment property
generates cash flows largely independently of the other assets held by an entity. This distinguishes investment property
from owner-occupied property. The production or supply of goods or services (or the use of property for administrative
purposes) generates cash flows that are attributable not only to property, but also to other assets used in the production
or supply process. Ind AS 16 applies to owned owner-occupied property and Ind AS 116 applies to owner-occupied
property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
8. The following are examples of investment property:
(a)
land held for long-term capital appreciation rather than for short-term sale in the ordinary course of business.
(b)
land held for a currently undetermined future use. (If an entity has not determined that it will use the land as
owner-occupied property or for short-term sale in the ordinary course of business, the land is regarded as held for
capital appreciation.)
(c)
[ a building owned by the entity (or a right-of-use asset relating to a building held by the entity) and leased out under one
or more operating leases.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(d)
a building that is vacant but is held to be leased out under one or more operating leases.
(e)
property that is being constructed or developed for future use as investment property.
9. The following are examples of items that are not investment property and are therefore outside the scope of this
Standard:
(a)
property intended for sale in the ordinary course of business or in the process of construction or development for such
sale (see Ind AS 2, Inventories), for example, property acquired exclusively with a view to subsequent disposal in the
near future or for development and resale.
[***]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(c)
[ owner-occupied property (see Ind AS 16 and Ind AS 116), including (among other things) property held for future use
as owner-occupied property, property held for future development and subsequent use as owner-occupied property,
property occupied by employees (whether or not the employees pay rent at market rates) and owner-occupied property
awaiting disposal.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(d)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(e)
property that is leased to another entity under a finance lease.
10. Some properties comprise a portion that is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation and another portion that is
held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes. If these portions could be
sold separately (or leased out separately under a finance lease), an entity accounts for the portions separately. If the
portions could not be sold separately, the property is investment property only if an insignificant portion is held for use in
the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.
11. In some cases, an entity provides ancillary services to the occupants of a property it holds. An entity treats such a
property as investment property if the services are insignificant to the arrangement as a whole. An example is when the
Page 748/765
----- PAGE 749 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
owner of an office building provides security and maintenance services to the lessees who occupy the building.
12. In other cases, the services provided are significant. For example, if an entity owns and manages a hotel, services
provided to guests are significant to the arrangement as a whole. Therefore, an owner-managed hotel is owner-occupied
property, rather than investment property.
13. It may be difficult to determine whether ancillary services are so significant that a property does not qualify as
investment property. For example, the owner of a hotel sometimes transfers some responsibilities to third parties under
a management contract. The terms of such contracts vary widely. At one end of the spectrum, the owner's position may,
in substance, be that of a passive investor. At the other end of the spectrum, the owner may simply have outsourced
day-to-day functions while retaining significant exposure to variation in the cash flows generated by the operations of the
hotel.
14. Judgement is needed to determine whether a property qualifies as investment property. An entity develops criteria
so that it can exercise that judgement consistently in accordance with the definition of investment property and with the
related guidance in paragraphs 7-13. Paragraph 75(c) requires an entity to disclose these criteria when classification is
difficult.
14A.
Judgement is also needed to determine whether the acquisition of investment property is the acquisition of an asset or a
group of assets or a business combination within the scope of Ind AS 103, Business Combinations. Reference should
be made to Ind AS 103 to determine whether it is a business combination. The discussion in paragraphs 7-14 of this
Standard relates to whether or not property is owner-occupied property or investment property and not to determining
whether or not the acquisition of property is a business combination as defined in Ind AS 103. Determining whether a
specific transaction meets the definition of a business combination as defined in Ind AS 103 and includes an investment
property as defined in this Standard requires the separate application of both Standards.
15. In some cases, an entity owns property that is leased to, and occupied by, its parent or another subsidiary. The
property does not qualify as investment property in the consolidated financial statements, because the property is
owner-occupied from the perspective of the group. However, from the perspective of the entity that owns it, the property
is investment property if it meets the definition in paragraph 5. Therefore, the lessor treats the property as investment
property in its individual financial statements.
Recognition
[16 An owned investment property shall be recognised as an asset when, and only when:
(a)
it is probable that the future economic benefits that are associated with the investment property will flow to the entity;
and
(b)
the cost of the investment property can be measured reliably.]
17. An entity evaluates under this recognition principle all its investment property costs at the time they are incurred.
These costs include costs incurred initially to acquire an investment property and costs incurred subsequently to add to,
replace part of, or service a property.
18. Under the recognition principle in paragraph 16, an entity does not recognise in the carrying amount of an
investment property the costs of the day-to-day servicing of such a property. Rather, these costs are recognized in profit
or loss as incurred. Costs of day-to-day servicing are primarily the cost of labour and consumables, and may include the
cost of minor parts. The purpose of these expenditures is often described as for the 'repairs and maintenance' of the
property.
19. Parts of investment properties may have been acquired through replacement. For example, the interior walls may be
replacements of original walls. Under the recognition principle, an entity recognises in the carrying amount of an
investment property the cost of replacing part of an existing investment property at the time that cost is incurred if the
recognition criteria are met. The carrying amount of those parts that are replaced is derecognized in accordance with the
derecognition provisions of this Standard.
[19A An investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset shall be recognised in accordance with Ind AS
116.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Measurement at recognition
Page 749/765
----- PAGE 750 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
20. [ An owned investment property shall be measured initially at its cost. Transaction costs shall be included in the
initial measurement.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
21. The cost of a purchased investment property comprises its purchase price and any directly attributable expenditure.
Directly attributable expenditure includes, for example, professional fees for legal services, property transfer taxes and
other transaction costs.
22. [Refer Appendix 1]
23. The cost of an investment property is not increased by:
(a)
start-up costs (unless they are necessary to bring the property to the condition necessary for it to be capable of
operating in the manner intended by management),
(b)
operating losses incurred before the investment property achieves the planned level of occupancy, or
(c)
abnormal amounts of wasted material, labour or other resources incurred in constructing or developing the property.
24. If payment for an investment property is deferred, its cost is the cash price equivalent. The difference between this
amount and the total payments is recognized as interest expense over the period of credit.
[***]
[Omitted '25 and 26' by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
27. One or more investment properties may be acquired in exchange for a non-monetary asset or assets, or a
combination of monetary and non-monetary assets. The following discussion refers to an exchange of one
non-monetary asset for another, but it also applies to all exchanges described in the preceding sentence. The cost of
such an investment property is measured at fair value unless (a) the exchange transaction lacks commercial substance
or (b) the fair value of neither the asset received nor the asset given up is reliably measurable. The acquired asset is
measured in this way even if an entity cannot immediately derecognise the asset given up. If the acquired asset is not
measured at fair value, its cost is measured at the carrying amount of the asset given up.
28. An entity determines whether an exchange transaction has commercial substance by considering the extent to which
its future cash flows are expected to change as a result of the transaction. An exchange transaction has commercial
substance if:
(a)
the configuration (risk, timing and amount) of the cash flows of the asset received differs from the configuration of the
cash flows of the asset transferred, or
(b)
the entity-specific value of the portion of the entity's operations affected by the transaction changes as a result of the
exchange, and
(c)
the difference in (a) or (b) is significant relative to the fair value of the assets exchanged.
For the purpose of determining whether an exchange transaction has commercial substance, the entity-specific value of
the portion of the entity's operations affected by the transaction shall reflect post-tax cash flows. The result of these
analyses may be clear without an entity having to perform detailed calculations.
29. The fair value of an asset is reliably measurable if (a) the variability in the range of reasonable fair value
measurements is not significant for that asset or (b) the probabilities of the various estimates within the range can be
reasonably assessed and used when measuring fair value. If the entity is able to measure reliably the fair value of either
the asset received or the asset given up, then the fair value of the asset given up is used to measure cost unless the fair
value of the asset received is more clearly evident.
29A. [ An investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset shall be measured initially at its cost in
accordance with Ind AS 116.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Measurement after recognition
Accounting policy
30. An entity shall adopt as its accounting policy the cost model prescribed in paragraph 56 to all of its investment
Page 750/765
----- PAGE 751 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
property.
31. [Refer Appendix 1]
32. This Standard requires all entities to measure the fair value of investment property, for the purpose of disclosure
even though they are required to follow the cost model. An entity is encouraged, but not required, to measure the fair
value of investment property on the basis of a valuation by an independent valuer who holds a recognized and relevant
professional qualification and has recent experience in the location and category of the investment property being
valued.
32A.
-32C. [Refer Appendix 1]
Fair value measurement
33.
-35. [Refer Appendix 1]
36.
-39. [Refer Appendix 1]
40. When measuring the fair value of investment property in accordance with Ind AS 113, an entity shall ensure that the
fair value reflects, among other things, rental income from current leases and other assumptions that market participants
would use when pricing investment property under current market conditions.
40A. [ When a lessee measures fair value of an investment property that is held as a right-of-use asset, it shall measure
the right-of-asset, and not the underlying property at fair value.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
41. [Refer Appendix 1]
42.
-47. [Refer Appendix 1]
48. In exceptional cases, there is clear evidence when an entity first acquires an investment property (or when an
existing property first becomes investment property after a change in use) that the variability in the range of reasonable
fair value measurements will be so great, and the probabilities of the various outcomes so difficult to assess, that the
usefulness of a single measure of fair value is negated. This may indicate that the fair value of the property will not be
reliably measurable on a continuing basis (see paragraph 53).
49.
-52. [Refer Appendix 1]
Inability to measure fair value reliably
53. There is a rebuttable presumption that an entity can reliably measure the fair value of an investment property on a
continuing basis. However, in exceptional cases, there is clear evidence when an entity first acquires an investment
property (or when an existing property first becomes investment property after a change in use) that the fair value of the
investment property is not reliably measurable on a continuing basis. This arises when, and only when, the market for
comparable properties is inactive (e.g. there are few recent transactions, price quotations are not current or observed
transaction prices indicate that the seller was forced to sell) and alternative reliable measurements of fair value (for
example, based on discounted cash flow projections) are not available. If an entity determines that the fair value of an
investment property under construction is not reliably measurable but expects the fair value of the property to be reliably
measurable when construction is complete, it shall measure the fair value of that investment property either when its fair
value becomes reliably measurable or construction is completed (whichever is earlier). If an entity determines that the
fair value of an investment property (other than an investment property under construction) is not reliably measurable on
a continuing basis, the entity shall make the disclosures required by paragraphs 79(e)(i), (ii) and (iii).
53A. Once an entity becomes able to measure reliably the fair value of an investment property under construction for
which the fair value was not previously measured, it shall measure the fair value of that property. Once construction of
that property is complete, it is presumed that fair value can be measured reliably. If this is not the case, in accordance
with paragraph 53, the entity shall make the disclosures required by paragraphs 79(e)(i), (ii) and (iii).
53B.
The presumption that the fair value of investment property under construction can be measured reliably can be rebutted
only on initial recognition. An entity that has measured the fair value of an item of investment property under
construction may not conclude that the fair value of the completed investment property cannot be measured reliably.
Page 751/765
----- PAGE 752 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
54. In the exceptional cases when an entity is compelled, for the reason given in paragraph 53, to make the disclosures
required by paragraphs 79(e)(i), (ii) and (iii), it shall determine the fair value of all its other investment property, including
investment property under construction. In these cases, although an entity may make the disclosures required by
paragraphs 79(e)(i), (ii) and (iii) for one investment property, the entity shall continue to determine the fair value of each
of the remaining properties for disclosure required by paragraph 79(e).
55. If an entity has previously measured the fair value of an investment property, it shall continue to measure the fair
value of that property until disposal (or until the property becomes owner-occupied property or the entity begins to
develop the property for subsequent sale in the ordinary course of business) even if comparable market transactions
become less frequent or market prices become less readily available.
Cost model
56. [ After initial recognition, an entity shall measure investment property:
(a)
in accordance with Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, if it meets the criteria to
be classified as held for sale (or is included in a disposal group that is classified as held for sale);
(b)
in accordance with Ind AS 116 if it is held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset and is not held for sale in accordance with
Ind AS 105; and
(c)
in accordance with the requirements in Ind AS 16 for cost model in all other cases.]
Transfers
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
57. [ An entity shall transfer a property to, or from, investment property when, and only when, there is a change in use. A
change in use occurs when the property meets, or ceases to meet, the definition of investment property and there is
evidence of the change in use. In isolation, a change in management's intentions for the use of a property does not
provide evidence of a change in use. Examples of evidence of a change in use include:
(a)
commencement of owner-occupation, or of development with a view to owner-occupation, for a transfer from investment
property to owner-occupied property; (b) commencement of development with a view to sale, for a transfer from
investment property to inventories;
(c)
end of owner-occupation, for a transfer from owner-occupied property to investment property; and
(d)
inception of an operating lease to another party, for a transfer from inventories to investment property.
(e)
Omitted*;]
58. [ When an entity decides to dispose of an investment property without development, it continues to treat the property
as an investment property until it is derecognised (eliminated from the balance sheet) and does not reclassify it as
inventory. Similarly, if an entity begins to redevelop an existing investment property for continued future use as
investment property, the property remains an investment property and is not reclassified as owner-occupied property
during the redevelopment.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
59. Transfers between investment property, owner-occupied property and inventories do not change the carrying
amount of the property transferred and they do not change the cost of that property for measurement or disclosure
purposes.
60.
-65. [Refer Appendix 1]
Disposals
66. An investment property shall be derecognized (eliminated from the balance sheet) on disposal or when the
investment property is permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits are expected from its disposal.
67. [ The disposal of an investment property may be achieved by sale or by entering into a finance lease. The date of
disposal for investment property that is sold is the date the recipient obtains control of the investment property in
Page 752/765
----- PAGE 753 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
accordance with the requirements for determining when a performance obligation is satisfied in Ind AS 115. Ind AS 116
applies to a disposal effected by entering into a finance lease and to a sale and leaseback.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
68. If, in accordance with the recognition principle in paragraph 16, an entity recognises in the carrying amount of an
asset the cost of a replacement for part of an investment property, it derecognises the carrying amount of the replaced
part. A replaced part may not be a part that was depreciated separately. If it is not practicable for an entity to determine
the carrying amount of the replaced part, it may use the cost of the replacement as an indication of what the cost of the
replaced part was at the time it was acquired or constructed.
[69. Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal of investment property shall be determined as the difference
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and shall be recognised in profit or loss (unless
Ind AS 116 requires otherwise on a sale and leaseback) in the period of the retirement or disposal.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
70. [ The amount of consideration to be included in the gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an investment
property is determined in accordance with the requirements for determining the transaction price in paragraphs 47-72 of
Ind AS 115. Subsequent changes to the estimated amount of the consideration included in the gain or loss shall be
accounted for in accordance with the requirements for changes in the transaction price in Ind AS 115.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
71. An entity applies Ind AS 37 or other Standards, as appropriate, to any liabilities that it retains after disposal of an
investment property.
72. Compensation from third parties for investment property that was impaired, lost or given up shall be recognized in
profit or loss when the compensation becomes receivable.
73. Impairments or losses of investment property, related claims for or payments of compensation from third parties and
any subsequent purchase or construction of replacement assets are separate economic events and are accounted for
separately as follows:
(a)
impairments of investment property are recognized in accordance with Ind AS 36;
(b)
retirements or disposals of investment property are recognized in accordance with paragraphs 66-71 of this Standard;
(c)
compensation from third parties for investment property that was impaired, lost or given up is recognized in profit or loss
when it becomes receivable; and
(d)
the cost of assets restored, purchased or constructed as replacements is determined in accordance with paragraphs
20-29 of this Standard.
Disclosure
74. [ The disclosures below apply in addition to those in Ind AS 116. In accordance with Ind AS 116, the owner of an
investment property provides lessors' disclosures about leases into which it has entered. A lessee that holds an
investment property as a right-of-use asset provides lessees' disclosures as required by Ind AS 116 and lessors'
disclosures as required by Ind AS 116 for any operating leases into which it has entered.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
75. An entity shall disclose:
(a)
its accounting policy for measurement of investment property.
(b)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(c)
when classification is difficult (see paragraph 14), the criteria it uses to distinguish investment property from
owner-occupied property and from property held for sale in the ordinary course of business.
(d)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(e)
Page 753/765
----- PAGE 754 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the extent to which the fair value of investment property (as measured or disclosed in the financial statements) is based
on a valuation by an independent valuer who holds a recognized and relevant professional qualification and has recent
experience in the location and category of the investment property being valued. If there has been no such valuation,
that fact shall be disclosed.
(f)
the amounts recognized in profit or loss for:
(i)
rental income from investment property;
(ii)
direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) arising from investment property that generated rental
income during the period; and
(iii)
direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) arising from investment property that did not generate
rental income during the period.
(iv)
[Refer Appendix 1]
(g)
the existence and amounts of restrictions on the realisability of investment property or the remittance of income and
proceeds of disposal.
(h)
contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment property or for repairs, maintenance or
enhancements.
76.
-78. [Refer Appendix 1]
79. In addition to the disclosures required by paragraph 75, an entity shall disclose:
(a)
the depreciation methods used;
(b)
the useful lives or the depreciation rates used;
(c)
the gross carrying amount and the accumulated depreciation (aggregated with accumulated impairment losses) at the
beginning and end of the period;
(d)
a reconciliation of the carrying amount of investment property at the beginning and end of the period, showing the
following:
(i)
additions, disclosing separately those additions resulting from acquisitions and those resulting from subsequent
expenditure recognized as an asset;
(ii)
additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations;
(iii)
assets classified as held for sale or included in a disposal group classified as held for sale in accordance with Ind AS
105 and other disposals;
(iv)
depreciation;
(v)
the amount of impairment losses recognized, and the amount of impairment losses reversed, during the period in
accordance with Ind AS 36;
(vi)
the net exchange differences arising on the translation of the financial statements into a different presentation currency,
and on translation of a foreign operation into the presentation currency of the reporting entity;
Page 754/765
----- PAGE 755 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
(vii)
transfers to and from inventories and owner-occupied property; and
(viii)
other changes.
(e)
the fair value of investment property. In the exceptional cases described in paragraph 53, when an entity cannot
measure the fair value of the investment property reliably, it shall disclose:
(i)
a description of the investment property;
(ii)
an explanation of why fair value cannot be measured reliably; and
[Substituted by Notification No. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
(iii) if possible, the range of estimates within which fair value is highly likely to lie.
[Transitional Provisions
80. *
81. *
82. *
83. *
84. *
84A.
*
[Ind AS 116
84B.
An entity applying Ind AS 116, and its related amendments to this Standard, for the first time shall apply the transition
requirements in Appendix C of Ind AS 116 to its investment property held as right-of- use asset.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Transfers of investment property
84C.
Transfers of Investment Property (Amendments to Ind AS 40), amended paragraphs 57-58. An entity shall apply those
amendments to changes in use that occur on or after the beginning of the annual reporting period in which the entity first
applies the amendments (the date of initial application). At the date of initial application, an entity shall reassess the
classification of property held at that date and, if applicable, reclassify property applying paragraphs 7-14 to reflect the
conditions that exist at that date.
84D.
Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraph 84C, an entity is permitted to apply the amendments to paragraphs
57-58 retrospectively in accordance with Ind AS 8 if, and only if, that is possible without the use of hindsight.
84E.
If, in accordance with paragraph 84C, an entity reclassifies property at the date of initial application, the entity shall:
(a)
account for the reclassification applying the requirements in paragraph 59.
(i)
*
(ii)
*
(b)
disclose the amounts reclassified to, or from, investment property in accordance with paragraph 84C. The entity shall
disclose those amounts reclassified as part of the reconciliation of the carrying amount of investment property at the
beginning and end of the period as required by paragraph 79.
Effective date
85. *
Page 755/765
----- PAGE 756 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
85A. *
85B. *
85C.
*
85D.
*
85E.
As a consequence of issuance of Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, paragraphs 3(b), 9, 67and 70
are amended. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 115.
[85F Ind AS 116, amended the scope of Ind AS 40 by defining investment property to include both owned investment
property and property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset. Ind AS 116 amended paragraphs 5, 7, 8, 9, 16, 20, 56,
67, 69 and 74, added paragraphs 19A, 29A, 40A and 84B and its related heading and deleted paragraphs 3, 25 and 26.
An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies Ind AS 116.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
* Refer Appendix 1
85G.
Transfers of Investment Property (Amendments to Ind AS 40), amended paragraphs 57-58 and added paragraphs
84C-84E. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1st April, 2018.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of the Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
the major differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 40 and the corresponding International
Accounting Standard (IAS) 40, Investment Property, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Comparison with IAS 40, Investment Property
1. [ IAS 40 permits both cost model and fair value model (except in some situations) for measurement of investment
properties after initial recognition. Ind AS 40 permits only the cost model. The following paragraphs of IAS 40 which deal
with fair value model have been deleted in Ind AS 40. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of IAS
40, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 40:
(i)
Paragraph 31
(ii)
Paragraphs 32A-32C
(iii)
Paragraphs 33 and 35
(iv)
Paragraph 41
(v)
Paragraph 50
(vi)
Paragraph 52
(vii)
Paragraphs 60-65
(viii)
Paragraph 75(f)(iv)
(ix)
Paragraphs 76-78
(x)
Paragraphs 84E(i) - (ii)]
2. The transitional provisions given in IAS 40 have not been included in Ind AS 40 since all transitional provisions related
to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in Ind AS 101, First-time Adoption of Indian
Accounting Standards, corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Page 756/765
----- PAGE 757 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
3. IAS 40 requires disclosure of fair values of investment property when cost model is used. Since this requirement is
retained in Ind AS 40, paragraphs 53, 53A, 53B, 54 and 55 and certain other paragraphs of IAS 40 have been modified.
The modifications include deletion of reference to use of cost model when fair value measurement is unreliable.
[***]
[Omitted '4' by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
5. [ As a result of prohibition of use of fair value model in Ind AS 40, there are some modifications in the wording of
paragraphs 30 and 32 (Accounting policy), heading above paragraph 33 ('Fair value measurement' instead of 'Fair value
model'), paragraph 40A, paragraph 56, paragraph 59 (deletion of portion relating to fair value model), paragraph 68
(deletion of a portion dealing with fair value model), heading above paragraph 74 (deletion of the heading 'Fair value
model and cost model'), paragraph 75(a) (disclosure of accounting policy), heading above paragraph 76 (deletion of the
heading 'Fair value model'), heading above paragraph 79 (deletion of the heading 'Cost model') and paragraph 79
(deletion of the words ' that applies the cost model in paragraph 56') as compared to the wording used in IAS 40.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
6. Different terminology is used in this Standard e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position'.
7. [ The following paragraphs appear as 'Deleted' in IAS 40. In order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of
IAS 40, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 40:
(i)
Paragraph 3
(ii)
Paragraph 6
(iii)
Paragraph 9(b)
(iv)
Paragraph 9(d)
(v)
Paragraph 22
(vi)
Paragraph 34)
(vii)
Paragraphs 36-39
(viii)
Paragraphs 42-47
(ix)
Paragraph 49
(x)
Paragraph 51
(xi)
Paragraph 57(e)
(xii)
Paragraph 75(b) and (d)]
8. [ Paragraphs 80 to 84A of IAS 40 which deals with the transitional provisions have not been included in Ind AS 40 as
all transitional provisions related to Ind ASs, wherever considered appropriate have been included in Ind AS 101,
First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards corresponding to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International
Financial Reporting Standards. Paragraphs 85 to 85D in IAS 40 have not been included in Ind AS 40 as these
paragraphs relate to effective date which are not relevant in Indian context. However, in order to maintain consistency
with paragraph numbers of IAS 40, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 40.
[***]
[Inserted by Notification No. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Page 757/765
----- PAGE 758 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 41
Agriculture
(The Indian Accounting Standard includes paragraphs set in bold type and plain type, which have equal authority.
Paragraphs in bold type indicate the main principles.
Objective
The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting treatment and disclosures related to agricultural activity.
Scope
1. This Standard shall be applied to account for the following when they relate to agricultural activity:
(a)
biological assets;
(b)
agricultural produce at the point of harvest; and
(c)
Government grants covered by paragraphs 34 and 35.
2. This Standard does not apply to:
(a)
land related to agricultural activity (see Ind AS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and Ind AS 40 Investment Property);
(b)
bearer plants related to agricultural activity (see Ind AS 16). However, this Standard applies to the produce on those
bearer plants.
(c)
Government grants related to bearer plants (see Ind AS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of
Government Assistance).
(d)
intangible assets related to agricultural activity (See Ind AS 38
(e)
[ right-of-use assets arising from a lease of land related to agricultural activity (see Ind AS 116, Leases).]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Intangible Assets).
3. This Standard is applied to agricultural produce, which is the harvested produce of the entity's biological assets, at the
point of harvest. Thereafter, Ind AS 2 Inventories or another applicable Standard is applied. Accordingly, this Standard
does not deal with the processing of agricultural produce after harvest; for example, the processing of grapes into wine
by a vintner who has grown the grapes. While such processing may be a logical and natural extension of agricultural
activity, and the events taking place may bear some similarity to biological transformation, such processing is not
included within the definition of agricultural activity in this Standard.
4. The table below provides examples of biological assets, agricultural produce, and products that are the result of
processing after harvest:
Biological assets
Agricultural produce
Products that are the result of processing
after harvest
Sheep
Wool
Yarn, carpet
Trees in a timber plantation
Felled Trees
Logs, lumber
Dairy Cattle
Milk
Cheese
Pigs
Page 758/765
----- PAGE 759 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Carcass
Sausages, cured hams
Cotton plants
Harvested cotton
Thread, clothing
Sugarcane
Harvested cane
Sugar
Tobacco plants
Picked leaves
Cured tobacco
Tea bushes
Picked leaves
Tea
Grape vines
Picked grapes
Wine
Fruit trees
Picked fruit
Processed fruit
Oil palms
Picked fruit
Palm oil
Rubber trees
Harvested latex
Rubber products
Some plants, for example, tea bushes, grape vines,
oil palms and rubber trees, usually meet the definition of a
bearer plant and are within the scope of Ind AS 16. However, the
produce growing on bearer plants, for example, tea leaves,
grapes, oil palm fruit and latex, is within the scope of Ind AS
41.
Definitions
Agriculture-related definitions
5. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Agricultural activity is the management by an entity of the biological transformation and harvest of biological assets for
sale or for conversion into agricultural produce or into additional biological assets.
Agricultural produce is the harvested product of the entity's biological assets.
A bearer plant is a living plant that:
(a)
is used in the production or supply of agricultural produce;
(b)
is expected to bear produce for more than one period; and
(c)
has a remote likelihood of being sold as agricultural produce, except for incidental scrap sales.
A biological asset is a living animal or plant.
Biological transformation comprises the processes of growth, degeneration, production, and procreation that cause
qualitative or quantitative changes in a biological asset.
Costs to sell are the incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of an asset, excluding finance costs and
income taxes.
A group of biological assets is an aggregation of similar living animals or plants.
Page 759/765
----- PAGE 760 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
Harvest is the detachment of produce from a biological asset or the cessation of a biological asset's life processes.
5A. The following are not bearer plants:
(a)
plants cultivated to be harvested as agricultural produce (for example, trees grown for use as lumber);
(b)
plants cultivated to produce agricultural produce when there is more than a remote likelihood that the entity will also
harvest and sell the plant as agricultural produce, other than as incidental scrap sales (for example, trees that are
cultivated both for their fruit and their lumber); and
(c)
annual crops (for example, maize and wheat).
5B. When bearer plants are no longer used to bear produce they might be cut down and sold as scrap, for example, for
use as firewood. Such incidental scrap sales would not prevent the plant from satisfying the definition of a bearer plant.
5C.
Produce growing on bearer plants is a biological asset.
6. Agricultural activity covers a diverse range of activities; for example, raising livestock, forestry, annual or perennial
cropping, cultivating orchards and plantations, floriculture and aquaculture (including fish farming). Certain common
features exist within this diversity:
(a)
Capability to change. Living animals and plants are capable of biological transformation;
(b)
Management of change. Management facilitates biological transformation by enhancing, or at least stabilising,
conditions necessary for the process to take place (for example, nutrient levels, moisture, temperature, fertility, and
light). Such management distinguishes agricultural activity from other activities. For example, harvesting from
un-managed sources (such as ocean fishing and deforestation) is not agricultural activity; and
(c)
Measurement of change. The change in quality (for example, genetic merit, density, ripeness, fat cover, protein content,
and fibre strength) or quantity (for example, progeny, weight, cubic metres, fibre length or diameter, and number of
buds) brought about by biological transformation or harvest is measured and monitored as a routine management
function.
7. Biological transformation results in the following types of outcomes:
(a)
asset changes through (i) growth (an increase in quantity or improvement in quality of an animal or plant), (ii)
degeneration (a decrease in the quantity or deterioration in quality of an animal or plant), or (iii) procreation (creation of
additional living animals or plants); or
(b)
production of agricultural produce such as latex, tea leaf, wool, and milk.
General definitions
8. The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognized in the balance sheet.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. (See Ind AS 113 Fair Value Measurement.)
Government grants are as defined in Ind AS 20.
9. [Refer Appendix 1]
Recognition and measurement
10. An entity shall recognise a biological asset or agricultural produce when, and only when:
(a)
the entity controls the asset as a result of past events;
(b)
it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the entity; and
(c)
the fair value or cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Page 760/765
----- PAGE 761 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
11. In agricultural activity, control may be evidenced by, for example, legal ownership of cattle and the branding or
otherwise marking of the cattle on acquisition, birth, or weaning. The future benefits are normally assessed by
measuring the significant physical attributes.
12. A biological asset shall be measured on initial recognition and at the end of each reporting period at its fair value
less costs to sell, except for the case described in paragraph 30 where the fair value cannot be measured reliably.
13. Agricultural produce harvested from an entity's biological assets shall be measured at its fair value less costs to sell
at the point of harvest. Such measurement is the cost at that date when applying Ind AS 2 Inventories or another
applicable Standard.
14. [ Refer Appendix 1]
15. The fair value measurement of a biological asset or agricultural produce may be facilitated by grouping biological
assets or agricultural produce according to significant attributes; for example, by age or quality. An entity selects the
attributes corresponding to the attributes used in the market as a basis for pricing.
16. Entities often enter into contracts to sell their biological assets or agricultural produce at a future date. Contract
prices are not necessarily relevant in measuring fair value, because fair value reflects the current market conditions in
which market participant buyers and sellers would enter into a transaction. As a result, the fair value of a biological asset
or agricultural produce is not adjusted because of the existence of a contract. In some cases, a contract for the sale of a
biological asset or agricultural produce may be an onerous contract, as defined in Ind AS 37 Provisions, Contingent
Liabilities and Contingent Assets. Ind AS 37 applies to onerous contracts.
17.
-21. [Refer Appendix 1]
22. An entity does not include any cash flows for financing the assets, taxation, or re-establishing biological assets after
harvest (for example, the cost of replanting trees in a plantation forest after harvest).
23. [ Refer Appendix 1]
24. Cost may sometimes approximate fair value, particularly when:
(a)
little biological transformation has taken place since initial cost incurrence (for example, for seedlings planted
immediately prior to the end of a reporting period or newly acquired livestock); or
(b)
the impact of the biological transformation on price is not expected to be material (for example, for the initial growth in a
30-year pine plantation production cycle).
25. Biological assets are often physically attached to land (for example, trees in a plantation forest). There may be no
separate market for biological assets that are attached to the land but an active market may exist for the combined
assets, that is, the biological assets, raw land, and land improvements, as a package. An entity may use information
regarding the combined assets to measure the fair value of the biological assets. For example, the fair value of raw land
and land improvements may be deducted from the fair value of the combined assets to arrive at the fair value of
biological assets.
Gains and losses
26. A gain or loss arising on initial recognition of a biological asset at fair value less costs to sell and from a change in
fair value less costs to sell of a biological asset shall be included in profit or loss for the period in which it arises.
27. A loss may arise on initial recognition of a biological asset, because costs to sell are deducted in determining fair
value less costs to sell of a biological asset. A gain may arise on initial recognition of a biological asset, such as when a
calf is born.
28. A gain or loss arising on initial recognition of agricultural produce at fair value less costs to sell shall be included in
profit or loss for the period in which it arises.
29. A gain or loss may arise on initial recognition of agricultural produce as a result of harvesting.
Inability to measure fair value reliably
30. There is a presumption that fair value can be measured reliably for a biological asset. However, that presumption
can be rebutted only on initial recognition for a biological asset for which quoted market prices are not available and for
which alternative fair value measurements are determined to be clearly unreliable. In such a case, that biological asset
shall be measured at its cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Once the fair
value of such a biological asset becomes reliably measurable, an entity shall measure it at its fair value less costs to
Page 761/765
----- PAGE 762 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
sell. Once a noncurrent biological asset meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale (or is included in a disposal
group that is classified as held for sale) in accordance with Ind AS 105 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and
Discontinued Operations, it is presumed that fair value can be measured reliably.
31. The presumption in paragraph 30 can be rebutted only on initial recognition. An entity that has previously measured
a biological asset at its fair value less costs to sell continues to measure the biological asset at its fair value less costs to
sell until disposal.
32. In all cases, an entity measures agricultural produce at the point of harvest at its fair value less costs to sell. This
Standard reflects the view that the fair value of agricultural produce at the point of harvest can always be measured
reliably.
33. In determining cost, accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, an entity considers Ind AS 2, Ind
AS 16 and Ind AS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Government grants
34. An unconditional Government grant related to a biological asset measured at its fair value less costs to sell shall be
recognized in profit or loss when, and only when, the Government grant becomes receivable.
35. If a Government grant related to a biological asset measured at its fair value less costs to sell is conditional,
including when a Government grant requires an entity not to engage in specified agricultural activity, an entity shall
recognise the Government grant in profit or loss when, and only when, the conditions attaching to the Government grant
are met.
36. Terms and conditions of Government grants vary. For example, a grant may require an entity to farm in a particular
location for five years and require the entity to return all of the grant if it farms for a period shorter than five years. In this
case, the grant is not recognized in profit or loss until the five years have passed. However, if the terms of the grant
allow part of it to be retained according to the time that has elapsed, the entity recognises that part in profit or loss as
time passes.
37. If a Government grant relates to a biological asset measured at its cost less any accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated Impairment losses (see paragraph 30), Ind AS 20 is applied.
38. This Standard requires a different treatment from Ind AS 20, if a Government grant relates to a biological asset
measured at its fair value less costs to sell or a Government grant requires an entity not to engage in specified
agricultural activity. Ind AS 20 is applied only to a Government grant related to a biological asset measured at its cost
less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Disclosure
39. [ Refer Appendix 1]
General
40. An entity shall disclose the aggregate gain or loss arising during the current period on initial recognition of biological
assets and agricultural produce and from the change in fair value less costs to sell of biological assets.
41. An entity shall provide a description of each group of biological assets.
42. The disclosure required by paragraph 41 may take the form of a narrative or quantified description.
43. An entity is encouraged to provide a quantified description of each group of biological assets, distinguishing between
consumable and bearer biological assets or between mature and immature biological assets, as appropriate. For
example, an entity may disclose the carrying amounts of consumable biological assets and bearer biological assets by
group. An entity may further divide those carrying amounts between mature and immature assets. These distinctions
provide information that may be helpful in assessing the timing of future cash flows. An entity discloses the basis for
making any such distinctions.
44. Consumable biological assets are those that are to be harvested as agricultural produce or sold as biological assets.
Examples of consumable biological assets are livestock intended for the production of meat, livestock held for sale, fish
in farms, crops such as maize and wheat, produce on a bearer plant and trees being grown for lumber. Bearer biological
assets are those other than consumable biological assets; for example, livestock from which milk is produced and fruit
trees from which fruit is harvested. Bearer biological assets are not agricultural produce but, rather, are held to bear
produce.
45. Biological assets may be classified either as mature biological assets or immature biological assets. Mature
biological assets are those that have attained harvestable specifications (for consumable biological assets) or are able
to sustain regular harvests (for bearer biological assets).
Page 762/765
----- PAGE 763 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
46. If not disclosed elsewhere in information published with the financial statements, an entity shall describe:
(a)
the nature of its activities involving each group of biological assets; and
(b)
non-financial measures or estimates of the physical quantities of:
(i)
each group of the entity's biological assets at the end of the period; and
(ii)
output of agricultural produce during the period.
47.
-48. [Refer Appendix 1]
49. An entity shall disclose:
(a)
the existence and carrying amounts of biological assets whose title is restricted, and the carrying amounts of biological
assets pledged as security for liabilities;
(b)
the amount of commitments for the development or acquisition of biological assets; and
(c)
financial risk management strategies related to agricultural activity.
50. An entity shall present a reconciliation of changes in the carrying amount of biological assets between the beginning
and the end of the current period. The reconciliation shall include:
(a)
the gain or loss arising from changes in fair value less costs to sell;
(b)
increases due to purchases;
(c)
decreases attributable to sales and biological assets classified as held for sale (or included in a disposal group that is
classified as held for sale) in accordance with Ind AS 105;
(d)
decreases due to harvest;
(e)
increases resulting from business combinations;
(f)
net exchange differences arising on the translation of financial statements into a different presentation currency, and on
the translation of a foreign operation into the presentation currency of the reporting entity; and
(g)
other changes.
51. The fair value less costs to sell of a biological asset can change due to both physical changes and price changes in
the market. Separate disclosure of physical and price changes is useful in appraising current period performance and
future prospects, particularly when there is a production cycle of more than one year. In such cases, an entity is
encouraged to disclose, by group or otherwise, the amount of change in fair value less costs to sell included in profit or
loss due to physical changes and due to price changes. This information is generally less useful when the production
cycle is less than one year (for example, when raising chickens or growing cereal crops).
52. Biological transformation results in a number of types of physical change-growth, degeneration, production, and
procreation, each of which is observable and measurable. Each of those physical changes has a direct relationship to
future economic benefits. A change in fair value of a biological asset due to harvesting is also a physical change.
53. Agricultural activity is often exposed to climatic, disease and other natural risks. If an event occurs that gives rise to
a material item of income or expense, the nature and amount of that item are disclosed in accordance with Ind AS 1
Presentation of Financial Statements. Examples of such an event include an outbreak of a virulent disease, a flood, a
severe drought or frost, and a plague of insects.
Additional disclosures for biological assets where fair value cannot be measured reliably
Page 763/765
----- PAGE 764 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
54. If an entity measures biological assets at their cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated
impairment losses (see paragraph 30) at the end of the period, the entity shall disclose for such biological assets:
(a)
a description of the biological assets;
(b)
an explanation of why fair value cannot be measured reliably;
(c)
if possible, the range of estimates within which fair value is highly likely to lie;
(d)
the depreciation method used;
(e)
the useful lives or the depreciation rates used; and
(f)
the gross carrying amount and the accumulated depreciation (aggregated with accumulated impairment losses) at the
beginning and end of the period.
55. If, during the current period, an entity measures biological assets at their cost less any accumulated depreciation
and any accumulated impairment losses (see paragraph 30), an entity shall disclose any gain or loss recognized on
disposal of such biological assets and the reconciliation required by paragraph 50 shall disclose amounts related to such
biological assets separately. In addition, the reconciliation shall include the following amounts included in profit or loss
related to those biological assets:
(a)
impairment losses;
(b)
reversals of impairment losses; and
(c)
depreciation.
56. If the fair value of biological assets previously measured at their cost less any accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses becomes reliably measurable during the current period, an entity shall disclose for those
biological assets:
(a)
a description of the biological assets;
(b)
an explanation of why fair value has become reliably measurable; and
(c)
the effect of the change.
Government grants
57. An entity shall disclose the following related to agricultural activity covered by this Standard:
(a)
the nature and extent of Government grants recognized in the financial statements;
(b)
unfulfilled conditions and other contingencies attaching to Government grants; and
(c)
significant decreases expected in the level of Government grants.
[Effective date and transition
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
58.
-63 Omitted*
64. Ind AS 116 amended paragraph 2. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies Ind AS 116.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Appendix 1
Note: This Appendix is not a part of this Indian Accounting Standard. The purpose of this Appendix is only to bring out
Page 764/765
----- PAGE 765 -----
The Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
the differences, if any, between Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 41 and the corresponding International Accounting
Standard (IAS) 41, Agriculture.
Comparison with IAS 41, Agriculture
1. Different terminology is used in this standard, e.g., the term 'balance sheet' is used instead of 'Statement of financial
position', and 'Statement of profit and loss' is used instead of 'Statement of Profit and Loss and comprehensive income'.
2. Following paragraphs appear as 'Deleted 'in IAS 41. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph
numbers of IAS 41, the paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 41:
(i)
Paragraph 9
(ii)
Paragraph 14
(iii)
Paragraphs 17-21
(iv)
Paragraph 23
(v)
Paragraph 39
(vi)
Paragraphs 47-48
3. [ Paragraphs 58-63 of IAS 41 have not been included in Ind AS 41 as these paragraphs relate to effective date and
transition which is not relevant in Indian context. However, in order to maintain consistency with paragraph numbers of
IAS 41, these paragraph numbers are retained in Ind AS 41.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 310(E), dated 28.3.2018 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 273(E), dated 30.3.2019 (w.e.f. 16.2.2015).]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 765/765