
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Central Pollution Control Board (Qualifications and other Terms and Conditions of Serv...
The Central Pollution Control Board (Qualifications and other Terms
and Conditions of Service of Chairman), Rules, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/148883407/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Central Pollution Control Board (Qualifications and other Terms and Conditions of Service of Chairman), Rules,
2015
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Central Pollution Control Board (Qualifications and other Terms and Conditions of Service of Chairman), Rules,
2015
Rule
THE-CENTRAL-POLLUTION-CONTROL-BOARD-QUALIFICATIONS-AND-OTHER-TERMS-AND-CONDITIONS-OF-S
ERVICE-OF-CHAIRMAN-RULES-2015 of 2015
Published on 23 March 2015
Commenced on 23 March 2015
[This is the version of this document from 23 March 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Central Pollution Control Board (Qualifications and other Terms and Conditions of Service of Chairman), Rules,
2015
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 221(E), dated 23rd March, 2015
Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change
G.S.R. 221(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (e) of sub-section (2) of section 63 of the Water
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Central Pollution Control Board (Qualifications and other Terms and Conditions of Serv...
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (
6 of 1974
) and in supersession of the Central Pollution Control Board (Qualifications and other Terms and Condition of Service of
Chairman), Rules, 2011, except as respects things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Central
Government hereby makes the following rules regulating the qualifications and other terms and conditions of service of
the Chairman of the Central Pollution Control Board, namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Central Pollution Control Board (Qualifications and other Terms and Conditions of
Service of Chairman), Rules, 2015.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (
6 of 1974
);
(b)
"Central Pollution Control Board" means the Central Pollution Control Board constituted under section 3 of the Act;
(c)
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Central Pollution Control Board.
3.
Educational and other qualifications for appointment as Chairman.
(1)
No person shall be eligible for being selected for nomination as the Chairman under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of
section 3 of the Act, unless, -
(a)
he possesses Master's Degree in science relating to environment or Bachelor's Degree in engineering in a discipline
relating to environment from a recognized University or institute and has special knowledge and fifteen years practical
experience relating to the environment protection, including industrial pollution mitigation, water treatment or air pollution
control devices and has rendered twenty five years of service; or
(b)
he is an officer under the Central Government or State Government or public sector undertaking or a University or
autonomous body or statutory body, and-
(i)
holds an analogous post on regular basis in the parent cadre or department; or
(ii)
has three years of regular service in the grade rendered after appointment thereto on regular basis in the Pay Band-4
(Rs. 37,400 - 67,000) with Grade Pay of Rs. 10,000 in the parent cadre or department; and
(iii)
possesses the qualifications and experience specified in clause (a); or
(c)
is or has been in All India Service or in any Civil Service of the Union, holding the post in the rank of Additional Secretary
to the Government of India on regular basis, or empanelled as Additional Secretary to the Government of India, or
having three years of regular service in the grade rendered after empanelment as Joint Secretary to the Government of
India, and possesses a Degree in Science or Engineering and has knowledge and experience of at least three years in
areas related to environment protection.
Explanation  - (1) For the purposes of this sub-rule, a doctor's degree in environmental management from a recognized
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Central Pollution Control Board (Qualifications and other Terms and Conditions of Serv...
university or institute and excellent record of peer reviewed research publications and experience of organizing
environment related training programmes for service personnel shall be desirable qualification.
(2)
An officer working under the Central Government or a State Government or a public sector undertaking or a University
or an autonomous body or statutory body selected for nomination as the Chairman under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of
section 3 of the Act, shall be considered for nomination as the Chairman on deputation basis.
(3)
For the purpose of sub-rule (2), the period of central deputation including period of central deputation in another
ex-cadre post held immediately preceding this appointment in the same or some other organisation under the Ministry or
Department of the Central Government shall not ordinarily exceed three years.
(4)
The person to be nominated as Chairman shall be of outstanding merit and impeccable integrity with no possibility of
conflict of interest between his earlier employment and in holding the charge of the post of Chairman.
4.
Age Limit.
- The maximum age limit for nomination as Chairman shall be not exceeding fifth-six years as on the last date for the
receipt of applications.
5.
Mode of recruitment.
- (i) The Chairman shall be appointed by a Search-cum-Selection Committee consisting of the following namely:-
(i)
Cabinet Secretary
...
Chairman
(ii)
Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change
...
Member
(iii)
Secretary, Department of Personnel and Training
...
Member
(iv)
Secretary, Ministry of Science and Technology
...
Member
(v)
An expert member to be nominated by the Cabinet Secretary
...
Member
6.
Pay, allowances and other conditions of service.
(1)
The Chairman shall receive pay in the pay scale of Rs. 67,000-79,000 (Higher Administrative Grade plus scale) with an
annual increment at the rate of three percent.
(2)
In addition to the pay specified in sub-rule (1), the Chairman shall be entitled to,-
(a)
a city compensatory allowance and house rent allowance as are admissible to an Additional Secretary to the
Government of India:
Provided that where the Chairman is allotted an accommodation by the Central Government, he shall not be entitled to
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Central Pollution Control Board (Qualifications and other Terms and Conditions of Serv...
house rent allowance and shall be required to pay a licence fee as applicable to an Additional Secretary to the
Government of India;
(b)
the travelling allowance and daily allowance, in respect of journeys undertaken by him in connection with his duties as
the Chairman, at the rates permissible in the case of an Additional Secretary to the Government of India;
(c)
the medical facilities as are admissible to an Additional secretary to the Government of India.
(3)
The other conditions of service of the Chairman in the matters of allowances, leave, joining time, joining time pay,
provident fund, gratuity, age of superannuation, retirement benefits and other conditions of service shall be regulated in
accordance with such rules and regulations as are for the time being applicable to officers belonging to the
corresponding pay scale stationed at those places.
7.
Disqualification.
- No person,-
(a)
who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living, or
(b)
who having a spouse living has entered into or contracted a marriage with any person, shall be eligible for appointment
to the said post :
Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under personal law applicable
to such person or the other party to the marriage and that there are other grounds for doing so, exempt any person from
the operation of this rule.
8.
Power to relax.
- Where the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by order, for reasons to
be recorded in writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class or category of persons.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4