
----- PAGE 1 -----
Foreign Exchange Management (International Financial Services Centre) Regulations, 2015
Foreign Exchange Management (International Financial Services
Centre) Regulations, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/109850829/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Foreign Exchange Management (International Financial Services Centre) Regulations, 2015
UNION OF INDIA
India
Foreign Exchange Management (International Financial Services Centre) Regulations, 2015
Rule
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE-MANAGEMENT-INTERNATIONAL-FINANCIAL-SERVICES-CENTRE-REGULATIONS-2015 of
2015
Published on 2 March 2015
Commenced on 2 March 2015
[This is the version of this document from 2 March 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Foreign Exchange Management (International Financial Services Centre) Regulations, 2015
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 218(E), dated 2nd March, 2015
Last Updated 18th January, 2020
Reserve Bank of India
(Foreign Exchange Department)
(Central Office)
G.S.R. 218(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Foreign Exchange Management (International Financial Services Centre) Regulations, 2015
42 of 1999
), the Reserve Bank makes the following regulations relating to financial institutions set up in International Financial
Services Centres, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
- (i) These regulations may be called the Foreign Exchange Management (International Financial Services Centre)
Regulations, 2015.
(ii)
They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Regulations unless the context requires otherwise -
(a)
'Act' shall mean the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (
42 of 1999
);
(b)
'Financial Institution' shall include
(i)
a company, or
(ii)
a firm, or
(iii)
an association of persons or a body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or
(iv)
any artificial juridicial person, not falling within any of the preceding categories engaged in rendering financial services or
carrying out financial transactions.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-regulation, and without any loss of generality of the above, the expression
'financial institution' shall include banks, non-banking financial companies, insurance companies, brokerage firms,
merchant banks, investment banks, pension funds, mutual funds, trusts, exchanges, clearing houses, and any other
entity that may be specified by the Government of India or a Financial Regulatory Authority.
(c)
'Financial service' shall mean activities a financial institution is allowed to carry out as specified in the respective Act of
the Parliament or by the Government of India or by any Regulatory Authority empowered to regulate the concerned
financial institution.
(d)
'Financial transaction' shall mean making any payment to, or for the credit of any person, or receiving any payment for,
by order or on behalf of any person, or drawing, issuing or negotiating any bill of exchange or promissory note, or
transferring any security or acknowledging any debt.
(e)
'FMC' shall mean the Forward Market Commission established under the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 (
74 of 1952
).
(f)
'International Financial Services Centre' or 'IFSC' shall have the same meaning given in Section 2 (q) of the Special
Economic Zones Act, 2005 (
28 of 2005
).
(g)
'IRDA' shall mean mean the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority established under the Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Foreign Exchange Management (International Financial Services Centre) Regulations, 2015
41 of 1999
).
(h)
'PFRDA' shall mean the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority established under the Pension Fund
Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 2013 (
23 of 2013
).
(i)
'Regulatory Authority' shall include Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Insurance
Regulatory Development Authority (IRDA), Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA), Forward
Market Commission (FMC) or any other statutory authority empowered to regulate a financial institution under the Indian
laws.
(j)
'SEBI' shall mean the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under the Securities and Exchange Board of
India Act, 1992 (
15 of 1992
).
(k)
The words and expressions used but not specified in these Regulations shall have the same meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Any financial institution or branch of a financial institution set up in the IFSC and permitted/recognised as such by the
Government of India or a Regulatory Authority shall be treated as a person resident outside India.
4.
A financial institution or branch of a financial institution shall conduct such business in such foreign currency and with
such persons, whether resident or otherwise, as the concerned Regulatory Authority may determine.
[Provided that, Reserve Bank may, through a general or specific permission, allow a financial institution or a branch of a
financial institution to conduct such business in Indian Rupee with such persons, whether resident or otherwise as it may
determine.]
[Added by Notification No. FEMA. 397/RB-2020, dated 7.1.2020 (w.e.f. 2.3.2015).]
5.
Subject to the provisions of Section 1(3) of the Act, and save as otherwise provided in these Regulations or any other
Regulations or directed by the Reserve Bank of India from time to time, nothing contained in any other regulations shall
apply to a financial institution or branch of a financial institution set up in an IFSC.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3