
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Coinage of One Hundred Rupees and Ten Rupees Coins to mark the occasion of Birth Cente...
The Coinage of One Hundred Rupees and Ten Rupees Coins to mark
the occasion of Birth Centenary Commemoration of Swami
Chinmayananda Rules, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/59067040/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Coinage of One Hundred Rupees and Ten Rupees Coins to mark the occasion of Birth Centenary Commemoration
of Swami Chinmayananda Rules, 2015
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Coinage of One Hundred Rupees and Ten Rupees Coins to mark the occasion of Birth Centenary Commemoration
of Swami Chinmayananda Rules, 2015
Rule
THE-COINAGE-OF-ONE-HUNDRED-RUPEES-AND-TEN-RUPEES-COINS-TO-MARK-THE-OCCASION-OF-BIRTH-C
ENTENARY-COMMEMORATION-OF-SWAMI-CHINMAYANANDA-RULES-2015 of 2015
Published on 30 April 2015
Commenced on 30 April 2015
[This is the version of this document from 30 April 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Coinage of One Hundred Rupees and Ten Rupees Coins to mark the occasion of Birth Centenary Commemoration
of Swami Chinmayananda Rules, 2015
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 335 (E), dated 30th April, 2015
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Coinage of One Hundred Rupees and Ten Rupees Coins to mark the occasion of Birth Cente...
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Economic Affairs)
G.S.R. 335 (E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (d) and (e) of sub-section (2) of Section 24 of the
Coinage Act, 2011 (
11 of 2011
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely: -
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Coinage of One Hundred Rupees and Ten Rupees Coins to mark the occasion of Birth
Centenary Commemoration of Swami Chinmayananda Rules, 2015.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Denomination of coins.
- The coins of the following denominations shall also be coined at the Mint for issue under the authority of the Central
Government to commemorate the occasion of "Birth Centenary of Swami Chinmayananda", namely:-
(i)
One Hundred Rupees;
(ii)
Ten Rupees.
3.
Dimension and composition of coins.
- The coins of the denominations mentioned in rule 2 shall conform to the following dimension and composition, namely:
-
Denomination of coin
Shape and outside diameter
Number of serrations
Metal composition
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
One Hundred Rupees
Circular 44 millimeters
200
Quaternary AlloySilver - 50 per centCopper
-40 per centNickel - 05 per centZinc - 05 per cent
Ten Rupees
Circular 27 millimeters (Bi-Metallic)
---
Outer Ring (Aluminium Bronze)Copper- 92 per
centAluminium-6 per centNickel-2 per centCentre
Piece(Cupro Nickel)Copper-75 per centNickel-25 per
cent
4.
Design.
- The design of the coins shall be as under: -
(i)
One Hundred Rupees
Obverse :
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Coinage of One Hundred Rupees and Ten Rupees Coins to mark the occasion of Birth Cente...
The face of the coin shall bear the Lion Capitol of Ashoka Pillar in the center with the legend  ^^lR;eso t;rs
inscribed below, flanked on the left periphery with the word ^^Hkkjr
in Devnagri script and on the right periphery flanked with the word "India" in English, and it shall also bear the Rupee
symbol "?" and denominational value "100" in the international numerals below the Lion Capitol.
Reverse:
The face of coin shall bear the portrait of "Swami Chinmayananda" in the center, with inscription ^^Lokeh fpUe;kuan dh
tUe'krh** in Devnagri script on upper periphery and on the lower periphery shall bear the inscription "Birth Centenary Of
Swami Chinmayananda" in English, and the year's figure "2015" shall be written below the portrait in international
numerals.
(ii)
Ten Rupees
Obverse:
The face of the coin shall bear the Lion Capitol of Ashoka Pillar in the center with the legend ^^lR;eso t;rs
inscribed below, flanked on the left periphery with the word ^^Hkkjr
in Devnagri script and on the right periphery flanked with the word "India" in English, and it shall also bear the Rupee
symbol "?" and denominational value "10" in the international numerals below the Lion Capitol.
Reverse:
The face of coin shall bear the portrait of "Swami Chinmayananda" in the center, with inscription ^^Lokeh fpUe;kuan dh
tUe'krh** in Devnagri script on upper periphery and on the lower periphery shall bear the inscription "Birth Centenary of
Swami Chinmayananda" in English, and the year's figure "2015" shall be written below the portrait in international
numerals
5.
Standard weight and remedy allowed.
- The standard weight of the coins of the following denominations, coined to commemorate the occasion of "Birth
Centenary of Swami Chinmayananda" and the remedy allowed in making of such coins shall be as specified in the Table
below: -
Denomination of coin
Standard weight
Remedy allowed
In composition
In standard weight
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
One Hundred Rupees
35 Grams
1/500th plus or minus for Silver, that is to say
the Silver content may vary from 498 to 502 per 1000.
1/100th plus or minus, that is to say, the weight
could vary from 34.65 grams to 35.35 grams.
Ten Rupees (Bi-Metallic)
7.71 Grams (outer ring 4.45 grams and centre piece
3.26 grams)
Outer Ring- (Aluminium Bronze) Aluminium 5.5
percent to 6 percent, Nickel-1.75 percent to 2 percent and
remaining are copper. Centre piece- (Cupro-Nickel) plus or minus
1 percent for both copper and Nickel that is to say, the copper
may vary from 74 percent to 76 percent and Nickel from 24 percent
to 26 percent.
Plus or minus 2.5 percent that is to say, the
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Coinage of One Hundred Rupees and Ten Rupees Coins to mark the occasion of Birth Cente...
weight could vary from 7.52 grams to 7.90 grams.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4