
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Supplementary Nutrition (under the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme) Rules...
The Supplementary Nutrition (under the Integrated Child
Development Services Scheme) Rules, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/184303510/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Supplementary Nutrition (under the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme) Rules, 2015
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Supplementary Nutrition (under the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme) Rules, 2015
Rule
THE-SUPPLEMENTARY-NUTRITION-UNDER-THE-INTEGRATED-CHILD-DEVELOPMENT-SERVICES-SCHEME-RU
LES-2015 of 2015
Published on 1 June 2015
Commenced on 1 June 2015
[This is the version of this document from 1 June 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Supplementary Nutrition (under the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme) Rules, 2015
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 467(E), dated 1st June, 2015
Ministry of Women and Child Development
G.S.R. 467(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) read with clause (b) of subsection (2) of section
39 of the National Food Security Act, 2013 (
20 of 2013
), the Central Government, in consultation with the State Governments, hereby makes the following rules to regulate the
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Supplementary Nutrition (under the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme) Rules...
entitlements specified under the provisions of the said Act for every pregnant woman and lactating mother till six months
after child birth, and every child in the age group of six months to six years (including those suffering from malnutrition)
for three hundred days in a year, as per the nutritional standards specified in Schedule II to the said Act, namely:-
Part I ? General Provisions
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Supplementary Nutrition (under the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme)
Rules, 2015.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the National Food Security Act, 2013 (
20 of 2013
);
(b)
"Board" means Food and Nutrition Board;
(c)
"meal" means the meal as defined in clause (9) of section 2 of the Act;
(d)
"section" means section of the Act;
(e)
the words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
Part II ? Entitlement and Nutritional Standards
3.
Nature of entitlements.
(1)
The entitlements referred to in sections 4, 5 and section 6 of the Act shall be provided under the Supplementary
Nutrition Programme of Integrated Child Development Services Scheme (hereinafter referred to as ICDS) of the Central
Government.
(2)
The Supplementary Nutrition under the ICDS is primarily designed to bridge the gap between the Recommended
Dietary Allowance and the Average Daily Intake.
4.
Place of serving meal.
(1)
The ICDS is a self-selecting scheme and the entitlements, as mentioned in clause (a) of section 4, clause (a) of
sub-section (1) of section 5 and section 6 shall be available to those who enrol themselves and visit the nearest
anganwadi centre during its working hours, as notified by the State Government or the Union Territory Administration
from time to time.
(2)
The meal shall be served at the nearest Anganwadi Centres where the beneficiary is registered or enrolled.
5.
Supplementary Nutrition under ICDS.
- The Supplementary Nutrition under the ICDS for different categories of beneficiaries shall be as under:-
Sl. No.
Categories
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Supplementary Nutrition (under the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme) Rules...
Type of meal or food as per the nutritional standards
specified in Schedule II of the Act
(1)
(2)
(3)
1
Children (Between 6 to 36 months)
Take home ration as per ICDS guidelines in conformity with the
provisions of the Act.
2
Malnourished children (Between 6 to 36 months)
The same type of take home ration as above with food
supplement of 800 calories and 20-25 grams of protein.
3
Children (Between 3 to 6 years)
Morning snacks and hot cooked meal as per ICDS norms.
4
Malnourished children (Between 3 to 6 years)
Additional 300 calories of energy and 8-10 grams of protein in
addition to the meal or food provided to children between 3 to 6
years.
5
Pregnant women and lactating or nursing mothers
Take home ration as per ICDS guidelines in conformity with the
provisions of the Act.
Note:- Early initiation and exclusive breast feeding shall be promoted for children up to the age of 6 months. Adequate
age-appropriate complementary feeding (cereal based) shall be ensured for children from 6 months to 12 months of age
and balanced adult food shall be provided from 12 months to 24 months along with continued breast feeding.
6.
Nutritional standards.
- The nutritional standards shall be the same as provided in Schedule II of the Act and the Nutritional and Feeding
norms issued by the Central Government in the Ministry of Women and Child Development from time to time.
Part III ? Maintenance of Standard and Quality of Meal, Their Enforcement and Monitoring
7.
Preparation of meal and maintenance of its standard and quality.
(1)
The meal shall be prepared as per the guidelines, instructions or orders issued by the Central Government from time to
time (taking into account the orders or guidelines issued by the Supreme Court or High Courts), and the provisions of
Schedule II of the Act, and any other law for the time being in force.
(2)
The State Governments and the Union Territory Administrations, with the support of Food and Nutrition Board
(hereinafter referred to as the Board) shall ensure the quality of supplementary nutrition with reference to the norms of
food safety, as well as food composition.
(3)
The Supplementary Nutrition shall conform to the standards laid down under the provisions of the Food Safety and
Standards Act, 2006 (
34 of 2006
) to ensure consistent quality and nutritive value of the intervention per serving and it shall also be ensured that the meal
is prepared in kitchen having adequate sanitation and safe drinking water to maintain hygienic conditions.
(4)
It shall be the responsibility of the concerned Programme Officer and the Child Development Project Officer under the
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Supplementary Nutrition (under the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme) Rules...
ICDS to ensure the quality of supplementary provision with reference to the norms of food safety as well as food
composition.
(5)
The Board, in collaboration with the State Governments and the Union Territory Administrations, shall carry out periodic
checks and test the meal or get it tested through the Government Food Research Laboratory accredited or recognised
by any law for the time being in force, so as to ensure that the meal meets with the nutritional standards and quality
specified in Schedule II of the Act.
(6)
Similarly, the officers, as authorised by the State Governments or the Union Territory Administrations, shall also conduct
surprise checks and draw samples and get them tested through the above laboratories to ensure quality and nutrient
value of the meal.
(7)
The Food should be tasted by the Anganwadi worker or helper before it is served to the beneficiaries at Anganwadi
Centre.
8.
Responsibility to monitor and review arrangement for supplementary nutrition.
- The respective State Governments and Union territory Administration, and the Monitoring and Review Committees at
the National, State, District, Block and Anganwadi levels, constituted by the Central Government in the Ministry of
Women and Child Development from time to time, shall be responsible to monitor and review the status of arrangement
for Supplementary Nutrition, convergence with the line Departments to ensure water and sanitation facilities, ensure
regular functioning of Anganwadi Centres, ensure regular supply of Supplementary Nutrition at Anganwadi Centres
without disruptions and use of iodized or iron fortified iodized salts, ensure monitoring and supervision visits by officials
at different levels as per norms, method of delivery of supplementary food at Anganwadi Centres, engagement of Self
Help Groups, ensure supply and quality of Supplementary Nutrition through them and all other issues relating to the
above, as per their roles defined in the guidelines issued by the Central Government in the Ministry of Women and Child
Development from time to time:
Provided that till the engagement of Self Help Groups, the supply of Supplementary Nutrition shall be ensured from such
other sources or approved agencies in terms of the existing rules and regulations notified by the Central Government
and the State Governments.
Part IV ? Cost Norms and Cost Sharing
9.
Supplementary Nutrition norms.
- The Supplementary Nutrition shall be in conformity with the Revised Nutritional and Feeding norms issued by the
Central Government in the Ministry of Women and Child Development from time to time.
10.
Cost norms for Supplementary Nutrition.
- The cost norms for the Supplementary Nutrition for various categories of beneficiaries shall be as under or as may be
revised by the Central Government:
S. No.
Categories
Present rates (per beneficiary per day)
(1)
(2)
(3)
1.
Children (Between 6 to 72 months)
Rs. 6.00
2.
Malnourished children (Between 6 to 72 months)
Rs. 9.00
3.
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Supplementary Nutrition (under the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme) Rules...
Pregnant women and lactating or nursing mothers
Rs. 7.00
11.
Proportion of cost sharing of Supplementary Nutrition.
- The cost of Supplementary Nutrition under the ICDS, as per these rules, shall be shared by the Central Government
and the State Governments in equal proportion in respect of all the States except the States of Assam, Arunachal
Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Tripura and Sikkim, where the Central Government shall bear ninety
per cent of the cost and the remaining ten per cent shall be borne by such State Governments or as revised by the
Central Government from time to time.
12.
Rules not in derogation of any Scheme.
- The provisions of these rules shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any existing Scheme implemented by the
Central Government.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5