
----- PAGE 1 -----
The University Grants Commission (Furnishing of Information by Universities) Rules, 2015
The University Grants Commission (Furnishing of Information by
Universities) Rules, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/58127889/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The University Grants Commission (Furnishing of Information by Universities) Rules, 2015
UNION OF INDIA
India
The University Grants Commission (Furnishing of Information by Universities) Rules, 2015
Rule THE-UNIVERSITY-GRANTS-COMMISSION-FURNISHING-OF-INFORMATION-BY-UNIVERSITIES-RULES-2015
of 2015
Published on 22 June 2015
Commenced on 22 June 2015
[This is the version of this document from 22 June 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The University Grants Commission (Furnishing of Information by Universities) Rules, 2015
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 517(E), dated  22nd June, 2015
Ministry of Human Resource Development
(Department of Higher Education)
G.S.R. 517(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) read with clause (f) and (k) of sub-section (2) of
Section 25 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (
3 of 1956
), and in supersession of the University Grants Commission (Returns of Information by Universities) Rules, 2004 except
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The University Grants Commission (Furnishing of Information by Universities) Rules, 2015
as respects things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Central Government hereby makes the
following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title, and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called University Grants Commission (Furnishing of Information by Universities) Rules, 2015.
(2)
They shall apply to every university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act, a Provincial Act, a State Act
and every institution declared as deemed to be University under section 3 of the University Grants Commission Act,
1956.
(3)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Returns and Information to be furnished.
- Every University shall, on or before the date specified by the University Grants Commission every year in this behalf
and in the format specified by the Commission by notification in the Gazette, furnish the following returns and
information to the Commission, namely:-
(a)
Up-to-date copies of -
(i)
the Act, Statutes and Ordinances;
(ii)
rules for grant-in-aid to the colleges belonging to or recognized by or affiliated to it;
(iii)
rules of the inspection of colleges belonging to or recognized by or affiliated to it;
(iv)
rules of recognition or affiliation of colleges; and
(v)
total number of colleges maintained or recognized by or affiliated to the university.
(b)
Reports on the inspection of colleges belonging to or recognized by or affiliated to it.
(c)
Minimum working days in the university, period of vacations, examination days and the number of days when actual
teaching is conducted excluding the days for the preparation for examination.
(d)
Where there are admission tests a note indicating the minimum criteria laid down along with admission policy and
variations, if any, from the basis specified for admission.
(e)
The statistics of the students admitted below the minimum qualifications referred to in clause (d) and justification for the
same.
(f)
Residential accommodation for students.
(g)
Residential accommodation for staff.
(h)
The annual accounts of the university shall be prepared on accrual basis as per the "Formats of Accounts" approved by
the Ministry of Human Resource Development, including the Audit Report.
(i)
The total staff strength in different categories with qualifications and research experience. This could be intimated by the
university once in every three years, with changes, if any, to be intimated every year
(j)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The University Grants Commission (Furnishing of Information by Universities) Rules, 2015
Courses offered at different levels.
(k)
Students strength at various stages.
(l)
Teacher-student ratio.
(m)
Results of examinations with divisions.
(n)
Status of accreditation of the University and its colleges by a recognised agency.
(o)
Status of compliance with various University Grants Commission regulations.
(p)
Status of off-campus centres or study centres and distance education centres being operated by the university.
(q)
Self-financing courses being offered by the university.
(r)
Teaching staff - non-teaching staff ratio.
(s)
Position of vacancies against teaching staff posts.
(t)
Innovation in academics, research and management, if any.
(u)
Conformity with norms and requirements or regulations of various professional Councils.
(v)
Grants received from University Grants Commission or Central Agencies, scheme-wise during the last financial year and
position of utilization.
(w)
Pending utilization certificate in respect of University Grants Commission grants, if any.
(x)
Programmes of study being offered in collaboration with any foreign university, with details thereof.
3.
Every university and its affiliated colleges shall, on or before the date specified by the All India Survey on Higher
Education every year in this behalf, upload complete and correct data, as required by the All India Survey on Higher
Education, on the Survey Portal (www.aishe.gov.in). The ultimate responsibility of correct, complete and timely
uploading of the data annually on All India Survey on Higher Education portal in respect of university, college shall be of
the Registrar or Principal of the University or college respectively.
4.
Failure to upload data or information on the All India Survey on Higher Education or for any other purpose for which
University Grants Commission directs furnishing of data may entail reduction of grant-in-aid upto 25 per cent. of the
annual grant-in-aid and other punitive action as the University Grants Commission or Central Government may deem fit.
Order of the Central Government or University Grants Commission shall be notified in the web-page. Furnishing of
inaccurate or wrong data or information shall attract similar punitive action.
5.
Establishing and proving the authenticity and accuracy of the information shall be responsibility of the Registrar or
Principal of the University or College concerned.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3