
----- PAGE 1 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
(Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/116227867/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
UNION OF INDIA
India
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Rule
INSURANCE-REGULATORY-AND-DEVELOPMENT-AUTHORITY-OF-INDIA-REGISTRATION-OF-CORPORATE-AGE
NTS-REGULATIONS-2015 of 2015
Published on 20 August 2015
Commenced on 20 August 2015
[This is the version of this document from 20 August 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Published vide Notification F. No. IRDAI/Reg/12/102/2015, dated 20.08.2015
Last Updated 11th November, 2019
F. No. IRDAI/Reg/12/102/2015. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 114A of the Insurance Act, 1938 (
4 of 1938
), as amended from time to time, read with sections 14 and 26 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
Act, 1999 (
Page 1/39
----- PAGE 2 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
41 of 1999
) and sections 42D and 42E of Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time, the Authority in consultation with the
Insurance Advisory Committee, hereby makes the following regulations, namely: -
1.
Short Title and Commencement of the Regulations.
(1)
These Regulations may be called the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of
Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015.
(2)
They shall come into force from 1st April, 2016.
(3)
A corporate agent who has been issued a licence prior to the commencement of these regulations may seek a fresh
certificate of registration to work as a corporate agent by applying to the Authority in accordance with the procedure
specified by the Authority in this behalf.
2.
Definitions.
(a)
"Act" means the Insurance Act, 1938 (
4 of 1938
), as amended from time to time.
(b)
"Applicant" means -
(i)
A company formed under the Companies Act, 2013 (
18 of 2013
) or any enactment thereof or under any previous company law which was in force; or
(ii)
A limited liability partnership formed and registered under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008; or
(iii)
A Co-operative Society registered under Co-operative Societies Act, 1912 or under any law for registration of
co-operative societies; or
(iv)
a banking company as defined in clause (4A) of section 2 of the Act; or
(v)
a corresponding new bank as defined under clause (da) of sub-section (I) of section 5 of the Banking Companies Act,
1949 (
10 of 1949
); or
(vi)
a regional rural bank established under section 3 of the Regional Rural Banks Act, 1976 (
21 of 1976
); or
(vii)
a Non-Governmental organisation or a micro lending finance organization covered under the Co-operative Societies Act,
1912 or a Non-Banking Financial Company registered with the Reserve Bank of India; or
(viii)
Any other person as may be recognized by the Authority to act as a corporate agent.
(c)
"Approved Institution" means any institution engaged in education and/or training particularly in the area of insurance
sales, service and marketing, approved and notified by the Authority from time to time, and includes Insurance Institute
of India, Mumbai.
Page 2/39
----- PAGE 3 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
(d)
"Authorized Verifier" means a person employed by a Telemarketer for the purpose of solicitation or sale over telephonic
mode and shall fulfil the requirements as specified under regulation 7(3) of these regulations for a specified person;
(e)
"Authority" means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India established under the provisions of
Section 3 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (
41 of 1999
).
(f)
"Corporate Agent" means any applicant specified in clause (b) above holds a valid certificate of registration issued by
the Authority under these regulations for solicitation and servicing of insurance business for any of the specified
category of life, general and health.
(g)
"Corporate Agent (Life)" means a corporate agent who holds a valid certificate of registration to act as such, issued by
the Authority under these regulations, for solicitation and servicing of insurance business for life insurers as specified in
these regulations;
(h)
"Corporate Agent (General)" means a corporate agent who holds a valid certificate of registration to act as such, issued
by the Authority under these regulations, for solicitation and servicing of insurance business for general insurers as
specified in these regulations;
(i)
"Corporate Agent (Health)" means a corporate agent who holds a valid certificate of registration to act as such, issued
by the Authority under these regulations, for solicitation and servicing of insurance business for health insurers as
specified in these regulations;
(j)
"Corporate Agent (Composite)" means a corporate agent who holds a valid certificate of registration to act as such,
issued by the Authority under these regulations, for solicitation and procurement of insurance business for life insurers,
general insurers and health insurers or combination of any two or all three as specified in
(k)
"Examination Body" for the purpose of these Regulations is Insurance Institute of India, Mumbai or any other body
approved and notified by the Authority for conducting certification examination for principal officer and specified persons
of the corporate agents.
(l)
"Fit and Proper" is the criteria for determining the suitability for registering an Applicant including his principal officer,
directors or partners or any other employees to act as Corporate Agent.
(m)
"Principal Officer" of a Corporate Agent means a director or a partner or any officer or employee so designated by it, and
approved by the Authority, exclusively appointed to supervise the activities of Corporate Agent and who possesses the
requisite qualifications and practical training and has passed examination as required under these Regulations.
(n)
"Registration" means a certificate of registration to act as a corporate agent issued under these regulations.
(o)
"Regulations" means Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agent)
Regulations, 2015.
(p)
"Specified Person" means an employee of a Corporate Agent who is responsible for soliciting and procuring insurance
business on behalf of a corporate agent and shall have fulfilled the requirements of qualification, training and passing of
examination as specified in these regulations;
(q)
"Telemarketer" means an entity registered with Telecom Regulatory Authority of India under Chapter III of the Telecom
Commercial Communications Customer Preference Regulations, 2010 to conduct the business of sending commercial
Page 3/39
----- PAGE 4 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
communications and holding a certificate issued by the Authority;
(r)
Words and expressions used and not defined in these Regulations but defined in the Act, as amended from time to time,
the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 or in any of the Regulations / Guidelines made there
under shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in those Acts/ Regulations / Guidelines.
3.
Scope and applicability of these Regulations.
(1)
These regulations shall cover Registration of Corporate Agents for the purpose of soliciting, procuring and servicing of
Insurance business of life insurers, general insurers and health insurers during the validity of certificate of registration as
follows,
(a)
A Corporate Agent (Life), may have arrangements with a maximum of three life insurers to solicit, procure and service
their insurance products.
(b)
A Corporate Agent (General), may have arrangements with a maximum of three general insurers to solicit, procure and
service their insurance products. Further, the Corporate Agent (General) shall solicit, procure and service retail lines of
general insurance products and commercial lines of such insurers having a total sum insured not exceeding rupees five
crores per risk for all insurances combined.
(c)
A Corporate Agent (Health), may have arrangements with a maximum of three health insurers to solicit, procure and
service their insurance products.
(d)
In the case of Corporate Agent (Composite), the conditions as specified in clauses (a) to (c) shall apply.
(e)
any change in the arrangement with the insurance companies shall be done only with the prior approval of the Authority
and with suitable arrangements for servicing existing policyholders.
4.
Application for grant of registration.
(1)
An applicant desiring to obtain a Certificate of Registration to act as a corporate agent is either -
(i)
An entity whose principal business is other than distribution of insurance products and insurance distribution is a
subsidiary activity;
(ii)
An entity whose principal business is to exclusively carry on insurance intermediation.
(2)
The applicant shall make an application in Form A to the Authority as specified in Schedule I.
(3)
The application under sub-regulation (2) shall be accompanied by requisite fees as specified in regulation 17.
(4)
An applicant registered or licensed by any other regulatory body in the financial sector, shall obtain no objection
certificate from the respective bodies and file along with the application made under sub-regulation
Provided that corporate agents already licensed under the IRDA's- (Licensing of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2002
are exempt from the above requirement at the time of seeking registration under these regulations.
(5)
An application under sub-regulation (2) shall be made for any one of the following categories, namely: -
a. Corporate Agent (Life);
b. Corporate Agent (General);
c. Corporate Agent (Health)
d. Corporate Agent (Composite)
Page 4/39
----- PAGE 5 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
(6)
An applicant or its group entities ordinarily may be granted one certificate of registration provided that the group does
not have any other insurance intermediation such as corporate agency or insurance broking or insurance marketing firm
or web aggregator. However an application for a corporate agency registration where any member of the applicant is
already engaged in insurance intermediation including corporate agency shall be considered on merits and with no
conflict of interest.
Note. - For the purposes of these regulations, the definition of "group" shall have the same meaning as defined under
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Investment) Regulations, 2000 as amended from time to time, any
other direction issued in this regard by the Authority.
5.
Application to conform to the requirements.
- An application, not complete in all respects and not conforming to the instructions specified in Form A and these
regulations, shall be rejected.
Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given reasonable opportunity to complete the
application in all respects and rectify the errors, if any.
6.
Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation.
-  (I) The Authority may require an applicant to furnish any further information or clarification for the purpose of disposal
of the application, and, thereafter, in regard to any other matter as may be deemed necessary by the Authority.
(2)
The applicant or its principal officer shall, if so required, appear before the Authority for a personal representation in
connection with their application.
7.
Consideration of application.
(1)
The Authority while considering an application for grant of registration shall take into account, all matters relevant for
carrying out the activities of a corporate agent.
(2)
Without prejudice to the above, the Authority in particular, shall take into account the following, namely: -
(a)
whether the applicant is not suffering from any of the disqualifications specified under sub-section (5) of section 42D of
the Act;
(b)
whether the applicant has the necessary infrastructure, such as, adequate office space, equipment and trained
manpower on their rolls to effectively discharge its activities;
(c)
whether any person, directly or indirectly connected with the applicant, has been refused in the past the grant of
licence/registration by the Authority.
a. Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-clause, the expression, "directly or indirectly connected" means in the case
of a firm or a company or a body corporate, an associate, a subsidiary, an interconnected undertaking or a group
company of the applicant. It is hereby clarified that these terms shall have the same meanings as ascribed to them in the
Companies Act, 2013 or The Competition Act, 2002, as the case may be.
(d)
Whether the principal officer of the applicant is a graduate and has received at least fifty hours of theoretical and
practical training from an approved institution according to a syllabus approved by the Authority, and has passed an
examination, at the end of .the period of training mentioned above, conducted by the examination body.
Provided that where the principal officer of the applicant is an Associate/ Fellow of the Insurance Institute of India,
Mumbai; or Associate/ Fellow of the CII, London; or Associate/ Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries of India; or holds any
post graduate qualification of the Institute of Insurance and Risk Management, Hyderabad, the theoretical and practical
training shall be twenty five hours.
(e)
Page 5/39
----- PAGE 6 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
whether the principal officer, directors and other employees of the applicant have not violated the code of conduct as
specified in Schedule III to these regulations during the last three years;
(f)
Whether the applicant, in case the principal business of the applicant is other than insurance, maintain an arms-length
relationship in financial matters between its activities as Corporate Agent and-other activities.
(g)
Whether the Principal Officer/Director(s)/Partner(s)/Specified Persons is/are Fit and Proper based on the statement in
Annexure 1 of these regulations; and
(h)
the Authority is of the opinion that the grant of registration will be in the interest of policyholders.
(3)
The specified persons of the applicant shall fulfil the following requirements  -
a. Having passed minimum of 12th Class or equivalent examination from a recognized Board/Institution;
b. (i) The specified person shall have undergone at least fifty hours of training, for the specified category of life, general,
health for which registration is sought for, from an approved institution and shall have passed the examination
conducted by the examination body;
(ii)
The specified person of corporate agent (composite) shall have undergone at least seventy five hours of training from an
approved institution, and shall have pass the examination conducted by the examination body;
c. the specified persons engaged by the corporate agent to solicit and procure insurance business shall have valid
certificate issued by the Authority, as specified in these Regulations. The certificate shall be valid for a period of three
years from the date of issue subject to the valid registration of the corporate agent;
The specified person shall apply through the principal officer of the corporate agent to the Authority in the format
specified in Annexure 3 of these regulations for issuance of certificate.
d. A specified person of a corporate agent wishes to switch over to any other corporate agent, shall do so by applying to
the Authority through the new corporate agent along with a no objection certificate issued by the present corporate
agent. In case, the present corporate agent does not issue a no objection certificate within 30 days, it shall be deemed
that the said corporate agent has no objection to his switching over. The Authority after receipt of request from the
corporate agent, issue a revised certificate changing the name of the corporate agent indicating the switching over.
e. Specified Persons and/or Chief Insurance Executives who are qualified and already working with a corporate agent
licensed under Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Licensing of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2002,
may continue to work with corporate agents registered under these regulations. However, the details of such Specified
Persons and/or Chief Insurance Executives shall be provided to the Authority in the manner specified at the time of
making an application for granting registration or within six months from the date of their registration. The Authority after
receipt of the details issue to such Specified Persons and/or Chief Insurance Executives a certificate as specified in
sub-regulation (c) above.
8.
Requirements of Capital.
(1)
An applicant exclusively doing insurance distribution shall have a minimum equity share capital or contribution and net
worth of rupees fifty lakh. They shall maintain the net worth at all times.
(2)
In case of applicant exclusively doing insurance distribution, the aggregate holdings of equity shares or contribution by a
foreign investor, including portfolio investors, shall be as prescribed by the Central.
8A.
[ Foreign Investment.
[Inserted by Notification No. F.No. IRDAI/Reg/13/164/2019, dated 30.10.2019.]
- Every applicant, who is a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 and has a majority of shareholding of
foreign investors, shall furnish an undertaking as given in Schedule - AA.]
9.
Procedure for Registration.
Page 6/39
----- PAGE 7 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
(1)
The Authority on being satisfied that the applicant fulfils all the conditions specified for the grant of registration, shall
grant a registration in Form B and send an intimation thereof to the applicant mentioning the category for which the
Authority has granted the registration. The registration shall be issued subject to the applicant adhering to the conditions
and the code of conduct as specified by the Authority from time to time.
(2)
A corporate agent registered under these regulations for a specified category may also apply for the grant of a
registration by the Authority for any other category by fulfilling the requirements of these regulations. However, such
application shall be made only after completion of one year from the grant of a registration m the first instance.
(3)
In case a registration issued under regulation 4 of these regulations or issued under any other regulations which were in
force prior to the notification of these regulations, is cancelled/ surrendered or renewal rejected by the Authority for the
reasons specified therein, the applicant may make a fresh application for grant of registration only after lapse of one
year from the effective date of such cancellation/surrender or rejection of renewal of registration, for consideration of the
Authority. The Authority may consider such application on merit as per regulation 7 of these regulations.
10.
Validity of registration.
- A registration once issued shall be valid for a period of three years from the date of its issue, unless the same is
suspended or cancelled pursuant to these regulations.
11.
Renewal of registration.
(1)
A corporate agent may, within thirty days before the expiry of the registration, make an application in Form A along with
requisite fee to the Authority for renewal of registration.
Provided however that if the application reaches the Authority later than that period but before the actual expiry of the
current registration, an additional fee of rupees one hundred, plus applicable taxes, shall be payable to the Authority.
Provided further that the Authority may for sufficient reasons offered in writing by the applicant for a delay not covered
by the previous proviso, accept an application for renewal after the date of the expiry of the registration on payment of
an additional fee of seven hundred and fifty rupees, plus applicable taxes, by the applicant.
Note. - A corporate agent is permitted to submit the application for renewal of registration ninety days prior to the expiry
of the registration
(2)
Principal Officer and specified persons before seeking a renewal of registration, shall have completed, at least twenty
five hours of theoretical and practical training, imparted by an approved institution.
(3)
An application for renewal, under sub-regulation (1) shall be dealt with in the same manner as specified under regulation
7.
(4)
The Authority, on being satisfied that the applicant fulfils all the conditions specified for a renewal of the registration,
shall renew the registration in Form C for a period of three years and send intimation to the applicant.
12.
Procedure where a registration is not granted.
(1)
Where an application for grant of a registration under regulation 4 or renewal thereof under regulation 11, does not
satisfy the conditions set out in regulation 7, the Authority may refuse to grant or renew the Certificate of Registration.
Provided that no application shall be rejected unless the applicant has been given a reasonable opportunity of being
heard.
(2)
The refusal to grant or renew a Certificate of Registration shall be communicated by the Authority within thirty days of
such refusal to the applicant stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected.
(3)
Page 7/39
----- PAGE 8 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
Any applicant aggrieved by the decision of the Authority may make an appeal to Securities Appellate Tribunal, as per
the procedure prescribed for such an appeal, within a period of forty-five days from the date on which a copy of the order
made by the Authority under sub-regulation (2) above is received by it.
13.
Effect of refusal to grant registration.
-  An applicant, whose application for grant of registration under regulation 4 or of a renewal thereof under regulation 11
has been refused or rejected by the Authority, shall, on and from the date of the receipt of the communication under
regulation 12(2) cease to act as a corporate agent. He, however, shall continue to be liable to provide services in
respect of contracts already entered into through him. Such a service shall continue upto the period of expiry of those
existing contracts, which have already been closed, or for a period of six months, whichever is earlier within which time
they shall make suitable arrangements with the concerned insurer.
14.
Conditions of grant of registration to Corporate Agent.
- The registration granted under regulation 9 or the renewal granted under regulation 11 shall, inter alia, be subject to
the following conditions:-
(i)
The corporate agent registered under these regulations shall be permitted to solicit and service insurance business as
specified in regulation (3) above only;
(ii)
The corporate agent shall comply with the provisions of the Act, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act,
1999 and the Regulations, Circulars, Guidelines and any other instructions issued there under from time to time by the
Authority;
(iii)
The corporate agent shall forthwith inform the Authority in writing, if any information or particulars previously submitted
to the Authority by them are found to be false or misleading in respect of any material particular or if there is any material
change in the information already submitted;
(iv)
The corporate agent shall take adequate steps for redressal of grievances of its clients within 14 days of receipt of such
complaint and keep the Authority informed about the number, nature and other particulars of the complaints received
from such clients in format and manner as may be specified by the Authority;
(v)
The corporate agent shall solicit and procure reasonable number of insurance policies commensurate with their
resources and the number of specified persons they employ.
(vi)
The corporate agent shall maintain records in the format specified by the Authority which shall capture policy-wise and
specified person-wise details wherein each policy solicited by the corporate agent is tagged to the specified person,
except for those products which are simple, sold over the counter and specifically approved by the Authority. The
corporate agent shall put in place systems which allow regular access to such records and details by the Authority.
(vii)
The corporate agent under no circumstance shall undertake multi-level marketing for solicitation of insurance products;
(viii)
The Corporate Agent shall ensure compliance of Code of Conduct applicable to its directors, principal officer and
specified persons;
(ix)
The corporate agent shall maintain separate books of accounts for their corporate agency business as specified in
regulation 31;
15.
Issue of duplicate certificate of registration.
(1)
In the event of a certificate of registration being lost or destroyed or mutilated, a corporate agent shall submit to the
Authority an application with a declaration giving full details of the issue of the registration and its loss or destruction or
Page 8/39
----- PAGE 9 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
mutilation along with a fee of rupees one thousand, plus applicable taxes, to the Authority requesting issue of a duplicate
certificate of registration.
(2)
The Authority, after satisfying itself that the original certificate of registration has been lost, destroyed or mutilated, shall
issue a duplicate certificate of registration in Form B with an endorsement thereon that it is a duplicate one.
16.
Action against a person acting as a corporate agent without a valid registration.
(1)
Notwithstanding and without prejudice to initiation of any criminal proceedings against any person, who acts as a
corporate agent without holding a valid registration made under these regulations, the Authority may invoke against such
a person penal action under the Act or any other law for the time being in force
(2)
Where the person falling under sub-regulation (1), is a company or firm or body corporate, without prejudice to any other
proceedings which may be taken by the Authority against the company or firm or body corporate, every director,
manager, secretary or other officer of the company or body corporate, and every partner of the firm, who is knowingly a
party to such a contravention shall also be liable to be proceeded against. .
17.
Payment of fees and the consequences of failure to pay fees.
(1)
Every corporate agent shall at the time of application of registration and renewal thereof pay non-refundable application
fee of Rs. 10,000/-, plus applicable taxes. The fees shall be payable by an Account Payee draft in favour of "The
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India" payable at Hyderabad or by recognised electronic funds
transfer to Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India. No application shall be processed without the
application fee.
(2)
Upon receipt of communication for grant of registration from the Authority, the applicant shall pay a fee of Rs.25,000/-,
plus applicable taxes, within 15 days of receipt of such communication. On receipt of the fee and on satisfactory
compliance of terms and conditions for grant of registration, the Authority shall grant the registration to act as a
corporate agent under the category for which an application is made.
(3)
A corporate agent desirous of applying for renewal shall make an application for renewal in the prescribed format along
with a fee of Rs.25,000/-, plus applicable taxes.
18.
Remuneration.
(1)
The payment of remuneration to or receipt of remuneration by a corporate agent shall be governed by the regulations
notified in this behalf by the Authority from time time.
(2)
Corporate agents who were licensed under IRDA (Licensing of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2002 may be allowed to
receive remuneration for the business sourced and procured by them under those regulations provided they continue to
service their customers as specified in regulation 24(2) of these regulations. In case such corporate agents desire to be
registered under these regulations, they shall disclose the remuneration received under old contracts and new contracts
separately in their books of accounts as specified in regulation 31.
19.
Requirement of Professional Indemnity Insurance Policy.
(1)
Every corporate agent, where the revenues from their insurance intermediation activities is more than fifty per cent of
their total revenue from all the activities, shall take out and maintain at all times a professional indemnity insurance cover
throughout the validity of the period of the registration granted to it by the Authority.
Provided that the Authority shall in suitable cases allow a newly registered corporate agent to produce such a . policy
within twelve months from the date of issue of original registration.
Page 9/39
----- PAGE 10 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
(2)
The limit of indemnity shall be two times the total annual remuneration of the corporate agent derived from their
insurance intermediation activities in a year subject to a minimum of Rupees fifteen lakh and a maximum of Rupees one
hundred crore.
(3)
The scope of cover and other terms and conditions of the Professional Indemnity Policy is specified in Schedule II of
these regulations.
20.
Board Approved Policy for Open Architecture.
(1)
Every corporate agent shall file, at the time of seeking registration, with the Authority, a Board or its equivalent Approved
Policy on the manner of soliciting and servicing insurance products. The Policy shall address the manner of adopting the
philosophy of open architecture and going forward in implementing the same. The Policy, amongst others, shall include
the approach to be followed by the corporate agent in having single or multiple tie-ups, the partners in the tie-ups, the
business mix, the type of products sold, grievance redressal mechanism and reporting requirements. :
(2)
The corporate agents shall furnish half-yearly returns to the Authority insurer-wise business placed separately in respect
of life, general and health insurance, in the formats specified by the Authority, before 31st October and 30111 April
every year. The Authority on examination of the returns furnished may issue such directions or advices as it deem
necessary to the corporate agent and shall be complied with the same.
21.
Conflict of interest.
- While soliciting and procuring the insurance business, the corporate agent shall comply with the following:
(i)
The corporate agent having tie-ups with more than one insurer in a particular line of business, disclose to the
prospective customer the list of insurers, with whom they have arrangements to distribute the products and provide them
with the details such as scope of coverage, term of policy, premium payable, premium terms and any other information
which the customer seeks on all products available with them. Further, disclose the scale of commission in respect of
the insurance product offered, if asked by the prospect;
(ii)
Where the insurance is sold as an ancillary product along with a principal business product, the corporate agent or its
shareholder or its associates shall not compel the buyer of the principal business product to necessarily buy the
insurance product through it. The Principal Officer and CFO (or its equivalent) of the corporate agent shall file with the
Authority a certificate in the format given in the Schedule VIII on half-yearly basis, certifying that there is no forced
selling of an insurance product to any prospect.
(iii)
No insurer shall require the corporate agent to insure every client with it.
22.
Disclosures to the Authority.
(1)
An applicant desires to become a corporate agent shall disclose to the Authority at the time of filing application all
material facts relevant for consideration of application, on its own. In case of any change in the information provided for
consideration of their application, subsequent to filing of application or during the processing of application, such change
shall be disclosed to the Authority, voluntary by the applicant, for consideration of the Authority.
(2)
Similarly, a corporate agent who holds a valid registration issued by the. Authority shall, subsequent to the issuance of
registration, disclose, to. the Authority voluntarily, any change in material facts, based on which a registration was made
to them, within a reasonable time but not later than 30 days from the happening of such change. The Authority upon
receipt of such information, may seek any clarification or issue such directions as it deem fit.
(3)
A corporate shall disclose to the Authority proceedings initiated against them by other regulatory or Government bodies
Page 10/39
----- PAGE 11 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
within a reasonable time but not later than 30 days from the initiation of such proceedings. Any action or direction issued
by such other bodies shall also be disclosed to the Authority within the time limits prescribed above.
(4)
The Authority may require, from time to time, the corporate agent to furnish such information or return as deemed
appropriate.
(5)
The corporate agent shall disclose to the Authority the details of its offices in which they propose to distribute insurance
products and details of Specified Persons along with their certificate number issued by the Authority. Further, any
opening or closure of an office by a corporate agent shall be informed to the Authority. The Authority may seek further
information as it deem appropriate.
(6)
Failure to adhere to the conditions set out above shall attract regulatory actions such as suspension or cancellation of
registration, imposition of monetary penalty or any other action which the Authority deem fit.
23.
Arrangements with insurers for distribution of products.
(a)
Corporate agents registered under these regulations shall have to enter into arrangements with insurers for distribution
of their products. These arrangements shall have to be disclosed to the Authority within 30 days of entering into such
arrangements. The minimum period of such arrangement shall be for one year;
(b)
While entering into such arrangements, no corporate agent shall promise nor any insurer shall compel the corporate
agent to distribute the products of a particular insurer;
(c)
Arrangements shall have provisions to include duties and responsibilities of corporate agents towards the policyholders,
duties and responsibilities of insurers and corporate agents, terms and conditions for termination of arrangements; .
(d)
No arrangements shall be made against the interests of policyholders;
(e)
In case a corporate agent wishes to terminate arrangement with any insurer, they may do so after informing the insurer
and the Authority, the reasons for termination of arrangement. In such cases, they shall ensure that the policies solicited
and placed with the insurer are serviced till the expiry of policies, or for a period of six months, whichever is earlier within
which time they shall make suitable arrangements with the concerned insurer,
(f)
In case an insurer wishes to terminate the arrangement with any corporate agent, they may do so after informing the
corporate agent and the Authority, the reasons for termination of arrangement. In such cases, the concerned insurer
shall take the responsibility of servicing the policies procured by the corporate agent. In all such cases, the insurer shall
inform the policyholder concerned of the changes made in servicing arrangements;
(g)
No insurer shall pay and no corporate agent shall receive any signing fee or any other charges by whatever name
called, except those permitted by the Authority under relevant regulations, for becoming its corporate agent;
(h)
No insurer shall directly pay incentives (cash or non-cash) to the principal officer, specified persons and other
employees of the corporate agents;
(i)
The Authority may, at any point in time, direct any insurer or corporate agent to terminate the distribution arrangements
by recording the reasons there for.
24.
Servicing of policyholders.
(1)
A corporate agent registered under these regulations shall have the duty to service its policyholders during the entire
period of contract. Servicing includes assisting in payment of premium required under section 64VB of the Act, providing
Page 11/39
----- PAGE 12 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
necessary assistance and guidance in the event of a claim, providing all other services and guidance on issues which
arise during the course of an insurance contract.
(2)
In case of a corporate agent licensed under IRDA (Licensing of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2002 they shall comply
with regulation 1(3) of these regulations. However, they shall continue to service their existing policyholders as required
under sub-clause (!) of this regulation til! the expiry of the term of such policies or for a period of six months, whichever
is earlier, within which time they shall make suitable arrangements with the concerned insurer for servicing the contracts.
The details of such contracts along with the arrangements shall be disclosed to the Authority within thirty days of such
arrangements.
25.
Sale of Insurance by tele-marketing mode and distance marketing activities of a corporate agent.
(1)
A corporate agent who intends to engage the services of a telemarketer or engage in distance marketing activities for
the purpose of distribution of insurance products shall follow the instructions as laid down in Schedule VII,
(2)
Without prejudice to sub-regulation (1) above, a corporate agent shall have to comply with the following additional
conditions for engaging the services of a telemarketer:
(i)
The telemarketer engaged by the corporate agent shall comply with various circulars and/or guidelines or any other
direction issued by Telecom Regulatory Authority of India in the matter;
(ii)
A corporate agent intends to undertake telemarketing activities for insurance intermediation shall seek prior approval of
the Authority in the form specified by the Authority at Annexure 4 of these regulations. The Authority on verification of
the same issue a certificate to the telemarketer;
(iii)
Further, the corporate agent shall file with the Authority the names of Authorised Verifiers engaged/ proposed to be
engaged by the telemarketer in the form specified at Annexure 5 of these regulations.
(iv)
In case an Authorised Verifier intends to switch to another telemarketer who is also dealing with insurance
intermediation, they shall obtain a No Objection Certificate from the erstwhile telemarketer and submit the same to the
Authority for issuing a fresh certificate. In case, the present telemarketer does not issue a no objection certificate within
30 days from the date of application for the same, it shall be deemed that the telemarketer has no objection to his
switching over;
(v)
Application for removal or addition of Authorised Verifiers shall be made by the Corporate Agent concerned through the
Principal Officer;
(vi)
In case the corporate agent registers as telemarketer with TRAI, the corporate agent shall act as telemarketer for only
those insurers with whom he has arrangements;
(vii)
No corporate agent or its telemarketer shall make outbound calls to any person unless he or she has shown interest in
buying an insurance policy by making enquiries to that effect. They shall maintain the database of such persons and the
enquiry made for verification and cheeking by the Authority or any person authorized by it.
(viii)
The telemarketer shall disclose to the prospective customer the following information -
(a)
The name of the corporate agent they represent;
(b)
The registration number of the corporate agent;
(e)
Contact number of the telemarketer and/or corporate agent in case the customer desires to call back or verify the
Page 12/39
----- PAGE 13 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
telesales information;
(d)
Name and identification number of the person t. Authorised Verifier) making the tele-call.
(ix)
A corporate agent engaging a telemarketer shall enter into an agreement with the telemarketer and the agreement shall
provide the details such as source of the database, duties and responsibilities, payment details, period of agreement,
actions to be taken in case of violation of Act, regulations, guidelines, circulars, directions issued by the Authority, Code
of Conduct of Authorised Verifiers. The agreements shall be made available to the Authority or any person authorized by
the Authority for verification as and when required;
(x)
Every telemarketer and the authorized Verifier shall abide by the Code of Conduct applicable to corporate agents as
specified in Schedule III of these regulations.
(xi)
The Authority shall have the power to inspect the premises of the telemarketer or any other premises, which the
Authority feels necessary for the verification of records/documents and seek any document/record, record statements of
any employee of the telemarketer or make copies of any documents/records at its discretion;
(xii)
The telemarketer shall have to comply with any other terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Authority from
time to time in the matter.
(3)
A telemarketer shall not be engaged with more than three insurers or insurance related entities.
26.
Code of conduct for Corporate Agents.
(1)
Every Corporate Agent shall abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in Schedule III of these regulations.
(2)
The corporate agent shall be responsible for all the acts and omissions of its principal officer, specified persons and
other employees including violation of code of conduct specified under these regulations and liable to a penalty which
may extend to one crore rupees under the provisions of See, i02 of the Act.
27.
Inspection of Corporate Agent.
- The Authority has the power to inspect the records cf a Corporate Agent and performance of its activities any time and
in case of any deficiency observed, the Authority may take appropriate disciplinary action. The procedure applicable for
the Inspection and the Audit of a Corporate Agent are mentioned in Schedule IV of these Regulations.
28.
Suspension, Cancellation or surrender of Registration made to a Corporate Agent
29.
Change in ownership and/or shareholding, name of a Corporate Agent.
(1)
In case of a corporate agent, which is incorporated exclusively for the purposes of insurance intermediation, no change
in ownership and/or shareholding exceeding 25%, shall be carried out without the prior approval of the Authority.
(2)
A corporate agent shall take the prior approval of the Authority for change of its name.
30.
Maintenance of Records.
- A Corporate Agent shall maintain the following records including in electronic form and shall be made available as and
when required by the Authority -
(i)
Know Your Client (KYC) records of the client, as required under the relevant Authority's guidelines and provisions of
Prevention of Money Laundering Act;
(ii)
Page 13/39
----- PAGE 14 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
Copy of the proposal form duly signed by the client and submitted to the insurer with ACR signed by the specified
person of corporate agent;
(iii)
A register containing list of clients, details of policy such as type of policy, premium amount, date of issue of the policy,
charges or fees received;
(iv)
A register containing details of complaints received which include name of the complainant, nature of complaint, details
of policy issued/solicited and action taken thereon;
(v)
A register which shall contain the name, address, telephone no, photograph, date of commencement of employment,
date of leaving the service, if any, monthly remuneration paid to the specified person;
(vi)
Copies of the correspondence exchanged with the Authority;
(vii)
Any other record as may be specified by the Authority from time to time.
31.
Maintenance of books of account, records, etc.
(1)
A corporate agent, which is incorporated exclusively for the purposes of insurance intermediation, shall prepare the
following books of accounts for every financial year -
(i)
a balance sheet or a statement of affairs as at die end of each accounting period;
(ii)
a profit and loss account for that period;
(iii)
a statement of cash/fund flow;
(iv)
Additional statements as may be required by the Authority from time to time.
Note 1. - For purposes of this regulation, the financial year shall be a period of 12 months (or less where a business is
started after Is1 April) commencing on the first day of the April of an year and ending on the 31st day of March of the
year following, and the accounts shall be maintained on accrual basis.
Note 2. - There shall be a schedule to their financial statements providing the details of all the incomes received from
insurers and insurer's grotto companies, insurer-wise, by the corporate assent, and also the details of payments
received by the group companies and/or associates of the corporate assent from any insurer and the details thereof.
(a)
A copy of the audited financial statements as stated in sub-regulation (I) along with the auditor's report thereon shall be
submitted to the Authority before 30lh September every year along with the remarks or observations of the auditors, if
any, on the conduct of the business, state of accounts, etc., and a suitable explanation on such observations shall be
appended to such accounts filed with the Authority.
(b)
Within ninety days from the date of the Auditor's report necessary steps to rectify any deficiencies, made out in the
auditor's report, be made and informed to the Authority.
(c)
All the books of account, statements, document, etc., shall be maintained at the head office of the corporate agent or
such other branch office as may be designated and notified to the Authority, and shall be available on all working days to
such officers of the Authority, and authorised in this behalf for inspection.
(d)
All the books documents statements, contract motes etc., referred to in his regulation and maintained by the pending for
a decision from courts,the documents are required to be maintained till the disposal of the cases by the court.
(2)
In the case of corporate agents whose principal business is other than insurance intermediation, they shall maintain
Page 14/39
----- PAGE 15 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
segment wise reporting capturing the revenues received for insurance intermediation and other income from insurers.
(3)
Every insurer who is engaging the services of a corporate agent shall file with the Authority a certificate, separately for
all such corporate agents, in the format given in the Schedule VIA to be signed by the CEO and CFO. A similar
certificate from the Principal Officer and CFO (or its equivalent) of the corporate agent specifying the commission/
remuneration received from the insurer shall be filed with the Authority as given in Schedule VIB.
32.
Power of the Authority to issue clarifications etc.
- In order to remove any difficulties in application or interpretation of any of the provisions of these Regulations, the
Chairperson of the Authority may issue clarifications, directions and guidelines in the form of circulars.
33.
General.
(1)
From the date of notification of these regulations no person can function as a Corporate Agent, except in cases as
specified in regulation I(3) of these regulations, unless a registration has been granted to him by the Authority under
these regulations.
(2)
Any disputes arising between a Corporate Agent and an insurer or any other person either in the course of his
engagement as a corporate agent or otherwise, may be referred to the Authority by the person so affected; and on
receipt of the complaint or representation, the Authority may examine the complaint and if found necessary proceed to
conduct an enquiry or an inspection or an investigation in terms of these regulations.
I
Form A
[See regulation 4]
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agent) Regulations, 2015
Application for grant of Certificate of Registration to act as Corporate Agent
1. Instructions for filling up the form:
(1)
It is important that before this application form is filled in, the regulations made by the Authority are studied carefully.
(2)
Applicants must submit a duly completed application form together with all appropriate, supporting documents to the
Authority.
(3)
Application for Registration will be considered only if it is complete in all respects.
(4)
Applicants should sign the applications themselves,
(5)
Information which needs to be supplied in more details may be given on separate sheets attached to the application
form.
Particular of the Applicant
1.1
Name of the Applicant:_________________________________________
1.2
Address - Principal Place of business I Registered Office.
Pin Code
E-mail
Tel No
Fax No.
Website Address
1.3
Address for Correspondence:
Page 15/39
----- PAGE 16 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
Pin Code
E-mail
Tel No
Fax No.
1.4
Name and Designation of the Principal Officer:
1.5
Details of proposed/existing branch office/s where the applicant proposes to distribute insurance
Place
Address
Name of the Specified Person
Educational Qualification of the Specified
Person
Exam Pass Certificate No. of the Specified
Person
Note. - In case the applicant proposes to have more than one specified person in a branch, the details of all such
specified person in a branch, the details of all such specified person shall be provided
2. Organisation - Structure
2.1
Status of the Applicant. - (e.g. Limited company-Private/Public, LLP/ Cooperative Society. If listed, names of Stock
Exchanges and latest share price to be given)
Category of Applicant
Details of Registration
Date of Incorporation
DD-MM-YYYY
Place of Incorporation
Name of stock exchanges (In case of listed
Company)
2.2
List of major shareholders (holding 5% and above of applicant directly or along with associates)
(The information is required to be furnished by the applicant falling under category 4(l)(ii) of the regulations)
Share holding as on:____________________________
Name of shareholder
No. of Shares held
% of total paid up capital of the company
2.3
Particulars of all Directors/Partners
Name
Designation/ Position
Qualification
Share in applicant Company
Directorship in other companies
2.4
Name and activities of associate companies/concerns
Name of Company/ Firm
Address
Type of activity Handled
Nature of interest of Promoter/ Director
Nature and interest of applicant company
Whether any one or more directors/shareholders of the associate companies/ concern are interested in the applicant's
business, if yes please provide the nature of interest
Page 16/39
----- PAGE 17 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
2.5
Name and Address of the Principal bankers of die applicant -
(In case the applicant is a bank, please provide the details only in case Principal Banker is other than the applicant)
2.6
Name and address of the statutory auditors
3. Business Information
3.1
Three years business plan document with projected volume of business in terms of premiums in each category
(Amount in Rs. Crores)
Year
Life Insurance
General Insurance
Health Insurance
3.2
Organization Chart separately showing functional responsibilities to be enclosed.
3.3
Details of infrastructure like office space, equipment and manpower available with the applicant.
3.4
Any other information considered relevant to the nature of services rendered by the applicant.
4. Financial Information. - (The information is required to be furnished by an applicant which is falling under regulation
4(l)(ii) of these regulations)
4.1
Capital Structure              (Rs. in lakhs)
Capital Structure
Year prior to the Preceding year of Current year
preceding year
current year
{|
(a) Authorized Capital
(b) issue capital
(c) Paid-up capital
(d) Free reserves (excluding re- valuation reserves)
(e) Total (c) + (d)
Note: - 1. In case of LLPs, please indicate capital minus
drawings and/or loans to partners.
2. In case of LLPs, please indicate the financial position, means
and net worth of the partners.
|}
4.2
Net Worth of the applicant company (in rupees lakhs)
Note. - Please enclose Chartered Accountant's certificate certifying the net worth of the applicant. The certificate should
be a latest one and should not be more than thirty days old.
5. Other Information, If Any
5.1
Details of all settled and pending disputes**:
Nature of dispute
Name of the party
Pending/settled
** Attach sheet if required
5.2
Details, if any of cases filed in respect of any economic offences by the applicant or any of its Directors and/or any
Page 17/39
----- PAGE 18 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
disciplinary action taken/initiated by any other regulator or government authorities in the last three years.
5.3
Declaration of Fit & Proper Criteria ( As per Annexure 1)
6. Documents attached (as per Annexure 2)
7. Fee Payment:
Details of Payment:
Name of the Bank:
Mode of payment:
NEFT/RTGS Date of Payment:
Transaction Details along with number;
Note. - A non-refundable fees Plus service Tax as specified in Regulation 1/ of IRDAI (Registration of Corporate Agent)
Regulations, 2015
8. Undertaking
8.1
Whether any person directly or indirectly connected to the applicant has been refused for the registration or license in
the past or not
Name of the Person
Relationship with the applicant
Date and Reason for refusal
For the purpose of this sub-clause, the expression"directly or indirectly connected" means a relative in the case of any
individual, and in the case of a firm or Company or a body Corporate an associate, a subsidiary an interconnected
undertaking or a group Company of the applicant.
8.2
Qualification & Experience Details of the Principal Officer of the Applicant
Details of the Principal Officer
Full Name
Mention Mr/Mrs
Address
Date of Birth
Phone No
Nationality
Cell No
Position in the organization
Fax No
Current Position Held from
Email ID
Description of Duties/Responsibilities
Qualifications Experience & Achievements
Name of the Institute
Country
Qualification
Year of Study
Professional Qualification
Name of the Institute
Country
Qualification
Year of Study
Working Experience
Name of the Employer
Nature of Business
Designation
Page 18/39
----- PAGE 19 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
Description of Duties
Period
8.3
List of Specified Persons who will be responsible for Soliciting and Procuring Insurance Business
Name
Address
PAN/ ADHAR No.
Qualification (Including Insurance
qualifications)
Previous Employment
Details of Responsibilities
Exam pass Certificate issued by Examination Body
as per Regulations
Declaration
(This declaration is to be signed by two of the directors, two of the partners as the case may be)
I/We hereby apply for registration.
I/We have gone through the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate
Agents) Regulations, 2015 and am/are satisfied that
(a)
I/We am/are eligible to apply for the corporate agency registration.
(c)
I/We declare that the information supplied in the application form is complete and correct.
(d)
I/We undertake that I/We shall not allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an inducement to any person,
any rebate of the whole or part of the remuneration earned by me/us during the registration period.
(e)
I/We undertake to service the run-off business on the books at the time of cancellation or non-renewal of registration.
(f)
I/We declare that I/we do not possess an insurance agent license or insurance broker registration or any other
license/registration issued by the Authority.
For and on behalf of
_________________________
Name
Designation
Annexure - 1
[See regulation 7(2)(g)]
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agent) Regulations, 2015
Declaration and Undertaking of Principal officer/ Directors/ Managing Partners (A separate form needs to be submitted
by each individual)
S. No
Fit & Proper Criteria
Yes/No (If Yes, furnish full details)
(a)
Have you ever registered or obtained license
from any of the regulatory authorities under any law such as
SEBI, RBI, IRDA, PFRDA, FMC etc.
(b)
Have you carried on business under any name
other than the name stated in this application
(c)
Have you ever been refused or restricted by any
Page 19/39
----- PAGE 20 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
regulatory authority to carry on any business, trade, or
profession for which a specific license registration or other
authorization is required by law.
(d)
Have you been ever censured or disciplined or
suspended or refused permission or license or registration by any
regulatory authority to carry on any business activity
(e)
Have you been subject to any investigations or
disciplinary proceeding or have been issued warning or reprimand
by any regulatory authority
(f)
Have you been convicted of any offence or
subject to any pending proceedings under any law
(g)
Have you been banned from entry from any
profession / occupation at any time
(h)
Details of prosecution, if any, pending or
commenced or resulting in conviction in the past for violation of
economic laws and regulations '
(i)
Details of criminal prosecution, if any. pending
or commenced or resulting in conviction in the past against the
applicant
(j)
Do you attract any of the disqualifications
envisaged under Section 164 of the Companies Act 2013?
(k)
Have you been subject to any investigation at
the instance of Government department or agency?
(l)
Have you at any time been found guilty of
violation of rules / regulations / legislative requirements by
customs / excise / income tax / foreign exchange / other revenue
authorities, if so give particulars
(m)
Have you at any time come to the adverse notice
of a regulator such as SEBI.   reversal/setting aside is on
technical reasons like limitation or lack of jurisdiction, etc,
and not on merit. If the order of the regulator is temporarily
stayed and the appellate /court proceedings are pending, the same
also should be mentioned).
(n)
Has any of your group company/associate
company/related party been carrying any license issued by the
IRDA
(o)
Any other explanation/information in regard to
items I and II and other information considered relevant for
judging fit and proper criteria of the applicant
Page 20/39
----- PAGE 21 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
Undertaking
I confirm that the above information Is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true and complete, I undertake to keep
the Authority fully informed, as soon as possible, of all events, which take place subsequent to my appointment, which
are relevant to the information provided above.
Signature
Name
Designation
Date:
Place:
Annexure 2
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agent) Regulations, 2015
Documentation to be attached for obtaining Fresh Corporate Agent Registration
[See regulation 4 and Point 6 of the Form A]
A. Submission of Completed Application.
(a)
Submission of relevant information as required in the FORM A.
(b)
Remittance of requisite fee by electronic mode as prescribed under Regulation 17 of IRDAI (Registration of Corporate
Agent) Regulations, 2015.
(c)
Submission of charter documents of the applicant (Memorandum and Articles of Association/Byelaws as the case may
be)
(d)
Declaration of Fit & Proper criteria from Principal Officer, Directors and Managing Partners (separately for each person)
to be provided in the 'Fit and Proper Form as per annexure 1 '
(e)
Details of infrastructure along with supporting evidence thereof like ownership/lease agreement papers with regard to
office space/ equipment/ trained manpower, etc. for the registered office and the branch offices at various locations.
(f)
Projections of administrative expenses,^salaries and wages and other expenses, draw the revenue account, the profit
and loss account and the balance sheet for the projected 3 years.
(g)
Organization chart giving a complete picture of the company's activities like IT, underwriting, risk assessment, claims
settlement, marketing, accounts, back office etc.
(h)
Board approved policy on open architecture
(i)
Bring on record any other information, which is relevant to the nature of services rendered by the applicant for the
growth and promotion of insurance business.
(j)
Any other requirements as deemed necessary by the authority.
B. Signatories
(a)
Two Directors of the applicant should sign the Application Form and the various formats mentioned above.
(b)
The above list of documents/requirements is indicative only and not exhaustive. The additional documents will be
advised based on, pattern of shareholding, any other matter required as per IRDAI (Registration of Corporate Agent)
Regulations, 2015 and views oI the Authority.
C. Personal Presentation. - The applicant on fulfilling the given requirements to the satisfaction of the Authority may be
required, if necessary, to appear before the Authority for a presentation of business plans in connection with the
application.
Page 21/39
----- PAGE 22 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
II
[See regulation 19]
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Maintenance of Professional Indemnity Insurance
1. The insurance cover must indemnify a corporate agent against:
a. any error or omission or negligence on their part or on the part of their employees and directors;
b. any loss of money or other property for which the corporate agent is legally liable in consequence of any financial or
fraudulent act or omission;
c. any loss of documents and costs and expenses incurred in replacing or restoring such documents;
d. dishonest or fraudulent acts or omissions by corporate agent's employees or former employees.
2. The indemnity cover:
a. shall be on a yearly basis for the entire period of registration;
b. shall not contain any terms to the effect that payments of claims depend upon the corporate agent having first met the
liability;
c. shall indemnify in respect of all claims made during the period of the insurance regardless of the time at which the
event giving rise to the claim may have occurred.
Provided that indemnity insurance cover not fully conforming to the above requirements shall be permitted by the
Authority in special cases for reasons to be recorded by it in writing.
3. The un-insured excess in respect of each claim shall not exceed five percent of the capital employed by the corporate
agent in the business.
4. The insurance policy shall be obtained from any registered insurer in India who has agreed to:
a. provide the corporate agent with an annual certificate containing the name and address, including the registration
number of the corporate agent, the policy number, the limit of indemnity, the excess and the name of the insurer as
evidence that the cover meets the requirements of the Authority;
b. send a duplicate certificate to the Authority at the time the certificate is issued to the corporate agent; and
c. inform the corporate agent immediately of any case of voidance, non-renewal or cancellation of cover mid-term.
5. Every corporate agent firm shall -
a. inform immediately the Authority should any cover be cancelled or voided or if any policy is not renewed;
b. inform immediately the insurer in writing of any claim made by or against it;
c. advise immediately the insurer of all circumstances or occurrences that may give rise to a claim under the policy ; and
d. advise the Authority as soon as an insurer has notified that it intends to decline indemnity in respect of a claim under
the policy.
III
[See regulation 26]
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Code of Conduct
I. General code of conduct
1. Every corporate agent shall follow recognised standards of professional conduct and discharge their duties in the
interest of the policyholders. While doing so -
(a)
conduct its dealings with clients with utmost good faith and integrity at all times.
(b)
act with care and diligence.
(c)
ensure that the client understands his relationship with the corporate agent and on whose behalf the corporate agent is
acting.
(d)
treat all information supplied by the prospective clients as completely confidential to themselves and to the insures(s) to
which the business is being offered.
(e)
take appropriate steps to maintain the security of confidential documents in their possession.
Page 22/39
----- PAGE 23 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
(f)
No director of a company or a partner of a firm or the chief executive or a principal officer or a specified person shall
hold similar position with another corporate agent.
2. Every Corporate Agent shall
(a)
be responsible for all acts of omission and commission of its principal officer and every specified person:
(b)
ensure that the principal officer and all specified persons are properly trained, skilled and knowledgeable in the
insurance products they market:
(c)
ensure that the principal officer and the specified person don not make to the prospect any misrepresentation on policy
benefits and returns available under the policy:
(d)
ensure that no prospect is forced to buy an insurance product:
(e)
give adequate pre-sales and post-sales advice to the insured in respect of the insurance product:
(f)
extend all possible help and cooperation to an insure in completion of all formalities and documentation in the event of a
claim:
(g)
give due publicity to the fact that the corporate agent does not underwrite the risk or act as an insurer:
(h)
enter into agreements with the insurers in which the duties and responsibilities of both are defined.
II Pre-sale code of conduct
3. Every corporate agent or principal officer or a specified person shall also follow the code of conduct specified below:
(i)
Every corporate agent/principal officer/specified person shall,-
(a)
identify himself and disclose his registration/certificate to the prospect on demand:
(b)
disseminate the requisite information in respect of insurance products offered for sale, if asked by the prospect:
(c)
disclose the scales of commission in respect of the insurance product offered for sale, if asked by the prospect:
(d)
indicate the premium to be charged by the insurer for insurance product for sale:
(e)
explain to the prospect the nature of information required in the proposal form by the insurer, and also the importance of
disclosure of material information in the purchase of an insurance contract:
(f)
bring to the notice of the insurer any adverse habits or income inconsistency of the prospect, in the form of a confidential
report along with every proposal submitted to the insurer, and any material fact that may adversely affect the
underwritten decision of the insurer as regards acceptance of the proposal, by making all reasonable enquiries about the
prospect:
(g)
inform promptly the prospect about the acceptance or rejection of the proposal by the insurer:
(h)
obtain the requisite documents at the time of filing the proposal form with the insurer: and other documents subsequently
asked for by the insurer for completion of the proposal:
(ii)
No corporate agent/principal officer/specified person shall-
a. solicit or procure insurance business without holding a valid registration/certificate:
Page 23/39
----- PAGE 24 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
b. induce the prospect to omit any material information in the proposal form:
c. induce the prospect to submit wrong information in the proposal form or documents submitted to the insurer for
acceptance of the proposal:
d. behave in a discourteous manner with the prospect:
e. interfere with any proposal introduced by ant other specified person or any insurance intermediary:
f. offer different rates, advantages, terms and conditions other than those offered by the insurer:
g. force a policyholder to terminate the existing policy and to effect a new proposal from him within three years from the
date of such termination:
h. No corporate agent shall have a portfolio of insurance business from or person or one organization or one group of
organizations under which the premium is in excess of fifty percent of total premium procured in any year:
i. become or remain a director of any insurance company, except wit the prior approval of the Authority:
j. indulge in any sort of money laundering activities:
k. indulge in sourcing of business by themselves or through call centers by the way of misleading calls or spurious calls:
l. undertake multi-level marketing for soliciting and procuring of insurance products:
m. engage untrained and unauthorised persons to bring in business:
n. provide insurance consultancy or claims consultancy or any other insurance related services except soliciting and
servicing of insurance products as per the certificate of registration.
o. Engage  encourage , enter into a contract with or haver any sort of  arrangements  with any person other than a
specified person , to refer, solicit, generate lead, advise, introduce,
p. Pay or allow the payment of any fee, commission, incentive by any other name whatsoever for the purpose of sale,
introduction, lead generation, referring or finding to any person or entity.
III. Post-Sale Code of Conduct
4. Every Corporate Agent shall -
a. advise every individual policyholder to effect nomination or assignment or change of address or exercise of options,
as the case may be, and offer necessary assistance in this behalf, wherever necessary;
b. with a view to conserve the insurance business already procured through him, make every attempt to ensure
remittance of the premiums by the policyholders within the stipulated time, by giving notice to the policyholder orally and
in writing.
c. ensure that its client is aware or the expiry date of the insurance even if it chooses not to offer further cover to the
client;
d. ensure that renewal notices contain a warning about the duty of disclosure including the necessity to advise changes
affecting the policy, which have occurred since the policy inception or the last renewal date;
e. ensure that renewal notices contain a requirement for keeping a record (including copies of letters) of all information
supplied to the insurer for the purpose of renewal of the contract;
f. ensure that the client receives the insurer's renewal invitation well in time before the expiry dale.
g. render necessary assistance to the policyholders or claimants or beneficiaries in complying with the requirements for
settlement of claims by the insurer;
h. explain to its clients their obligation to notify claims promptly and to disclose all material facts and advise subsequent
developments as soon as possible;
i. advise the client to make true, fair and complete disclosure where it believes that the client has not done so. If further
disclosure is not forthcoming it shall consider declining to act further for the client;
j. give prompt advice to the client of any requirements concerning the claim;
k. forward any information received from the client regarding a claim or an incident that may give rise to a claim without
delay, and in any event within three working days;
l. advise the client without delay of the insurer's decision or otherwise of a claim; and give all reasonable assistance to
the client in pursuing his claim,
m. shall not demand or receive a share of proceeds from the beneficiary under an insurance contract;
n. ensure that letters of instruction, policies and renewal documents contain details of complaints handling procedures;
o. accept complaints either by phone or in writing;
p. acknowledge a complaint within fourteen days from the receipt of correspondence, advise the member of staff who
will be dealing with the complaint and the timetable for dealing with it;
Page 24/39
----- PAGE 25 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
q. ensure that response letters are sent and inform the complainant of what he may do if he is unhappy with the
response;
r. ensure that complaints arc dealt with at a suitably senior level;
s. have in place a system for recording and monitoring complaints.
IV
[See regulation 27]
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Inspection of Corporate Agent
1. Power of Authority to inspect. - The Authority may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint, appoint one
or more of its officers as inspecting authority to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, records and documents
relating to Corporate Agent for any of the following reasons:
(i)
to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by the corporate agent in the manner
as may be specified by the Authority ;
(ii)
to inspect the handling of complaints received from clients or any other person, on any matter having a bearing on the
activities of the corporate agent;
(iii)
to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act, as amended from time to time, and these Regulations are being complied
with by the corporate agent;
(iv)
to inspect into the affairs of corporate agent, in the interest of the policyholders;
(v)
to examine the veracity of the complaint received;
(vi)
to investigate into the activities and conduct of the corporate agent.
2. Notice before inspection. - (i) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 27, the Authority shall give not less than
ten days' notice to the corporate agent.
(ii)
Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (i), where the Authority is satisfied that in the interest of the policyholders
no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the corporate
agent be taken up without such notice.
3. Obligation of corporate agent on inspection. - (i) It shall be the duty of every corporate agent in respect of whom an
inspection has been ordered under the Regulation and any other associate person who is in possession of relevant
information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such corporate agent, including representative of corporate agent, if any,
to produce to the inspecting authority such books of accounts and other documents in its custody or control and furnish
him with such statements and information as the inspecting authority may require for the purposes of inspection.
(ii)
It shall be the duly of every corporate agent and any other associate person who is in possession of relevant information
pertaining to conduct and affairs of the corporate agent to give to the inspecting authority all such assistance and shall
extend all such co-operation as may be required in connection with the inspection and shall furnish such information as
sought by the inspecting authority in connection with the inspection.
(iii)
The inspecting authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, shall have power to examine on oath and record the
statement of Principal Officer, any employees, directors, partners or person responsible for or connected with the
activities of corporate agent or any other associate person having relevant information pertaining to such corporate
agent.
(iv)
The inspecting authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to obtain authenticated copies of documents,
books of accounts etc. in respect activities of corporate agent, from any person having control or custody of such
documents.
Page 25/39
----- PAGE 26 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
4. Submission of Inspection Report to the Authority. - The inspecting authority shall, as soon as possible, but in any case
not later than 30 days from the completion of the inspection, submit an inspection report to the Authority:
Provided that if directed to do so by the Authority, the inspecting authority may submit an interim report.
5. Action on the Inspection Report. - The Authority may after consideration of the inspection report and after giving
reasonable opportunity of hearing to the corporate agent, issue such directions as it deems fit in the interest of
policyholders including.
(i)
requiring the corporate agent to refund any monies collected as fees, charges or commissions or otherwise to the
concerned clients along with the requisite interest;
(ii)
to refund monies and/or remuneration and/or commission paid by the insurer, to which, otherwise the corporate agent is
not eligible to receive;
(iii)
prohibiting the corporate agent from operating in the insurance market for a specified period;
(iv)
Any other action as the Authority may deem fit.
V
[See regulation 28)
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
I. Cancellation of Certificate of Registration of a Corporate Agent with Notice. - The Authority may suspend or cancel the
registration of a Corporate Agent for any one or more of the following reasons:
(i)
suffers at any time during the period of the registration from any of the disqualifications specified under subsection (5) of
section 42D of the Act, as amended from time to time,;
(ii)
violates the provisions of the Act, as amended from time to time, IRDA Act 1999 and any other rules, regulations,
guidelines, directions issued in this regard by the Authority, such as:
a. Fails to furnish any information relating to its activities as a corporate agent as required by the Authority;
b. Furnishes wrong or false information; or conceals or fails to disclose material facts in the application submitted for
obtaining a registration ;
e. Indulges in rebates or inducements in cash or kind to a client or any of the client's Directors or other employees or any
person acting as an introducer;
d. Fails to comply with the Code of Conduct as specified in these regulations;
e. Fails to comply with any of the conditions subject to which the registration has been granted.
(iii)
Resort to spurious calls or mis-selling;
(iv)
Aets in a manner detrimental to the interest of the policyholders or against public interest;
II. Procedure to be followed for suspension or cancellation or Certificate of Registration of a corporate agent:
1. The Authority shall issue a Show Cause Notice to the corporate agent, requiring them to show cause within 21 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, why the registration granted to the corporate agent shall not be suspended or
cancelled or any other action as considered appropriate by the Authority for the violations noted in the show cause
notice shall not be taken.
2. The corporate agent shall submit its reply to show cause notice issued by the Authority within the time limit stipulated
in the notice.
3. Upon considering the reply, if any, the Authority may pass an order directing the suspension or cancellation of the
registration granted to the corporate agent or shall pass any other order as deemed appropriate based on the facts of
the case.
4. The Authority shall communicate the decision to the corporate agent within thirty days from the date of taking such
decision stating therein the grounds on which the decision is taken.
5. Any applicant aggrieved by the decision of the Authority may make an appeal to Securities Appellate Tribunal, as per
Page 26/39
----- PAGE 27 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
the procedure prescribed for such an appeal, within a period of forty-five days from the date on which a copy of the order
made under clause (4) above is received by him, for passing such orders thereon as it thinks fit, conforming, modifying
or setting aside the order appealed against,
III. Cancellation of Certificate or Registration of a corporate agent without notice
The Registration of a corporate agent may be cancelled or suspended without notice, provided the Authority has
communicated to the corporate agent the reasons for the cancellation in writing:
(i)
if it is found guilty of fraud, or is convicted of a criminal offence;
(ii)
commits such defaults, which require immediate action in the opinion of the Authority;
The procedure to be followed while initiation of Action against the corporate agent under this regulation is as specified in
clauses (4) and (5) of Part II above.
IV. Effect of Suspension or cancellation of Certificate of Registration to corporate agent
(i)
Any corporate agent whose registration has been suspended or cancelled by the Authority, shall, on and from the date
of the receipt of the communication under these Regulations, shall cease to act as a corporate agent and shall cease to
solicit Insurance business,
(ii)
On and from the date of suspension or cancellation of the registration, the corporate agent shall:
(a)
not undertake any new assignment or contract related to insurance business or solicit or procure insurance business
during the period of such debarment or suspension;
(b)
take such other action including the action relating to any records or documents and policies or money of the
policyholders as per the directions of the Authority and relevant provisions of these regulations.
(c)
return the registration to the Authority and shall not represent itself to be a holder of registration for carrying out the
activity for which such registration had been granted;
(d)
make provisions as regards liability incurred or assumed by it;
(e)
take such other action including the action relating to recovery or seizure of any records or documents and policies of
the policyholders that may be in custody or control of such person, within the time period and in the manner, as may be
required under the relevant regulations or as may be directed by the Authority while passing order under this Chapter or
otherwise.
VIA
[See regulation 31]
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Certificate to be submitted by the insurer duly signed by CEO and CFO of the company on the remuneration and other
payments made to a Corporate Agent
"We hereby and confirm that we have paid an amount of Rs .................to M/s ................................... (name of the
Corporate Agent and associates) for the period from ................ to...............under following heads (to be annexed as an
attachment) as commission/remuneration towards the business of ____________procured during the FY___. The
amount includes all payments paid directly or indirectly to this effect and the company (insurer) is in compliance with the
regulations prescribed by IRDAI, RBI and other applicable regulations to this effect.
We also confirm that we have not paid incentives (cash or non-cash) to the principal officer, specified persons and other
employees of the corporate agent either directly or indirectly."
Signed by
CFO       CEO
Place:
Date:
Page 27/39
----- PAGE 28 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
Note. - (1) The attachment shall contain the details of payments made to the corporate agent and its associates (specify
the name of the associate) under various heads and shall be signed by both the CEO and CFO of the insurer.
(2)
Separate certificates to be submitted for each corporate agent
VIB
[See regulation 31]
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Certificate to he submitted by the corporate agent duly signed by CEO and CFO of the company/entity on the
remuneration and other payments received from the insurer
"We hereby and confirm that we have paid an amount of Rs .................to M/s ................................... (name of the
Corporate Agent and associates) for the period from ................ to...............under following heads (to be annexed as an
attachment) as commission/remuneration towards the business of___________procured during the FY________. The
amount includes all payments received directly or indirectly to this effect and the company (corporate agent) is in
compliance with the regulations prescribed by IRDAI, RBI and other applicable regulations to this effect.
We also confirm that the insurer has not paid incentives (cash or non-cash) to the principal officer, specified persons and
other employees of the corporate agent cither directly or indirectly."
Signed by
CFO       CEO
Place:
Date:
Note. - (1) Hie attachment shall contain the details of payments made to the corporate agent and its associates (specify
the name of the associate) under various heads and shall be signed by both the CEO and CFO of the corporate agent.
(2)
Separate certificates to be submitted for each insurer.
VII
[See regulation 25]
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
I. Instructions for Sale of Insurance products by tele-marketing mode and other distance marketing activities of corporate
agent.
1. Scope and applicability. - This covers distance marketing activities of corporate agents at all the stages including
offer, negotiation as well as conclusion of sale.
(a)
Distance marketing includes every activity of solicitation and sale of insurance products through the following modes:
(i)
Voice mode, which includes telephone-calling;
(ii)
Short Messaging service (SMS);
(iii)
Electronic mode which includes e-mail, internet and interactive television (DTH);
(iv)
Physical mode which includes direct postal mail and newspaper & magazine inserts; and,
(v)
Solicitation through any means as approved by the Authority from time to time under Distance Marketing.
(b)
These instructions are specifically applicable in case of the following activities in addition to other similar activities:
(i)
Use of distance mode for ascertaining the Prospect's intent to purchase insurance.
(ii)
Solicitation as well as sale over the distance mode; and
(iii)
Requests by Prospects seeking information or sale of insurance products.
Page 28/39
----- PAGE 29 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
2. Compliance. - The corporate agent shall, in addition to these instructions, comply with all the applicable provisions of
the Insurance Act, 1938, the IRDA Act, 1999, IT Act, 2000, TRAI Act, 1997, The Telecom Unsolicited Commercial
Communications (Amendment) Regulations. 2008 and the rules, regulations, circulars or guidelines, as applicable to it,
issued from time to time.
3. Persons engaged for solicitation. - (a) For the purpose of solicitation of insurance business through distance
marketing, the corporate agent may engage:
(i)
Specified persons of corporate agents, or
(ii)
Authorised Verifiers of Telemarketers
(b)
The corporate agent shall be responsible for all acts of commission and omission of the persons deployed on their
behalf.
4. Agreements between the corporate agent and Telemarketers. - The agreement between the corporate agent and
Telemarketer, by whatever name called, shall inleralia include the following clauses:
(i)
The Telemarketer shall maintain/preserve recordings of all the calls in a manner that is compliant with the provisions of
these instructions and forward all such records to the corporate agent. The corporate agent in tum shall forward a copy
of the records to the insurer in satisfactory condition.
(ii)
The Telemarketer shall maintain records of all the authorized Verifiers employed by them along with their training and
assessment particulars, including the certificate issued by the Authority.
(iii)
The records under (i) & (ii) above shall be open to inspection by the Authority.
5. Role of Authorized Verifier. - (i) Telemarketers shall employ authorized Verifiers, who alone are permitted for soliciting
and concluding] the sale of insurance products;
(ii)
The authorized Verifiers shall be employees of the Telemarketer and they shall be assigned to the corporate agent as
per the certificate issued by the Authority for the purpose of sale of insurance products Any change in such assignment
shall be disclosed to the Authority and a fresh certificate to that effec shall be obtained from the Authority without which
the Authorised Verifier shall not be permitted t< solicit and conclude the sale of insurance products;
(iii)
Authorized Verifiers are barred from soliciting insurance in their individual capacity in any mode, or o behalf of any
organization other than the Telemarketer employing them.
(iv)
the corporate agent shall maintain records in the format specified by the Authority which shall capture policy-wise and
Authorised Verifier-wise details wherein each policy solicited by the corporate agent through the distant mode is tagged
to the authorized Verifier. The corporate agent shall put in place systems which allow regular access to such records
and details by the Authority.
6. Conduct in relation to sale of insurance products through distance marketing by corporate agents. - (i) Corporate
Agent shall suggest a suitable product, from among the insurance products of insurer/ which they have arrangements as
per these regulations, available in the market that Fits the needs Prospect.
(ii)
The price comparison charts that are displayed on their website shall be uP to date and reflect a true picture of all the
available and suitable Products under each category.
(iii)
Insurers shall specifically identify the proposals procured by corpo.ate agents over distance mode and obtain all relevant
records pertaining to such policies Insurers shall produce such records before the Authority in case of dispute involving
alleged violation of breach of conduct by the corporate agent.
7. Process of Solicitation. - Solicitation of insurance by corporate agents through distance mode shall be in specific
compliance with the following norms:
Page 29/39
----- PAGE 30 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
7.1
Standardized Script. - (i) Insurers, in consultation with the Corporate Agents, shall prepare standardized scripts for
presentation of benefits, features and disclosures under each of the products proposed to be sold over the distance
modes. Solicitation under distant mode shall be in line with the standardized script,
(ii)
The scripts shall be incorporating all the Key Features of the product and shall be approved by the compliance officers
of the respective insurers. The scripts shall be filed with the Authority under "Use & File" procedure within 15 days of
their approval by the compliance officer.
7.2
Introduction. - (i) The communication shall clearly highlight the name of the corporate agent and names of insurers with
which they have arrangements to distribute insurance products.
(ii)
Hie fact that the purpose of approach is solicitation of insurance shall be clearly highlighted.
7.3
Consent of the Prospect. - (i)The authorized Verifier shall proceed further only on receiving the consent of the prospect
in explicit terms.
(ii)
The prospect shall be given an option to continue with the subject or exit the page at every stage in case of electronic
modes. The hours during which calls are made shall be in accordance with orders issued by TRAI/DoT from time to
time.
(iii)
In case of telephonic solicitation the name of the authorized Verifier along with the certificate number issued by the
authority shall be disclosed and the language options available must be indicated. The subsequent communication shall
continue only in the language chosen by the Prospect.
(iv)
The authorized Verifier shall inform Prospects that the call is being recorded and that the Prospect is entitled to a voice
copy, if he so desires, at any time during the term of the policy or until a satisfactory settlement of claim, whichever is
laier.
(v)
No inconvenience, nuisance or harm shall be caused to the Prospects in the course of solicitation or thereafter. Full
disclosures shall be made to the Prospects under all modes of distance marketing and the requirements of
confidentiality, privacy and non-disclosure shall be complied with.
7.4
Prospects Information. - All relevant information pertaining to the Prospect as well as the person/asset to be insured
shall be obtained, and solicitation shall be strictly on the basis of analysis of the Prospects' needs, as specified by the
Authority from time to time.
7.5
Product benefits & Features. - The standardized script shall cover the following items in the course of product
presentation:
(i)
The specific responses of the Prospect in the form of agree/disagree, yes/no, accept/reject, understand/don't
understand, as applicable, against each of the items below, should cover under all modes of distance solicitation.
(ii)
Name of the product suggested and its nature and parameters.
(iii)
Insurance cover available under the product for a specified amount of annual premium, or, conversely, premium
chargeable towards a specified amount of insurance cover.
(iv)
The scope of cover, perils covered and not covered, exclusions, deductibles or franchise, co-payments,
loading/discounts on premiums, add-on covers, conditions, other terms and benefits, mid-term inclusions, short period
scales, basis of sum insured, warranties, clauses and endorsements, compliance with Section 64VB of the Insurance
Page 30/39
----- PAGE 31 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
Act, 1938 - payment of premium before commencement of risk, etc, as applicable.
(v)
The contents of the key features document as and when specified by the Authority.
(vi)
The right to cancel the policy within 30 days of receipt of the policy in case of disagreement with the terms of the policy
under all life insurance contracts and covers tied to credit/debit/other cards, and for all personal accident and health
insurance policy contracts with a term of 3 years or more offered by insurers over distance mode, provided no claim has
already been made on the policy.
(vii)
Disclosure of rates of commission available on the product solicited upon the request of the Prospect.
7.6
Premium Ceilings in case of sale of ULIPs and prohibition of sale of Universal Life Products over telephonic mode. - (i)
Corporate agents shall not solicit ULIPs of non-single premium type for annualized premiums exceeding Rs 50,000/-
over telephonic mode (voice as well as SMS).
(ii)
Single premium ULIPs shall hot be solicited for a premium of more than Rs 1,00,000/- over telephonic mode.
(iii)
No variable insurance product shall be solicited or sold over distance marketing mode.
8. Post-Solicitation Process. - Once the Prospect agrees to purchase a policy, the proposal form and premium
acceptance shall comply with the following requirements:
(i)
The premium towards the policy may be debited online or interactive voice response medium or through a manual
collection subject to compliance with the procedures and controls prescribed by the RBI.
(ii)
The norms applicable to insurers and intermediaries as regards AML and PAN need to be complied with in the process
of selling a policy over distance marketing mode.
(iii)
For policies solicited/sold over distance mode, insurers shall issue policies in exactly the same format and medium as in
case of sate through physical interface, duly enclosed by the requisite annexures.
(iv)
The address and toll-free number of the office to be contacted by the policyholder in case of a servicing need or
grievance shall be informed to the Prospect.
(v)
Before conclusion of sale the authorized Verifier shall divulge his name and certificate number to (he prospect and this
shall form part of the recorded conversation for the sake of future verification.
(vi)
The records pertaining to every call made and SMS sent by a Telemarketer/Corporate Agent that materializes into a
policy shall be transferred to the insurer's location within 30 days of conclusion of sale. In case of telephone calls the
records transferred shall be the recordings of the entire conversation.
9. No Unfair Denial of Insurance Cover. - When a Prospect approaches a corporate agent over distance mode
proposing for insurance cover, the latter are duty-bound to consider the case on merits and in accordance with
regulatory directions and their own norms. In no case shall they resort to an unfair denial of cover to a Prospect who
seeks insurance.
10. Preservation of Records. - The corporate agent shall preserve, in an inalterable and easily retrievable form, a
voice/electronic/physical record, as applicable, of the entire process beginning with lead generation/solicitation and
concluding in sale of insurance, for a period of six months beyond the term of the policy or until satisfactory settlement of
claim, whichever is later. Voice and electronic records shall be digitlized and encrypted for storage to ensure reliability
and security of the data.
11. Verification Process. - (i) Corporate agents shall monitor the calls live by arranging for listening to at least 1% of the
calls as they happen.
(ii)
Page 31/39
----- PAGE 32 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
Corporate agents shall verify at least 3% of calls leading to sales for compliance with the instructions, by engaging a
team of dedicated employees to listen to the call recordings. The observations made in the course of verification shall be
preserved in a retrievable form for a period of not less than three years.
(iii)
Corporate agent shall make verification calls, to monitor the quality of sales, to a minimum of 3% of the policyholders
who purchase insurance over distance marketing mode, every month. The purpose of verification calls is to ascertain
whether the Prospect has understood the benefits, features and disclosures of the product purchased correctly.
Verification calls shall also bear a standardized script and the records of calls shall be preserved for a period (a) not less
than 15 months from the date of policy or until satisfactory claim settlement, whichever is later, in case of non-life
contracts (b) not less than 3 years in case of life insurance policies.
(iv)
The policies under (ii) and (iii) above shall be selected according to a random pattern, making sure to cover each
product category and mode of sale.
12. Certification of Compliance. - The Principal Officer of each corporate agent shall submit to the Authority, at the end
of each financial year, a certificate confirming that the corporate agent has complied with all the provisions of the above
instructions (para- 7 to 11) during the financial year.
13. Disputes. - or the purpose of these instructions the contract of insurance shall be deemed to include the contents of
Key Features Document (KFD) and the records of calls to the Prospect pertaining to the product. In case of disputes
involving specific wordings of the policy, the Prospect shall have the right to give primacy to the wordings of the KFD
and the calls over the specific wordings of the policy.
VIII
[See regulation 21]
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Certificate to be submitted by the corporate agent duly signed by CEO and CFO of the company/entity on forced selling
"We hereby confirm that the insurance is sold as an ancillary product along with a principal business product. None of
the employees of the corporate agent or our shareholders or our associates have compelled the buyer of the principal
business product to necessarily buy the.insurance product through us. We also certify that we have not forced any
prospect io buy insurance through us only.
Signed by
CFO
CEO
Annexing 3
[See regulation 7(3)(c)]
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Application for a Certificate/Renewal of Certificate to act as a Specified Person
Notes and Instructions:
1. An application for issue of certificate/renewal of certificate to act as a Specified Person shall be applied by the
Principal Officer of the Corporate Agent, on behalf of the Specified Person, giving the details of such person as per the
details below.
2. The Principal Officer and the corporate agent shall be responsible for any omission and commission of information
provided on behalf of the Specified Person.
3. An individual can apply for only a certificate which will entitle him to solicit or procure insurance business of any class
and to act as the specified person of a corporate agent.
4. A person aspiring to be a Specified Person must be at least 18 years of age on the date of the application. If required
the applicant shall furnish proof of age.
5. An applicant shall furnish the proof of educational qualification; pass in the pre-recruitment test conducted by the
examination body nominated by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India, and completion of practical
training from a training institution approved by the Insurance Regulatory Mid Development Authority of India, along with
the application.
6. The fees payable by ah applicant is rupees five hundred or an amount specified by the Authority from time to time.
7. An application for renewal should reach the Authority through the corporate agent before the expiry of certificate of
Page 32/39
----- PAGE 33 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
the specified person but not before three months from the date of expiry.
8. If the application does not reach the Authority at least 30 days before the date on which the certificate ceases to be in
force, an additional fee of one hundred rupees should be payable.
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________
1. Name of Person seeking Certificate to act as Specified Person;
_____________________________________________  (As mentioned in the Passport or Birth Certificate)
2. Father's/Husband's Name;_____________________________________________
3. Full Address along with Contact Number:_________________________________________________
4. Date of Birth: Day-Month-Year:__________________________________________
5. Title: Mr/Mrs/Miss
6. PAN Number/Adhaar Number:__________________________________
7. Whether already enrolled as a Specified Person:
(i)
If yes, please submit the following.
(a)
Name of the Corporate Agent:_______________;_______________
(b)
Registration/License Number of the Corporate Agent:________________________________________
(c)
Date of Expiry of Registration:______________________
(d)
Certificate No of the Specified Person issued by the Authority:_________________
(e)
Specified Person Examination Pass Certificate No.____________________
(f)
Name of the Institution where training undergone______________________
(g)
Number of training hours competed___________________
(h)
Name of the corporate agent with whom last employed_____________________
(i)
Registration/licence number of the corporate agent as indicated in (h) above___________________
(ii)
If no, please submit the following.
(a)
Name of the Corporate Agent/Applicant Company: _____________
(b)
In case of existing Corporate Agent, Registration/License Number of the Corporate Agent/Applicant
Company:____________________
(c)
Date of Expiry of Registration/license;_________________
(d)
Specified Person Examination Pass Certificate No._____________________
(e)
Name of the Institution where training undergone;____________________
(f)
Number of training hours completed_________
(g)
Date of completion of training_____________________
I further declare that I have verified and found that the Specified Person -
Page 33/39
----- PAGE 34 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
(a)
has not found to be of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(b)
has not been found guilty of criminal misappropriation or criminal breach of trust or cheating or forgery or an abetment of
or attempt to commit any such offence by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(c)
has not been found guilty of or to have knowingly participated in or convicted at any fraud, dishonesty or
misrepresentation against an insurer or an insured in the course of any judicial proceeding relating to any policy of
insurance or the winding up of an insurance company or in the course of an investigation of the affairs of an insurer; and
(d)
has not violated the code of conduct specified under Regulation 26 of Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015.
8. I enclose the following documents in support of the educational qualification, pre-recruitment test, and the practical
training undergone by the specified person.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Signature of the Principal Officer
Place:
Date:
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Certificate to act as a Specified Person for a Corporate Agent
Certificate No................................
Name of Corporate Agent:.............
Address:.................................
....................................
Registration No......................
Date of Expiry:......................
Category of Registration:......................
Name of the Certificate Holder:......................
Address:.............................
....................................
Details of branch where posted:...................
Having undergone the prescribed training and passing of the examination is hereby authorized to act as the specified
person of the above named corporate agent for three years from...................... for procuring or soliciting insurance
business in the category of............
Place:
Date:
for Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority of India
Signature of the Certificate holder:
Notes. - 1. This certificate authorizes the certificate holder to act as the specified person of the corporate agent for the
insurance business specified there under.
2. No correction in this certificate is valid and for any correction in the certificate, the specified person through the
principal officer of the corporate agent shall make a request to the Authority for the same.
3. The attention of the certificate holder is drawn to the code of conduct specified under regulation 26 of Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015, and any violation
of code of conduct may result in cancellation of certificate.
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Form B
Page 34/39
----- PAGE 35 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
[See regulations 4 & 9]
Certificate of Registration
Registration No:
1. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 42D of the Insurance Act, 1938 (
4 of 1938
) the Authority hereby grants a certificate of registration to
________________________________________________________________________________to act as
______________________________________________________________________________corporate agent
(Mention details of category)
under that Act.
2. Registration Code for the corporate agent is
_________________________________________________________
3. This registration shall be valid from_______________________to_______________________
4. This registration is subject to the Act, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (4 of 1999) and
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015 and
shall not be construed to be in compliance with or in conformity to any other Act, rules or regulations.
Place :
By Order
Date:_______________
For and on behalf of Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Form C
[see regulation 11}
Certificate of Renewal Registration
Registration No:
1. The Registration of M/S  ..................................................Category................corporate agent is hereby renewed under
Regulation 11 of the IRDAI (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015, and the Insurance Regulatory and
authority Act, l999 ( 4 of 1999) for the period ...............to...............
2. Issued at Hyderabad on....................day of..............Two thousand.............
3. This registration is issued subject to the condition that the applicant shall comply with all the provisions of the
Insurance Act, 1938, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (4 of 1999), Insurance Regulatory and
Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015 the, Rules or regulations made
thereunder and the Guidelines, Circulars,& Directions issued by the Authority from time to time.
Place:
By Order
Date _____________
For and on behalf of Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
(Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Form B
[See regulation 15 ]
Duplicate Certificate Registration
Registration No:
1. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 42D of the Insurance Act, 1938 (
4 of 1938
) the Authority hereby grants a certificate of registration to
______________________________________________________________to act as
___________________________________________________________  corporate agent
(Mention details of category)
under that Act.
2. Registration Code for the corporate agent is
Page 35/39
----- PAGE 36 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
_______________________________________________
3. This registration shall be valid from___________________________to.
4. This registration is subject to the Insurance Act, 1938, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (4
of 1999) and Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations,
2015 and shall not be construed to be in compliance with or in conformity to any other Act, rules or regulations.
Place:
By Order
Date: ________________________
For and on behalf of Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
Application for Duplicate Certificate of Registration
1. I agree to inform you that my/our Registration No..................................has been
1. Lost
2. Destroyed
3. Mutilated
Due to the following reasons.............................................
2. Fee payment: .
A non-refundable fee of Rs. 1000/- will need to be paid to IRDA
Payment details:
Name of the Bank:
Mode of payment: NEFT/RTGS
Date of Payment:
Transaction Details along with number:
3. Declaration
I hereby apply for the duplicate certificate of registration under regulation 15
I/we therefore request the authority to kindly issue a duplicate certificate of registration in light of the circumstances
explained above.
I ................................solemnly declare and confirm that the particulars given above are true to the best of my knowledge
and belief.
Signature of Director 1
Signature of Director 2
Date:
Annexure 4
[See regulation 25}
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Application for Permission to act as Telemarketer
Particulars of the Applicant
1.1
Name of the Applicant: _____________________________
1.2
Address - Principal Place of business/Registered Office.
Pin Code
E-mail
Tel No
Fax No.
Website Address
1.3
Address for Correspondence:
Pin Code
E-mail
Tel No
Page 36/39
----- PAGE 37 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
Fax No.
1.4
TRAl Registration Details
(a)
Registration No:
(b)
Date of Registration:
(c)
Validity of Registration:
1.5
Name and Designation of the Authorised Person/In charge:
(a)
Name:
(b)
Designation:
(c)
Contact No:
(d)
E-mail Address
1.6
Details of proposed/existing branch office/s where the applicant proposes to conduct telemarketing
Place
Address
Name of the branch incharge
Educational Qualification of the Specified
Person
Contact No. and e-mail address
1.7
Name of the corporate agent with whom the applicant intend to work with:
(a)
Name:
(b)
Registration No.:
(c)
Copy of the Agreement
2. Organisation - Structure
2.1
Status of the Applicant:
(e.g. Limited company-Private/Public, LLP/ Cooperative Society/Partnership Firm/Proprietary Firm. If listed, names of
Stock Exchanges and latest share price to be given)
Category of Applicant
Details of Registration
Date of Incorporation
DD-MM-YYYY
Place of Incorporation
Name of stock exchanges(In case of listed
Company)
2.2
List of major shareholders (holding 5% and above of applicant directly or along with associates)
Share holding as on:____________________________
Name of shareholder
Page 37/39
----- PAGE 38 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
No. of Shares held
% of total paid up capital of the company
2.3
Particulars of all Directors/Partners
Name
Designation/ Position
Qualification
Share in applicant Company
Directorship in other companies
Name and activities of associate companies/concerns
Name of Company/ Firm
Address
Type of activity Handled
Nature of lnterest of Promoter/ Director
Nature and interest of applicant company
Whether any one or more directors/shareholders of the associate companies/ concern are interested in the applicant's
business, if yes please provide the nature of interest
2.4
Details of Telemarketing Activities with other entities
Name of the entity
Nature of Activities of the entity concern
Date of Agreement
Validity of Agreement
Whether any of the related parties of the entity
deal with insurance. If yes, please specify the details
Details of Authorised Verifiers
Name
Address
PAN/ Adhar No.
Qualification (Including Insurance
qualifications)
Previous Employement
Details of Responsibilities
Exam pass Certificate issued by Examination Body
as per Regulations
(Note. - The Telemarketer shall update the addition/deletion of Authorised Verifiers from to time to time and as and when
there is change)
3. Other Information, If Any
3.1
Details of all settled and pending disputes**:
Nature of dispute
Name of the party
Pending/settled
** Attach sheet if required
Details, if any of any economic offences by the applicant or any of the Directors and/or any disciplinary action
taken/initiated by any other regulator or government authorities in the last three years.
4. I further declare that I have verified and found that the applicant -
(a)
has not found to be of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(b)
has not been found guilty of criminal misappropriation or criminal breach of trust or cheating or forgery or an abetment of
Page 38/39
----- PAGE 39 -----
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents)...
or attempt to commit any such offence by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(c)
has not been found guilty of or to have knowingly participated in or convicted at any fraud, dishonesty or
misrepresentation against an insurer or an insured in the course of any judicial proceeding relating to any policy of
insurance or the winding up of an insurance company or in the course of an investigation of the affairs of an insurer: and
(d)
has not violated the code of conduct specified under Regulation 26 of Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015.
5. I enclose the following documents in support of the application.
(a)
Copy of TRAI Registration
(b)
Copy of the Agreement
Signature of the Authorised Person
Place:
Date:
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
Certificate to act as a Telemarketer for a Corporate Agent
Certificate No................................
Name of Corporate Agent:...............
Address:...................................
...............................................
Registration No........................
Date of Expiry:........................
Category of Registration:..................
Name of the Certificate Holder:...............................................................
Address:..........................
....................................
TRAI Registration No.:.....................
Having satisfied with the information furnished is hereby authorized to act as the telemarketer of the above named
corporate agent as per IRDAI(Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015.
Place:
Date:
For Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
Date of Expiry:
Name of the Certificate Holder:.......................................
Address:..........................
Place of posting:
Having satisfied with the information provided and undergone the prescribed training arid/or passing of the examination
is hereby authorized to act as an authorized Verifier of the telemarketer from....................
Place:
Date:
For Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
Signature of the Certificate Holder:
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 39/39