
----- PAGE 1 -----
Foreign Exchange Management (Regularization of assets held abroad by a person resident in ...
Foreign Exchange Management (Regularization of assets held abroad
by a person resident in India) Regulations, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/184801149/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Foreign Exchange Management (Regularization of assets held abroad by a person resident in India) Regulations, 2015
UNION OF INDIA
India
Foreign Exchange Management (Regularization of assets held abroad by a person resident in India) Regulations, 2015
Rule
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE-MANAGEMENT-REGULARIZATION-OF-ASSETS-HELD-ABROAD-BY-A-PERSON-RESIDENT
-IN-INDIA-REGULATIONS-2015 of 2015
Published on 25 September 2015
Commenced on 25 September 2015
[This is the version of this document from 25 September 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Foreign Exchange Management (Regularization of assets held abroad by a person resident in India) Regulations, 2015
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 738(E) and No. FEMA. 348/ 2015-RB, dated 25th September, 2015
Reserve Bank of India
(Foreign Exchange Department)
(Central Office)
G.S.R. 738(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (
42 of 1999
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Foreign Exchange Management (Regularization of assets held abroad by a person resident in ...
), the Reserve Bank makes the following regulations relating to regularization of assets held abroad by a person resident
in India, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
- (i) These regulations may be called the Foreign Exchange Management (Regularization of assets held abroad by a
person resident in India) Regulations, 2015.
(ii)
They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
-  In these Regulations unless the context otherwise requires, -
(i)
'Act' means the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (
42 of 1999
);
(ii)
'Black Money Act' means The Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015 (
22 of 2015
);
(iii)
The words and expressions used but not defined in these Regulations shall have the same meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Save as otherwise provided in these regulations or with the general or special permission of Reserve Bank, no person
resident in India shall continue to hold an asset located outside India for which a declaration has been made under
section 59 of the Black Money Act.
4.
Regularization of assets held abroad by persons resident in India.
- No proceedings shall lie under the provisions of the Act, against a person resident in India who has made a declaration
under section 59 of the Black Money Act, in respect of any undisclosed asset located outside India and has paid the tax
and penalty in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VI of the Black Money Act.
Provided that where the declarant intends to continue to hold the asset so declared, he shall apply to the Reserve Bank
within 180 days from the date of declaration, for permission under the relevant provisions of the Act, or rules and
regulations framed thereunder, if such permission is necessary as on the date of application.
Provided further that where the declarant does not intend to hold the asset so declared or the permission to hold such
asset is refused by the Reserve Bank, as the case may be, the declarant shall dispose of the said asset within 180 days
from the date of making such declaration or the date of receipt of the communication from the Reserve Bank conveying
refusal of permission or within such extended period as may be permitted by the Reserve Bank and bring back the
proceeds to India immediately through the banking channel.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2