
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Land Ports Authority of India (Contracts) Regulations, 2015
The Land Ports Authority of India (Contracts) Regulations, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/12154031/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Land Ports Authority of India (Contracts) Regulations, 2015
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Land Ports Authority of India (Contracts) Regulations, 2015
Rule THE-LAND-PORTS-AUTHORITY-OF-INDIA-CONTRACTS-REGULATIONS-2015 of 2015
Published on 6 November 2015
Commenced on 6 November 2015
[This is the version of this document from 6 November 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Land Ports Authority of India (Contracts) Regulations, 2015
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 850(E), dated 6th November, 2015
Ministry of Home Affairs
Land Ports Authority Of India
G.S.R. 850(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) read with clause (c) of sub-section (2) of Section
35 and sub-section (2) of Section 18 of the Land Ports Authority of India Act, 2010 (
31 of 2010
), the Land Ports Authority of India with the previous approval of the Central Government, hereby makes the following
regulations, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Land Ports Authority of India (Contracts) Regulations, 2015
(1)
These regulations may be called the Land Ports Authority of India (Contracts) Regulations, 2015.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Land Ports Authority of India Act, 2010 (
31 of 2010
);
(b)
"Authority" means the Land Ports Authority of India constituted under section 3 of the Act;
(c)
"Chairperson" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (b) of section 2 of the Act;
(d)
"Member" means a member of the Authority.
(2)
Words and expressions used herein and not defined, but defined in the Act, shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Contracts or class of contracts, which are required to be sealed with the common seal of the Authority.
-  The following contracts or class of contracts shall be sealed with the common seal of the Authority, namely:-
(a)
Contracts to be made with the previous approval of the Central Government under sub-section (1) of section 18 of the
Act;
(b)
Contracts to be made with the approval of the Authority where the period of the contract is over five years;
(c)
Contracts regarding loans and advances sanctioned to the Authority by the Central Government.
4.
Manner in which contract is to be sealed with the common seal of the Authority.
(1)
The Authority shall provide for the safe custody of the seal.
(2)
All contracts shall be finalised by the execution of a Deed of Agreement, Deed of Licence, Indenture or a like instrument,
as the case may be, duly signed by the Authority and the party concerned and the Deed of Agreement, Deed of Licence,
Indenture or like instrument, as the case may be, shall be executed, where necessary, on a non-judicial paper of
appropriate stamp value.
(3)
The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to any instrument referred to in sub-regulation (2) except by a resolution of
the Authority or of a Committee constituted by the Authority and authorised by it in that behalf.
(4)
The seal of the Authority shall be affixed to the instrument referred to in sub-regulation (2) in the presence of at least one
Member and/or such officer as the Authority may appoint for the purpose and the Member or officer so present shall sign
every instrument to which the seal of the Authority is so affixed in their presence.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2