
----- PAGE 1 -----
Foreign Exchange Management (Insurance) Regulations, 2015
Foreign Exchange Management (Insurance) Regulations, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/17085064/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Foreign Exchange Management (Insurance) Regulations, 2015
UNION OF INDIA
India
Foreign Exchange Management (Insurance) Regulations, 2015
Rule FOREIGN-EXCHANGE-MANAGEMENT-INSURANCE-REGULATIONS-2015 of 2015
Published on 29 December 2015
Commenced on 29 December 2015
[This is the version of this document from 29 December 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Foreign Exchange Management (Insurance) Regulations, 2015
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 1007(E), dated 29th December, 2015, No. FEMA. 12R/2015-RB
G.S.R. 1007(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 47 of the Foreign Exchange
Management Act, 1999 (
42 of 1999
), and in supersession of its Notification No. FEMA.12/2000-RB, dated May 3, 2000, as amended from time to time, the
Reserve Bank of India makes the following Regulations with respect to the holding by a person resident in India of a
general or life insurance policy issued by an insurer outside India, namely:
1.
Short Title and Commencement.
- (i) These Regulations may be called the Foreign Exchange Management (Insurance) Regulations, 2015.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Foreign Exchange Management (Insurance) Regulations, 2015
(ii)
They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(i)
'Act' means the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (
42 of 1999
);
(ii)
The words and expressions used but not defined in these Regulations shall have the same meaning respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Permission to take or hold a general insurance policy issued by an insurer outside India.
- (i) A person resident in India may take or continue to hold a health insurance policy issued by an insurer outside India
provided aggregate remittance including amount of premium does not exceed limit prescribed under the Liberalised
Remittance Scheme.
(ii)
No person shall take out or renew any policy of insurance in respect of any property in India or any ship or other vessel
or aircraft registered in India with an insurer whose principal place of business is outside India without permission of
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDA).
(iii)
A person resident in India may take or continue to hold a general insurance policy other than referred in (i) and (ii)
above, issued by an insurer outside India, provided that, the policy is held, under a specific or general permission of the
Central Government.
(iv)
A person resident in India may continue to hold any general insurance policy issued by an insurer outside India when
such person was resident outside India.
Provided further that where the premium due on a general insurance policy has been paid by making remittance from
India, the policy holder shall repatriate to India through normal banking channels, the maturity proceeds or amount of
any claim due on the policy, within a period of seven days from the receipt thereof.
4.
Permission to take or hold a life insurance policy issued by an insurer outside India.
- (i) A person resident in India may take or continue to hold a life insurance policy issued by an insurer outside India,
provided that, the policy is held, under a specific or general permission of the Reserve Bank of India.
(ii)
A person resident in India may continue to hold any life insurance policy issued by an insurer outside India when such
person was resident outside India.
Provided further that where the premium due on a life insurance policy has been paid by making remittance from India,
the policy holder shall repatriate to India through normal banking channels, the maturity proceeds or amount of any
claim due on the policy, within a period of seven days from the receipt thereof.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2