
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
The Arms Rules, 2016
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/172687242/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
79
]
Union of India - Act
The Arms Rules, 2016
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Arms Rules, 2016
Rule THE-ARMS-RULES-2016 of 2016
Published on 15 July 2016
Commenced on 15 July 2016
[This is the version of this document from 15 July 2016.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Arms Rules, 2016
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 701(E), dated 15th July, 2016
Last Updated 13th February, 2020
Ministry of Home Affairs
G.S.R. 701(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 5, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 18, 21, 41 read with section
44 of the Arms Act, 1959 (
54 of 1959
), and in supersession of the Arms Rules, 1962, except as respects things done or omitted to be done before such
supersession, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
Chapter I
General
Page 1/180
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
1.
Short title.
(1)
These rules may be called the Arms Rules, 2016.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- (I) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(1)
"Act" means the Arms Act, 1959 (
54 of 1959
);
(2)
"air weapon" means a device that discharges a projectile from a barrel under the pressure of compressed air or other
gas but that does not employ an explosive charge to do so;
(3)
"antique small arm" means [firearm which has been in existence for not less than one hundred years;]
[Substituted 'firearms manufactured before 1899' by Notification No. G.S.R. 108(E), dated 12.2.2020 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
(4)
"appellate authority" means the appellate authority referred to in rule 105;
(5)
"authority" or "officer" means, except where otherwise specifically provided in these rules, the district magistrate or such
other officer as may, from time to time, be notified in the Official Gazette by the Central Government;
(6)
"automatic" means a small arm or light weapon that, after each discharge, automatically performs all the steps
necessary to prepare the weapon to fire again; and that will continue to fire for as long as the trigger (or other activating
device) remains depressed (assuming that ammunition remains and jamming does not occur) and an automatic weapon
uses a portion of the energy from a firing cartridge to extract the spent cartridge case from the firing chamber and eject it
from the weapon, recock the firing mechanism and load a new round of ammunition from the weapon's feed-device or
magazine into the firing chamber and if the trigger or other activating device remains depressed, the firing pin is
automatically released to begin a new firing cycle;
(7)
"blank cartridge" means a cartridge without a bullet or any other projectile;
(8)
"blank firing firearms" means firearms capable of firing a blank cartridge;
(9)
"bullet" means the conical head of the cartridge normally made of lead or copper that is expelled out of barrel or cylinder
by means of explosive charge or compressed air or other gas;
(10)
"caliber" means the internal diameter or bore of the barrel of a firearm measured in inches or millimeters or geometric
circumference;
(11)
"carry" means to bear a small arm, upon, about or in the proximity of one's person;
(12)
"cartridge" means a complete object consisting of a cartridge case, primer, propellant, bullet or any single or multiple
projectile;
(13)
"chartered accountant" means a chartered accountant as defined in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the
Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (
38 of 1949
Page 2/180
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
) who holds a valid certificate of practice under sub-section (1) of section 6 of that Act;
(14)
"company" has the same meaning as assigned to it in the Explanation under section 33 of the Act;
(15)
"conversion" of firearm refers to a permanent change of caliber or bore of a firearm and includes replacement or relining
or reboring of a barrel having an integral or separate chamber, replacement of cylinder and/or barrel or related parts and
change in configuration of action or mechanism of a firearm but does not include converting a permissible category
firearm into a restricted or prohibited category firearm;
(16)
"configured for military use" means firearms and ammunition (other than small arms and light weapons) manufactured
and configured according to specifications set by the Department of Defense Production, Ministry of Defense;
(17)
"curio" means a small arm manufactured at least fifty years prior to the current date or certified by the curator of a
Government regulated museum or that derives at least half of its monetary value from the fact that it is novel, rare,
bizarre, or associated with some historical figure, period, or event and includes an antique small arm;
(18)
"deactivation" means to render a small arm or light weapon incapable of expelling or launching a shot, bullet, missile or
other projectile by the action of an explosive, and which cannot be readily restored to its original capability, and that has
been certified and marked as deactivated by an accredited gunsmith or a competent State authority.
Explanation. - Deactivation requires that all pressure-bearing components of a small arm or light weapon be
permanently altered in such a way so as to render the weapon unusable and includes modifications to the barrel, bolt,
cylinder, slide, firing pin and receiver or frame;
(19)
"dealer" means a person who, by way of trade or business, buys, sells, tests (other than proof-test), exports, imports or
transfers or keeps for sale, or test (other than proof-test) arms or ammunition and includes the Sports Authority of India
(SAI), the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) and the State Rifle Associations affiliated to NRAI or directly
affiliated units of NRAI;
(20)
"dedicated sports person" means a person who actively participates in sports-shooting and who is a member of an
accredited sports shooting organization;
(21)
"electronic disabling device" means an electronic device capable of firing electrode projectiles propelled by compressed
gas, which stays connected to the main unit or device by a conductive wire, and causes temporary neuro-muscular
incapacitation of the target;
(21A)
[ "existing manufacturer" means any manufacturer holding manufacturing licence under the Arms Rules, 1962 in Form IX
or under the Industrial Development (Regulation) Act, 1951 or rules framed thereunder on the date of notification of
these rules;]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1342(E), dated 27.10.2017 (w.e.f 15.7.2016).]
(22)
"Government arms" means a firearm or other weapon which is the property of Government; and "Government
ammunition" means ammunition manufactured in any Government factory or prepared for and supplied to Government
other than such ammunition as may be released by Government for civilian use;
(23)
"gunsmith" means any person who performs work of minor or major repairs of firearms and subject to grant of prior
permission of the licensing authority, may alter the caliber or barrel length of a firearm or perform such other work as
may be specified by the licensing authority;
(24)
"handgun" means a small arm with a short stock at an angle to and extending below the line of the barrel, that is
designed to be held and fired with one hand and includes pistols and revolvers;
(25)
Page 3/180
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
"in-transit" means the conveyance through India to another country of firearms or ammunition that have been imported;
(26)
"firearm replica" means an object designed to resemble a firearm which has an appearance that is so realistic as to
make it indistinguishable, for all practical purposes, from a real firearm and which has been rendered innocuous;
(27)
"Form" means a Form as set out in Schedule III of these rules;
(28)
"light weapon" means any man-portable weapon designed for use by two or three persons serving as a crew (although
some may be carried and used by a single person) that expels or launches, is designed to expel or launch, or may be
readily converted to expel or launch a shot, bullet or projectile by the action of an explosive and includes, inter alia,
heavy machine guns, hand-held under barrel and mounted grenade launchers, portable anti-aircraft guns, recoilless
rifles, portable launchers of antitank missile and rocket systems, portable launchers of anti-aircraft missile systems, and
mortars of a caliber of less than 100 millimeters, as well as their parts, components and ammunition;
(29)
"main firearm component" means the barrel, frame or receiver, slide, bolt or breech-block of a firearm;
(30)
"manufacturer" means a person, who manufactures, sells, tests (other than proof-test), exports, imports or transfers or
keeps for sale, or test (other than proof-test) firearms, their parts, components or ammunition or arms other than
firearms;
(31)
"manufacturing" means making, producing or assembling: -
(i)
a complete firearm;
(ii)
a pressure-bearing part or component of a firearm (e.g. barrel, slide, cylinder, bolt, breech lock, firing pin, etc.);
(iii)
ammunition for firearm; or
(iv)
an arm other than a firearm, and includes -
(i)
reactivating a deactivated firearm; and
(ii)
substantially modifying the function of a firearm (e.g. conversion to fully automatic), but does not include -
(i)
repair, restoration, maintenance or cosmetic enhancement or alteration of a firearm; nor
(ii)
the non-commercial reloading of ammunition;
(32)
"marking" means application of permanent inscriptions on firearms, ammunition and ammunition packaging to permit
their identification;
(33)
"muzzle energy" means the kinetic energy of a projectile as it is expelled from the muzzle of a firearm and expressed in
joules or foot-pounds;
(34)
"NDAL" means National Database of Arms Licenses;
(35)
"paintball" means a projectile (spherical gelatin capsule) that primarily consists of non-toxic water soluble substances
and dye designed to mark a person or an object;
(36)
"paintball marker or paintball gun" means a device capable of firing paint-balls by use of an expanding gas or
compressed air, whether operated mechanically or electro-pneumatically;
Page 4/180
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(37)
"parts and components" mean any element or replacement element specifically designed for a firearm and essential to
its operation and includes barrel, frame or receiver, slide or cylinder, bolt or breech block, and any device designed or
adapted to diminish the sound caused by firing;
(38)
"pistol" means a handgun with a chamber as an integral part of, or permanently aligned with, the barrel;
(39)
"port" includes a seaport, an airport and a land port;
(40)
"rimless" means a cartridge where the rim has the same diameter as the base of the case and used in firearms that feed
from a box magazine;
(41)
"rimmed cartridge" means where the rim has a significantly larger diameter than the base of the cartridge with the rim
serving to hold the cartridge at the proper depth in the chamber;
(42)
"revolver" means a handgun with a breech-loading, chambered cylinder so arranged that the cocking of the hammer or
depression of the trigger rotates the cylinder and brings the next cartridge in line with the barrel for firing;
(43)
"repair" of firearm may be minor or major -
'minor repair' includes -
(i)
cleaning and carrying out re-finishing, fixing slings, recoil pads, installation of pre-fabricated stock, general accessories,
preservative packaging and ensuring accuracy or safe working of the firearm and its components;
(ii)
fabricating or replacing or working on old, damaged, worn-out, eroded, shot-out part of a firearm (excluding barrels or
receivers or frames or breech bodies or bolts) for the purpose of repair and safe functioning;
(iii)
making and replacing stocks, grips (butt stock) and other parts;
(iv)
ensuring accuracy or safe working of the firearm by means of carrying out work on complete barreled action, fabricating,
fitting or adjusting optics, sights, other components, etc., including test firing;
(v)
making and installing accessories and tuning fabricated parts.
'major repair' requires extensive primary and secondary machining operations of critical parts and includes -
(i)
working on critical parts including fabrication of components like barrels and actions (re-boring or re-chambering or
replacing or remaking barrels, re-machining of receivers or frames, bolts, slides, cylinders, breech, etc. and other
components) for the purpose of repair or conversion;
(ii)
shortening, conversion, working on triggers, safeties and general safety testing of firearms and devices including firing or
testing of firearms repaired or converted.
(44)
"responsible person" means in the case of a company, the person nominated in an application for an arms license by a
company;
(45)
"rifle" means a small arm designed to expel, through the action of an explosive, a single projectile through a rifled barrel,
while supported against the shoulder and held with both hands;
(46)
"Schedule" means a Schedule appended to these rules;
(47)
"selective fire" means capability of a small arm or light weapon that can be adjusted to fire in two or more of the following
Page 5/180
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
ways:
(i)
semi-automatic (i.e. one shot per depression of the trigger);
(ii)
multi-shot burst (i.e. a set number of shots per depression of the trigger); or
(iii)
automatic (i.e. continuous fire while the trigger is depressed)
(48)
"self-loading" means semi-automatic;
(49)
"semi-automatic" means a small arm or light weapon that, after each discharge, automatically performs all of the steps
necessary to prepare the weapon to fire again, but that requires a separate depression of the trigger to fire each round
of ammunition;
(50)
"shotgun" means a small arm designed to expel, through the action of an explosive, shot or a single projectile through a
smooth-bored barrel, while supported against the shoulder and held with both hands;
(51)
"small arm" means any man-portable lethal weapon designed for individual use (of caliber up to 12.7 mm) that expels or
launches, is designed to expel or launch, or may be readily converted to expel or launch a shot, bullet or projectile by the
action of an explosive and includes inter alia, revolvers and self-loading pistols, rifles and carbines, sub-machine guns,
assault rifles and light machine guns, as well as their parts, components and ammunition but does not include antique
small arms and firearm replica.
Note: - Shotguns, sporting rifles and muzzle loading black powder firearms, though of caliber of more than 12.7 mm are
also covered under small arms;
(52)
"sport-shooting" means competitive and recreational sports that involve tests of proficiency (accuracy and speed) using
permissible category of firearms, ammunition and targets;
(53)
"section" means a section of the Act;
(54)
"trade transfer" means sale or transfer of arms or ammunition between a manufacturer and a dealer or between a dealer
and another dealer during the normal course of the business and includes a sale or transfer on consignment basis;
(55)
"unloaded" means that any propellant, projectile or cartridge which can be discharged from the firearm is not contained
in the breech-block or firing chamber of the firearm nor in the cartridge, magazine or cylinder attached to or inserted into
the firearm;
(56)
"use of a firearm" includes displaying, aiming and firing as well as manipulating the working parts of a firearm but does
not include cleaning or maintenance;
(57)
"UIN" means Unique Identification Number generated in NDAL for a licensee under these rules.
(II)
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the
Act.
3.
Classification of arms and ammunition.
- For the purposes of the Act and these rules, arms and ammunition shall be of the categories specified in columns (2)
and (3) respectively of Schedule I and references to any category of arms or ammunition in these rules shall be
construed accordingly.
4.
License for arms other than firearms and applicability of section 4.
Page 6/180
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(1)
Unless the Central or the State Government by notification in the Official Gazette so directs, no license shall be required
for the manufacture, sale, possession for sale or test, of arms of category V in Schedule I except in the areas notified
under section 4.
(2)
In any area specified in the notification issued by the Central Government under section 4 of the Act, license for
acquisition, possession or carrying in that area of arms of such class or description as may be specified in that
notification may also be granted or renewed as provided in Schedule II, subject to such conditions as may be specified
in these rules, that Schedule and in the license.
Chapter II
Licensing Procedure
5.
Licensing authority and forms of licenses
- Licenses under Chapter II of the Act may be granted or renewed for, such purposes, by such authorities, in such forms
and to be valid for such period and in such areas as are specified in Schedule II, subject to such conditions as are
specified in these rules, that Schedule and in the license:
Provided that the licenses granted or renewed by a licensing authority may be signed by such officer subordinate to that
authority as may be specially empowered in this behalf by the State Government.
6.
Restriction in granting licenses for acquisition, possession or carrying of arms or ammunition of category I of Schedule I
- No license shall be granted for acquisition, possession or carrying of arms or ammunition specified in category I(b) or
I(c) in Schedule I unless they have been legally manufactured in India or lawfully possessed or lawfully imported into
India or are being imported into India with the sanction of the Central Government.
7.
Licensing authorities to furnish information to district magistrate
(1)
A copy of every license granted for arms or ammunition specified in category I(a), I(b), I(c) and category II in Schedule I
shall forthwith be sent to the district magistrate of the place in which the arms or ammunition are to be kept.
(2)
A copy of every other license granted in any Form by any authority other than a district magistrate shall be sent forthwith
to the district magistrate having jurisdiction over the area in which the place of business or residence of the licensee is
situated.
(3)
The licenses granted under sub-rule (1) and sub-rule (2) shall be intimated through NDAL system to the district
magistrate of the place having jurisdiction over the area in which the place of business or residence of the licensee is
situated.
8.
Possession of arms or ammunition for certain purposes to include use thereof.
- Possession of the following arms or ammunition for the purposes mentioned against each, includes use thereof, for
such purposes only provided that such use does not involve manufacture of any arms or ammunition (including
explosives and fireworks) :-
(a)
arms for theatrical performance, historical re-enactment, historical research (including assessment of performance),
cinematograph or television production or signaling for starting races or athletic meets and safety equipment including
signal flare guns, line throwing guns, avalanche cannon, etc.;
(b)
ingredients of ammunition including sulphur and chlorates for bona fide industrial, agricultural or medicinal purposes.
9.
Restrictions by Central Government in certain cases.
- Any license having effect outside the State in which it is granted, shall be subject to any restrictions, which may be
imposed by a general or special order of the Central Government.
Page 7/180
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
10.
Safe use and storage of firearms.
(1)
Every applicant applying for a license in Form II, Form III and Form IV; or a rifle club or association or firing range or
staff employed by such club, association or firing range, applying for a license in Form V; or a manufacturer or dealer or
gunsmith or staff employed by such manufacturer, dealer or gunsmith applying for a license in Form VII, Form VIII, Form
IX or Form IX-A, shall be required to complete arms and ammunition safety training course which shall include -
(a)
basic arms and ammunition safety practices, including safe handling and carry procedures;
(b)
firing techniques and procedures;
(c)
care of arms and ammunition;
(d)
safe storage and transportation of arms and ammunition;
(e)
reasonable working knowledge of important provisions of the Act and these rules; and
(f)
responsibilities of the arms owner or user, particularly in relation to children.
(2)
The safety training course under sub-rule (1) shall be conducted by the accredited trainer or master accredited trainer
having license under rule 39, who shall issue a certificate in Form S-1, to the applicant, on successful completion of the
said course.
(3)
The effective date and duration of the safety training course as laid down in sub-rule (1) shall be notified by the Central
Government by issuing a general or special order in this regard.
(4)
Every application for a license in Form II, Form III and Form IV shall be accompanied by -
(a)
a written undertaking that the applicant has the capacity to store the firearm safely and securely in a safe or steel
almirah in order to minimize the risk that it could be stolen or accessed by someone other than the licensee; and
(b)
a written undertaking to practice safe storage of the firearm (in knocked down condition) and its ammunition and to
educate the children about the dangers of interacting with arms and ammunition, in Form S-2.
(5)
The licensing authority responsible for the grant or renewal of a license shall conduct periodic inspections of the
premises of companies, dealers, gunsmiths and manufacturers where arms and ammunition are stored in order to
ensure compliance with safe storage requirements.
(6)
[ Small arms falling under the category of curio shall be kept securely and out of reach of other persons by the owner.
Such small arms shall not be used, carried or transported without the prescribed licence.
(7)
No licence is required for Indian citizens for acquisition, possession of small arms falling under the category of curio.
However, appropriate licence as prescribed would be required for use or to carry or transport such small arms. Without
the endorsement of such firearms in the prescribed licence of the owner, no ammunition shall be sold for their use.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 108(E), dated 12.2.2020 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
11.
Application for license.
(1)
Every application for the grant of a license under these rules -
(a)
Page 8/180
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
shall be submitted in Form A-1 to A-14 as applicable to the category of the license applied;
(b)
may be presented by the applicant in person or sent through the medium of post office or filed electronically or
otherwise, to the licensing authority, as far as possible, having jurisdiction in respect of the place where he ordinarily
resides or has his occupation.
(2)
Where the grant of license requires a certificate of no objection from some other authority as provided in rule 98, shall
state whether such certificate has been obtained and, if so, be supported by evidence thereof either in physical form or
by an electronically generated confirmation on NDAL system for the particular UIN of the applicant.
(3)
Every application for grant of license for special category under Chapter III of these rules, shall be subject to such
additional requirements specified for these categories in that chapter.
(4)
Every application in Form A-1 submitted by an individual for grant of a license in Form II, Form III or Form IV shall be
accompanied by the following documents, namely:-
(a)
four passport size copies of the latest photograph of the applicant (in white background);
(b)
proof of date of birth;
(c)
identification proof ?
(i)
Aadhar Card; or
(ii)
in case the applicant does not have Aadhar Card, a written declaration in the form of an Affidavit to be submitted in this
regard along with an alternative identification proof which may include Passport or Voter's Identification Card or
Permanent Account Number (PAN) card or Identity Card issued to the employees;
(iii)
in case of exemptee sports persons, shooters identification card issued by the National Rifle Association of India.
(d)
residence proof in case the applicant does not possess Aadhar Card or Passport, which may include ?
(i)
voter's identification card; or
(ii)
electricity bill; or
(iii)
land-line telephone bill; or
(iv)
rent deed or lease deed or property documents;or
(v)
any other document to the satisfaction of the licensing authority.
(e)
safe use and storage of firearms undertaking referred to in sub-rule (4) of rule 10;
(f)
for professional category applicant, referred to under clause (a) of sub-rule (3) of rule 12, self-attested copies of the
educational and professional qualification certificates, wherever applicable;
(g)
medical certificate about mental health and physical fitness of the applicant with specific mention that the applicant is not
dependent on intoxicating or narcotic substances (in Form S-3);
(h)
in case of an application for a license in Form IV, the particulars specified in sub-rule (2) of rule 35 along with a permit
Page 9/180
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
from the authority empowered under the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (
53 of 1972
);
(5)
Every application in Form A-2 submitted by a company for the grant of a license in Form II or Form III, shall be
accompanied by the following documents, namely:-
(a)
written undertaking on the letter head of the applicant duly signed by the responsible person defined under clause (44)
of rule 2;
(b)
original copy of the board resolution passed or an authority letter confirming the appointment of responsible person
referred to in clause (a);
(c)
certified copies of the founding documents of the company including Memorandum and Articles of Association;
(d)
safe use and storage of firearms undertaking referred to in sub-rule (4) of rule 10.
(6)
An application by a member of the armed forces of the Union shall be made through his Commanding Officer to the
licensing authority having jurisdiction in respect of the place to which he is for the time being posted.
(7)
The licensing authority may, in accordance with any instructions issued by the State Government in respect of all or any
class of firearms, require the personal attendance of the applicant before granting the license under this rule.
(8)
The applicant shall not suppress any factual information or furnish any false or wrong information in the application form.
12.
Obligations of licensing authority in certain cases.
(1)
Save as otherwise provided in the Act, every licensing authority granting a license in Form III to an individual for the
restricted or permissible arms or ammunition as specified in category I(b) and I(c) or category III respectively in
Schedule I, shall have due regard to the application of norms specified in sub-rules (2) and (3).
(2)
For grant of a license for the restricted arms or ammunition specified in category I(b) and I(c) in Schedule I, the licensing
authority, may consider the application of?
(a)
any person who faces grave and anticipated threat to his life by reason of -
(i)
being resident of a geographical area or areas where militants, terrorists or extremists are most active; or
(ii)
being the prime target in the eyes of militants, terrorists or extremists; or
(iii)
facing danger to his life for being inimical to the aims and objectives of the militants, terrorists or extremists; or
(b)
any Government official who by virtue of the office occupied by him or by the nature of duty performed by him and/or in
due discharge of his official duty is exposed to anticipated risk to his life; or
(c)
any Member of Parliament or Member of Legislative Assembly, who by virtue of having close or active association with
anti-militant, anti-terrorist or anti-extremist programmes and policies of the Government or by mere reason of holding
views, political or otherwise, exposed himself to anticipated risk to his life; or
(d)
any family member or kith and kin of a person who by the very nature of his duty or performance (past or present) or
position occupied in the Government (past or present) or even otherwise for known or unknown reasons exposed
Page 10/180
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
himself to anticipated risk to his life; or
(e)
any other person, for any legitimate and genuine reason, to the satisfaction of the licensing authority, by passing of a
speaking order in this regard:
Provided that before grant of a license under this sub-rule, the licensing authority based on the recommendations of the
district magistrate and of the State Government concerned and on examination of the police report and after conducting
a separate verification from its own source, shall satisfy itself that the applicant requires such license.
(3)
For grant of a license for the permissible arms or ammunition specified in category III in Schedule I, and without
prejudice to the provisions contained in clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 13, the licensing authority, based on the
police report and on his own assessment, may consider the applications of ?
(a)
any person who by the very nature of his business, profession, job or otherwise has genuine requirement to protect his
life and/or property; or
(b)
any dedicated sports person being active member for the last two years, of a shooting club or a rifle association,
licensed under these rules and who wants to pursue sport shooting for target practice in a structured learning process;
or
(c)
any person in service or having served in the Defense Forces, Central Armed Police Forces or the State Police Force
and has genuine requirement to protect his life and/or property.
13.
Time limit for grant of license.
- The licensing authority, after considering the application and on being satisfied that the applicant has fulfilled the
eligibility conditions, shall grant or refuse to grant a license for permissible category of arms or ammunition specified in
category III of Schedule I, to any person by recording in writing the reasons for such grant or refusal, by passing a
speaking order, within a period of sixty days of the receipt of the police report:
Provided that the licensing authority shall specify, the type of arms and ammunition to be procured by the applicant after
assessing the reason and the need for possession of the type of arms and ammunition applied for by the applicant,
considering its lethality or fire-power.
14.
Time limit for police report for grant of licenses.
(1)
On receipt of an application for grant of a license under sub-section (1) of section 13 or every subsequent renewal
thereof under section 15, the licensing authority shall call for a report of the officer-in-charge of the nearest police station
on that application, and such officer shall send his report in Form S-4, within a period of thirty days from the date of
receipt of application by him.
(2)
The Central Government may by issuance of a general or special order, extend the period of thirty days as specified in
sub-rule (1) up to ninety days for certain areas or States for any reason deemed appropriate by it.
(3)
The licensing authority may in case of non-receipt of police report within the period of thirty days under sub-rule (1) or
within the extended period under sub-rule (2), make an order in writing for grant or refusal of license, without further
waiting for the report.
15.
Maintenance of records in electronic format and consolidation of licenses.
(1)
Every licensing authority and the renewing authority specified in Schedule II, while granting a license or renewing a
license, thereof, shall enter the data of the record locally in an electronic format specified by the Central Government.
(2)
[ Every licensing authority and the renewing authority shall also enter such data in the NDAL system which shall
Page 11/180
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
generate a unique identification number (UIN) and with effect from the [30th June, 2020]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 644(E), dated 12.7.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
, any arms license without UIN shall be considered invalid.]
(3)
The UIN so generated under sub-rule (2) shall be unique for a licensee.
(4)
[ Any existing licensee holding multiple licenses in Form III shall on or before the [30th June, 2020]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 644(E), dated 12.7.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
, make an application for grant of a single license in respect of all the firearms held by him under his UIN, to the
concerned licensing authority:
Provided that where the applicant applying a license for restricted category of arms or ammunition specified in Schedule
I is also a holder of a licence for permissible category of arms or ammunition specified in the said Schedule; or where
the applicant, applying for permissible category of arms or ammunition is also a holder of a licence for restricted
category of arms or ammunition specified in the said Schedule, the licensing authority concerned shall issue a new
licence for such restricted or permissible category of arms or ammunition, as may be applicable, under the existing UIN
of the licencee;
[Provided further that separate licence either in book form or in electronic form shall be generated in case of each
licence in Form II, Form III, Form IIIA and Form IV and in case of a licence in Form III, separately for restricted and
permissible categories of arms and ammunition specified in Schedule I, with an overall ceiling of two firearms under a
single UIN]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 108(E), dated 12.2.2020 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
.]
(5)
The licensing authority on receipt of an application from a multiple license holder under sub-rule (4) shall cancel the
existing multiple licenses of the applicant and issue in lieu thereof, a new license endorsing therein, all the existing
firearms of the said licensee.
(6)
The period of validity of the new license so issued by the licensing authority under sub-rule (5) shall be the farthest
period as mentioned in any of the canceled licenses and the area validity endorsed on the new license shall be the more
extensive area in any of the canceled licenses.
16.
Duty of licensing authority under NDAL.
(1)
The licensing authority, while granting or renewing a license or at the time of providing any allied service to any licensee
under these rules shall ensure that the data of the transaction approved by him, is simultaneously updated in the
electronic format locally and on the NDAL system under its log-in ID:
Provided that the licensee shall not be held accountable for failure on the part of the licensing authority to update such
data in the electronic format.
(2)
The licensing authority shall ensure compliance of delivery of different services specified in column (2) of Schedule V,
within the time specified in column (4), of the said Schedule.
17.
Registration of license with an outside licensing authority and change of address with existing licensing authority.
(1)
If a person who holds a license in Form III changes his place of residence, permanently, or temporarily for a period of
more than six months, and carries with him the arms covered by the license, to a place falling, other than within the
jurisdiction of the existing licensing authority indicated in the license, he shall, immediately before the expiry of a period
of six months, send intimation about such change to the licensing authority of the place of his new residence and shall
on demand, forthwith produce the license and the arm or arms to the new licensing authority by applying in Form B-1
and indicating there in the particulars of his new residence.
(2)
Page 12/180
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
The licensing authority of the new place of residence of the licensee on receiving an application in Form B-1 under
sub-rule (1), shall within a period of fifteen days, register the licensee in the NDAL system whereby the UIN of the
licensee shall stand activated and transferred to its jurisdiction and de-activated from the records of the original licensing
authority or the last renewing authority as the case may be and thereupon a new license book shall be issued to the
licensee and such new authority shall be the licensing or the renewing authority in relation to the said license.
(3)
Where the licensee changes his permanent place of residence within the jurisdiction of the existing licensing authority,
he shall forthwith inform the same to the licensing authority with the proof of his new place of residence and if such
change has resulted in change of jurisdiction of police station, along with information of the police station of his new
place of residence and the licensing authority shall within a period of fifteen days, register the change of residence of the
licensee in the NDAL system whereby the UIN of the licensee shall stand activated under the new police station and
de-activated from that of the last police station.
18.
Permission for possession of arms to be acquired subsequent to grant of license.
- When a license is granted in Form II, Form III, Form IV or Form V for the possession of arms to be acquired by the
licensee subsequent to the grant of the license, the authority granting the license shall at the time of granting the same,
direct that the arms covered by the license shall be acquired within a period of two years and that the license or the
arms or both shall be produced for his inspection and if within the said period of two years, the licensee fails to acquire
the arms and to produce the license, or the arms or both, as the case may be, the license shall cease to be in force:
Provided that the licensing authority may extend the period of two years by a further period of one year, on the basis of a
written representation received from the licensee and after recording the reasons for granting such an extension:
Provided further that if during the period of two years or the extended period of one year, as the case may be the
licensee wishes to acquire and possess any arm or arms of a different description and the licensing authority has no
objection to allow the acquisition and possession of such arm or arms, he may amend the license accordingly:
Provided also that where the licensee changes his place of residence, after the grant of license but before acquisition of
any arm, he may produce the license or arm or both for inspection before the licensing authority of the place of his new
residence to which the licensee may have shifted and the said authority on inspecting the arm, shall register and update
the information on NDAL system:
Provided also that the provisions contained in this rule shall apply mutatis mutandis to any acquisition of an additional
arm or arms which the licensee may desire to acquire subsequent to grant of license on account of sale or transfer or
disposal of the arm or arms already possessed or otherwise as a fresh acquisition subject to the [overall limit of two
firearms]
[Substituted 'overall limit of three firearms' by Notification No. G.S.R. 108(E), dated 12.2.2020 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
.
19.
Extension of area validity of license.
(1)
On receipt of an application from a licensee holding a license in Form III, the licensing authority may extend the area of
validity specified in his license, if he is satisfied about the need of such extension subject to the condition that the
licensing authority has the power to grant a license in relation to the area to which extension is being sought.
(2)
The application for extending the area validity for whole of India may be granted by the licensing authority as specified in
column (5) of Schedule II, in respect of the following category of licensees, namely: -
(a)
Union Ministers or Members of Parliament;
(b)
Personnel of Defense Forces and Central Armed Police Forces;
(c)
Officers of All-India Services;
(d)
Officers in the Government or Government Sector Undertakings or Public Sector Undertakings with liability to serve
Page 13/180
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
anywhere in India;
(e)
Dedicated sports persons and the sports persons specified in serial numbers (1) to (4) of the table in sub-rule (2) of rule
40.
(3)
In other cases, where the licensing authority is satisfied that the nature of business or profession of the applicant
requires him to carry arm or arms frequently beyond the existing jurisdiction and such a requirement may not be met by
the issuance of a journey license in Form XI of these rules, the application for extending the area validity for whole of
India may be granted by the licensing authority specified in column (5) of Schedule II to the applicant.
(4)
[ The Area validity granted under sub-rule (3) shall not terminate with the validity period of the licence and the renewing
authority shall not vary the area validity at the time of renewal of licence:
Provided that where in any case, the renewing authority on the basis of some material evidence, is satisfied that area
validity for the whole of India is not required anymore, it may send the recommendations to the licensing authority
concerned for review of the area validity.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1342(E), dated 27.10.2017 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
20.
Additional licenses for individuals.
(1)
The holder of a license in Form III, for permissible category of firearms, as specified in Schedule I, may apply for grant of
additional license for any two of his close relatives who are not in possession of any license in Form III and who are
residing with him at the address given in the license, to possess, carry or use any of the arms or ammunition covered by
his license and the licensing authority shall grant a license to such additional licensee if the eligibility conditions under
the Act and these rules are fulfilled by the said additional licensee and there are no adverse remarks in the police report.
(2)
The additional licensee under his UIN shall be granted a separate license, with the arms and ammunition of the parent
license endorsed thereupon:
Provided that the additional licensee shall not be permitted to, acquire any arms or ammunition on his license.
(3)
The additional licensee shall not obtain a license in his individual capacity during the period he holds an additional
license under this rule.
(4)
The licensing authority shall ensure that the details of additional licensees are endorsed on the parent license and the
period of validity and the area validity of the additional license are pari-passu with that of the parent license and if the
parent license is suspended, revoked or canceled, the additional licenses shall also be subject to the same
consequence.
(5)
The additional licensee shall not sell or transfer the arms and ammunition endorsed on his license.
(6)
In case the holder of an additional license shifts temporarily or permanently from the premises of the parent licensee,
such additional license shall automatically lapse and the person to whom such additional license was issued, shall return
his license to the licensing authority by whom the license was issued and the responsibility for furnishing such intimation
to the licensing authority shall be that of the parent licensee.
(7)
The parent licensee may request the licensing authority to revoke or cancel the license of any of his additional licensees
by submitting an application along with the original license and in all such cases, the licensing authority shall revoke or
cancel the license of the additional licensee.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this rule, 'close relatives' mean spouse, son, daughter, brother and sister.
21.
Retainers for exemptees.
(1)
Page 14/180
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
A license in Form III-A for possession and carrying of arms or ammunition may be granted to a person nominated to be
his retainer by a person exempted under section 41 of the Act from licensing requirements:
Provided that the retainer shall have no right, independent of the person so exempted, to use the arms or ammunition
covered by the license, and the license shall cease to be in force on the day on which the person so exempted has
ceased to be an exemptee, or the retainer has ceased to be a nominee of the exemptee.
(2)
The licensing authority shall obtain a report from the Police, about the antecedents of the retainer nominated under
sub-rule (1) and take into consideration such report before admitting him as a retainer in a license granted in Form III-A.
22.
Retainers for companies.
(1)
A license in Form II or Form III granted to a company for the protection of its premises or property shall be in the name
(with designation) of the responsible person who shall be accountable and responsible for the custody of the arms and
ammunition.
(2)
The name of a servant or any other employee entrusted with the arms and ammunition for guarding the premises or
property of the company shall be entered as a retainer in the license.
(3)
The licensing authority shall issue to the licensee a permit in Form III-B for each of such retainers shown in the license
and such permit shall remain in the personal custody of the responsible person of the company and shall be handed
over to the retainers when they are entrusted with the arms and ammunition covered by the license:
Provided that the licensee at the time of making application for retainer shall submit along with the application in Form
B-3, four recent passport size photographs of the retainer to be appointed and the proof of his employment with the
company:
Provided further that the licensing authority, shall obtain a report from the Police about the antecedents of the retainer
and take into consideration such report before admitting him as a retainer.
(4)
On an application from a company, holding a license in Form II or Form III, for a change of the responsible person of the
company in whose name the license has been granted or of a retainer included in the license, the necessary
amendments may be made in the license by the licensing authority.
23.
Restriction on the quantity of ammunition used in breech loading firearms.
(1)
For the purposes of the Act and these rules, quantity of ammunition for the licenses granted in Form II, Form III or Form
IV for breech loading firearms shall be restricted as under, namely:-
Maximum purchasable during a calendar year(per firearm)
200
Maximum to be possessed at any given time(per firearm)
100
(2)
(a)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the State Government concerned may allow a higher quantity of
ammunition in exceptional cases on merits and on the basis of good and sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing.
(b)
The Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs may allow a higher quantity of ammunition in exceptional cases
by issuance of a general or special order in this regard.
24.
Renewal of licenses.
(1)
Every license may, at its expiration and subject to the same conditions (if any) as to the grant thereof, be renewed by the
authority mentioned in Schedule II as renewing authority within a period of thirty days of receipt of the police report:
Page 15/180
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Provided that the license so renewed may be signed in the appropriate column of the license by such officer as may be
specifically empowered in this behalf by the State Government under rule 5.
(2)
An application for renewal of a license for arms or ammunition shall be filed in the Form wherein specified at least sixty
days prior to the expiry of the said license with the licensing authority along with the documents wherein specified in the
Form:
Provided that in the case of arms and ammunition deposited under sub-rule (1) of rule 48, the renewal application may
be filed either by the depositor, or where it is not practicable to make the application direct, through the dealer or any
other person authorized by him in writing in this behalf, while the arms or ammunition continue to be so deposited.
(3)
The authority issuing a license shall ordinarily be responsible for watching all future renewals of the license:
Provided that where a licensee notifies a change of his place of residence, permanently or temporarily for a period of
more than six months, to the licensing authority of the district in which the renewal is sought, the licensing authority of
that district shall thence-forth become responsible for watching all future renewals of his license.
(4)
The new renewing authority shall, in respect of a licensee who notifies a change of his place of residence under sub-rule
(3), register the licensee under its own jurisdiction in accordance with the provisions specified in rule 17 and carry out
the renewal thereof and forthwith, inform the original issuing or last renewing authority.
(5)
The licensing authority may consider an application for renewal of a license, if the period between the date of its expiry
and the date of application is not, in his opinion, unduly long with due regard to the circumstances of the case, and all
renewal fees are paid; otherwise the application may be treated as one for grant of a fresh license.
(6)
The licensing authority may, in accordance with any instructions issued by the State Government in respect of all or any
class of firearms, require the personal attendance of the applicant before renewing the license under this rule.
25.
Grant of licenses to legal heirs.
(1)
The licensing authority may grant a license -
(a)
after the death of the licensee, to his legal heir; or
(b)
in any other case, on the licensee attaining the age of seventy years or on holding the firearm for twenty five years,
whichever is earlier, to any legal heir nominated by him:
Provided that notwithstanding the provisions contained in rule 12 of these rules, the licensing authority may grant a
license to such legal heir if the eligibility conditions under the Act and these rules are fulfilled by the said legal heir and
there are no adverse remarks in the [police report:]
[Substituted 'police report.' by Notification No. G.S.R. 108(E), dated 12.2.2020 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
[Provided further that while granting arms licence on inheritance or heirloom basis, the limit of two firearms shall not be
exceeded.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 108(E), dated 12.2.2020 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
(2)
Where a licensee leaves behind more than one legal heir and the legal heirs decide amongst themselves to retain the
arm or arms of the deceased, one of the legal heirs nominated by all other legal heirs may apply for a license under
sub-rule (1) along with the following documents, namely:-
(i)
a declaration of no-objection from the remaining legal heirs;
(ii)
an indemnity bond executed by the applicant giving full details of the license and the arm or arms endorsed thereupon;
and
(iii)
Page 16/180
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
a copy of the death certificate of the deceased licensee.
(3)
Where the legal heirs decide to dispose of the arm or arms endorsed on the license of the deceased licensee, they may
apply to the licensing authority for grant of a limited period permission to sell the arm or arms, within the time allowed by
such authority, to any licensed dealer or to any other person entitled to possess an arm under these rules.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this rule, 'legal heir' [includes father, mother,]
[Substituted 'includes' by Notification No. G.S.R. 108(E), dated 12.2.2020 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
husband, wife, son, daughter, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother, sister and grandchildren of the licensee or the
deceased licensee.
26.
[ Form of certain licences.
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 108(E), dated 12.2.2020 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
- A licence in Form II, Form III, Form IIIA, Form IV or Form V generated under the UIN of the licensee in NDAL system,
shall either be in book form serially numbered or in electronic form and strictly as per the formats specified in the rules
and in case of individuals, shall contain the latest photograph of the licensee:
Provided that the licence in book form for restricted category of firearms shall be of dark maroon colour and for
permissible category of firearms shall be of navy blue colour:
Provided further that the licensing authority may levy fee as specified in Schedule IV for providing licence in book form,
or issue the licence in electronic form containing details as notified by a local or special order issued by the Central
Government including levy of the fee for such electronic form of licence.]
27.
Fees for licenses.
(1)
(a)
Every license granted or renewed under these rules shall, save as herein otherwise expressly provided, be chargeable
with the fee (if any) specified in Schedule IV.
(b)
In any case where fee is prescribed for a year, fee for a fraction of a year shall be the same as for a whole year.
(2)
Where a licensee submits his application for renewal of his license after the expiry of the period for which the license
was granted, the licensing authority may, if he decides to renew the license, at his discretion, levy -
(a)
full fee as for initial grant of the license; and
(b)
a late fee of rupees two thousand, if he is satisfied that the delay is not justifiable or excusable, nor serious enough to
warrant revocation of the license or prosecution of the licensee:
Provided that if an application for renewal for a license in Form III is made within one month from the date on which the
license expires, no late fee may be leviable.
(3)
The Central Government may, by issuance of a general or special order and for reasons to be recorded in writing and
subject to such conditions, if any, as it may specify in the order, grant exemption from, or reduction of, the fee payable in
respect of any license:
Provided that it shall be a condition of every exemption from payment of the fee chargeable in respect of the grant or
renewal of any license in Form III that if application for renewal of such license is not made within one month from the
date on which the license expires, the licensing authority may, unless the applicant satisfies the licensing authority that
he had sufficient cause for not making the application within that period, levy renewal fee at the rate specified in
Schedule IV.
(4)
Differential fee shall be chargeable in respect of a change of type of the arm or ammunition entered in a license granted
for its acquisition under second proviso to rule 18, if the license fee in respect of the arm or ammunition so changed is
higher than that for the original arm or ammunition.
Page 17/180
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
28.
Fee payable for copies and duplicates.
- Where a license granted or renewed under these rules is lost or accidentally destroyed, the authority empowered to
grant such license may grant a duplicate license on payment of the fee with which the original license was chargeable.
29.
Collection of fees.
- All fees payable shall be paid in cash or by way of bank pay-order or demand draft or electronic banking transfer at the
time of application.
[Provided that in case of a licence in Form VII for the manufacture and/or proof test of arms and ammunition, the fee
shall be payable at the time of grant of a licence]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1342(E), dated 27.10.2017 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
30.
Inspection of arms by the licensing authority.
- The authority by whom any license in Form II, Form III, Form IV or Form V has been granted or renewed, may, for the
purpose of satisfying itself that any arms covered by such license are still in the possession of the licensee at the time of
renewal or at any time while the license is in force, by order in writing require the licensee to produce the arm or arms at
such time and place for inspection of such officer as may be specified in the order.
31.
Production of licenses.
- Any person who holds a license granted or renewed, or a permit or certificate granted under these rules shall forthwith
produce such license, permit or certificate upon demand by any magistrate or any police officer of a rank not below that
of an officer-in-charge of a police station.
32.
Restrictions on carrying of firearm in public place.
(1)
No person shall carry a firearm in a public place unless the firearm is carried -
(a)
in the case of a handgun -
(i)
in a holster or similar holder designed, manufactured or adapted for the carrying of a handgun and attached to his
person; or
(ii)
in a rucksack or similar holder; or
(b)
in the case of any other firearm, in a holder designed, manufactured or adapted for the carrying of a firearm.
(2)
A firearm contemplated in sub-rule (1) must be completely covered and the person carrying the firearm must be able to
exercise effective control over such firearm.
(3)
Brandishing or discharge of firearms or blank-firing firearms in any public place or a firearm free zone is strictly
prohibited.
(4)
Any violation of this rule shall be liable to revocation of the license and seizure of the firearm in addition to the penalty
specified under the Act.
33.
Correction of information.
(1)
Any request for correction of the information contained in a license which has been incorrectly uploaded in the NDAL
system shall be made by submitting a written application together with supporting documents, to the concerned licensing
authority.
(2)
Page 18/180
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Where an application referred to in sub-rule (1) concerns the detail of a firearm which has been incorrectly reflected on a
license, the licensing authority may call for the physical inspection of the firearm to confirm the details of the firearm or
call for a certificate from a gunsmith holding a license in Form IX or an armorer working with Defense Forces, Central
Armed Police Forces and State Police Forces.
(3)
The gunsmith or armorer referred to in sub-rule (2), on having examined the firearm, shall issue a certificate stating the
action, design, type, make, model, caliber and serial number or additional marking of the firearm.
(4)
The correction of information shall take place at no cost to the applicant where the error in uploading the information was
attributable on the part of the licensing authority.
34.
Identification marks on firearms.
(1)
A person, who has in his possession any firearm which does not bear distinctly a manufacturer's name, number or other
identification mark shall get the identification mark stamped on the firearm after obtaining prior approval of the licensing
authority which will consist -
(a)
such distinct letters as may be prescribed for the purpose by the State Government;
(b)
serial number of the arms license; and
(c)
the year of stamping,
in that order on the barrel and the frame, or the barrel and the receiver of the firearm.
(2)
When an imported firearm kept for sale by a dealer does not bear the manufacturer's name, such distinguishing mark of
the importer as allotted by the State Government shall be engraved on the barrel and the frame, or the barrel and the
receiver of the firearm after obtaining prior permission of the licensing authority:
Provided that if a barrel bears more than one number, the distinguishing mark shall be affixed to the number appearing
on the original invoice:
Provided further that where the manufacturer's number appears only on the trigger-guard or other replaceable part, that
number shall also be engraved on the barrel and the frame, or the barrel and the receiver of the firearm.
Chapter III
Special categories of licenses
35.
License for destruction of wild animals which do injury to human beings or cattle and damage to crops.
(1)
The grant of arms licenses under this rule shall be subject to the provisions of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (
53 of 1972
), in respect of the States and Union Territories where the said Act is applicable.
(2)
The application under this rule for grant of a license in Form IV shall specify details of the land and cultivation requiring
protection and area in which the arms and ammunition are required to be carried.
(3)
Where, after the end of any harvest season, the State Government considers it expedient that for the protection of wild
life in any area, any arms or ammunition licensed in Form IV should be deposited in a police station or with a licensed
dealer, it may, by order, require any licensee to deposit such arms or ammunition for such period as the arms or
ammunition are not required for the purposes for which the license is granted and as may be specified therein, and
thereupon the licensee shall be bound to comply with such order.
36.
License for training and target practice.
(1)
Page 19/180
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Any person below the age of twenty-one years but not below the age of twelve years may be allowed to use permissible
category of arms for the purposes of training in the use of such arms in the immediate presence, or, under the direct
supervision and guidance, of an adult instructor or the licensee:
Provided that no person below the age of twenty-one years shall be allowed, to carry any permissible category of arms
requiring a license in a public place except in the immediate presence and supervision of the person who is lawfully
authorized to carry such arms by the licensee.
(2)
Any person who applies for a license to possess permissible category of arms in Form III in order to practice sport
shooting shall be required to show evidence that he participates in such activities or that he is in a structured learning
process.
(3)
The use of arms that are licensed for the purpose of sport shooting shall be limited to practice and competition at sport
shooting clubs or at shooting ranges.
(4)
A dedicated sports person, holding a license in Form III shall be able to lend his arms temporarily for a period not
exceeding three months for the purpose of sport only to another dedicated sports person lawfully entitled to possess
such type of armband subject to the conditions that ?
(a)
the arm is used by the borrower in the presence of the license holder or under his written authority along with a certified
copy of his license, which shall show the number and other identification marks of the arm and the period for which it is
lent;
(b)
in the event of the arm being misused by, or stolen or lost due to the gross negligence of the borrower, the license of the
lender thereof shall be liable to be revoked in addition to being liable to be prosecuted under the provisions of the Act;
and
(c)
the borrower shall, on demand produce proof of such lending.
(5)
Where in the absence of lender, the borrower of arms under sub-rule (4), intends to take the arms and ammunition to a
shooting range for training or target practice or participation in a shooting competition, he shall carry a written authority
in Form V-A signed by the lender in respect of the arms and ammunition and in the area and for the period specified in
the said written authority along with a certified copy of the arms license of the lender:
Provided that where the arms or ammunition are intended to be taken out of the State, the written authority shall be
attested by the President or Secretary of the district or State rifle association, with whom such lender is registered.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, an "adult" means a person who has completed the age of twenty one years.
37.
License for sport shooting association.
(1)
Sport shooting association or a club or a military mess affiliated to the respective State Rifle Association or National Rifle
Association of India, shall be eligible to apply for a license in Form V and to acquire and possess arms and ammunition
that are used and/or stored at their premises.
(2)
An application under sub-rule (1) for grant of a license at the time of initial grant or at every subsequent renewal thereof,
shall be submitted along with the following documents, as may be applicable, namely:-
(a)
its memorandum and articles of association and the membership rules;
(b)
the lists of office bearers and permanent members;
(c)
particulars of the accredited shooting range for training and target practice;
(d)
Page 20/180
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
details of the training/target practice activities undertaken for promoting or encouraging the sport of shooting;
(e)
details of the shooting sport tournaments or events conducted;
(f)
details of safe storage of arms and ammunition specified under rule 10; and
(g)
complete records of the ammunition consumed by the club or association and/or its members.
(3)
Where a license in Form V has been granted in the name of any sport shooting association or club or a military mess, it
shall be lawful for any member of such mess, club or association to use the arms or ammunition covered by such
license at the approved shooting range mentioned in the license for the purpose of training and target practice, subject
to the conditions of the license.
(4)
Where a member of a rifle club or association intends to take the arms and ammunition out of the premises of the club
or association for the purpose of repair or to a shooting range for training or target practice or for participation in a
shooting competition, he shall be required to carry a pass in Form V-B signed by the President or the Secretary of the
club or association in respect of the arms and ammunition and in the area and for the period specified in the pass.
38.
License for shooting ranges.
(1)
Any person, applying for a license for an indoor or an outdoor private shooting range shall be required to meet the
technical and security standards as may be specified by the Central Government in this regard by passing a general or
special order:
Provided that the licensing requirements shall not be applicable to indoor ranges up to ten metres used for target
practice of air pistols and air rifles.
(2)
No license shall be granted under this rule unless the owner or operator of such shooting range has in place adequate
financial arrangements to meet any injury or damage claims requiring third party insurance covers or mandatory bank
guarantees or bond requirements:
Provided that the ranges owned and operated by military, Central Armed Police Forces and State Police Departments
shall normally cover their own risk as per the respective internal guidelines.
(3)
The Sports Authority of India or the National Rifle Association of India or the State Sports Authority or the State Rifle
Association shall conduct regular inspection of their affiliated associations or bodies, owning or operating such ranges at
regular intervals to ensure strict adherence of safety standards and other norms laid down for shooting ranges.
(4)
The licensing authority may also conduct periodic or surprise inspection of all categories of firing ranges falling under its
jurisdiction to ensure the adherence to technical and security conditions applicable to such ranges.
(5)
Practical training regarding the safe and efficient handling of arms and testing of arms during which ammunition will be
fired, may only be undertaken at an accredited shooting range that holds a license in Form V.
39.
License for accredited trainers.
(1)
Any person applying for a license to be an accredited trainer shall be required to clear the eligibility test and undergo
training before being granted a license under this rule:
Provided that the policy guidelines containing syllabus and conduct of examination for accredited trainers may be
specified by the Central Government by passing a general or special order in this regard.
(2)
Any person applying for grant of a license to be a master accredited trainer shall be required to possess the technical
knowledge and expertise in handling various types of small arms and submit the documentary evidence to the
Page 21/180
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
satisfaction of the licensing authority in this regard:
Provided that the policy guidelines for grant of licenses to master accredited trainers may be specified by the Central
Government by passing a general or special order in this regard:
Provided further that master accredited trainers shall be entitled to impart training to the accredited trainers referred to in
sub-rule (1).
(3)
Master accredited trainers and accredited trainers, having been granted a license under this rule shall be eligible to ?
(i)
impart training as specified in rule 10 to the applicants and licensees under these rules; and
(ii)
issue training certificates to different types of trainees on the successful completion of the stipulated training programme.
(4)
The norms for making available the shooting ranges for imparting training to accredited trainers may be specified by the
Central Government by passing a general or special order in this regard.
(5)
The shooting ranges as referred to in sub-rule (4) shall include the Government shooting ranges owned or operated by
Defense Forces, Central Armed Police Forces, State police departments; and the private shooting ranges owned and
operated by shooting clubs or associations having been granted a license in Form V of these rules.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this rule, master accredited trainers refer to small arm experts having worked in
Defense Forces, Central Armed Police Forces, State Police Forces; and international medalists and renowned shooters
as defined under the Explanation to rule 40.
40.
Quantity of ammunition to sports persons, shooting associations, etc.
(1)
The quantity of ammunition allowed to various categories of sports persons for their personal consumption and shooting
sport organizations shall be as per the limits laid down in the table given below, namely:-
S.No.
Persons or class of persons
Type of firearm
Quantity and description of each kind of
ammunition
To be possessed at any one time
Purchasable during the year
1
Arjuna awardee
All
100000
for all types of firearms collectively
200000
for all types of firearms collectively
2
International medalist/ renowned shooter
Rifle/ Pistol .22 LR;
Center-fire rifle with caliber up
to 8 mm;
Revolver/ Pistol;
Shotgun of caliber up to 12 bore/ gauge
50000
for all types
of firearms collectively
100000
Page 22/180
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
for all types
of firearms collectively
3
Junior target shooter
Rifle/ Pistol .22 LR;
Center-fire rifle with caliber up
to 8 mm;
Revolver/ Pistol;
Shotgun of caliber up to 12 bore/ gauge
10000
for all types
of firearms collectively
30000
for all types
of firearms collectively
4
Aspiring shooter
Rifle/ Pistol .22 LR;
Center-fire rifle with caliber up
to 8 mm;
Revolver/ Pistol;
Shotgun of caliber up to 12 bore/ gauge
15000
for all types
of firearms collectively
30000
for all types
of firearms collectively
[5
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 108(E), dated 12.2.2020 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
Other shooters (not falling under Sl. No. 1 to 4 above) holding valid arms licences and who are also members of
National Rifle Association of India or affiliated State Rifle Association(s) of NRAI or shooting clubs/District Rifle
Association affiliated with State Rifle Association
.22 LR Rifle/ Pistol
Any other Pistol/  Revolver caliber
Shotgun caliberAny other Rifle
500
300
250200
5000
2000
5000500]
6
National Rifle Association of
India.
Affiliated State Rifle
Association(s) with NRAI.
Shooting clubs/
District Rifle Association(s)
affiliated with State Rifle Association.
All shooting clubs affiliated to
Page 23/180
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
the State Rifle Association or the National Rifle Association of
India.
All shooting ranges under the Sports Authority of India or the
Sports Authority of the State Governments
Upper limit on the quantity of ammunition, to be decided by
the licensing authority based on the recommendations of the
Certifying body
Note:
Shotgun calibers of caliber up to 12 bore/ gauge, mean and
include the lesser calibers of 16, 20, 28 and 410 bore etc.
(2)
For the purposes of this rule, certifying bodies and certification contents shall be as specified in the table given below,
namely:-
Table
S.No.
Category of sports person
Certifying body
Certifying conditions
1
Arjuna Awardee
Government of India in the Department of Sports, Ministry of
Youth Affairs and Sports
The certificate shall state that the award was conferred for
excellence as a shooter
2
International medalists/ renowned shooters
National Rifle Association of India (NRAI)
The certificate shall state that the medal has been won by the
international medalists in the international championships and in
case of renowned shooters the merit certificate shall mention the
qualifying score along with the Minimum Qualifying Score (MQS)
for the event as specified by NRAI
3 and 4
Junior target shooter/ aspiring shooter
National Rifle Association of India or the approved or
affiliated State Rifle Association(s) of NRAI
The certificate shall mention the qualifying score along with
the Minimum Qualifying Score for the event as specified by NRAI
or the State Rifle Association
5
Other shooters
National Rifle Association of India or affiliated State Rifle
Association(s) of NRAI or Shooting Clubs/District Rifle
Association affiliated with State Rifle Association.
The certificate shall state the membership and other details
of the shooter
6
Shooting Clubs/ District Rifle Associations affiliated with
State Rifle Associations or National Rifle Association of India
State Rifle Association or National Rifle Association of India
as applicable
Page 24/180
----- PAGE 25 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
State Rifle Association
National Rifle Association of India
National Rifle Association of India
Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports
Shooting Ranges
Sports Authority of India/Sports Authority of the State
Government/ National Rifle Association of India
Explanation. - For the purposes of this rule,
(a)
"international championship" means the Asian Games, the Asian Shooting Championship, the Asian Women or Asian
Junior Shooting Championship, the Commonwealth Games, the Commonwealth Shooting Championships, the Olympic
Games, the World Junior or Senior Shooting Championships and the World Cups in Senior as well as Junior events;
(b)
"international medalist" means a person who has won an individual or team medal in an international championship;
(c)
"renowned shooter" means a person who has participated in a National Shooting Championship in an Open Men's Event
or Open Women's Event or Open Civilian's Event whether through qualifying tournament or wild card entry conducted in
accordance with the rules of International Shooting Sports Federation (ISSF) and has attained the Minimum Qualifying
Score prescribed by the National Rifle Association;
(d)
"junior target shooter" means a person who has completed the age of twelve years but is below the age of twenty-one
years and has taken part in at least one State Championship (held once a year) or in the Zonal Championship or
National Level Shooting Competition recognized by National Rifle Association and/or by respective State Rifle
Association;
(e)
"aspiring shooter" means a person who has taken part in at least one State Championship (held once a year) or in the
Zonal Championship or National Level Shooting Competition recognized by National Rifle Association and/or by
respective State Rifle Association and attained the prescribed Minimum Qualifying Score specified by the National Rifle
Association of India.
41.
License to museums.
(1)
Any museum applying for a license for display of arms and ammunition must possess due accreditation with the Ministry
of Culture and registration under any of the Central or State Acts.
(2)
The application under sub-rule (1) shall be accompanied by?
(i)
a description of the display mechanisms that will be used to display the arms or ammunition;
(ii)
documentary proof that the display will be in an accredited museum;
(iii)
description and specifications of the security measures pertaining to storage, transport and safe custody of the arms or
ammunition to be displayed;
(iv)
a description of the access control to the museum where the arms or ammunition will be displayed; and
(v)
a certificate that the museum will be open for public.
(3)
The arms and ammunition shall be displayed or stored under the control of the appointed curator of the museum or a
person authorized thereto in writing by the curator, who shall ensure that necessary steps are taken to prevent any
unauthorized access and the loss of the arms and ammunition.
Page 25/180
----- PAGE 26 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(4)
The arms and ammunition shall only be used for the display and/or storage by the museum at the registered premises of
the museum as mentioned in the license.
(5)
The licensee may display a firearm only if, -
(a)
the firearm is unloaded;
(b)
the firearm is secured by a chain or metal cable that is passed through the trigger guard with one end of the chain or
cable attached to a wall or permanent fixture, in such a manner as to prevent the removal of the firearm by a person
other than the curator or a person authorized by him;
(c)
the firearm is rendered inoperable by means of a secure locking device and displayed at a place and in a manner that is
accessible only to the curator or a person authorized by him.
42.
License for arms and ammunition for theatrical, film or television productions.
(1)
A license for acquisition, possession, carry or use of arms and ammunition may be issued in Form III to the applicants
for the following purposes, namely:-
(i)
theatrical performances and of rehearsals for such performances;
(ii)
in the production of films;
(iii)
in the production of television programmes;
(iv)
the organization and holding of historical re-enactments;
(v)
signaling for starting races or athletic meets.
(2)
The application for a license under this rule shall be submitted along with the following documents, namely: -
(i)
an undertaking confirming that the applicant shall not resort to conversion of firearms replica and blank firing firearms
into firearms;
(ii)
proof to the satisfaction of the licensing authority that the applicant is an actual user or a contractor for providing such
arms or ammunition on hire for the purposes specified in sub-rule (1);
(iii)
description of security measures pertaining to safe custody of arms or ammunition to be implemented by the applicant;
(iv)
an undertaking that the applicant or the person to whom the arms are given on hire, shall not use live ammunition;
(v)
details of the place where the records in respect of the issuance of arms or ammunition will be kept for inspection by the
licensing authority or by any Police Officer not below the rank of an Inspector.
43.
Acquisition, possession and export of arms or ammunition by tourists visiting India.
(1)
A license in Form VI may be granted to any tourist, to acquire, possess (but not use) during the course of his stay in
India, carrying and export out of India, of arms and ammunition specified in category III, category IV and category V of
Schedule I:
Provided that every application for the grant of a license for export of arms specified in category IV of Schedule I shall be
Page 26/180
----- PAGE 27 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
accompanied by a certificate from the Director-General of Archeology of the Central Government to the effect that the
arms intended to be exported do not fall within the definition of "antiquity" under the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act,
1972 (
52 of 1972
).
(2)
The licensee shall produce the arms or ammunition, at the time of leaving India and return his license to the passport
checking authority, or other authority empowered by the district magistrate in this behalf, at the port or other place of
departure from India.
(3)
The passport checking authority or other authority to whom the license is returned by the licensee, shall forward the
same to the authority who issued it, with the remarks that the arms or ammunition have been duly exported.
44.
License to an International sports person for participation in shooting events in India.
(1)
An application may be made in Form A-5 by any sports person of any age group from any country who is eligible to
participate in the shooting competition or event or series of competitions or series of events or for training being
organized in India by any sports body recognized by the Ministry of Sports and Youth Affairs, Government of India
during the period of the event or competition or training and at the venue fixed for the same, and a license may be
granted to such applicant for arms and ammunition specified in category III of Schedule I so far as practicable, one
month prior to the expected date of arrival of the sports person in India.
(2)
The license in the case of a group application may be issued in the name of the manager or the official accompanying
the team or group and the details of the arms and ammunition may be given in an annexure attached to and forming part
of the license by the issuing licensing authority.
(3)
Where a license is granted to an International sports person or persons under sub-rule (1), the license together with the
passport and visa of such person, shall be presented to the licensing authority of the port of arrival, and the said
authority shall after obtaining the undertaking in writing from the licensee that he shall not sell or transfer the arms or
ammunition to anyone in India, endorse the license making it valid for a period of six months or till the validity of visa,
whichever is earlier, from the date of endorsement and shall also make an entry in the passport or the visa giving full
particulars of the arms and ammunition for which the license has been granted.
(4)
The licensee shall produce the arms or ammunition at the time of leaving India along with the consumption certificate of
the ammunition issued by the authority under whose control the shooting competition or event or training was conducted
and return his license to the passport checking authority, or other authority empowered by the district magistrate in this
behalf, at the port or other place of departure from India.
(5)
The passport checking authority or other authority to whom the license is returned by the licensee under sub-rule (4),
shall forward the same to the authority who issued it, with the remarks that the arms or unconsumed ammunition, have
been duly re-exported.
45.
Other temporary categories of import/export licenses.
(1)
A license in Form VI may be granted of arms and ammunition specified in category III of Schedule I so far as
practicable, six months prior to the expected date of arrival in India, to the following persons, namely: -
(a)
a foreign visitor, to display the arms and ammunition at a trade show or at a sport trade show;
(b)
an official of a foreign government or a distinguished foreign visitor or a foreign law enforcement officer, on an officially
approved policing assignment, on the recommendations of the Government of India in the Ministry of External Affairs;
Page 27/180
----- PAGE 28 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(c)
a person who, for other legitimate reasons, has received prior approval of the Government of India and where the
applicant submits an undertaking to the effect that he -
(i)
has lawful possession of the arm;
(ii)
has knowledge of the safe handling, safe-storage and use of the arm in question and where applicable, its public
display;
(iii)
has need to possess the arm and cannot reasonably satisfy that need by means other than the possession of an arm;
and
(iv)
has attained the minimum age of twenty-one years.
(2)
The validity of the license so granted under sub-rule (1) shall commence only from the date of endorsement of the said
license at the time of arrival at any port in India and the arms and ammunition covered by the license shall not be used
till the date of endorsement of the license.
(3)
Where a license is granted to any person under sub-rule (1), the license together with the passport and the visa of the
person, shall be presented to the licensing authority of the port of disembarkment, and the said authority shall after
obtaining the undertaking in writing from the licensee that he shall not sell or transfer the arms or ammunition to any one
in India, endorse the license making it valid for a period of six months from the date of endorsement or till the validity of
visa, whichever is earlier and shall also make an entry in the passport or the visa giving full particulars of the arms and
ammunition for which the license has been granted.
(4)
The passport checking authority or any other officer empowered by the district magistrate in this behalf at the port or
other place of departure from India shall verify that the arms entered in the license are being taken out of India by the
licensee and recover the license and forward the same to the authority who issued it with the remarks that the arms
have been duly re-exported.
46.
License for firearm free zones.
(1)
The owner or lawful occupier of a premises may submit an application in Form A-14 along with supporting documents
specified therein, to have the said premises declared a Firearm Free Zone, to the licensing authority of the place of
jurisdiction of the applicant -
(i)
stating the reasons why the premises must be declared as Firearm Free Zone;
(ii)
giving proof of capacity to maintain the premises as a Firearm Free Zone;
(iii)
describing the medium of communication to inform the public that the premises is a Firearm Free Zone.
(2)
The obligations of the licensee shall include -
(i)
to clearly identify and demarcate the premises declared as a Firearm Free Zone;
(ii)
to ensure that notices be displayed at all the main entrances or at strategic places on the premises or category of
premises both in English and local language declaring the premises as Firearm Free Zone;
(iii)
to ensure that the notices and signs are clearly visible and un-obscured at all times; and
(iv)
Page 28/180
----- PAGE 29 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
to notify the licensing authority of change, if any, in the information submitted at the time of application.
(3)
The licensing authority may issue a license in Form XV for the Firearm Free Zone to any educational institution including
schools, colleges, universities; or religious places, hospitals, courts, Government establishments, entertainment or
sports venues, restaurants, hotels, shopping malls, cinema halls or such other public places on an application for such
license made under sub-rule (1).
(4)
The provisions of this rule for Firearm Free Zone shall not be applicable in the following cases -
(i)
to an individual who renders security and surveillance duty to a lawful owner or occupier of the Firearm Free Zone; and
(ii)
to a law enforcement officer acting in his official capacity.
Chapter IV
Deposit of arms and ammunition
47.
Deposit of arms and ammunition under section 21.
(1)
When a licensing authority decides to suspend or revoke a license or to refuse to renew it, he shall, communicate his
decision in writing to the licensee, requiring him to deposit under section 21, within such time as may be specified in the
order suspending, revoking or refusing to renew the license, the arms or ammunition covered by the license, either with
the officer-in-charge of the nearest police station or with a dealer holding a license in Form VIII, or, in case he is a
member of the armed forces of the Union, in the unit armory:
Provided that in case of death of a licensee, the arms or ammunition shall be deposited by the legal representative with
the officer-in-charge of the nearest police station or with a dealer holding a license in Form VIII, within a period of three
months of the death of the licensee.
(2)
Subject to the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 21,the licensee or, in the case of his death, his legal representative
shall be entitled to sell or otherwise dispose of the arms or ammunition to any person lawfully entitled to possess the
same and to receive the sale-proceeds, if any, during the period specified in column (3) of the Table in case of deposit of
arms and ammunition mentioned in column (2) of the said table in sub-rule (6):
Provided that if the arms or ammunition have not been disposed of or their possession by the licensee or his legal
representative, as the case may be, has not become lawful within the period so specified, then such arms or ammunition
shall, subject to the proviso to sub-section (3) of section 21, be forfeited to the Government by an order of the district
magistrate.
(3)
Where any arm or ammunition is deposited by an owner under sub-section (1) of section 21, in a police station or unit
armory or with a dealer holding a license in Form VIII, the officer-in-charge of the police station or unit armory or the
licensed dealer, as the case may be, shall attach to each article deposited, a card and issue a receipt to the depositor
and send a copy to the authority who granted the license or renewed it last, containing the following particulars, namely:-
(i)
Description (No. etc.) of the article;
(ii)
Particulars of license or exemption (if any);
(iii)
Name and address of the depositor;
(iv)
Serial No. in register and date of deposit;
(v)
Date due for forfeiture or disposal;
(vi)
Signature of the depositor; and
Page 29/180
----- PAGE 30 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(vii)
Signature of the dealer or officer-in-charge of police station or unit armory.
(4)
Any arms or ammunition deposited in a unit armory under sub-section (1) of section 21 may, unless returned or
disposed of earlier, be transferred, after the expiry of a period of thirty days after such deposit, to the nearest police
station.
(5)
Any arms or ammunition deposited in a police station under sub-section (1) of section 21, which have not been returned
or disposed of ?
(i)
with-in thirty days of the deposit with it; and
(ii)
transferred from the unit armory under sub-rule (4)
may be transferred by the officer-in-charge of the police station for the sake of better maintenance or safety, to a police
armory in the district/ taluqa headquarters or such other place as may be specified by the district magistrate, in
accordance with such instructions as may be issued by the State Government for the purpose:
Provided that the district magistrate may, if he considers it necessary, extend the said period of thirty days up-to ninety
days and intimation of such transfer shall be given to the depositor of the article and to the licensing authority who,
granted or last renewed the license.
(6)
The depositor or his legal representative may exercise his rights to receive back or dispose of any arms or ammunition
under sub-section (2) of section 21, within the period specified in column (3), in case of deposit of the arms or
ammunition specified in column (2) of the table given below, namely:-
Table
S.No.
Reason of deposit of arms and ammunition
Effective date
(1)
(2)
(3)
1.
Due to contravention by the owner of any provisions of the
Act, the rules or conditions of license
One year from the date of such deposit
2.
Due to suspension or revocation of license or for any other
reason
One year from the date of the order of suspension or
revocation
3.
Where the arms or ammunition are already deposited
One year from the date of the order of revocation, suspension
or refusal to renew the license
4.
When a notification is issued under section 4
One year from the date of said notification
5.
Where an appeal is preferred by the owner under section 18
One year from the date of the final order
6.
Where the arms or ammunition are -
Page 30/180
----- PAGE 31 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
the subject of a legal suit or dispute; or
From the date of termination of the dispute or the date of
final order; or
owned or inherited by a person who has not completed the age
of twenty-one years
One year from the date of completion by that person of the age
of twenty one years
7.
Where the owner is on active service outside India
from the date of his return to India
Note 1 - The period of one year may be extended by the
district magistrate by another six months in case the depositor
or owner is found unfit for any reasons to carry such arms or
ammunition.
Note 2 - The State Government may further extend the said
period beyond six months by another six months.
(7)
Any arms or ammunition not returned or disposed of before the expiry of the period specified under sub-rule (6) shall be
transferred to the district malkhana or such other place, by order of the district magistrate, for the purpose of forfeiture
under sub-section (3) of section 21:
Provided that the district magistrate shall, before making such order of forfeiture, serve a notice as required under
sub-section (4) of section 21 in like manner as for service of summons under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974):
Provided further that in the case of the depositor being a member of the armed forces of the Union the notice, shall be
served personally, through the Commanding Officer, of such member.
(8)
Charges for maintaining the articles deposited may be levied at such rates as may be fixed from time to time by the
State Government.
48.
Deposit of arms and ammunition for safe custody (otherwise than under section 21).
(1)
(a)
A person lawfully possessing arms or ammunition may deposit them for safe custody with a dealer holding a license in
Form VIII or in a police station or, if he is a member of the armed forces of the Union, in a unit armory.
(b)
Before accepting the arms or ammunition for deposit otherwise than under section 21, the dealer or officer-in-charge of
a police station or unit armory shall satisfy himself that they are possessed under a valid license issued under the Act
and these rules or under exemption from the need for such license.
(c)
Members of the armed forces of the Union may be allowed to keep their arms or ammunition in safe custody in a unit
armory only during the tenure of their service.
(2)
Where the arms or ammunition have been deposited under sub-rule (1), the dealer or officer-in-charge of the police
station or unit armory, as the case may be, shall attach to each article deposited, a card, easily distinguishable from that
described in rule 47 and issue a receipt to the depositor and send a copy to the authority who granted the license or
renewed it last, containing the following particulars, namely:-
(i)
Description (No. etc.) of the article;
(ii)
Name and address of the depositor;
(iii)
Page 31/180
----- PAGE 32 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Particulars of license or exemption (if any);
(iv)
Serial No. in register and date of deposit;
(v)
Date of expiry of the license;
(vi)
Date up to which deposited;
(vii)
Signature of the depositor; and
(viii)
Signature of the dealer or officer-in-charge of police station or unit armory.
(3)
In the event of failure to get the license renewed, the arms or ammunition shall continue to be possessed by the dealer
on the authority of his license in Form VIII or by the officer-in-charge of the police station or unit armory; but, if the
license is not renewed, after its expiry, the dealer or the officer-in-charge of the police station or unit armory shall bring
this to the notice of the district magistrate for such action as he may consider necessary:
Provided that the articles shall in no case be returned to the owner unless the license to possess them is renewed or a
new license is obtained.
(4)
The depositor may be charged a fee for the custody of the articles deposited and maintenance thereof at the rates
specified in the following table, namely:-
Table
1.
For each firearm
Two hundred rupees per month or portion thereof
2.
For every other arm or package of ammunition
One hundred rupees per month or portion thereof
(5)
Any extra charges for maintenance of the articles in good condition may be levied at such rates as may be fixed from
time to time by the State Government.
(6)
The fee charged for depositing the arms or ammunition in the police station and unit armory shall be deposited in the
treasury.
49.
Records and returns of articles deposited.
(1)
The dealer or the officer-in-charge of the police station or unit armory, shall maintain such registers as specified in rule
75.
(2)
A copy of the entries in the registers relating to the quarters ending on the last day of March, June, September and
December, each year, certified as true copy under the signature of the dealer or officer-in-charge of the police station or
unit armory, as the case may be, shall be forwarded, to the district magistrate as early as possible after the expiry of
each quarter.
(3)
The licensed dealer or the officer-in-charge of the police station or unit armory or officer-in-charge of police armory in the
district/ taluqa headquarters, where the arms or ammunition are kept, shall submit to the district magistrate by the 15th
December each year, a report showing the particulars of arms or ammunition in their custody which have, or will become
liable to forfeiture by the end of that year.
(4)
(a)
Page 32/180
----- PAGE 33 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
The licensed dealer, the officer-in-charge of the police station or unit armory or officer-in-charge of police armory in the
district/ taluqa headquarters where the arms or ammunition are kept, shall establish an online electronic connectivity
under his user-id with the NDAL system to provide for a weekly electronic online transfer of data regarding firearms and
ammunition deposited for the week.
(b)
If any circumstances occur which prevent the authorities referred to in clause (a) to submit online returns on NDAL
system by means of electronic network connectivity, the local licensing authority shall be informed immediately in order
to establish alternative means to submit the weekly returns.
(c)
Weekly returns for the current week shall be submitted by the close of business hours on every Saturday.
50.
Inspection.
(1)
Arms and ammunition deposited in a police station or with a dealer and those transferred to the district malkhana and
the register maintained for the purpose shall be inspected periodically by the district magistrate or other officer appointed
by the State Government in this behalf in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed by the State
Government.
(2)
The arms or ammunition deposited in a unit armory and the register maintained for this purpose shall be inspected
periodically by the officer commanding the unit or any other officer empowered by him in accordance with the procedure
prescribed by the Government of the State, where the unit is for the time being located.
Chapter V
Manufacturers, Arms Dealers and Gunsmiths
Part I ? Manufacture and Proof Test of firearms
51.
License for manufacture and proof test.
(1)
The licensing authority while granting a license in Form VII shall show clearly in the license form the categories and
description of the arms or ammunition allowed to be manufactured or proof tested or both, by the licensee as specified in
these rules.
(2)
Proof-testing of firearms manufactured by a licensed manufacturer shall be carried out only in accordance with the
provisions contained in rule 59 in this regard and no manufactured firearms shall be allowed to be sold which have not
been duly proof tested.
(3)
A copy of every license granted in Form VII by the licensing authority shall forthwith be sent to the district magistrate of
the place of manufacturing facility of the licensee and the Home Department of the State Government concerned.
[***]
[Omitted '(4) Entities granted fresh licenses under the provisions of these rules shall be known as new manufacturers
whereas the entities or persons already holding manufacturing licenses under the Arms Rules, 1962 in Form IX shall be
known as existing manufacturers.' by Notification No. G.S.R. 1342(E), dated 27.10.2017 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
.[(5) Single licence in Form VII may be issued to an applicant company applying for a multi-unit facility which may be
set-up within the same State or in different States within the country, for the grant of a licence under these rules:
Provided that an applicant company may apply for a separate licence for each unit and in that case, separate licence
shall be issued for each of the units.;]
[Subsitituted by Notification No. G.S.R 1342(E), dated 27.10.2017 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
(6)
A licensing committee within the Ministry of Home Affairs shall be constituted to review and process the applications for
grant of licenses for manufacture of arms and ammunition's for the new manufacturers and for all matters related to
existing manufacturers including applications for capacity revision by issuance of general or special order under these
rules.
Page 33/180
----- PAGE 34 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
52.
Type of firearms for grant of a license in Form VII for manufacture and proof test.
- The licensing authority may grant a license in Form VII for the following types of arms for manufacture or proof test or
both, namely:-
(i)
I - Small arms
(ii)
II - Light weapons
(iii)
III - Items configured for military use:
Provided that if any of the items falling under type I, II or III include any prohibited arms or ammunition, the licensing
authority shall obtain prior permission of the Central Government under section 7 of the Act before grant of a license in
Form VII.
53.
Applications for a license in Form VII.
(1)
Every manufacturer applying for a fresh license under these rules shall be an Indian company incorporated under the
Companies Act, 2013 (
18 of 2013
): Provided that the applicant company is owned and controlled by resident Indian citizens or by Indian companies,
owned and controlled by resident Indian citizens except in respect of a company having Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)
beyond forty-nine percent:
Provided further that the Chief Executive of the company is a resident Indian and the management of the applicant
company is in Indian hands with majority representation on the Board excluding nominee or independent directors
except in respect of a company having Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) beyond forty-nine percent.
(2)
The company applying for a license in Form VII under these rules shall provide -
(a)
original or certified copies of the company's founding documents including Memorandum and Articles of Association,
Certificate of Registration of the company under the Companies Act, 2013 (
18 of 2013
), CIN (Corporate Identification Number), proof of address of its registered office, Permanent Account Number (PAN)
card and certified lists of directors and shareholders as on the date of application;
(b)
copy of Director Identification Number (DIN) of all the directors;
(c)
identification proof along with two recent photographs of all the directors and the responsible person as under:-
(i)
Aadhar Card; or
(ii)
in case the director or the responsible person does not have Aadhar Card, a written declaration in the form of an
Affidavit to be submitted in this regard along with an alternative identification proof which may include Passport or
Voter's Identification Card or Permanent Account Number (PAN) card or official Identity Card;
(d)
residence proof - in case the director or responsible person does not have Aadhar Card or Passport, alternative
residence proof to be submitted which may include Voter's Identification Card or Electricity Bill or Landline Telephone
Bill or Rent Deed or Lease Deed or Property documents or any other document to the satisfaction of the licensing
authority;
(e)
copy of the latest balance sheet of the company and audited copy of the Net-worth certificate duly certified by a
Chartered Accountant;
Page 34/180
----- PAGE 35 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(f)
estimated project outlay and means of finance for funding the project duly certified by a Chartered Accountant;
(g)
certified copy of the board resolution for making an application under these rules along with full particulars of the
responsible person authorized to sign the same;
(h)
details of foreign control and/or ownership in the applicant company, as applicable, duly certified by a Chartered
Accountant;
(i)
complete details of the arms and/or ammunition intended to be manufactured or proof-tested or both, including their
types and quantities;
(j)
a declaration with proof thereof to the effect that it has acquired the land for setting up the manufacturing plant or for
setting up proof-test facility along with details of an access road to the proposed site, installation of electricity and water
connection, particulars of land development carried out and any other information deemed necessary by the licensing
authority.
54.
Procedure for grant of license in Form VII.
(1)
The license for manufacture or proof-test or both shall be granted by the licensing authority to an applicant who fulfills
the eligibility criteria laid down in these rules provided that no adverse remarks are received from various government
agencies entrusted for verifying the antecedents of the applicant company or its directors or responsible person, as the
case may be.
(2)
[ A licence granted in Form VII shall be valid for the life time of the licensee company:
Provided that the licensee shall be required to setup the facility for manufacture or proof test of arms and/or ammunition,
recruit technical and administrative staff, develop and proof test proto-types of arms and ammunition, conduct trial runs
and any other activity related to the setting up of the facility for the manufacture or proof-test of arms and ammunition,
within a period of seven years from the date of grant of a licence:
Provided further that the licensing authority may extend the period of seven years by a further period of three years, on
the basis of a written representation received from the licensee and after recording reasons for granting such an
extension:
Provided also that if during the period of seven years or the extended period of three years, as the case may be, the
licensee fails to setup the manufacturing or proof-test facility or is unable to take other operating steps required for
starting commercial production, the licence shall be suspended or revoked.;]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1342(E), dated 27.10.2017 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
(3)
(a)
No manufacturing facility shall be set-up in the border areas, restricted areas or prohibited areas and any area declared
as 'disturbed area' by the Central Government.
(b)
The manufacturer applicant may setup the facilities in Special Economic Zones (SEZ), Industrial Parks and other
industrial areas in addition to any other location duly approved by the State Government concerned for this purpose.
(4)
The licensee shall make an application on its letter head for commencement of commercial production accompanied by
-
(i)
a declaration to the effect that the licensee has installed the plant and machinery, successfully carried out the trial run
and is ready for commencement of commercial production of the items licensed for manufacture or proof-test;
(ii)
a declaration to the effect that the licensee has installed and applied the requisite quality control system for manufacture
Page 35/180
----- PAGE 36 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
or proof test of firearms or ammunition;
(iii)
a list of particulars of the key technical personnel employed by the licensee for carrying out manufacture or proof-test
facility along with the proof of their professional expertise and training undergone and identification documents as
specified for directors in rule 53;
(iv)
a declaration to the effect that the licensee has fully complied with the security guidelines as contained in the Security
Manual prepared by the Ministry of Defense, Department of Defense Production, for licensed defense industries.
(5)
The licensing authority shall get conducted a security and appraisal audit to ensure that the applicant licensee has
complied with the declaration specified in clause (iv) of sub-rule (4).
55.
Other requirements as to licenses granted in Form VII.
(1)
The licensee shall preferably be self-sufficient in areas of product design and development and have maintenance and
life cycle support facility of the product to be manufactured and the items to be manufactured shall meet the International
or Indian accredited quality standards and norms with special emphasis on indigenous designing:
Provided that no infringement of patents or copyrights, shall be permissible.
(2)
The licensee shall submit the standards and testing procedures for manufacture of firearms and ammunition to the
Government nominated Quality Assurance Agency, which will inspect the finished product in the trial run and conduct
audit of the Quality Assurance Procedures in respect of design, workmanship, aesthetics and other related parameters:
Provided that the quality specifications for manufacturing, shall be as specified by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS)
and the Director General of Quality Assurance, Department of Defense Production or any other international quality
assurance agency.
(3)
The manufactured products shall contain the warranty clause accompanied by service and safety manuals and listing of
parts at the time of every sale.
(4)
Any restrictions under a joint venture agreement which may be imposed by the foreign partner shall have no legal
consequence on the Indian entity that is granted a license under these rules.
(5)
The licensing authority may impose such additional restrictions in case of certain sensitive type of arms and ammunition,
such as those configured for use by armed forces or not permitted to be possessed by civilians.
(6)
[ The small arms and light weapons produced by the manufacturers may be allowed for export subject to the approval of
the Ministry of Home Affairs in consultation with the Ministry of External Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry
of Commerce, on a case to case basis.;]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R 1342(E), dated 27.10.2017 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
(7)
The permissible category of arms and ammunition specified in Schedule I may be permitted for sale to persons or
dealers, holding a valid arms license under these rules, with the prior approval of the Central Government in the Ministry
of Home Affairs.
(8)
Prior approval of the licensing authority shall be mandatory for any change in the directorship of the company or any
change in the key managerial personnel as defined in clause (51) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (
18 of 2013
) or any change in the responsible person of the company.
(9)
Prior approval of the licensing authority shall be mandatory for any change in control or ownership, either directly or
indirectly, of the company or any change in shareholding resulting into dilution of promoters shareholding (both Indian
Page 36/180
----- PAGE 37 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
and foreign) or any change in shareholding of the company or any change in the beneficial interest in the shareholding
of the company beyond five percent (5%).
(10)
(a)
A license granted in Form VII shall not be transferable from the licensee to another company, without the written
authorization of the licensing authority.
(b)
An application for transfer shall be accompanied by complete documents and be subject to the same conditions as
applicable at the time of initial grant of license specified in rule 53.
(c)
While considering an application for transfer of a manufacturing license, the licensing authority shall assess the eligibility
of the company, to whom the license is to be transferred.
(11)
[ A licensee company having a licence in Form VII shall be permitted to have enhanced annual production of firearms
and/or ammunition upto fifteen per cent. of the quantity endorsed on his licence, by giving prior intimation to the
licensing authority for which no further endorsement on the licence as to capacity shall be required.;]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1342(E), dated 27.10.2017 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
56.
Obligations of licensees having licensee Form VII.
(1)
The validity of a license granted in Form VII shall be subject to the manufacturer's compliance with the conditions
contained in these rules and in the license.
(2)
The licensee having a license in Form VII shall mark all firearms and ammunition that it manufactures in the manner as
specified in rule 58.
(3)
The licensee company shall comply with the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) policy of the Government of India and the
regulations framed under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (
42 of 1999
) as notified by the Reserve Bank of India in case of foreign direct investment in the said company.
(4)
The licensee shall comply with the security guidelines as contained in the Security Manual prepared by the Ministry of
Defense, department of defense production, for licensed defense industries.
(5)
The licensee shall maintain records of all firearms, their parts, components and/or ammunition manufactured by it as
specified in rule 65 in addition to the conditions specified or forming part of the license in Form VII.
(6)
The licensee shall store all firearms, their parts, components and/or ammunition manufactured by it as specified in Form
VII.
(7)
The licensee shall permit, and shall cooperate fully with, inspections carried out by the licensing authority (or such other
body as may be designated by it) of the licensee's facilities, particularly in respect to the safe and secure storage of
firearms and ammunition.
(8)
The licensee shall immediately notify the licensing authority on occurrence of any theft, loss or unintentional destruction
of firearms or ammunition stored at its premises.
(9)
The licensee shall notify the licensing authority within three working days on occurrence of any of the following events,
namely:-
(i)
change of address of its registered office;
Page 37/180
----- PAGE 38 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(ii)
change in the directors, in which case the licensee shall provide the licensing authority with the names and addresses of
each new director, along with the particulars and documents specified in rule 53 for directors.
(10)
The licensee shall ensure that all employees who have access to completed manufactured firearms or ammunition
within the manufacturing or proof-testing facility are technically competent to handle the same.
(11)
The work-in-progress and finished goods inventory for each type of firearm and ammunition at any given time shall not
exceed two times of the total annual turnover in the last financial year or annual licensed capacity, whichever is lower:
Provided that in case of a company having multi-unit facility, total of the annual licensed capacity or total turnover of the
company shall be considered.
(12)
The licensee shall maintain complete database of inventory and distribution chain down to the dealer/end user for
domestic distribution and end users in case of export.
(13)
The licensee shall carry out only batch production in a manufacturing cycle.
57.
Import of machinery for manufacturing arms and ammunition and other parts etc.
(1)
The licensee having a license in Form VII shall submit an application along with the complete list of machinery to be
installed, to be procured locally or imported.
(2)
The license for acquisition, possession, import or transport of machinery shall be issued in Form I.
(3)
Import of arms specified in category II of Schedule I and raw material in the form of metal, alloy, fiber, polymers, wood
and other allied items, for manufacturing of such arms, shall be allowed subject to the provisions of the Foreign Trade
Policy notified under the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act 1992 (
22 of 1992
) from time to time by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) and on the recommendations of the Ministry of
External Affairs (MEA) taking into account international obligations and commitments.
(4)
The Ministry of Home Affairs may, on an application containing full technical details allow import of such parts of arms
and ammunition which are not possible to be manufactured locally, after obtaining the opinion of the Department of
Defense Production by grant of an authorization for such import in accordance with the procedure for import under these
rules.
58.
Marking of firearms and ammunition at the time of manufacture.
(1)
All firearms shall have applied to them, at the time of their manufacture, unique markings containing the following
information, namely:-
(i)
the country of manufacture;
(ii)
the name of the manufacturer;
(iii)
a serial number unique to the manufacturer;
(iv)
year of manufacture;
(this information may be incorporated into the serial number)
(v)
firearm type/ model;
Page 38/180
----- PAGE 39 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(vi)
caliber;
(vii)
proof-marks; and
(viii)
such other additional information if the firearm is intended for an Indian domestic State entity viz. military, Central Armed
Police Forces, Police etc.
(2)
Markings shall be expressed alphanumerically (i.e. they may consist of both letters and numbers) in the format given in
the table below:-
Table
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
XX
XXXX
99
99
99999
99
Country of Manufacture
(2 digit ISO Country
Code)
IN for India
Manufacturer's Name or code
Year of manufacture (2 numbers)
Type/ Model/ Code
Serial Number
Caliber
(3)
Markings shall be applied to a component of the firearm that is essential to its operation, such as -
(i)
the frame/ receiver;
(ii)
barrel;
(iii)
slide, cylinder, bolt or breech block; and
(iv)
any other part or component essential to the operation of the firearm.
(4)
Markings shall be applied to an exposed surface of the firearm by using the stamping method at the time of their
manufacture and stamped marking shall have a depth of at least 0.20 mm.
(5)
The applied marking shall be -
(i)
conspicuous without technical aids or tools;
(ii)
easily recognisable;
Page 39/180
----- PAGE 40 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(iii)
readable;
(iv)
durable; and
(v)
recoverable (as far as is technically possible).
(6)
The smallest packaging units of ammunition for firearms shall be marked containing the following information, namely:-
(i)
country of manufacture;
(ii)
name of the manufacturer;
(iii)
lot or batch number unique to the manufacturer;
(iv)
year of manufacture;
(this information may be incorporated into the lot or batch number),
(v)
caliber; and
(vi)
type.
(7)
Individual cartridges may also be marked, which may include the following information, namely: -
(i)
country of manufacture;
(ii)
name of the manufacturer;
(iii)
lot or batch number unique to the manufacturer;
(iv)
caliber; and
(v)
type.
59.
Proof test of firearms.
(1)
A new manufacturer may set up a proof test facility for gun barrels or completed firearms.
(2)
The facility shall be located within its premises separately from its arms manufacturing unit.
(3)
A manufacturer who intends to set-up a proof testing facility shall make an application in Form A-6 along with the
application for arms and ammunition manufacturing license.
(4)
The application under sub-rule (3) for proof-testing facility shall be examined by the Ministry of Home Affairs in
consultation with the Directorate General of Quality Assurance (DGQA), Ministry of Defense and in accordance with the
guidelines specified for manufacturing license.
(5)
The existing manufacturers shall get their barrels or completed firearms proof tested either from the ordnance factories
or other proof houses having proof test facilities under these rules.
(6)
Every licensee having proof-testing facility shall be responsible for the security and disposal of waste such as rejected
Page 40/180
----- PAGE 41 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
barrels or completed firearms.
(7)
[Every licensee holding a licence in Form VII]
[Substituted 'Every licensee having a proof-test facility' by Notification No. G.S.R. 1342(E), dated 27.10.2017 (w.e.f.
15.7.2016).]
shall maintain a proof test register in the format of a secure electronic database in addition to the records specified in
rule 65 for sale or disposal of completed arms and ammunition.
(8)
The record to be maintained by the licensee under sub-rule (7) shall include the following particulars, namely:-
(i)
Serial numbers of gun-barrels or completed firearms manufactured;
(ii)
Date, month and year of manufacture;
(iii)
Date of dispatch of gun-barrels or completed firearms to proof house;
(iv)
Number and date of license (Transport License in Form XIII) under which gun-barrels or completed firearms sent for
proof test;
(v)
Date of receipt of gun-barrel or completed firearms after proof test;
(vi)
Result of proof test;
(vii)
Date of completion of gun if only the gun-barrel has been proved;
(viii)
Date on which completed firearm transferred to register for sale or transfer maintained under rule 65;
(ix)
Serial number in rectification register in case gun-barrel or completed firearm was not accepted in proof on initial
submission;
(x)
Remarks of inspecting officer;
(9)
[Every licensee having a licence in Form VII]
[Substituted 'Every licensee under this rule' by Notification No. G.S.R. 1342(E), dated 27.10.2017 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
shall maintain a rectification register containing details of the barrels or completed firearms not passed by proof house,
which shall include the following particulars, namely:-
(i)
Serial number;
(ii)
Serial number stamped on gun-barrel or completed firearm to be rectified;
(iii)
Number and date of proof house communication indicating rectifications to be made;
(iv)
Date on which gun-barrel or completed firearm re-submitted for proof test after rectification;
(v)
Date of receipt of gun-barrel or completed firearm after proof test and the result of proof test;
(vi)
Date of completion of firearm if gun-barrel or completed firearm has been proved;
(vii)
Date on which completed firearm transferred to Register for sale and transfer maintained under rule 65;
(viii)
Page 41/180
----- PAGE 42 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Remarks
(10)
The proof-test and the rectification records shall be inspected by the district magistrate of the area, or by an officer
nominated by him in this behalf, during July and January every year and during one surprise inspection in a calendar
year to verify the following, namely:-
(i)
serial numbers on gun-barrels or completed firearms are stamped in the strict order in which they are manufactured;
(ii)
entries of sale or transfer are made promptly and tally with record of such transactions under rule 65;
(iii)
the conditions of the license are strictly complied with.
(11)
A Transport license in Form XIII may be issued by the licensing authority on an application for transport of gun-barrels or
completed firearms to proof house provided the license in Form VII is valid on the date of issuance of such Transport
license.
(12)
Transport license issued under sub-rule (11) for transport of gun-barrels or completed firearms to proof houses shall
indicate separately total quantity of gun-barrels or completed firearms to be dispatched for proof test for the first time
and for rectification of defects.
(13)
The licensee shall be eligible to submit gun-barrels or completed firearms for proof test after rectification of defects
without any limit on the number of occasions for such submission:
Provided that the licensee shall complete the necessary rectifications within a period of two years from the date of
communication of first test results of the defects issued by the concerned proof house.
(14)
The gun-barrels or completed firearms for proof test which are unfit or beyond rectification, shall be mutilated by the
proof house and the decision of the officer-in-charge of proof house concerned in this regard shall be final:
Provided that the mutilated parts that are capable of being utilized, shall be returned by the proof house to the licensee.
(15)
The sale or transfer of proof tested gun-barrels alone shall be prohibited and the gun-barrels after proof test shall be
assembled as a complete gun only by the licensee authorized to manufacture it.
(16)
The gun-barrels or completed firearms manufactured during a calendar year shall be proof-tested within a period of
eighteen months from the date of the manufacture, failing which, it shall be considered to have been manufactured
during the calendar year of the proof-test.
60.
Capacity revision and applicability of new norms to existing manufacturers.
(1)
The existing manufacturers may apply for grant of a fresh license in Form VII in accordance with the procedure specified
in rule 51.
(2)
The existing manufacturer may apply for enhancement or restoration or revision or re-fixation of its licensed capacity by
an application made in this regard with the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs with the recommendation
of the State Government concerned, along with the following documents, namely:-
(i)
a copy of the existing manufacturing license;
(ii)
certified copies of the annual accounts of the licensee for the last five years duly certified by a Chartered Accountant;
(iii)
details of the plant and machinery and manufacturing facility;
(iv)
Page 42/180
----- PAGE 43 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
certified copies of the stock records, manufactured items and sales turnover for the last five years duly certified by a
Chartered Accountant;
(v)
detailed proposal for enhancement of manufacturing capacity, project outlays, means of finance and justification for
economic viability and market demand projections for enhancement in capacity production duly certified by a Chartered
Accountant;
(vi)
track record and preparedness to comply with the security guidelines for manufacturers in Micro, Small and Medium
Enterprise (MSME) sector;
(vii)
declaration to comply with the provisions contained in these rules.
(3)
Every application under sub-rule (2), shall be examined by the licensing committee referred to in sub-rule (6) of rule 51,
which may allow the capacity revision provided the existing licensed capacity is fully utilized by the manufacturer.
(4)
[ Every existing manufacturer shall be issued a fresh licence in Form VII, within a period of [three years]
[Substituted by Notification No. 1342(E), dated 27.10.2017 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
of the notification of these rules, by the licensing authority and any permission or any exemption granted for
procurement of raw materials to the existing manufacturers under the Arms Rules, 1962 or under the Industrial
Development (Regulation) Act, 1951 or rules framed thereunder, shall be deemed to have been issued under the
corresponding provisions of these rules.
(5)
Every fresh licence issued in Form VII under sub-rule (4) shall be valid for the life time of the licensee and such licensee
shall be permitted to have enhanced annual production of firearms and/or ammunition upto fifteen per cent. of the
quantity endorsed on his licence by giving prior intimation to the licensing authority and for which no further
endorsement on the licence as to capacity, shall be required.;]
61.
License in case of an individual or a sole proprietor.
(1)
In case the existing manufacturer having a license in Form IX under the Arms Rules, 1962 is an individual or a
sole-proprietorship concern, the license shall expire ipso-facto on the death of the licensee.
(2)
The legal heirs of the licensee under this rule may prefer an application for grant of a fresh license in Form VII to the
Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs, which may consider such application on case to case basis.
62.
Admission of partners in case of existing manufacturer.
(1)
In case the existing manufacturer having a license in Form IX under the Arms Rules, 1962 is a partnership firm,
additional partners may be admitted in case of death of a partner wherein legal heirs of the deceased partner may be
admitted as a partner or partners in the firm subject to prior approval of the Central Government in the Ministry of Home
Affairs.
(2)
An existing partner, during his life time, may induct his legal heirs as an additional partner under this rule, on obtaining
written consent of all other existing partners, if any, in the partnership firm subject to prior approval of the Central
Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs.
63.
Conversion of partnership firm into a private limited company.
(1)
Any existing manufacturer, being a partnership firm, may make an application to the Central Government in the Ministry
of Home Affairs with the recommendations of the State Government concerned for grant of permission to convert the
firm into a private limited company and the Central Government may grant such permission provided that the
Page 43/180
----- PAGE 44 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Memorandum and Articles of Association of the newly incorporated Company contain that?
(a)
only the existing partners or family members are on the Board of Directors of the company;
(b)
restriction on the directors to transfer shares, assets or profits of the company to any outside person and on submission
of an undertaking to the effect that the applicant company has complied with the relevant provisions of the Companies
Act, 2013 (
18 of 2013
) in this regard.
(2)
No sale or transfer of the factory premises, inventory, machinery or other assets of the private limited company, referred
to in sub-rule (1) shall be permissible without the prior approval of the Central Government.
64.
Restoration of license of a discontinued business of an existing manufacturer.
- In case of a discontinued business, the legal heir of the deceased licensee, if he is a major, may make an application
for the grant of a fresh license in Form VII to the Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs within twelve
months of the death of the licensee and in case the legal heir is a minor, within twelve months from the date of his
attaining majority.
65.
Record of transactions to be maintained by licensees holding license in Form VII.
(1)
The manufacturer shall keep a register in the format of a secure electronic database known as the 'Firearms Stock
Register', wherein the following particulars shall be recorded: -
(a)
on the debit side, against a stock number, the date of manufacture, make, caliber, model and manufacturer's serial
number; and
(b)
on the credit side, against the stock number referred to in sub-rule (a), -
(i)
the date of sale of firearm;
(ii)
the name and address and license number of the dealer to whom the firearm is sold;
(iii)
the particulars of the Government department to whom the firearm is sold;
(iv)
the particulars and address of the person to whom the firearm was exported together with the particulars of the export
license issued under these rules by the licensing authority.
(2)
The manufacturer shall keep a register in the format of a secure electronic database known as 'the Ammunition Stock
Register', wherein the following particulars shall be recorded:-
(a)
on the debit side,-
(i)
the caliber, make and quantity of all ammunition manufactured, purchased or acquired;
(A)
the person from whom it was purchased or acquired; and
(B)
the reason for the purchase or acquisition.
(ii)
the lot number and the date of manufacture or receipt; and
(iii)
Page 44/180
----- PAGE 45 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
in the case of the ammunition being purchased or acquired -
(b)
on the credit side, -
(i)
the lot number and the date of sale or use by the manufacturer of the ammunition;
(ii)
the caliber, make and quantity of ammunition sold or used by the manufacturer;
(iii)
the name, address and license number of the dealer to whom the ammunition is sold; or
(iv)
the particulars of the Government department to whom the ammunition is sold; or
(v)
the name and address of the person to whom the ammunition was exported together with the particulars of the export
license issued under these rules by the licensing authority;
(vi)
the date of collection and the signature of the dealer or relevant Government official to whom the ammunition was
delivered.
(3)
(a)
The manufacturer shall keep updated stock sheets of all manufactured firearms and main firearm components.
(b)
The registers referred to in sub-rules (1) and (2) shall be kept at the business premises specified in the license.
(c)
All particulars of firearms and ammunition shall be recorded immediately by the licensee on manufacture, receipt,
transfer or use, as the case may be.
(4)
(a)
The manufacturer shall establish an online electronic connectivity under his user id with the NDAL system and shall
provide for a weekly electronic online transfer of data regarding firearms manufactured and sold or transferred and
ammunition manufactured and sold or transferred or consumed for the week, as recorded in the registers referred to in
sub-rules (1) and (2) .
(b)
If any circumstances occur which prevent a licensee to submit online returns on NDAL system by means of electronic
network connectivity, the local licensing authority shall be informed immediately in order to establish alternative means
to submit the weekly returns.
(c)
Weekly returns for the current week shall be submitted by the close of business hours on every Saturday.
66.
Enforcement powers as to inspection and confiscation.
(1)
(a)
The licensing authority shall from time to time, conduct inspections of manufacturing facilities and records, in order to
ensure compliance with the conditions of the license under the Act.
(b)
The inspection may include verification of inventory records, mechanism of marking of firearms, review of security
norms, personnel records and any other areas of relevance deemed appropriate by the inspecting team or as per the
instructions contained in the audit and inspection programme decided by the licensing authority.
(2)
Firearms, their parts, components or ammunition that have been illicitly manufactured shall be permanently confiscated
by the enforcement agencies.
(3)
Page 45/180
----- PAGE 46 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(a)
Firearms, their parts, components or ammunition that are suspected of having been illicitly manufactured may be seized
temporarily in respect of the following cases, namely:-
(i)
if a manufacturing license is suspended, revoked or canceled, or if it expires; or
(ii)
the holder of a manufacturing license is convicted of an offense; or
(iii)
the licensing authority has grounds to believe that an offense has been or is about to be committed and that the items to
be seized are either evidence of this or are themselves the subject matter of the offense involved.
(b)
Seized items that are found to have been illicitly manufactured shall be confiscated and the items that are found not to
have been illicitly manufactured shall be promptly returned to their owner.
(4)
(a)
Firearms, their parts, components or ammunition that have been illicitly manufactured shall be promptly disposed of,
preferably through destruction in accordance with these rules.
(b)
A method of disposal other than destruction may be used, provided that the firearms are first marked and registered,
and the method of disposal is recorded.
Part II ? Manufacture of Replica of Firearms
67.
License to manufacture replica of firearms.
(1)
A license in Form VII-B may be granted to any person, to manufacture replicas of antique (muzzle loading) and
contemporary (breech-loading) firearms for domestic market and export purposes.
(2)
The persons not holding any license or persons holding a license in Form I for possession of machinery, or in Form IX
for manufacture of firearms, under the Arms Rules, 1962 shall apply for a new license in Form VII-B for manufacture and
sale of replica of firearms within one year from the date of the notification of these rules.
68.
Inspection of samples of replica of firearms.
(1)
The manufacturers of replicas of firearms shall keep not more than fifty samples of each type of replicas at any given
time.
(2)
The manufacturer of replica of firearms shall, before commencement of manufacture, cause inspection by Directorate of
Inspection, Department of Defense Production, Ministry of Defense of sample of each type of replica at the cost to be
borne by the manufacturer, by submitting to the Directorate of Inspection ?
(i)
three specimens of each type of replica proposed to be manufactured;
(ii)
five copies of photos or drawings of each type of replica describing its main parts; and
(iii)
the original and one copy of the license issued in Form VII-B.
(3)
After inspection, the Directorate of Inspection shall certify on the photos or drawings the innocuousness of the replicas
and such certificates shall be sealed on each of the three specimens of replica submitted for inspection.
(4)
One sample of each type of replica inspected along with a certified copy of its photo or drawing shall be delivered to the
Ministry of Home Affairs for retention.
Page 46/180
----- PAGE 47 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(5)
The original license in Form VII-B along-with the remaining two samples of inspected replicas and two copies of certified
photos or drawing shall be sealed and delivered to the manufacturer who shall deposit one inspected specimen, one
certified copy of its photo or drawing with the district magistrate of the district in which the replicas are to be
manufactured.
(6)
The third inspected specimen and one copy of the certified photo or drawing shall be retained by the manufacturer.
(7)
The Directorate of Inspection shall retain the copy of the license in Form VII-B and two copies of the certified photos or
drawing.
69.
Markings of replicas of firearms.
(1)
The name of manufacturer shall be engraved on each replica manufactured for sale as below:
"Replica of fire-arm manufactured by Messrs
(Name of the firm and city) India".
(2)
The manufacturer shall also engrave on each replica -
(i)
type of replica;
(ii)
manufacturer's serial number; and
(iii)
date of the inspection of the specimen by the Directorate of Inspection.
Illustration:
If four different types are approved after inspection, the specimens will be described as A, B, C and D and the following
shall be engraved on each replica in addition to the name of manufacturer vide sub-rule (1):-
"A/001 (DD-MM-YYYY)" where,-
'A' represents the type of approved replica;
'001' represents the serial number; and
the date within brackets indicates the date of certificate of inspection recorded by the Directorate of Inspection.
70.
Maintenance of records by manufacturer of replicas of firearms.
(1)
The manufacturer shall maintain records of manufacture and sale of replicas in the format given in the following table,
namely:--
Table
Serial No. of firearm replica manufactured
Date of manufacture
Date of disposal
Name and address of purchaser if sold to
individual in India
Name and address of arms dealers to whom supplied
for sale or export
Particulars of export permission received if
exported directly
Particulars of certificate of innocuousness
Balance Stock in hand
(1)
(2)
(3)
Page 47/180
----- PAGE 48 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(2)
The records shall be inspected by the licensing authority of the jurisdiction of the licensee.
(3)
The replicas manufactured, which correspond to inspected samples shall be allowed to be sold in India or exported to
foreign countries.
(4)
(a)
The licensee shall establish an online electronic connectivity under his user-id with the NDAL system and provide for a
weekly electronic online transfer of data regarding replicas of firearms manufactured and sold for the week, as recorded
in the register referred to in sub-rule (1).
(b)
If any circumstances occur which prevent a licensee to submit online returns on NDAL system by means of electronic
network connectivity, the local licensing authority shall be informed immediately in order to establish alternative means
for submission of the weekly returns.
(c)
Weekly returns for the current week shall be submitted by the close of business hours on every Saturday.
71.
Procedure for making replicas of firearms innocuous.
- The replicas of firearms may be made innocuous through any of the following methods, namely:-
(i)
by cutting a slot of the size of 12 mm x 6 mm on the underside of the barrel at a distance of 25 mm from the breech end
in case the barrels of replicas are made of the same metal which is used for manufacture of barrels of firearm; or
(ii)
by manufacturing barrels of replicas with soft metals like brass; or
(iii)
by eliminating channel in the barrel or by not linking the channel with fire mechanism or by eliminating firing mechanism;
or
(iv)
by providing a solid barrel or by making the rear portion of the barrel solid while the front portion of the barrel is given the
shape of a normal barrel.
72.
Sale and export of replicas of firearms.
(1)
The grant of licenses for export of firearms replica under these rules shall be subject to the provisions of the Foreign
Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992 (
22 of 1992
).
(2)
Every transaction of sale or export shall be accompanied by a certificate from the manufacturer of firearm replica under
his seal and stamp certifying that the replicas being sold or exported have been rendered innocuous as firearms and
correspond to the sample inspected by the Directorate of Inspection, Department of Defense Production and shall
contain the following particulars: -
(i)
serial number of replica;
(ii)
date of inspection of sample;
Page 48/180
----- PAGE 49 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(iii)
year of manufacture; and
(iv)
name of the manufacturer.
(2)
(a)
The licensed capacity for the licenses granted for manufacture of replica of muzzle loading firearms shall be restricted to
a minimum quantity of 250 pieces per month and a maximum quantity of 500 pieces per month.
(b)
The licensed capacity for the manufacture of replica of contemporary or modern firearms shall be as approved by the
licensing authority as specified in column (5) of Schedule II.
Part III ? Arms and Ammunition Dealers
73.
Grant of licenses to arms and ammunition dealers.
(1)
An application for grant of a license in Form VIII for arms and ammunition dealers shall be made in Form A-8, along with
the following documents, namely:-
(i)
a written declaration along with self-certified copies of drawings stating that the applicant has facilities available of a
strong room for the safe custody of the firearms and ammunition;
(ii)
a written undertaking with specific reference to the steps taken in connection with the safe custody of the firearms and
ammunition including provision for access control, close circuit television system, security guards, fire-fighting devices,
etc.;
(iii)
verification forms containing the name and address of every person authorized to trade on behalf of the applicant at the
premises, who must possess the requisite training for safe handling of firearms:
Provided that the Central Government may specify additional conditions on the conduct of business by the dealers
having place of business in any area declared as a 'disturbed area' under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act, 1958
(AFSPA) (28 of 1958) or under section 24A or 24B of the Act, by passing a general or special order in this regard.
(2)
An application for renewal of license in Form VIII shall be made at least sixty days prior to the expiry of the said license
with the licensing authority along with the documents mentioned in sub-rule (1).
(3)
The license granted in Form VIII shall be valid for a period of five years and it shall specify the types of arms and/or
ammunition that may be sold or kept for sale and that may be deposited for safe custody under rule 48 or under Section
21.
74.
License for restricted category of firearms and ammunition to arms and ammunition dealers.
- The Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs may, by a license granted by it in Form VIII authorize selected
dealers to buy, sell or keep for sale a specified amount of firearms and ammunition of category I(b) or I(c) specified in
Schedule I and the said licensee shall not sell or transfer any firearms or ammunition of such category to any person,
without obtaining a prior confirmation from the licensing authority of the jurisdiction of the holder of the license that the
licensee has been issued the said license to possess such restricted firearm or ammunition.
75.
Records of transactions to be maintained by arms and ammunition dealers.
(1)
The licensee shall keep a register named as 'the Firearms Stock Register', containing the following particulars, namely:-
(a)
on the debit side, -
(i)
Page 49/180
----- PAGE 50 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
a stock number that must be clearly affixed by means of a temporary marking on the firearm;
(ii)
the make, type, caliber of the firearm, as well as every manufacturer's serial number or additional identification mark that
is reflected on the firearm;
(iii)
the date of receipt of the firearm;
(iv)
in case of trade transfer, the full name, license number, period of validity of license, UIN and physical address of the
manufacturer or dealer from whom the firearm was purchased or acquired along with the particulars of the purchase
invoice, challan, transport documents and details of the transport license in Form XII, if applicable;
(v)
in case of private transfer, the full name, license number, period of validity of license, UIN, physical address of the
licensee, the authorization to sell issued by the concerned licensing authority to the licensee or his legal heirs from
whom the firearm was purchased or acquired and the signature of the person from whom the firearm was acquired.
(b)
on the credit side, against the stock number referred to in sub rule (1),-
(i)
the date of sale of firearm;
(ii)
in case of trade transfer, the full name, license number, period of validity of license, UIN and physical address of the
dealer to whom the firearm was sold or transferred along with the particulars of the sale invoice, challan, transport
documents and details of the transport license in Form XII, if applicable;
(iii)
in case of private transfer, the full name, license number, period of validity of license, UIN, physical address of the
licensee, details of the authorization to purchase and the purchase period mentioned on license issued by the
concerned licensing authority to the licensee to whom the firearm was sold or transferred along with the particulars of
the sale invoice and the signature of the person to whom the firearm was sold;
(iv)
the signature of the person responsible for the transfer of the firearm shall be affixed to the recorded particulars
mentioned in clauses (i) to (iii) as applicable.
(2)
The licensee shall keep a register named as 'the ammunition register', containing the following particulars, namely:-
(a)
on the debit side, -
(i)
the date of receipt of the ammunition;
(ii)
in case of trade transfer, the full name, license number, period of validity of license, UIN and physical address of the
manufacturer or dealer from whom the ammunition was purchased or acquired along with particulars of the purchase
invoice, challan, transport documents and details of the transport license in Form XII, if applicable;
(iii)
in case of private transfer, the full name, license number, period of validity of license, UIN, physical address of the
licensee, and the signature of the person from whom the ammunition was acquired.
Note: Full details of the ammunition containing its caliber, make and quantity are required to be mentioned on all the
documents and the register;
(b)
on the credit side, -
(i)
the date of sale of ammunition;
(ii)
in case of trade transfer, the full name, license number, period of validity of license, UIN and physical address of the
Page 50/180
----- PAGE 51 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
dealer to whom the ammunition was sold or transferred along with particulars of the sale invoice, challan, transport
documents and details of the transport license in Form XII, if applicable;
(iii)
in case of private transfer, the full name, license number, period of validity of license, UIN, physical address of the
licensee, details of the authorization to purchase and the purchase period mentioned on license issued by the
concerned licensing authority to the licensee to whom the ammunition was sold or transferred along with particulars of
the sale invoice and the signature of the person to whom the ammunition was sold;
(iv)
the signature of the person responsible for the transfer of the ammunition shall be affixed to the recorded particulars
mentioned in clauses (i) to (iii) as applicable.
Note: Full details of the ammunition containing its caliber, make and quantity are required to be mentioned on all the
documents and the register.
(3)
In case of trade transfers mentioned in sub-rule (1) and sub-rule (2), the dealer making such sale or transfer shall satisfy
himself prior to entering into such transaction that the quantity of the firearms or ammunition to be sold or transferred
does not exceed the total licensed quantity of the purchasing dealer as mentioned on his license on the date of sale or
transfer.
(4)
No trade transfers of firearms and ammunition shall be made under this rule unless accompanied by a sales invoice.
(5)
The registers maintained under sub-rules (1) and (2) shall be kept at the business premises specified on the license and
every page of such register shall be numbered in sequence with entry recorded in ink and any amendment effected by
means of inter-lineations or crossing out in ink and not by way of erasure and be initialed by the person effecting it.
(6)
No person may remove or cause to be removed any page from any register contemplated in this rule and removal of any
page there from shall be deemed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have been removed by or on the
authority of the licensee who is obliged to keep such register.
(7)
All particulars to be entered in a register under this rule, shall be recorded immediately on receipt, transfer or sale, as
the case may be, of the firearm or ammunition concerned and in addition to the particulars specified in sub-rules (1) and
(2) shall depict the daily balance of stock in hand of firearms and ammunition.
(8)
(a)
The licensee shall establish an online electronic connectivity under his user id with the NDAL system and shall provide
for a weekly electronic online transfer of data of the transactions made regarding firearms and ammunition for the week,
as recorded in the registers referred to in sub-rules (1) and (2).
(b)
If any circumstances occur which prevent a licensee to submit online returns on NDAL system by means of electronic
network connectivity, the local licensing authority shall be informed immediately in order to establish alternative means
for submission of the weekly returns.
(c)
Weekly returns for the current week shall be submitted by the close of business hours on every Saturday.
76.
License to keep in custody arms and ammunition.
(1)
The licensee in Form VIII shall not accept for deposit arms or ammunition under the provisions of section 21 of the Act
and for safe custody under rule 48 without satisfying himself that there is no mala fide intention on the part of the
depositor or any person on whose behalf the deposit is being made.
(2)
The licensee shall keep separate registers for arms and ammunition deposited under section 21 and for safe custody
under rule 48.
Page 51/180
----- PAGE 52 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(3)
The registers referred to in sub-rule (1) shall contain the following particulars, namely:-
(i)
the date of receipt of firearm;
(ii)
the full name and address of the person from whom the arms or ammunition were acquired;
(iii)
the make, type, caliber of the firearm, as well as, every manufacturer's serial number or additional identification mark
that is reflected on the firearm;
(iv)
the number, date of issue, validity period of the license and UIN of the licensee and signature of the person from whom
the firearm was acquired;
(v)
the date of return, transfer or disposal of the arms or ammunition; and
(vi)
the signature of the person to whom the arms or ammunition were returned, transferred or disposed.
(4)
The registers under sub-rule (2) shall be kept at the business premises specified on the license and every page of such
register shall be numbered in sequence with entry recorded in ink and any amendment effected by means of
inter-lineations or crossing out in ink and not by way of erasure and initialed by the person effecting it.
(5)
No person may remove or cause to be removed any page from any register contemplated in this rule and if any page is
removed there from, it shall be deemed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have been removed by or on the
authority of the licensee who is obliged to keep such register.
(6)
All particulars that must be entered in a register under this rule shall be recorded immediately on receipt, return or
disposal, as the case may be, of the firearm or ammunition concerned and in addition to the particulars specified in
sub-rule (3) depict the daily balance of stock in hand of firearms and ammunition kept under deposit.
(7)
(a)
The licensee shall establish an online electronic connectivity under his user-id with the NDAL system and shall provide
for a weekly electronic online transfer of data regarding firearms and ammunition deposited or released during the week,
as recorded in the registers referred to in sub-rule (2).
(b)
If any circumstances occur which prevent a licensee to submit online returns on NDAL system by means of electronic
network connectivity, the local licensing authority shall be informed immediately in order to establish alternative means
for submission of the weekly returns.
(c)
Weekly returns for the current week shall be submitted by the close of business hours on every Saturday.
Part IV ? Accredited Gunsmiths
77.
License for carrying out minor repairs.
(1)
A license in Form IX-A entitles the licensee gunsmith to carry out minor repairs to firearms and accept and store such
firearms.
(2)
The license also entitles the gunsmith to acquire and keep in stock ammunition to test firearms.
78.
License for carrying out major repairs, conversion, etc.
(1)
Where a license is granted in Form IX for conversion or carrying out major repair, of any category of firearms or
Page 52/180
----- PAGE 53 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
ammunition, it entitles the licensee gunsmith to fabricate components or parts, for the purpose of conversion or major
repair of such firearms but not to manufacture such components or parts to be utilized for assembling into complete
firearms or ammunition of any category.
(2)
The license also allows the licensee for deactivation and storage of firearms.
(3)
The applicant applying for a license in Form IX must possess professional technical expertise to act as a gunsmith from
a national or international institute or body legally recognized for imparting the professional or technical training.
(4)
The Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs shall notify the technical course contents and institutions
recognized for imparting the training and expertise referred to in sub-rule (3) by passing a general or special order in this
regard.
(5)
Where a license is granted in Form IX to shorten a firearm, the license shall specifically state that the licensee is
permitted to shorten a firearm:
Provided that the licensee, shall not be permitted to shorten the barrel length of any shotgun or rifle, to less than 20
inches.
(6)
Where such a license is granted for conversion of ammunition, it shall not entitle the licensee to convert blank cartridges
or any ammunition having no projectile into single or multiple projectile ammunition or to load or re-load any ammunition.
(7)
The licensee having a license in Form IX is entitled to accept and store a firearm and keep in stock any part of a firearm,
including a main frame component, for the purpose of performing his work.
(8)
The license also entitles the gunsmith to acquire and keep in stock ammunition to test firearms.
(9)
The licensee shall not alter or re-engrave or remove the serial number or any other identification mark of a firearm
without the prior written permission of the licensing authority.
(10)
Firearms and ammunition may only be test-fired by the licensee at an accredited shooting range or test bench or
cabinet, only in such manner and subject to such conditions, as are specifically mentioned in his license.
(11)
The licensee gun smith who carries out alteration of the mechanism, caliber or barrel length of a firearm, before the
conclusion of the work, shall notify the licensing authority in writing of -
(i)
the particulars of the firearm, including the type, name, caliber and manufacturer's serial number or additional
identification number;
(ii)
the name and address of the licensee along with his UIN, license number and date of the issue of the license in respect
of the firearm;
(iii)
the particulars of the work performed on the firearm.
(12)
The licensee holding a license in Form IX may deactivate a firearm only with the prior permission of the licensing
authority.
79.
Other conditions for licenses issued in Form IX and IX-A.
- The validity of the license granted in Form IX or Form IX-A shall be for a period of five years and shall specify the types
of arms that may be converted, repaired (major or minor), tested (other than proof test) or to be kept for conversion,
shortening, repairing (major or minor) or test (other than proof test) along with the description of ammunition allowed to
be possessed for testing the repaired firearms or the description of ammunition allowed to be converted, as per the type
Page 53/180
----- PAGE 54 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
of license granted under this category.
80.
Unserviceable or defective and deactivated firearm.
(1)
No firearm shall be categorized as unserviceable or defective or deactivated firearm unless it is certified by the licensing
authority in writing in this regard.
(2)
Any licensee who wishes to get his firearm declared as unserviceable or defective or deactivated may make an
application to the licensing authority for grant of permission for declaring it as unserviceable or defective or carrying out
deactivation of the firearm and the licensing authority may grant the permission for declaring such firearm as
unserviceable or defective or carrying out deactivation of the firearm.
(3)
A firearm shall only be deactivated by a gunsmith and in the manner specified under rule 81.
(4)
Where the gunsmith declares a firearm to be un-serviceable or defective or deactivates a firearm, he shall issue a
certificate in this regard to the licensee indicating therein the reasons for declaring such firearm to be un-serviceable or
defective and in case of deactivation of the firearm, shall certify that the procedure for deactivation specified under rule
81 has been complied with and shall forthwith inform the licensing authority within seven days along with copy of the
certificate.
(5)
The licensee on receipt of the certificate referred to in sub-rule (4) shall within seven days of the receipt thereof, submit
the said certificate along with the firearm for inspection to the licensing authority:
Provided that the licensing authority shall forward the firearm for ballistic testing wherever required.
(6)
The licensing authority on being satisfied after having inspected the firearm declared as unserviceable or defective or
deactivated firearm and on the basis of the certificate and the ballistic report submitted to him, shall pass orders for
destruction of unserviceable or defective firearms in the manner specified in rule 104 and shall pass orders for deletion
from the license of the firearms so ordered for being destroyed or deactivated.
81.
Technical procedure for deactivation of firearms.
(1)
A firearm shall be deactivated in the following manner, namely:-
(i)
Barrel and chamber: A tight fitting metal plug to be inserted from the rear end and welded in place to prevent
chambering of a cartridge or loading of a powder charge;
(ii)
Revolver cylinder: A tight fitting metal plug to be inserted from the rear end and welded in place to prevent chambering
of a cartridge or loading of a powder charge;
(iii)
Firing pin: To be shortened and the firing pin hole in the breech face to be closed by welding;
(iv)
Breech face: 75% or more to be removed at an angle of 45º.
Explanation. - In the case of a revolver, "breech face" refers to the area supporting the base of the cartridge in line with
the barrel;
(v)
Slide, bolt or breech-block: 75% or more of the locking surfaces to be removed at an angle of 45º;
(vi)
Frame or receiver: 75% or more of the feed-ramp, locking shoulders and supports to be removed and a metal
obstruction welded in place to prevent a standard slide, bolt or breech-block from being fitted;
(vii)
Any other manner as approved in writing by the licensing authority based on the technical opinion of the person holding
Page 54/180
----- PAGE 55 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
a license in Form IX.
(2)
Firearms deactivated prior to the notification of these rules shall be deemed to have been deactivated according to these
rules.
82.
Records of transactions to be maintained by gunsmiths holding a license in Form IX or IX-A.
(1)
The licensee shall keep a register known as 'the Firearms Repair Register', wherein the following particulars shall be
recorded, namely: -
(a)
In respect of every firearm received for minor or major repair,?
(i)
a stock number that must be clearly affixed by means of a temporary marking on the firearm;
(ii)
the make, type, caliber of the firearm, as well as, every manufacturer's serial number or additional identification mark
that is reflected on the firearm;
(iii)
the date of receipt of the firearm;
(iv)
the name, address and UIN of the licensee from whom the firearm was acquired;
(v)
the number, date and validity period of the arms license, permit or authorization of the person from whom the firearm
was acquired;
(vi)
nature of repair done on the firearm or any other work performed; and
(vii)
the date of collection and signature of the holder of the license, permit or authorization issued in respect of the license.
(b)
For licenses granted in Form IX, in respect of main firearm components, received in stock,-
(i)
the date of receipt of the main firearm components;
(ii)
the purpose of such receipt;
(iii)
the name, address and UIN of the licensee from whom the main firearm components were acquired;
(iv)
the transfer or disposal of the main firearm components including the name, address and UIN of the licensee to whom
these were supplied; and
(v)
the signature of the person who received it.
(2)
The licensee shall keep a register known as 'the Ammunition Stock Register', wherein the following particulars shall be
recorded, namely: -
(a)
on the debit side, -
(i)
the caliber, make and quantity of all ammunition purchased or acquired;
(ii)
the date of receipt; and
(iii)
the number, date and UIN of the license of the person from whom the ammunition was purchased or acquired.
Page 55/180
----- PAGE 56 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(b)
on the credit side, -
(i)
the caliber, make and quantity of all ammunition consumed or used;
(ii)
the date and reason of disposal of the ammunition and the signature of the licensee confirming the entries as correct.
(3)
The registers maintained under sub-rules (1) and (2) shall be kept at the business premises specified on the license and
every page of such register shall be numbered in sequence with every entry written in ink and any amendment thereof
effected by means of inter-lineations or crossing out in ink and not by way of erasure and must be initialed by the
person, effecting it.
(4)
No person may remove or cause to be removed any page from any register contemplated in this rule and removal of any
page there from shall be deemed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary to have been removed by or on the
authority of the licensee who is obliged to keep such register.
(5)
All particulars to be entered in a register under this rule, shall be recorded immediately on receipt, transfer, use or
disposal, as the case may be, of the firearm, main firearm component or ammunition and in addition to the particulars
specified in sub-rules (1) and (2), shall depict the daily balance of stock in hand of firearms, main firearm components
and ammunition kept for repair or testing.
(6)
(a)
The licensee shall establish an online electronic connectivity under his user-id with the NDAL system and shall provide
for a weekly electronic online transfer of data of transactions regarding firearms and ammunition for the week, as
recorded in the registers referred to in sub-rules (1) and (2).
(b)
If any circumstances occur which prevent a licensee to submit online returns on NDAL system by means of electronic
network connectivity, the local licensing authority shall be informed immediately in order to establish alternative means
for submission of the weekly returns.
(c)
Weekly returns for the current week shall be submitted by the close of business hours on every Saturday.
Part V ? Common provisions for manufacturers, arms dealers and gunsmiths
83.
Inspection of premises, stock and record.
- Every magistrate and any police officer not below the rank of Inspector, or, if the Central Government so directs, of
Sub-Inspector, acting within the local limits of his authority, or any officer of the Central Government specially
empowered in this behalf may, -
(i)
enter and inspect the premises in which arms or ammunition are manufactured or proof-tested or repaired or in which
arms or ammunition are kept by a manufacturer of or dealer in or gunsmith of such arms or ammunition; and
(ii)
examine the stock and accounts of receipts and disposals of arms and ammunition or any other register or document.
84.
Manufacture and sale of air weapons including paintball markers or guns.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of these rules, -
(a)
Manufacture or proof test or both, transfer, sale, keeping for sale or transfer of all types of air weapons by a
manufacturer, including air rifles, air guns and paintball markers or guns irrespective of the muzzle energy or caliber or
bore shall be subject to licensing requirements under these rules:
Provided that an existing manufacturer shall, within a period of one year from the date of notification of these rules in the
Page 56/180
----- PAGE 57 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Official Gazette, apply to the licensing authority for grant of a license for the manufacture of such weapons and the
licensing authority may grant a license in Form VII-C to such manufacturer.
(b)
All air weapons including air rifles and air guns, having muzzle energy more than 20 joules or 15 ft. lbs. and/ or bore
more than 0.177"or 4.5 mm, shall be subject to markings as specified in rule 58.
(2)
Sale, transfer and keeping for sale or transfer of all types of air weapons including air rifles, air guns and paintball
markers or guns irrespective of the muzzle energy or caliber or bore shall be only through the authorized arms and
ammunition dealers or the air weapon dealers licensed under these rules:
Provided that any existing air weapon dealer shall, within a period of one year from the date of notification of these rules
in the Official Gazette, apply to the licensing authority for grant of a license for sale, transfer and keeping for sale or
transfer of such weapons and the licensing authority may grant a license in Form VIII-A to such dealer:
Provided further that the sale or transfer of air weapons including air rifles and air guns having muzzle energy more than
20 joules or 15 ft. lbs. and/or bore more than 0.177"or 4.5 mm and paintball markers or guns having muzzle energy not
exceeding 90 m/s or 300 ft/s (300 fsp), shall be made only through an authorized arms and ammunition dealer to a valid
arms license holder.
(3)
Sale or transfer by the authorized arms and ammunition dealer or the air weapon dealer of air weapons including air
rifles and air guns having muzzle energy less than 20 joules or 15 ft. lbs. and/or bore less than 0.177" or 4.5 mm shall be
made against obtaining of an identification and residence proof from the buyer thereof and against issuance of an
invoice containing the said particulars at the time of sale.
Explanation. - For the purpose of these rules, "air weapon dealer" means a dealer, who buys, sells, transfers or keeps
for sale or transfer air weapons having muzzle energy less than 20 joules or 15 ft. lbs. and/or bore less than 0.177" or
4.5 mm and having been granted a license in Form VIII-A by the licensing authority.
85.
Obligations of air weapon dealers.
(1)
The air weapon dealer shall keep a register namely, the 'Air Weapon Stock Register', wherein on the debit side, all the
receipts of air-weapons against an invoice issued by manufacturers or dealers as the case may be; or in case of other
person with details of name and address of such person, shall be recorded with the date of such receipt and on the
credit side, all the sales or transfers of air weapons against sales invoice to be issued shall be recorded with the date of
such sale or transfer containing full details of the name and address of the buyer:
Provided that the licensee shall obtain and keep in his records proof of identification and proof of residence of the buyer
and also of the seller at the time of purchase except in case of a trade transfer.
(2)
The air weapon dealers shall ensure that they have the capacity to store the air weapons as per the safe storage
requirements as specified in rule 10.
(3)
Every air weapon dealer shall obtain a UIN to get himself registered on the NDAL database through the licensing
authority of his jurisdiction and allotted a separate user-id and password for log in purposes and the licensing authority
may require such dealer to upload the complete details of his transactions on the NDAL database on weekly basis for
the week in addition to the register specified under sub-rule (1):
Provided that the weekly returns for the current week shall be submitted by the close of business hours on every
Saturday.
86.
Powers of Central Government in certain cases.
(1)
Where no license is required for the manufacture, sale, import, export or transport of any category or description of arms
or ammunition by or through a manufacturer or dealer, the manufacturer or the dealer, may be asked to register his
name and address and place of business in such manner and at such place as the Central Government may prescribe
by issuance of a general or special order in this behalf and the manufacturer or the dealer shall maintain such registers
Page 57/180
----- PAGE 58 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
and furnish such information to the Central Government as it may require in respect of the arms or ammunition, so
manufactured, sold, imported, exported, or transported.
(2)
Every manufacturer or a dealer referred to in sub-rule (1) shall obtain a UIN to get himself registered on the NDAL
database through the licensing authority of his jurisdiction and allotted a separate user-id and password for log in
purposes and the licensing authority may require manufacturer or dealer to upload the complete details of his
transactions on the NDAL database on weekly basis for the week in addition to the registers specified under sub-rule
(1):
Provided that the weekly returns for the current week shall be submitted by the close of business hours on every
Saturday.
Chapter VI
Import and Export of Arms and Ammunition
87.
Licenses for import and export of arms and ammunition.
- The grant of licenses for import and export of arms and ammunition under these rules shall be subject to the provisions
of the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992 (
22 of 1992
). The persons bringing into India the arms and ammunition as a part of their personal baggage shall be governed by the
Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) and the rules made there under:
Provided that a license shall not be granted for the import or export for re-import of any arms or ammunition through the
medium of post office.
88.
Import of arms and ammunition.
(1)
Arms or ammunition shall be deemed to have been brought into India by a person, when such arms or ammunition are
imported through an agent and are either consigned to such person direct, or consigned to the said agent, if the agent
possesses a certificate from the said person that the arms or ammunition are bonafide his property and the agent only
clears the arms or ammunition from the Indian customs and forwards the same.
(2)
The dealer or manufacturer, who wants to import a firearm or parts of firearms or ammunition shall file an application for
grant of a license in Form X at least twenty-one days before the shipment of the firearm or ammunition to India or on
good cause shown, such shorter period, as the licensing authority in his opinion deem fit and shall not arrange for the
shipment of the firearm or ammunition prior to the issuance of the import license.
(3)
The licensing authority granting the license shall forthwith send a copy of the license to the licensing authority having
jurisdiction at the port of import.
(4)
The dealer or manufacturer shall immediately on the arrival of the shipment of firearms or parts of firearms or
ammunition in India, notify the licensing authority as well as the licensing authority for the port of entry where the
shipment has arrived, in writing of the arrival and provide the particulars of the container or consignment and place
where the shipment can be inspected and the importer licensee shall not open the container or the consignment of
firearms or ammunition before an inspection is conducted by the licensing authority of the port in presence of the Indian
customs authority at the port of entry in India.
(5)
The dealer or manufacturer shall within seventy-two hours of the arrival of the firearms or ammunition in India, -
(a)
arrange with the licensing authority of the port of entry to physically inspect the firearms or ammunition; and
(b)
on finalization of the physical inspection, certify in writing to the licensing authority, who issued the import license, that
the imported firearms or ammunition corresponding with the import license, have arrived in India.
(6)
Page 58/180
----- PAGE 59 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Any delay in carrying out the inspection referred to in sub-rule (5) within seventy-two hours resulting in any additional
charges or demurrage shall be attributed to the licensing authority at the port of entry and the customs authority and not
the importer licensee.
89.
Import of certain type of arms.
(1)
Import of replicas of contemporary or modern firearms shall be subject to submission of certificate of innocuousness
from the manufacturing company of the country of export and an undertaking from the importer that the replicas of the
firearms to be imported are incapable, even with modification, of expelling or launching a shot, bullet or projectile by the
action of an explosive charge or compressed air or any other gas.
(2)
Import of paintball markers or paintball guns shall be subject to submission of certificate from the manufacturing
company of the country of export that the muzzle energy of the paintball markers or guns does not exceed 90 m/s or 300
ft./s (300 fsp) and an undertaking from the importer that the paintball markers or paintball guns shall be sold only
through an authorized arms and ammunition dealer registered under these rules.
(3)
(a)
Import of electronic disabling devices (EDD) shall be subject to submission of medical research reports on the
technology used in such products, at the time of submitting application for import to the licensing authority, which shall
include -
(i)
physiological effect of prolonged discharge on intoxicated adults;
(ii)
echo-cardiography evaluation of probes deployed into the chests of human volunteers;
(iii)
implanted pacemaker;
(iv)
repeated or long duration exposure: Academia and lack of respiration;
(v)
cardiovascular effects;
(vi)
physiological effects of exposure after exercise;
(vii)
lactate and pH evaluation in exhausted humans;
(viii)
non-impairment of basic respiratory parameters during fifteen second device application.
(b)
an undertaking from the importer that all types of electronic disabling devices (EDD) irrespective of their range shall be
sold only through authorized arms and ammunition dealers having a license under these rules.
90.
Export of arms and ammunition.
(1)
The authority granting a license in [Form X-A]
[Substituted 'Form X' by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
for export of arms or ammunition from any customs port in India to any port in a foreign territory shall send a copy of
such license to the agent or master of the vessel or to the air carrier or the railway authority by which the arms or
ammunition covered by the license are intended to be taken out of India and shall forthwith send a copy of the license to
the licensing authority of the place, wherefrom the goods are to leave the Indian territory [further the export licence shall
also be governed by the extant standard operating procedure issued by Department of Defence Production in the
Ministry of Defence, from time to time]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
Page 59/180
----- PAGE 60 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
.
(2)
Every application for the grant of a license for export of arms specified in category IV of the Schedule I, shall be
accompanied by a certificate from the Director-General of Archeology of the Central Government to the effect that the
arms intended to be exported do not fall within the definition of "antiquity" under the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act,
1972 (
52 of 1972
).
(3)
The district magistrate having jurisdiction over the area out of which the goods to be exported are to cross the frontier of
India may, in his discretion, require the licensee to produce the arms or ammunition for his inspection before allowing
them to leave the area.
(4)
An export license in [Form X-A]
[Substituted 'Form X' by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
shall be non-transferable and issued in three original copies.
(5)
(a)
The first copy of the export license shall be returned to the issuing licensing authority within ten days of the date of
export and which date must be duly certified by the Indian customs authorities;
(b)
The second copy shall be returned to the issuing licensing authority within a period of ninety days after the export date
stated on the export license, which must bear the signature, an official date and name stamp of the end user, to serve as
a delivery verification certificate:
Provided that failure to comply with conditions specified in clause (a) and clause (b) shall result in suspension of all
pending and future export transactions of the exporter till the time the said conditions are duly complied with.
(6)
A one-time extension of validity of export license, for a period not exceeding three months, may be granted by the
licensing authority if for any genuine reasons stated in the application, the export transaction could not be carried out
within the stipulated time of the validity of the export license.
(7)
Where the licensee fails to export within the validity of the export license, he shall return all the three copies of the export
license in original to the issuing licensing authority along with the reasons for noncompliance of the said transaction.
(8)
On completion of the export transaction, the exporter shall retain one original copy of the export license, bill of lading or
airway bill, packing lists and export invoice pertaining to the firearms or ammunition so exported and shall produce the
said documents whenever required to do so by the issuing licensing authority.
91.
Export and re-import of arms and ammunition.
(1)
A license in [Form X-A]
[Substituted 'Form X' by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
may be granted for export of arms or ammunition from one place in India and its re-import into another place in India by
the Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs or any other officer, specially empowered by it, if the arms or
ammunition are taken across intervening territory not forming part of India.
(2)
A copy of every license granted under sub-rule (1) shall forthwith be sent by the Central Government both to the
licensing authority of the place of dispatch and place of destination of the articles in India.
(3)
Arms and ammunition exported from India for the purpose of exhibitions, evaluations and demonstrations shall be
returned to India within a period of six months after the date of export reflected on the export license issued in [Form
Page 60/180
----- PAGE 61 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
X-A]
[Substituted 'Form X' by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
.
92.
In-transit license of arms and ammunition.
(1)
No person shall, import, transport and re-export any arms or ammunition unless he holds in this behalf an in-transit
license in Form X [and Form X-A]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
issued by the Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs.
(2)
The application for grant of in-transit license shall be accompanied by ?
(i)
a proof of authority to export the arms and ammunition from the country of origin and a documentary proof of authority of
import from the country of final destination that the arms or ammunition may lawfully be imported into the said country;
(ii)
the particulars of the intended transport route and mode of transport and the proposed port of entry and exit and likely
date of the entry and exit along with a certified copy of the license, permit, authorization or any proof acceptable to the
licensing authority, confirming the lawful possession of the firearm and ammunition in transit through the Indian territory;
(iii)
complete lists of the firearms and ammunition indicating the quantity, type of action, manufacturer's serial number,
model and caliber of the firearms and quantity, type and caliber of ammunition forming part of consignment along with a
consignment note to be carried in-transit through Indian territory.
(3)
The licensee shall immediately on the arrival of the arms or ammunition in India, in writing notify the issuing licensing
authority referred to in sub-rule (1) as well as the licensing authority for the area where the shipment has arrived and
provide the particulars of the container or consignment and place where it can be inspected and shall further ensure that
the consignment is stored in a bonded warehouse under the jurisdiction of Indian customs authority and shall not open
the container or consignment unless an inspection has been conducted by the licensing authority for the area and the
customs authority.
(4)
The licensing authority may lay down conditions for transportation and route thereof, of the container or consignment
through the Indian territory and all incidental expenses related to the security measures from the port of import to the
port of re-export through Indian territory shall be borne by the licensee.
(5)
Storage of arms or ammunition for any period not exceeding one month in India, shall be granted in exceptional
circumstances by the licensing authority with the prior consent of the local police authority and subject to such conditions
of safe storage as the licensing authority may prescribe:
Provided that the arms and ammunition, shall be under the direct supervision of the licensee and the local police
authority.
(6)
Arms or ammunition under an in-transit license shall not for whatever reasons be sold, transferred or used in India.
(7)
It shall be the duty of the licensing authority granting an in-transit license in Form X [and Form X-A]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
to send a copy of the license to the district magistrate having jurisdiction over the last port through which the
consignment is to cross the frontier of India.
93.
Vessels entering the territorial waters of India.
- Arms or ammunition carried by a vessel entering the territorial waters of India or leaving such waters, shall be deemed
to be imported or exported, as the case may be, irrespective of whether the vessel carrying, the arms or ammunition
Page 61/180
----- PAGE 62 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
does or does not berth.
94.
Arms or ammunition to be delivered to Indian customs authority in certain cases.
- Where a vessel or aircraft, bound for a port other than a port in India, calls at any port in India in the course of its
voyage, and remains there for a period exceeding forty-eight hours, any arms or ammunition in the possession of any
passenger not exempted from liability to take out a license in respect of such possession shall be delivered by him to the
Indian customs authority, to be detained until the departure by sea or air, as the case may be, of such passenger, and it
shall not be necessary for such passenger to take out any license in respect of the arms or ammunition so delivered and
detained.
95.
Scrutiny by authorities of consignments containing arms and ammunition.
(1)
The license issued under Chapter VI of these rules shall be produced wherever applicable, to the authorities involved in
the import or export transactions such as Indian customs authority, licensing authority of the port under the Act, railway
authority, shipping agent, master of the vessel, air-carrier, transporter and any other authority directly or indirectly
related with such transactions and the said authorities shall ensure that the consignment containing arms or ammunition
correspond with the details contained in the license.
(2)
Where in any case referred to in sub-rule (1), the original license is not produced by the importer or the exporter or the
consignee or the agent, or the original or attested copy of the license does not accompany the consignment, as the case
may be, or the license is not identical in substance with the copy sent to the authority, or the arms or ammunition do not
correspond with the description given in such license, the authority shall not receive the consignment for dispatch or
allow it to proceed further or deliver the consignment, as the case may be, and shall, in case he is not a district
magistrate, forthwith inform the nearest magistrate.
Chapter VII
Part I
Transport of Arms and Ammunition
96.
Prohibition of transport of arms and ammunition.
(1)
Save as herein otherwise provided, no person shall transport over India or any part thereof any arms or ammunition or
any arms specified in category V of Schedule I, except under, and in accordance with the conditions of, a license in
Form XII granted under these rules.
(2)
Nothing in sub-rule (1) or in section 12 of the Act shall be deemed to apply to arms or ammunition -
(a)
transported personally or as personal luggage, in reasonable quantities for his own use, by a person lawfully entitled to
possess or carry such arms or ammunition;
(b)
transported by a person licensed to manufacture such articles, for proof-testing, in a case or package legibly addressed
to a Government establishment or an establishment licensed under these rules, or re-transported by such establishment
to such person;
(c)
of category V arms specified in Schedule I, transported through an area where the Central Government has, by
notification in the Official Gazette, applied section 4, or from such area to an area where section 4 does not apply,
provided that the arms are properly packed and labeled, showing clearly the description of these articles and the name
and address of the consignee;
(d)
transported by a licensed manufacturer or dealer for export or after import, in accordance with a license for their export
or import, -
(i)
Page 62/180
----- PAGE 63 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
from the place of dispatch to the port or other place of export, or
(ii)
from the port or other place of import to the place of destination, or
(iii)
by transshipment in the port of import for re-export;
(e)
transported -
(i)
by a person lawfully entitled to possess such articles, in reasonable quantities for his own use from the premises of a
licensed manufacturer or dealer, or for purposes of examination or repair or test to or from any such premises, or to the
address of any other person lawfully entitled to possess such articles; or
(ii)
by a licensed manufacturer or a dealer, in a case or package legibly addressed to a person lawfully entitled to possess
such articles, in compliance with an order given by such person for the supply of such articles, in reasonable quantities,
for his own use or after carrying out necessary repairs thereto;
(iii)
by a dealer to another dealer under trade transfer, within the same State against a sale invoice;
(f)
being chlorates, transported for bona fide industrial, agricultural or medicinal purposes:
Provided that-
(i)
transport of arms or ammunition under clause (d),sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (e) or clause (f), shall be subject to
obtaining a certificate of no objection from the licensing authority at the destination of the articles as provided for in rule
98;
(ii)
transport of arms or ammunition personally for any of the purposes stated in sub-clause (i) of clause (e) without using
them through any area outside the area of validity of his possession license, shall be subject to his obtaining a license in
Form XII from the licensing authority at the starting place of transport; and
(iii)
prior intimation of the transport of arms specified in category V of Schedule I under clause (c) or of chlorates under
clause (f) shall be given to the officer-in-charge of the nearest police station or a magistrate having jurisdiction over the
place of dispatch.
(3)
The officer or magistrate receiving prior intimation under clause (iii) of the proviso to sub-rule (2) shall immediately
inform the district magistrate, and if the articles are transported by rail, the Superintendent of railway police having
jurisdiction,-
(i)
over the place of destination, in the case of transport of chlorates, and
(ii)
over the place of entry into the area where section 4 applies, in the case of transport of arms specified in category V of
Schedule I.
Explanation. - For the purposes of these rules, 'transport' includes movement of arms or ammunition across any part of
the country, but does not include movement of arms or ammunition by a licensed manufacturer or dealer from a
warehouse, godown or any other similar place to his factory, shop or other place of business within the same village,
town or city.
97.
Transport of arms or ammunition.
(1)
A copy of license granted in Form XII for transport of arms or ammunition beyond the local limits of the jurisdiction of the
authority granting it shall forthwith be sent to the district magistrate having jurisdiction over the area where the place to
which the articles consigned is situated.
Page 63/180
----- PAGE 64 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(2)
A copy of every such license granted by a district magistrate for transport within the limits of his jurisdiction shall
forthwith be sent to the subordinate magistrate (if any) having jurisdiction over the place to which the arms or
ammunition are consigned.
(3)
Where arms or ammunition are transported by rail, a copy of such license or a copy of the no objection certificate
referred to in rule 98, shall be attached to the way-bill or invoice, as the case may be, and advice of every such
consignment shall be sent by the railway authorities from the forwarding to the receiving station.
(4)
A transporter having a license in Form XIV for transport of arms or ammunition by road shall comply with the conditions
specified in sub-rule (3) of rule 101in accordance with the procedure for transporter license specified in rule 102.
(5)
A license for the transport of arms or ammunition shall not, save for special reasons to be recorded by the authority
granting it, be granted for a period longer than three months:
Provided that a license for a longer period, not exceeding six months, may be granted in connection with industrial
purposes for transporting ingredients of ammunition in installments from the godown to the factory of the licensee
situated within the same district but not in the same locality:
Provided further that such licensee, gives prior intimation to the nearest magistrate or officer-in-charge of the police
station and makes necessary entries promptly in the stock registers maintained for the purpose at both the godown and
the factory.
98.
Previous consent in certain cases.
(1)
A license having effect beyond the local limits of the authority of the officer granting it shall not be granted for the
transport or export or re-import of any arms or ammunition to a place, without ascertaining that there is no objection to
the grant of such license on the part of the district magistrate having jurisdiction over the area in which such place is
situated.
(2)
For the purposes of sub-rule (1), either -
(i)
a certificate of "no objection" may be obtained by the applicant for the license; or
(ii)
an enquiry may be made by the authority to whom application for grant of such license is made.
99.
Carriage of arms and ammunition by air.
(1)
No licensee holding a valid license under these rules or a journey license in Form XI [or import licence in Form X or
export licence in Form X-A]
[Substituted 'or import and export license in Form X' by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f.
15.7.2016).]
or holding a transport license in Form XII, may carry or cause or permit to be carried, arms and ammunition endorsed on
his license by air, except with the prior permission of the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) in accordance with
the Aircraft Rules, 1937 framed under the Aircraft Act, 1934 (22 of 1934).
(2)
The arms and ammunition granted permission under sub-rule (1) shall be so packed, protected and secured as to avoid
any possibility of their being a source of danger and the packages shall be clearly and conspicuously marked on the
outside.
100.
Packaging of arms and ammunition during transportation.
- The licensee holding a license in Form XII, during transportation of firearms and ammunition shall ensure that -
(i)
Page 64/180
----- PAGE 65 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
firearms are packed separately from ammunition, and all ammunition shall be removed from firearms in a safe manner,
before transportation;
(ii)
large consignments of firearms and ammunition be transported in an appropriately locked metal container, and packed
to ensure maximum safety and minimum exposure;
(iii)
small consignments of firearms be transported in an appropriately locked metal container or strong wooden boxes or
wrapped in hessian cloth tightened with iron strips; and
(iv)
direct continuous supervision and control of arms and ammunition being transported is strictly maintained for large
shipments.
Part II ? Transporters License
101.
License for transporter.
(1)
Any person applying for a transporters license in Form XIV shall in addition to the requirements laid down in rule 11,
submit -
(i)
proof that a proper functioning two way secure communication system between the vehicle transporting the arms or
ammunition and the applicant is in operation;
(ii)
a detailed description of the safety measures fitted to the vehicle including GPS navigation system; and
(iii)
a detailed description of security precautions to be followed during transportation.
(2)
The transporter holding a license in Form XIV shall before undertaking transport of arms and ammunition, obtain from
the consignor a copy of his transport license in Form XII in respect of the arms and ammunition to be transported.
(3)
The transporter using road transport shall provide to the person in charge of transportation, a typed list or computer
printout on his letterhead of persons who will be directly involved in the transportation of the consignment of the arms
and ammunition, containing their names and identity numbers and such list shall be attached to a certified copy of the
license in Form XIV:
Provided that the transporter shall get the police verification of the antecedents of his employees before assigning them
any duty related to such transportation of arms or ammunition.
(4)
It shall be the duty of the licensing authority to ensure, before grant of license to a transporter in Form XIV, that the
applicant has made arrangements for the receipt, carriage and delivery of the arms and ammunition, the safe and
efficient transportation thereof, the mode of transport by which the transportation is to take place, including the type and
construction of the vehicle to be used, as well as the containers, persons to be involved and communication facilities,
etc., for the safe and secure transport and storage of the arms and ammunition.
(5)
The license granted to a transporter in Form XIV shall be valid for a period of five years.
(6)
The license in Form XIV shall specify, the categories of arms and/or ammunition, maximum quantity during a calendar
year, maximum quantity in a single consignment and maximum quantity in multiple consignments under a single
shipment that may be allowed to be transported.
(7)
(a)
The transporter license in Form XIV shall be applicable for bulk transportation's exceeding one hundred firearms or
ammunition exceeding fifty thousand cartridges in a single consignment or multiple consignments forming part of a
single shipment.
Page 65/180
----- PAGE 66 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(b)
The transport of arms and ammunition other than bulk transportation may be carried out by ISO 9001 certified transport
companies.
102.
Procedural requirements for transporters license.
(1)
An arms or ammunition transporter holding a license in Form XIV shall possess at all times during such transport, -
(a)
a consignment note containing the following particulars:-
(i)
the name, address, license and UIN of the transporter;
(ii)
the name, address, license number and UIN of the consignor and of the consignee in respect of arms and ammunition to
be transported;
(iii)
the quantity, type of action, manufacturer's serial number, make and caliber of the firearms and quantity, make and
caliber of ammunition; and
(iv)
the physical address wherefrom the firearms and ammunition were collected and the physical address of their final
destination.
(b)
copy of the license in Form XII authorizing the transportation of such firearms and ammunition;
(c)
any other document which under these rules or any other law may be required.
(2)
A transporter holding a license in Form XIV who is obliged to store the firearms or ammunition for any period of time
after its receipt and before delivery, shall comply with the safe custody and storage requirements under rule 10.
(3)
The licensee shall ensure direct supervision by him or through his personnel of an en-route consignment of arms or
ammunition.
(4)
The transporter holding a license in Form XIV shall obtain from the consignee a written confirmation for the consignment
of arms and ammunition, which shall contain the following information, namely:-
(i)
the name and surname of the recipient;
(ii)
the recipient's address;
(iii)
the telephone number, mobile number and email address of the recipient;
(iv)
the date and time of delivery;
(v)
the description of the arms and ammunition received; and
(vi)
the signature of the recipient confirming the deliverance.
(5)
A copy of the written confirmation from the consignee shall be submitted by the transporter to the licensing authority
issuing transport license in Form XII.
(6)
The transporter holding a license in Form XIV shall immediately notify in writing the police and licensing authority in the
event of non-delivery, loss or theft of the arms or ammunition.
Page 66/180
----- PAGE 67 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(7)
In the event of the consignment under transportation being misused by, or stolen or lost due to the gross negligence of
the transporter holding a license in Form XIV or by any of its employees entrusted with such transportation, the license
of the transporter shall be liable to be revoked.
Chapter VIII
Disposal and Destruction of Firearms and Ammunition
103.
Confiscation, capture or seizure of firearms and ammunition.
(1)
The firearm bureaus under the Central Government or the State Governments shall maintain inventory for different
categories of confiscated, captured, seized, recovered or surrendered arms and ammunition.
(2)
The firearm bureaus referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be granted UIN by the Central Government and allotted separate
user-id and password under the NDAL system.
(3)
The arms and ammunition confiscated, captured, seized, recovered or surrendered shall, on registration of a First
Information Report at the nearest police station, be taken on charge of memo of seizures to be signed by the person(s)
involved in confiscation or capture or seizure or recovery or surrender, and handed over to the empowered officer of the
Central or the State Government along with history sheet of each firearm containing details of the make, type,
manufacturer's serial number, caliber and nature of the firearm.
(4)
The empowered officer of the Central or the State Government referred to in sub-rule (2) shall handover the said arms
and ammunition to the concerned Central or the State firearm bureau and the firearm bureau shall make an entry in the
receipt column of its stock register.
(5)
The Central or the State firearm bureau shall get firearms and ammunition examined from a gunsmith holding a license
in Form IX or an officer of the Central Armed Police Force or State police department, authorized to examine.
(6)
On submission of the report by the examiner of the firearm, the firearm may be declared as serviceable or unserviceable
or beyond economical repair (BER) and all such serviceable firearms shall be entered in the active firearm stock register
and the details shall be uploaded on NDAL system against the UIN allotted to the firearm bureau.
(7)
The serviceable firearms may be, on receipt of the orders of the competent court, allotted to the eligible applicants under
these rules by the firearm bureau against a valid arms license in Form III, for the particular category of firearm against a
sale voucher or invoice to be issued by the firearm bureau and the details of such sale or transfer shall be recorded in
the register to be maintained by it and uploaded on the NDAL system.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this rule, firearm bureau means a unit working under the Central Government or State
Home departments or under the State police department for deposit and disposal of confiscated, captured, seized,
recovered or surrendered arms and ammunition.
104.
Destruction of firearms and ammunition.
(1)
Any obsolete or obsolescent, condemned or unserviceable firearm or any confiscated, captured, seized, recovered or
surrendered firearm that does not bear the manufacturer's serial number or additional identification mark shall be
marked forthwith by the concerned Central or the State firearm bureau in accordance with the procedure laid down in
rule 34 and rule 58 and details of such firearm be recorded in a separate register and uploaded on the NDAL system
under a distinct category.
(2)
The firearm bureau shall submit to the local licensing authority an application containing the details of firearm to be
destroyed, giving particulars regarding the make, type, caliber of the firearm as well as the manufacturer's serial number
or additional identification mark and the licensing authority shall after verifying the particulars recorded in the list
Page 67/180
----- PAGE 68 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
supplied to it by the firearm bureau, grant permission for destruction of firearm.
(3)
The firearms under this rule may be destroyed, only by melting, pressing or in any other manner determined by the
licensing authority and ensuring that the original intent, design and purpose of the firearm or any part thereof is
permanently or irrevocably destroyed:
Provided that a firearm or ammunition, shall be destroyed only in the presence of a designated officer deputed by the
local licensing authority.
(4)
A list of firearms or ammunition destroyed under sub-rule (3) with the particulars of such firearms referred to in sub-rule
(2) shall be submitted to the licensing authority within fourteen days of such destruction.
Chapter IX
Appeals under Arms Act
105.
Appellate authorities.
(1)
The appellate authority to whom an appeal shall lie against an order of the licensing or other authority specified in
column (1) of the table below, shall be that specified in the corresponding entry in column (2) thereof :
Table
Authority
Appellate Authority
(1)
(2)
(a)
District Magistrate
Commissioner of the Division or any other equivalent post or
in any State in which there is no post of Commissioner of a
Division, the State Government
(b)
Commissioner of Police
State Government
(c)
Officer empowered by the Central Government in a Union
Territory
Administrator/ Lt. Governor of the Union Territory
(d)
Head of Indian Mission
Central Government
(e)
Other specially empowered officer
Authority that empowered
(2)
For the purpose of sub-section (6) of section 17, the licensing authority shall be deemed to be subordinate to the
appellate authority.
(3)
All licensing authorities shall work under the direction and control of their respective appellate authorities.
106.
Reasons to be communicated to appellate authority in certain cases.
- Where a licensing authority is of opinion that it will not be in the public interest to furnish reasons for the refusal,
renewal, variation of conditions, revocation or suspension, of a license, to the applicant, the recorded reasons therefor
and the facts of the case shall be communicated by him to the appellate authority.
107.
Page 68/180
----- PAGE 69 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Appeal against order of licensing authority or an authority suspending or revoking a license under subsection (6) of
section 17 of the Act.
- In any case, in which an authority issues an order ?
(i)
refusing to grant or renew a license or to give a "no objection certificate" for such grant or renewal; or
(ii)
varying any condition of a license or suspending or revoking a license under sub-section (1), or subsection (3) or
sub-section (6) of section 17, the person aggrieved by such order may, within thirty days from the date of issue of the
order, and subject to the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 18, prefer an appeal against that order, to the concerned
appellate authority.
108.
Procedure to be followed by appellate authority.
- On receipt of an appeal, the appellate authority may call for the records of the case from the authority who passed the
order appealed against and after giving the appellant a reasonable opportunity of being heard, pass final orders within
sixty days of receipt of the appeal.
109.
Fee payable on a petition for appeal made under sub-section (1) of section 18 of the Act.
- Every petition for appeal under sub-section (1) of section 18, shall be accompanied by a fee of rupees one thousand.
Chapter X
Provisions relating to Nepal
110.
Import, transport and export of arms and ammunition for Government of Nepal.
(1)
Where arms or ammunition are imported into India for dispatch to the Government of Nepal, the customs authority at the
port of disembarkation, or the licensing authority in other places, shall check the consignment against the list of arms or
ammunition received from the Central Government and the packages shall be sealed thereafter in the presence of a
Customs Examiner or any other authority appointed for the purpose by the Central Government.
(2)
(a)
Where arms or ammunition imported into, or acquired in, India are to be dispatched to Nepal for the Government of
Nepal, they shall be accompanied by a certificate from the Indian customs authority or the licensing authority of the area
concerned to that effect containing a description of the marks on each package or case sufficient to enable it to be
readily identified and a general statement of the contents of such package or case;
(b)
on receipt of requisition from the clearing agents or the firm concerned, as the case may be, the district magistrate shall
arrange for necessary escort up to the railway station;
(c)
the railway authority shall, not receive for dispatch any package or case containing, arms or ammunition unless
accompanied by a certificate as required under clause (a).
(3)
Where in any case -
(i)
the list referred to in sub-rule (1), is not received from the Central Government, or
(ii)
the arms or ammunition imported into, or intended to be dispatched from India do not correspond with the description
given in such list, the authorities concerned shall not allow the consignment to be dispatched to Nepal and shall forthwith
inform the Central Government.
111.
Transport of arms from any place in Nepal to any other place in Nepal through Indian territory.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 6 and rule 87,the Ambassador of India in Nepal, on an application made by
Page 69/180
----- PAGE 70 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
the Government of Nepal, and subject to confirmation by the Central Government, may grant a license in Form XV for
the import into, possession in, transport across, or export out of, India from any place in the territory of Nepal to any
other place in that territory across the frontiers of India, of arms or ammunition specified in categories I and II of
Schedule I or any other category of Schedule I by Nepal Government's troops or police, as the case may be.
(2)
Where under the authority of a license granted under sub-rule(1), arms or ammunition are to pass across Indian
Territory,?
(a)
if entirely by rail, a copy of the license shall forthwith be sent by the Ambassador to the district magistrates having
jurisdiction over the areas through which the arms or ammunition shall pass across the frontiers of India and also to the
railway authorities of the place in the Indian territory through which the consignment shall pass;
(b)
if by road or river, a copy of the license shall forthwith be sent to the district magistrates having jurisdiction over the
areas through which the arms or ammunition shall pass to Nepal across the frontiers of India.
(3)
The Central Government, or the Ambassador of India in Nepal with the approval of the Central Government, may make
any order regulating the safe transit to Nepal across the frontiers of India of the arms or ammunition mentioned in this
rule.
Chapter XI
Miscellaneous
112.
Common conditions applicable to all types of licenses.
(1)
The licensee shall -
(a)
not possess Government arms and ammunition as defined in clause (22) of rule 2:
Provided that the above condition may be canceled by the authority granting the license empowered to do so by the
Central Government, and an endorsement added showing the Government arms or ammunition which the licensee is
authorized to possess.
(b)
on demand by an authorized officer produce the firearms possessed under his license;
(c)
not sell or transfer any firearms or ammunition or any part thereof covered by his license to any person not lawfully
entitled to possess them;
(d)
forthwith give information at the nearest police station of the loss or theft of any arms or ammunition covered by his
license.
(2)
The authority granting or renewing the license has the right to enquire at any time during the currency of the license,
whether the arms or ammunition for which it has been granted, is still in the possession of the licensee, and may require
the production of the arms or ammunition for the purpose of such an enquiry.
(3)
Save where he is specially authorized in this behalf by the district magistrate concerned, the licensee shall not carry any
arms covered by the license within the campus or precincts of any educational institution or a firearm free zone declared
under these rules.
113.
Security and precautionary conditions for storage of ingredients of ammunition specified in category VI of Schedule I.
(a)
Chlorates shall be kept in a building constructed of nonflammable materials only and separated from any dwelling
house, other building, highway, street, public thoroughfare or public place by a distance of not less than ten feet:
Provided that where the total quantity stored does not exceed one hundred kilograms, chlorates may be kept exclusively
Page 70/180
----- PAGE 71 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
in a closed and secured receptacle placed in a building used for the keeping of other articles not being of an explosive or
highly inflammable nature.
(b)
Sulphur shall not be kept in the same room with saltpeter in the premises specified in the license:
Provided that when the quantity of each does not exceed one hundred kilograms, sulphur and saltpeter may be kept in
separate closed receptacles in the same room.
(c)
No person shall smoke and no open fires shall be allowed at any time in the premises specified in the license or in the
vicinity of the receptacles mentioned in the provisos to clauses (a) and (b).
(d)
Where any building used for storage of such materials is fitted with electric lighting or power, the licensee shall get these
installations tested at least once a year or once during the currency of the license, by an electrical inspector appointed
under the Electricity Act, 2003 (
36 of 2003
).
(e)
Any accident, fire or explosion occurring within the premises specified in the license which is attended with loss of
human life or serious injury to person or property shall be reported at once by the licensee to the officer-in-charge of the
nearest police station having jurisdiction over the place of his business or factory as well as to the inspector of
explosives of the circle concerned.
(f)
The conversion into explosives of sulphur in admixture with chlorates shall be permitted for the following purposes only
(and for no other purposes), namely:-
(i)
in small quantities for scientific purposes; or
(ii)
for the purposes of manufacturing heads of matches; or
(iii)
for use in toy amorces (paper caps for toy pistols).
Schedule I
(See rule 3)
Part A
Category
Arms
Ammunition
(1)
(2)
(3)
I
(a)
Prohibited arms
(i) Prohibited arms as defined in
section 2(1)(i) of the Act;
(ii) Items configured for military
use;
(iii) Light weapons;
(iv) Small arms including automatic and selective fire other
than those defined in category I(b), I(c) and III
Prohibited ammunition
(i) Prohibited ammunition as
defined in Section 2 (1)(h) of the Act;
Page 71/180
----- PAGE 72 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(ii) ammunition for items
configured for military use;
(iii) ammunition for light weapons;
(iv) ammunition for small arms including automatic and
selective fire other than those defined in category I(b), I(c)
and III
(b)
Restricted arms
Semi-automatic firearms which
cannot be converted into automatic firearms and other than those
defined in category III(a), III(c) and III(d);
Smooth bore guns having barrel of
less than 20 inches in length;
Centrefire rifles of any barrel
length (semiautomatic);
Electronic disabling devices having firing range of more than
fifteen feet
Restricted ammunition
Ammunition for arms of category I (b).
(c)
Restricted arms
Restricted ammunition
Category of arm
Caliber/chamber specification
Ammunition for arms of category I (c).
(i)
Rifles other than those mentioned in category I(b), III(b) and
III(c)
7.62mm (7.62mm NATO/7.62 x 51mm
NATO)
5.56mm (5.56mm NATO/5.56 x 45mm
NATO)
7.62mm x 39mm
.303 British or
7.7 x 56mmR
(ii)
Pistols
9mm Parabellum (9 x 19mm/9mm Luger/9mm Parabellum Plus /9mm
Parabellum)
(iii)
Revolvers
.38 Revolver MkIIz also
.38/200 x 20R, .380/200 Revolver
Mk-II
.455 WebleyR
II
Machinery for manufacture or proof testing of firearms
Machinery for manufacturing ammunition
III
Permissible arms
Arms other than those defined in categories I, II and IV,
Page 72/180
----- PAGE 73 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
namely:
Permissible ammunition
Ammunition for arms other than those in categories I, II and
IV, namely:
(a)
Handguns (revolvers and pistols) including semi-automatic
Ammunition for arms of category III (a)
(b)
Breech loading Centrefire rifles (not semi-automatic)
Ammunition for arms of category III (b)
(c)
.22 bore Rimfire rifles (including semi-automatic)
Ammunition for arms of category III (c)
(d)
Smooth bore breech loading shotguns (including semi-automatic)
Ammunition for arms of category III (d)
(e)
Muzzle-loading guns
Ammunition for arms of category III (e)
(f)
Air weapons including air rifles and air guns
(i)
having muzzle energy exceeding 20 joules or 15 ft. lbs. and/or
bore exceeding 0.177"or 4.5 mm
Ammunition for arms of category III (f) (i)
(ii)
having muzzle energy less than 20 joules or 15 ft. lbs. and
/or bore less than 0.177"or 4.5 mm
Ammunition for arms of category III (f) (ii)
(g)
Firearm replicas -
(i)
of modern or contemporary firearms
Nil
(ii)
of muzzle loading antique weapons
Nil
(h)
Electronic disabling devices having firing range of less than
fifteen feet
Ammunition for arms of category III (h)
(i)
Paintball markers or paintball guns having muzzle energy
exceeding 90 m/s or 300 ft./s (300 fps)
Nil
(j)
Blank-firing firearms
Ammunition for arms of category III (j)
(k)
Accessories for any firearms designed or adapted to diminish
the noise or flash caused by the firing thereof
Page 73/180
----- PAGE 74 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Nil
IV
Curios and historical weapons, other than those excluded under
section 45(c) of the Act
Curios and historical ammunition.
V
Arms other than firearms:
Sharp-edged and deadly weapons, namely: Swords (including
sword-sticks), daggers, bayonets, spears (including; lances and
javelins), battle-axes, knives (including Kirpans and Khukries)
and other such weapons with blades longer than 9" or wider
than 2" other than those designed for domestic,
agricultural, scientific or industrial purposes, steel batton,
"Zipo" and other such weapons called 'life preservers',
machinery for making arms, other than category II, and any other
arms which the Central Government may notify under Section 4 of
the Act.
Nil
Part B
Ingredients of ammunition and other items
Category
Items
VI
(a)
(b)
Articles containing explosives or
fulminating material: fuses and friction tubes other than blank
fire cartridges
Ingredients as defined in section
2(1)(b)(vii) of the Act including ?
(i) lead, sulphur, saltpeter and
sodium azide;
(ii) chlorates and per chlorates;
(iii) fissionable material; and
(iv) asphyxiating, poisonous, irritant or other gases and
analogous liquid, materials or devices which are not used in any
bonafide industrial process in India
Schedule II(See rule 5)
Licensing Authorities Etc.
Item No.
Purpose
Categories of arms/ ammunition as defined in
Schedule I
Place/ Class of persons
Licensing Authority
Area for which License can be granted
Renewing Authority
Form No.
Conditions
1
2
Page 74/180
----- PAGE 75 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1
Acquisition/ Possession/ Import and Transport
I(a),II
Whole of India
Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs
Whole of India or any specified area
Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs
I
-
2
Acquisition/ possession and use
III(b),III(c),III(d),III(e),V, VI
District
District Magistrate
Throughout the district
District Magistrate
II
-
3
Acquisition/ possession/ carrying and use for protection/
sport/target practice/ display
(i)I(b)I(c)
Whole of India
Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs.
Whole of India or any specified part thereof
District Magistrate
III
-
(ii)III[except (f)(ii) and (g) (ii)],V, VI
(i) District
District Magistrate
Throughout the district or his area of jurisdiction
District Magistrate
III/V
-
III[except (f)(ii) and (g) (ii)],V, VI
(ii) State
District Magistrate
Whole of the State
District Magistrate
III/V
-
III[except (f)(ii), and (g) (ii)],V, VI
(iii) Whole of India
Page 75/180
----- PAGE 76 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
State Government
Whole of India
District Magistrate
III/V
For the categories of licensees mentioned in sub-rule (2) of
rule 19 district magistrate is empowered to grant licenses for
whole of India
(iii)I(b),I(c)
In case of retainers of exemptees
Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs.
India or any specified part thereof
State Govt. or any officer specially empowered by the State
Government in this behalf.
III-A
-
III[except (f)(ii) and (g) (ii)],V, VI
(i) District
District Magistrate
Throughout the District
District Magistrate
III-A
-
(ii) State
District Magistrate
Whole of the State
District Magistrate
III-A
-
(iii)Whole of India
State Government
Whole of India
District Magistrate
III-A
-
4.
Acquisition/ possession/ carrying and use for destruction of
wild animals, which do injury to human beings or cattle and
damage to crops
III(b),III(c),III(d),III(e),V.
District
District Magistrate or any officer specially empowered by the
State Government in this behalf.
Throughout the district
Same as licensing Authority.
IV
-
5(a)
Import into, possession, carrying and use of arms or
ammunition by the International sports persons visiting India for
participation in tournament/ event or series of tournaments/
events or for training
Page 76/180
----- PAGE 77 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
III[except (f)(ii) and (g) (ii)]
Whole of India
Head of the Indian High Commission or Indian Embassy of the
country to which the sports person belongs, or the District
Magistrate at the port of entry/arrival in India or any other
officer specially empowered by the Central Government
India or any specified part thereof
No renewal
VI
The license shall be valid for a maximum period of six months
or validity of visa whichever is earlier and granted only for the
purpose of shooting sport.
5(b)
Acquiring, possessing during the course of his stay in (but
not use) and carrying in, and export out of India by a tourist
III[except (f)(ii) and (g) (ii)]IV, V(made in
India only)
-
District Magistrate or any officer specially empowered by the
State Government
-
No renewal
VI
The license shall be valid for a maximum period of six months
or validity of visa, whichever is earlier and granted for weapons
made in India only.
5(c)
Other temporary categories of Import/ Export licenses
III
Whole of India
Head of the Indian High Commission or Indian Embassy of the
country to which the person defined in rule 45(1) belongs, or the
District Magistrate at the port of entry/arrival in India or any
other officer specially empowered by the Central Government
India or any specified part thereof
The license shall be valid for a maximum period of six months
or validity of visa whichever is earlier and granted only for the
defined purpose as mentioned in rule 45(1)
6(a)
Manufacture or Proof Test or both, transfer, sale, keeping for
sale, or transfer
All [exceptIII(f)]
Throughout India
Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs
Within the premises to be specified in the license.
Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs
VII
For existing manufacturers holding license in Form IX, the
Renewing Authority shall be the State Government.
III(f)
Throughout India
Page 77/180
----- PAGE 78 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
State Government
Within the premises to be specified in the license.
District Magistrate
VII C
All existing manufacturers of all types of air weapons to
obtain manufacturing licenses within one year of the notification
of these rules
6(b)
Manufacture transfer, sale, keeping for sale, or transfer
V
State
District Magistrate
Within the premises to be specified in the license.
District Magistrate
VII-A
-
6(c)
Manufacture transfer, sale, keeping for sale, or transfer
replicas of firearms
III(g)
State
District Magistrate
Within the premises to be specified in the license.
District Magistrate
VII-B
All existing manufacturers of replicas of firearms including
of antique weapons to obtain new manufacturing licenses within
one year of the notification of these rules
7(a)
Sale, transfer or test (other than proof test), and keeping
for sale, transfer or test.
I(b)I(c)
State
State Government
Within the premises to be specified in the license
State Government
VIII
-
IIIV, VI
State
State Government
Within the premises to be specified in the license.
District Magistrate
VIII
-
7(b)
Keeping for safe custody
For the categories of arms and ammunition in the license
issued under S.No. 7(a)
I(b),I(c)III,V,
VI
Page 78/180
----- PAGE 79 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
State
State Government
Within the premises to be specified in the license.
District Magistrate
VIII
-
7(c)
Sale, transfer, and keeping for sale, transfer
III(f)(ii)
State
District Magistrate
Within the premises to be specified in the license.
District Magistrate
VIII-A
All existing dealers of air weapons of category III(f)(ii) to
obtain air weapon dealer license within one year of the
notification of these rules
8(a)
License to gunsmiths to convert, shorten, repair (major) or
test (other than proof-test) or keeping for conversion, repair
(major) or test (other than proof test) of firearms
I(b),I(c),III, VI(b)
State
State Government
Within the premises to be specified in the license.
District Magistrate
IX
Other than that of category I(a) and II
8(b)
License to gunsmiths to repair (minor) or test (other than
proof test) or keeping for repair (minor) or test (other than
proof test) of firearms
I(b),I(c),III
State
District Magistrate
Within the premises to be specified in the license.
District Magistrate
IX-A
Other than that of category I(a) and II
9(a)
Import of arms and ammunition into India
(i)I(b)I(c)
(i) At any customs port in India.
(a) Central Govt. in the Ministry of Home Affairs
-
No renewal
I
-
(ii)III
(ii) At any customs port in India.
(b) Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs.
Page 79/180
----- PAGE 80 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
- No renewal
X
-
(iii) Ammunition imported by the arms dealers for the obsolete
bores and not manufacture d in IndiaIV, V, VI
(iii) At any customs port in India.
(c) District Magistrate of the place at which importer is
located or in whose jurisdiction the port of import lies
-
No renewal
X
-
(iv) Sulphur
(iv) At ports of Kakinada, Tuticorin and Cochin.
(c) State Government in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu or Kerala.
-
No renewal
X
In reasonable quantities for medicinal, agricultural or
industrial purpose.
9(b)
Export to a foreign territory
(i) All
(i) From any customs port in India to a port in a Foreign
Territory.
(i) Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs or any
officer specially empowered by the Central Government in the
Ministry of Home Affairs
-
No renewal
[X-A]
[Substituted 'X' by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
-
(ii)III(g) (i),IV, V, VI
(ii) From any customs port in India to a port in a foreign
territory.
(ii) Government of the State in which the exporter is located
-
No renewal
[X-A]
[Substituted 'X' by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
-
9(c)
In-transit license and license for export and re-import
(i) All
(a) Between one port of India to another
(a) Central Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs or any
officer specially empowered for the purpose by the Central
Government in the Ministry of Home Affairs
-
No renewal
Page 80/180
----- PAGE 81 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
[X-A]
[Substituted 'X' by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
-
(ii)III, IV, V, VI
(b) From any place in Nepal
(b) Ambassador of India in Nepal
-
No renewal
[X-A]
[Substituted 'X' by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
-
10
Carrying on journey in or through any port in India
All [exceptIII(f)(ii),III(g) (ii)]
Throughout India
District Magistrate
India or any specified part thereof.
No renewal.
XI
-
11
Transport
I(b),I(c),III[except (f)(ii) and (g)
(ii)]IV, V, VI.
Throughout India
District Magistrate
-
No renewal
XII
-
12
Transport license for dispatch of gun-barrels/ completed
firearms for proof-test
III
Throughout India
District Magistrate
-
No renewal
XIII
-
13
License to Transporter
I(b),I(c),III[except (f)(ii) and (g)
(ii)]IV, V, VI
Throughout India
State Government
India or any specified part thereof
District Magistrate
XIV
-
14
Page 81/180
----- PAGE 82 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Import into, possession and transport out of India by Nepal
Govt?s forces and Police.
All
Nepal
Ambassador of India in Nepal
-
No renewal
XV
Subject to the confirmation by Central Government in the
Ministry of Home Affairs
15
Firearm Free Zone
All
District
District Magistrate
Within the premises to be specified in the license.
District Magistrate
XVI
III
Part - I License Forms
Form - I
License for -
(A)
Acquisition/ Possession/ Import and Transport of firearms or ammunition of categories I (a) and II of Schedule I; and
(B)
Import of firearms and ammunition of Categories I(b) and I(c) of Schedule I
UIN __________________________________
Name, description and residence of licensee and
(agent if any)
Number of packages
Description with specification of caliber of
artillery or other articles
Number of articles
Columns to be Filled in Case of Import or
Transport
Period for which the license is valid
Use to which the articles are to be put
Place of dispatch and route
Place of destination
Name, description and residence of consignee
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
The ............ of ........... 20.......
Date on which a copy is sent vide rule (7) to -
Page 82/180
----- PAGE 83 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
The District Magistrate of ..................district
The ............ of ........... 20.......
(Signature)
{|
|-
|
| Secretary/
Joint Secretary
|-
|
| to
the Government of India
|-
| (SEAL)
| Ministry
of Home Affairs
|-
|
| or
|-
|
| Signature and designation of the officer specially
|-
|
| empowered
to sign the license under Rule 5
|}
Form of Renewal of the License
Date and year of
renewal
Date on which renewed license expires
Signature and designation of renewing authority
SEAL
1
2
3
4
Conditions
In addition to the common conditions contained in rule 112 of these rules, this license shall be subject to the following
additional conditions -
1. This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
2. It covers only the arms and ammunition specified in columns 2, 3 and 4 and for the purposes shown in column 9.
3. In case of import or transport -
(a)
an account of the contents of each package shall be legibly written thereon;
(b)
bulk shall not be broken before the articles reach the place of destination;
(c)
the articles shall be delivered only to a person lawfully entitled to receive them.
4. The licensee shall give prior intimation to the licensing authority concerned of his intention to break up or dispose of
any firearms or ammunition or any part thereof; failing which proof of the articles having been broken up or disposed of,
Page 83/180
----- PAGE 84 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
will have to be furnished to the satisfaction of the licensing authority.
Form II
License for acquisition, possession and use of arms or ammunition of categories III (b), III (c), III (d), III (e), V or VI of
Schedule I
UIN __________________________________
Name, description and residence of licensee and
agent (if any)
Number and description of arms
Ammunition
Place (with description) where articles are to be
kept
Period for which the license is valid
Description
Quantity
1
2
3
4
5
6
The ............... of .............. 20
(Signature)
Licensing Authority ........................
SEAL
Designation ....................................
Place
...............................................
Form of
Renewal of the License
Date and year of renewal
Date on which renewed license expires
Signature and designation of renewing authority
SEAL
1
2
3
4
Conditions
In addition to the common conditions contained in rule 112 and specific safety conditions related to ingredients of
ammunition contained in rule 113 of these rules, this license shall be subject to the following additional conditions -
1. This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
2. It covers only the arms or ammunition specified in columns 2, 3 and 4, so long as they are kept in the place described
in column 5, but does not authorise the licensee-
(i)
to carry arms;
(ii)
to keep Government arms or ammunition.
3. Where a license in this form is granted for the possession of Potassium Chlorate by an educational institution, the
following further conditions shall apply:
(a)
The quantity of chlorate stored should be the minimum required for laboratory purposes as certified by the Head of the
Page 84/180
----- PAGE 85 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Institution to the licensing authority;
(b)
The stock of chlorate possessed should be kept in a well-made cupboard or almirah under lock and key under the
control and supervision of a responsible member of the staff and the place where the chemicals are kept should be
adequately secured.;
(c)
Accounts of issues and balances of chlorate possessed should be kept and checked with the actual stock at frequent
intervals by a responsible member of the staff. The account book should be available for inspection on demand by any
Magistrate or any Police Officer of a rank not below that of Inspector.
Form III
License for the acquisition, possession, carrying and use of arms or ammunition for sport/ target practice/ protection/
display of categories I(b), I(c), III, V, VI of Schedule I
UIN
Serial No. of license
Name, date of birth and residence of licensee
Arms and ammunition that the licensee is entitled
to possess
Brief description of each weapon with details
e.g. identification marks, manufacturer's serial number etc.
Quantity and description of each kind of
ammunition
to be possessed at any one time
purchasable during the year
1
2
3
4
5
6
Area within which the license is valid
Date on which the license expires
Date on which the license or the arms or both
shall be produced for inspection before licensing authority under
rule 18
7
8
9
The ........... of ........ 2000
Name (in capital)/ Signature of the Licensing
Authority
Designation
......................
Place
.................................
SEAL
Or
Signature of the officer specially empowered to
sign the
license under rule 5
Designation
......................
Page 85/180
----- PAGE 86 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Place
.................................
Retainer
Particulars (in case of companies)
1.
Name of the retainer
2.
Father's name
3.
Date of birth
4.
Permanent address and nearest police station
Note:- Photograph of the retainer to be affixed on the license
duly stamped and signed by the licensing authority
Form of Renewal of License
Date and year of renewal
Date on which the renewed license expires
Name (in capital)/ signature and designation of
the renewing authority
Signature and designation of the officer
specially empowered to sign the license under rule 5
SEAL
1
2
3
4
5
Conditions
In addition to the common conditions contained in rule 112 of these rules, this license shall be subject to the following
additional conditions -
(1)
This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
(2)
It covers only the person named, and the arms or ammunition described therein.
(3)
The licensee shall acquire and produce the arms together with the license, within the time limit granted or extended as
specified in column 9, before the licensing authority. If within the period so specified or extended the licensee fails to
acquire the arms and to produce the license or the arms or both, as the case may be, the license shall cease to be in
force.
(4)
The licensee, at the time of purchasing any arms or ammunition shall cause the following particulars to be endorsed
upon his license under the vendor's signature, namely -
(a)
the name, description and residence of the person who takes delivery of the articles purchased;
(b)
the nature and quantity of the articles purchased; and
(c)
the date of purchase,
and if the arms or ammunition are purchased from any person other than a licensed dealer, shall also cause the
particulars specified in clauses (b) and (c) to be furnished in writing to the authority who granted this license within such
period as may be prescribed for this purpose by such authority.
Page 86/180
----- PAGE 87 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(5)
The licensee shall not purchase ammunition of any kind in excess of the maximum prescribed both for the amount
purchasable in a year and for the amount that may be possessed at any one time as laid down in rule 23. If, however, a
licensee exhausts the total quantity of ammunition purchasable in a year earlier than the close of the year, he may for
good and sufficient reasons be given a temporary increase in the total quantity purchasable at the discretion of the
licensing authority:
Provided that a licensee may be permitted, to purchase ammunition from any authorized arms and ammunition dealer of
a neighbouring State, by the concerned licensing authority for any reasons deemed appropriate by it and endorsement
to this effect shall be made on the license by such licensing authority.
(6)
Without prejudice to the voidance of this license for breach of any of the foregoing conditions, it shall be void if-
(a)
the licensee dies, or
(b)
any weapon-covered thereby-
(i)
is sold or transferred; or
(ii)
is attached in execution of a decree;
Provided that where a weapon is sold or transferred, the licensing authority may permit the holder of the license to
acquire a fresh weapon of the same description within such period as may be specified by him in this behalf and subject
to fulfillment of condition (3) mentioned above.
(7)
The licensee shall not carry any firearm to a firearm free zone licensed under these rules. Further, the licensee shall not
carry a firearm in a public place unless the firearm is carried -
(a)
in the case of a handgun -
(i)
in a holster or similar holder designed, manufactured or adapted for the carrying of a handgun and attached to his
person; or
(ii)
in a rucksack or similar holder; or
(b)
in the case of another firearm, in a holder designed, manufactured or adapted for the carrying of a firearm.
Further the firearm must be completely covered and the person carrying the firearm must be able to exercise effective
control over such firearm.
(8)
The licensee shall not resort to brandishing of firearms in public place nor shall he carry or discharge a firearm in a built
up area or any public place on the occasion of marriage, public assembly, fair or procession or any public event.
(9)
The licensee shall not point out any firearm, whether or not it is loaded or capable of being discharged, at any other
person, without a good reason to do so.
(10)
The licensee shall ensure to keep his firearm in his possession at a secured place under lock and key when such
firearm is not carried on his person or not under his direct control, however, he shall not deposit any firearm or
ammunition in any bank locker.
(11)
The licensee shall in the event of any loss, theft or destruction of the arms license or firearm shall report about such an
event to the nearest police station within 24 hours after having become aware of the loss, theft or destruction of the
license or firearm.
(12)
Page 87/180
----- PAGE 88 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
The licensee shall submit the application for renewal of license minimum sixty days prior to expiry of the validity period
of his license with the concerned licensing authority along with the payment of fees as applicable under Schedule IV.
(13)
Permission to possess Government arms or ammunition may be given by the licensing authority if empowered to do so
by the Central Government by making an endorsement on the license showing the Government arms or ammunition,
which the licensee is authorized to possess.
Conditions for additional licenses under rule 20
(14)
Additional licensee at the time of making an application for grant of an additional license shall not hold any individual
license in his name. Further the additional licensee is not eligible to apply for an individual license during the period he is
an additional licensee.
(15)
The additional licensee is prohibited to acquire or purchase, sell or transfer, any arms and ammunition on his additional
license. Only the arms and ammunition endorsed on the parent license may be got endorsed on the additional license.
(16)
The period of validity and the area validity of the additional license shall rank pari-passu with that of the parent license.
The validity of additional license shall lapse with the parent license and if in any eventuality the parent license is
suspended, revoked or cancelled, the additional license shall also be subject to the same consequence.
(17)
In case the holder of additional license shifts temporarily or permanently from the premises of the parent licensee, the
additional license shall automatically
Form III-A
License for possession and carrying by a retainer of an Exemptee of arms or ammunition for the purpose of sport/
protection/ display
UIN
Serial No. of license
Name, description and residence of the person
exempted under Section 41 of the Act, who has nominated the
licensee
Name and residence of the licensee
Name and residence of parent of the licensee
Arms or ammunition that licensee is entitled to
possess and carry
Area of validity of license, i.e. throughout
India, State or District
Date on which license expires, or the date on
which the person specified in column 3 ceases to be exempted
under section 41 of the Act, (whichever is earlier)
Brief description of each weapon with details,
e.g. identification marks, manufacturer's serial No. etc.
Quantity and description of each kind of
ammunition
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Page 88/180
----- PAGE 89 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
The ........... of ........ 2000
Name (in capital)/ Signature of the Licensing
Authority
Designation
......................
Place
.................................
SEAL
Or
Signature of the officer specially empowered to
sign the
license under rule 5
Designation
......................
Place
.................................
Form of Renewal of License
Date and year of renewal
Date on which renewed license expired
Name (in capital)/ signature and designation of
renewing authority
Signature and designation of the officer
specially empowered to sign the license under rule 5
SEAL
1
2
3
4
5
Conditions
In addition to the common conditions contained in rule 112 of these rules, this license shall be subject to the following
additional conditions -
1. This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
2. It covers only the person named in column 4 of this license and the arms or ammunition described in columns 6 and
7.
3. This license shall only be granted to a person nominated in that behalf and certified to be his own retainer by a person
exempted under section 41 of the Act, and it shall only be granted in respect of the arms or ammunition specified in this
behalf by, and being the property of, such exempted person.
4. The grant/renewal of this license is subject to the condition that it shall expire on the date on which the person
specified in column 3 of this license ceases to be exempted under section 41 of the Act where such date is earlier than
the date on which it would otherwise expire in the normal course.
5. The licensee shall not carry any arms covered by this license otherwise than in good faith for the purpose of sport/
protection/ display.
Form III-BPermitto Retainers of
Companies
Passport size photograph of the retainer to be
attested by the company
Licensee Particulars
1.
Name of the company
2.
Page 89/180
----- PAGE 90 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Address as appearing on the license
3.
License Number and UIN
4.
Period of validity of the license
DD/MM/YYYY
5.
Area validity of the License
6.
Name of the responsible person with designation
The person whose particulars are detailed below is hereby
appointed to be an armed retainer of the company entitling him to
possess, carry and use, for all lawful orders issued by me, as a
responsible person of the company, the arms or ammunition
mentioned in column 10 and 11, covered by the license of the
company as mentioned in column 3.
Retainer Particulars
7.
Name of the retainer
8.
Father's Name
9.
Address of the retainer and nearest police station
10.
Details of the weapon entrusted to the retainer
Type
Caliber/ Bore
Weapon Number
11.
Quantity of Ammunition entrusted to the retainer
12.
Validity of the Permit up to
DD/MM/YYYY
13.
Signatures of the retainer
The retainer mentioned in column 7 shall carry this permit
with him when carrying the arms or ammunition and shall not carry
the arms or ammunition to an area not covered by the license
{|
Stamp and Seal of theLicensing Authority
| ________________________________________
|-
| Signature with stamp of the responsible person
|-
| signing on behalf of the company
|}
Form IV
Composite license for acquisition/ possession/ carrying and use of arms or ammunition for  destruction of wild animals
which do injury to human beings or cattle and damage to crops
UIN
License Number
Page 90/180
----- PAGE 91 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Name, description and residence of the licensee
Arms and ammunition
Place or area within which the license is valid
Period for which the license is valid
Date on which the license or the arms or both
shall be produced for inspection before the licensing authority
under rule 18
Brief description of each weapon with details
e.g., manufacturer's serial no. and identification marks, if any
Quantity and description of each kind of
ammunition
Maximum to be possessed at any one time
Maximum purchasable during the year
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
In case of destruction of wild animals which do injury to
human beings or cattle
In case of protection against damage to crops
Specification of the wild beasts which are permitted to be
destroyed under this license as per the permit granted under the
Wild life (Protection) Act, 1972 (
53 of 1972
) to the licensee
Title and residence of Magistrate to whom the license and the
weapon(s) must be shown between the 15th November and 31st
December of each year
10
11
The ..... of ..... 20....
SEAL
(Signature)
Licensing Authority
Designation
Place
Form of
Renewal of License
Date and year of renewal
Date on which renewed license expired
Signature and designation of renewing authority
SEAL
1
2
3
4
Page 91/180
----- PAGE 92 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Conditions
In addition to the common conditions contained in rule 112 of these rules, this license shall be subject to the following
additional conditions -
1. This license is granted subject to -
(a)
all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, and of the Arms Rules, 2016;
(b)
the provisions of sections 11 and 39 of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (
53 of 1972
), or other relevant sections, as the case may be, in respect of the State and Union Territory where the said Act is
applicable.
2. The licensee shall not carry any arms covered by this license otherwise than in good faith for destruction of wild
animals which do injury to human beings or cattle and damage to crops beyond the place or area entered in column 7.
3. The licensee shall not purchase or possess ammunition of any kind in excess of the maximum allowed under columns
5 and 6 of the license subject to the maximum limits laid down in rule 23.
4. At the time of purchasing any arms or ammunition the licensee shall cause the following particulars to be endorsed
upon his license under the vendor's signature namely:
(a)
the name, description and residence of the person who takes delivery of the articles purchased;
(b)
the nature and quantity of the articles purchased; and
(c)
the date of purchase;
and if the arms are purchased from any person other than a licensed dealer, he shall also cause the particulars specified
in clauses (b) and (c) to be furnished, in writing, to the authority who granted this license within such period as may be
prescribed for this purpose by such authority.
5. The licensee shall acquire and produce the arms together with the license, within the time limit granted or extended
as specified in column 9, before the licensing authority. If within the period so specified or extended the licensee fails to
acquire the arms and to produce the license or the arms or both, as the case may be, the license shall cease to be in
force.
6. For license granted for destruction of wild animals which do injury to human beings or cattle and damage to crops, the
licensee shall produce this license and every weapon covered thereby before the magistrate referred to in column 11,
once every year, between the 15th November and the 31st December.
7. Further,
(a)
The licensee shall not lend any arms or ammunition covered by this license to any person;
(b)
Where, after the end of any harvest season, the State Government considers it expedient that for the protection of wild
life in any area, any firearm or ammunition licensed in this form should be deposited in a police station or with a licensed
dealer, it may, by order, require any licensee to so deposit such firearm or ammunition for such period as the arms are
not required for protection of crops and as may be specified therein, and thereupon the licensee shall be bound to
comply with such order.
8. Without prejudice to the voidance of this license for breach of any of the foregoing conditions, it shall be void if-
(a)
the licensee dies; or
(b)
any weapon-covered thereby-
(i)
is sold or transferred, or
(ii)
is attached in execution of a decree:
Page 92/180
----- PAGE 93 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Provided that where a weapon is sold or transferred, the licensing authority may permit the holder of the license to
acquire a fresh weapon of the same description within such period as may be specified by him in this behalf.
Form V
License for acquisition, possession and use, for the purpose of sport/target practice, of firearms or ammunition
UIN
Serial Number of the license
Name description and location of the mess, club
or association or firing range
Arms and ammunition that the licensee is entitled
to possess
Place within which the license is valid
Date on which the license expires
Date on which the license or the arms or both
shall be produced for inspection before the licensing authority
under rule 18
Maximum to be possessed at any one time
Maximum purchasable during the year
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
The .................... of  ........... 200
Name (in capital)/ signature of the Licensing Authority
Designation .........................
Place .................................
SEAL
Or
Signature of the officer specially empowered to sign the
license under Rule 5
Designation ........................
Place ..................................
Form of
Renewal of License
Date and year of renewal
Date on which renewed license expired
Name (in capital)/ signature and designation of
renewing authority
Signature and designation of the officer
specially empowered to sign the license under rule 5
SEAL
1
2
3
4
5
Conditions
In addition to the common conditions contained in rule 112 of these rules, this license shall be subject to the following
Page 93/180
----- PAGE 94 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
additional conditions -
1. This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
2. It covers only the mess, club, association or firing range named and the arms and ammunition described therein.
3. The licensee shall acquire and produce the arms together with the license, within the time limit granted or extended
as specified in column 8, before the licensing authority. If within the period so specified or extended the licensee fails to
acquire the arms and to produce the license or the arms or both, as the case may be, the license shall cease to be in
force.
4. The licensee shall, at the time of purchasing any arms or ammunition, cause the following particulars to be endorsed
upon its license under the vendor's signature, namely:
(a)
the name, description and residence of the person who takes delivery of the articles purchased on behalf of the mess,
club or association;
(b)
the nature and quantity of the articles purchased; and
(c)
the date of purchase;
and if the arms or ammunition are purchased from any person other than a licensed dealer, shall also cause the
particulars specified in clauses (b) and (c) to be furnished in writing to the authority who granted this license within such
period as may be prescribed by that authority for this purpose.
5. No purchase of ammunition shall, however, be permitted except on a written certificate from the licensee certifying
that with the amount proposed to be purchased, the total quantity of ammunition in his possession will not exceed the
maximum which he is entitled to possess at any one time, or his total allowance for the year.
6. The mess, club, association or firing range shall not purchase or possess ammunition in excess of the quantities
allowed under columns 4 and 5 of the license or the maximum, which may, from time to time, be fixed by the Central
Government for the amount purchasable in a year and for the amount that may be possessed at any one time. Proper
inventory of ammunition acquired and consumed shall be maintained to include ammunition consumed for its own use
and consumed by the registered members of such mess, club, association or firing range.
Form V - A
Authorisation
Letter
[to be issued by the lender under rule 36(4)]
Particulars of the Lender
1.
Name of the lender dedicated sports person
2.
UIN
3.
License number
4.
Period of validity of license
5.
Address as mentioned in the license
6.
Telephone/ Mobile Number
Particulars of the Borrower
1.
Name of the borrower dedicated sports person
2.
Parent/ Spouse Name
3.
Membership Number
Page 94/180
----- PAGE 95 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(in case borrower is a registered member of rifle club or
association)
4.
Residence address
5.
Telephone/Mobile Number
6.
Purpose of grant of Authorization
(Training/ Target-practice/  Sporting event)
7.
Period for which the Authorisation
is being issued
(maximum period: 3 months)
8.
Area within which the Authorization is valid
9.
Name and address of the shooting range where the firearms and
ammunition are to be carried
Details of Arms and Ammunition which the
Borrower is entitled to carry and use for training/target
practice
Particulars
Firearm 1
Firearm 2
Firearm 3
Detail of
Firearms
Type
Bore
Number
Ammunition
Number of
cartridges
Accessories
(Name and Signature of the lender)
Form V - B
Pass to Member of Rifle Club/association
(to be issued on the printed letter head of
club/association)
Licensee particulars
1.
Name of the rifle club/ association
2.
UIN
3.
License number
4.
Name of the responsible person
5.
Registered address
6.
Page 95/180
----- PAGE 96 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Telephone/Mobile Number
Particulars of the Member to whom the Pass is
being issued
1.
Name of the Member
2.
Parent/Spouse Name
3.
Membership Number
4.
Residence address
5.
Telephone/Mobile Number
6.
Purpose of grant of Pass
(Repair/Training/ Target Practice/Sporting Event)
7.
Period for which the Pass is being issued
8.
Area within which the Pass is valid
9.
Name and address of the gun-smith or the shooting range where
the firearms and ammunition are to be carried
Details of Arms and Ammunition which the
Borrower is entitled to carry and use for training/target
practice
Particulars
Firearm 1
Firearm 2
Firearm 3
Detail of
Firearms
Type
Bore
Number
Ammunition
Number of
cartridges
Accessories
To be signed/stamped by the responsible person  on behalf of the shooting club/association
Form VI
Temporary Import/ Export License
License Number _________________________
*Category of licensee as applicable
Name and description of licensee, nationality and
passport number of the licensee or group leader or manager of the
sporting team/ group
Arms or ammunition that the licensee of category
mentioned in column (1) is entitled to possess and carry
Place of arrival in India
Place of departure from India
Page 96/180
----- PAGE 97 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Period for which the license is valid
Brief description of each weapon
Quantity and description of each kind of
ammunition
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
The .................... of ............ 20..........
(SEAL)
(Signature)
Licensing
Authority
Designation
...............
Place
........................
*Categories of licensees as per column 1 above
Category
Type of license
Category of arms specified in Schedule I
(a)
that sports person (s) is/are entitled to import into,
possession, use (for shooting sport events), journey in,
transport across and export out of India for the duration of the
shooting sport event or till the validity of visa, whichever is
earlier
III
(b)
that tourist is entitled to acquire/ possess (but not use)
during the course of his stay in/ carrying in/ export out of
India
III, IV, V(Made in India)
(c)
that a foreign visitor is entitled to import into, possession,
display at a trade or sport show and export out of India
III
(d)
that an official of a foreign government or a distinguished
foreign visitor or a foreign law enforcement officer with the
prior approval of MEA is entitled to import into, possess, carry
and export out of India
III
(e)
that a legitimate person with the prior approval of Central
Government is entitled to import into, possess, carry and export
out of India
III
Page 97/180
----- PAGE 98 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Conditions
1. This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
2. It covers only the persons named, and the arms or ammunition described therein.
3. On arrival at any Indian port, the license together with the passport/visa, shall be presented to the licensing authority
of the port of arrival, along with an undertaking from the licensee that the arms or ammunition endorsed on the license
shall not be sold or transferred to any person during his stay in India, wherein an entry to this effect shall also be made
by the licensing authority in the passport/visa giving full particulars of the arms and ammunition for which the license has
been granted.
4. The licensee shall not, unless specially empowered in this behalf by the authority granting the license, carry arms or
ammunition to a fair, religious procession or other public assemblage or within the campus or precincts of any
educational institution or any firearm free zone while and during his stay in India.
5. The licensee shall -
(a)
on demand by any magistrate, police officer or any authorized officer produce the firearms covered by this license;
(b)
forthwith give information at the nearest police station of the loss or theft of any arms or ammunition covered by the
license.
The licensee, while in India, is prohibited to sell or transfer any arms or ammunition or part thereof covered by this
license, to any person.
6. The licensee shall produce the firearm at the time of leaving India and return his license to the passport checking
authority or other officer empowered by the district magistrate in this behalf at the port or other place of departure from
India.
7. Export of category IV arms shall be allowed only if the application is accompanied by a certificate from the
Director-General of Archeology of the Central Government to the effect that the arms intended to be exported do not fall
within the definition of "antiquity" under the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, 1972 (
52 of 1972
).
Form VII
License
for
Manufacture
{|
| Proof Test
|
| Manufacture and Proof Test
|
|-
|
|
|
|
| of
|
|-
|
|
|
| Firearms/ Ammunition
|
|}
UIN ______________________ License Number ________________
Page 98/180
----- PAGE 99 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Name, description
and business address of licensee
Description of firearms allowed to be
manufactured
Description of ammunition allowed to be
manufactured
Categories of firearms allowed to be proof-tested
Name of range or other place where allowed to
test
Date on which the license expires
Category
Annual production (Number)
Category
Annual production (Number or Weight in Kgs.)
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
The ............ of ...........20.......
Date on which a copy is sent vide rule 7(2) to -
The District Magistrate of .................. district
The State Government of .............................
The ............ of ...........20.......
(Signature)
Secretary/ Joint Secretary
to the Government of India
(SEAL)
Ministry of Home Affairs
or
Signature and designation of the officer specially empowered
to sign the license under Rule 5
Form of
Renewal of License
Date and year of renewal
Date on which the renewed license expires
Signature and designation of renewing authority
SEAL
1
2
3
4
[Explanation.
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
- This Form shall apply to firearms and their following parts, namely: -
(a)
Barrel;
(b)
Page 99/180
----- PAGE 100 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Cylinder;
(c)
Bolt;
(d)
Breech Block;
(e)
Slide;
(f)
Firing Pin;
(g)
Frame or Receiver;
(h)
Extractor;
(i)
Hammer/Striker.]
Conditions
1. (a) This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
(b)
This license entitles the licensee to manufacture or proof-test firearms or ammunition as specified in column 3 and 5
respectively.
2. The licensee shall be required to construct the factory premises, set-up plant and machinery within 7 years of the
grant of license.
3. The licensee is permitted to conduct trial runs and develop proto-types within the initial validity period of license.
4. The licensee should preferably be self-sufficient in areas of product design and development and should have
maintenance and life cycle support facility of the product to be manufactured or proof-tested.
5. The standards and testing procedures for firearms and ammunition to be produced under license from foreign
collaborators or from indigenous research and development shall be provided by the licensee to the Government
nominated Quality Assurance Agency, which will inspect the finished product in the trial run and conduct surveillance
and audit of the Quality Assurance Procedures before the licensee applies for permission for commencement of
commercial production.
6. The licensee setting up a new manufacturing or proof test facility shall fully comply with the security conditions
contained in the Security Manual prepared by the Department of Defense Production, Ministry of Defense before filing
intimation for commencement of commercial production for manufacture of firearms and ammunition.
(a)
This license entitles the licensee to take any arms or ammunition for testing to an accredited shooting range with prior
permission of the licensing authority.
(b)
This license is valid only so long as the licensee carries on the manufacture and/or proof-test in the premises shown in
column 1 thereof, and will ipso facto lapse if the business is discontinued for a continuous period exceeding six months.
(c)
The licensee shall not enter into any partnership connected with this license without the approval of the licensing
authority.
7. The licensee shall maintain registers of all arms manufactured or proof-tested, of all ammunition manufactured, or
transferred, of all stock in hand, and of all sales, showing the particulars in such forms as prescribed in the rules.
Further, the licensee shall carry on the work of proof testing and stamp proof-marks on the firearms, which are proved,
in accordance with rule 59 of these rules.
8. The licensee shall make available for inspection his stock and his registers on the demand of any magistrate or any
police officer of a rank not below that of Inspector, or, if the Central Government so directs, of Sub-Inspector.
9. The licensee shall affix on a conspicuous part of his place of business and factory a signboard on which shall be
painted in large letters in English/ Hindi and in the language of the district his name and the words "Licensed to
manufacture and/or proof test Firearms and Ammunition".
Page 100/180
----- PAGE 101 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
10. The licensee shall not manufacture firearms and ammunition of any category or description other than those allowed
to be manufactured under column 2 and 4; nor expand his business, except with the prior permission of the Central
Government and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the Central Government.
11. The licensee shall not sell to anyone any firearm manufactured by him unless such firearm -
(a)
is duly proof-tested at a Government establishment or a proof house licensed under these rules or in case of a
composite license proof-tested in house;
(b)
bears proof-mark; and
(c)
bears identification marks required by rule 58.
12. The licensee shall not sell firearms or ammunition elsewhere than at the place of business or factory specified in
column 1.
13. The licensee shall at the time of sale or transfer of a firearm enter in his register the manufacturer's serial number
and other identification marks, if any, stamped on the fire-arm at the time of manufacture or otherwise.
14. The licensee shall give information of all sales or transfers of arms and ammunition, to such persons and in such
manner as the Central Government may direct.
15. The licensee shall not sell or transfer any quantity of ammunition to any person licensed to possess or carry arms or
ammunition without his first obtaining a written certificate from such person to the effect that, with the quantity of
ammunition proposed to be purchased by him, the total quantity in his possession will not exceed the maximum quantity
which he is entitled to possess at any one time or his total allowance for the year:
Provided that he shall not, in any case, sell or transfer to any person any quantity of ammunition in excess of the
maximum which may be fixed by the Central Government for such person or which is endorsed on such person's
license.
16. The licensee shall, at the time of sale or transfer of any arms or ammunition to a person holding a license in Form III,
Form IV or Form V endorse on the license -
(a)
the name, description and residence of the person who takes delivery of the articles sold or transferred,
(b)
the nature and quantity of the articles sold or transferred, and
(c)
the date of sale or transfer; and
shall sign the endorsement (and affix his seal).
17. The licensee shall not sell firearms and ammunition to an officer, non-commissioned officer or soldier of the armed
forces of the Union, unless such person produces a written pass or permit signed by his Commanding Officer, and then
only to the extent and on the conditions specified in such pass or permit.
Conditions related to Inventory Management System as per rule 56(5)
1.1
Separation of powers. - Checks and balances should be put in place to ensure that personnel involved in the
management of manufacturing of arms and ammunition facility do not simultaneously hold responsibilities that would
make it easier for them to steal or otherwise divert firearms while hiding their malfeasance from view.
For example, -
(a)
the same personnel should not be responsible simultaneously for conducting store-keeping, accounting and auditing
functions;
(b)
personnel responsible for physically verifying the transfer of firearms should not be responsible for compiling the
physical records of the firearm transfers;
(c)
Personnel responsible for firearms accounting should not participate in stock checks without the direct supervision of
storage personnel;
Page 101/180
----- PAGE 102 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(d)
Regular external audits of firearms stocks should be carried out by independent bodies.
1.2
Firearms Account. - An account shall be maintained at each manufacturing facility that records the following information
for each firearm in storage:
(a)
make;
(b)
model;
(c)
caliber;
(d)
serial number;
(e)
date entered into finished stock;
(f)
date transferred/sold/exported;
(g)
record of modifications and/or repairs; and
(h)
overall quantity of firearms, disaggregated by type.
The firearms account should be in electronic form and shall be 'backed up'. Backups should be in both electronic and
hard copy, but may be only in hard copy. In addition uploading of data on NDAL for the current week transactions is
mandatory by the close of business hours on every Saturday. Whatever form the backups take, they shall be stored
separately from the original and from each other in order to prevent the loss of all data in the event of theft, fire, etc. at
the weapons accounting office. Firearms accounts should be kept indefinitely.
1.3
Issue of firearms. - Only authorized officials shall remove firearms and ammunition from manufacturing unit's storage
areas. A system to positively identify and authenticate persons authorized to remove firearms from storage areas shall
be developed and implemented.
Such a system should include a register or log, which can be easily cross-referenced with the firearms account that
records at least the following information:
(a)
name and signature of individual removing firearm(s);
(b)
date and time of issue and return of firearm(s);
(c)
make, model and serial number of firearm(s) removed and returned; and
(d)
purpose of removal of firearm(s).
1.4
Stock checks. - The contents of firearms stock shall be verified on a regular basis against the firearm account,
specifically, -
(a)
a physical stock check by quantity and type of firearms should be conducted -
- every day in the case of smaller volume manufacturing unit;
- every week in the case of larger volume manufacturing unit.
(b)
a physical stock check by serial number should be conducted on at least 10% of the firearms in stock -
- every week in the case of smaller volume manufacturing unit, and
- every month in the case of larger volume manufacturing unit
Page 102/180
----- PAGE 103 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(c)
a 100% physical stock check by quantity, type and serial number should be conducted -
- every six months, regardless of the quantity of firearms in storage, and
- whenever the custody of keys is permanently transferred between an in-coming and outgoing key custodian.
1.5
Reporting of losses and investigations. - Any suspected loss or theft of a firearm shall immediately be reported to the
appropriate authority, which should immediately instigate an independent investigation by an individual or organization
unconnected with the firearms management system.
An investigation report should be compiled, including the following information:
(a)
identity of the firearm, including its
(1)
make,
(2)
model,
(3)
caliber,
(4)
serial number
(b)
date, location and unit involved;
(c)
summary of circumstances of loss;
(d)
explanation of loss (e.g. negligence, theft, etc.);
(e)
disciplinary and/or criminal action taken;
(f)
recommendations to prevent a re-occurrence;
(g)
date and location of recovery of the firearm(s) (if applicable);
(h)
summary of circumstances of recovery (if applicable)
The identity of lost or stolen firearms, as set out in (a) above, shall be recorded and retained in NDAL system in order to
facilitate their timely identification upon recovery.
When processing inventory adjustments, no firearm loss shall be attributed to an accounting or inventory discrepancy
unless an investigation has determined that the loss was not a result of theft.
1.6
Determination of surplus stocks. - It is the prerogative of the manufacturing units to review the types and numbers of
firearms with a view to determining the types and numbers of firearms that have become surplus to national/international
requirements.
Surplus stocks are understood as functioning firearms (including their parts, components and ammunition) that are no
longer required by the armed services of the State in order to ensure internal and external security nor could be
exported to legitimate buyers. Firearms determined to be surplus should be -
(a)
officially declared as surplus;
(b)
recorded as surplus in the firearms account;
(c)
taken out of service;
(d)
Page 103/180
----- PAGE 104 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
stored separately; and
(e)
destroyed in accordance with the guidelines
Form VII-A
License to manufacture, sale, transfer, keeping for sale, transfer arms and ammunition of category V of Schedule I
UIN
License number
Name, description and business address of
licensee
Description of arms allowed to be manufactured
(category V only)
Date on which the license expires
Category of arms
Annual production (Number)
1
2
3
4
5
6
The ...... of ...... 20 ..... (SEAL)
(Signature)
Licensing Authority ______ or
Specially empowered officer tosign the license under rule
(5)
Designation _________________
Place ______________________
Form of
Renewal of License
Date and year of renewal
Date on which the renewed license expires
Signature and designation of the renewing
authority
SEAL
1
2
3
4
Conditions
1. (a) This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
(b)
This license is valid only so long as the licensee carries on the trade or business in the premises shown in column (3)
thereof, and will ipso facto lapse if the business is discontinued for a continuous period exceeding six months.
(c)
The licensee shall not enter into any partnership connected with this license without the approval of the licensing
authority.
2. The licensee shall not sell or transfer any arms of category V to a person residing in an area to which section 4 of the
Act applies, unless the said person produces a license, or is exempted from the obligation to take out a license, to
acquire, possess or carry such arms in that area.
3. The licensee shall maintain registers of all arms and ammunition manufactured, or transferred, of all stock in hand,
and of all sales, showing the particulars in such forms as may be prescribed for the purpose by the Central Government
Page 104/180
----- PAGE 105 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
under rule 86.
4. The licensee shall make available for inspection his stock and his registers on the demand of any magistrate or any
police officer of a rank not below that of Inspector, or, if the Central Government so directs, of Sub-Inspector.
5. The licensee shall affix on a conspicuous part of his place of business, factory or shop a signboard on which shall be
painted in large letters in English/ Hindi and in the language of the district his name and the words "Licensed to
manufacture/ transfer/ sell arms or ammunition of Category V".
6. The licensee shall not manufacture arms of any category or description other than those allowed to be manufactured
under column (4).
Form VII-B
License to manufacture, sale, transfer, keeping for sale, transfer replicas of firearms
UIN
License number
Name, description and business address of
licensee
Description of replicas of firearms allowed to be
manufactured
Date on which the license expires
Category of arms
Annual production (Number)
1
2
3
4
5
6
The ...... of ...... 20 ..... (SEAL)
(Signature)
Licensing Authority ______ or
Specially empowered officer tosign the license under rule
(5)
___________________________
Designation _________________
Place ______________________
Form of
Renewal of License
Date and year of renewal
Date on which the renewed license expires
Signature and designation of the renewing
authority
SEAL
1
2
3
4
Conditions
1. (a) This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
(b)
This license is valid only so long as the licensee carries on the trade or business in the premises shown in column (3)
thereof, and will ipso facto lapse if the business is discontinued for a continuous period exceeding six months.
(c)
The licensee shall not enter into any partnership connected with this license without the approval of the licensing
Page 105/180
----- PAGE 106 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
authority.
2. The licensee shall maintain registers of all arms and ammunition manufactured, or transferred, of all stock in hand,
and of all sales, showing the particulars in such forms as prescribed under rule 70.
3. The licensee shall make available for inspection his stock and his registers on the demand of any magistrate or any
police officer of a rank not below that of Inspector, or, if the Central Government so directs, of Sub-Inspector.
4. The licensee shall affix on a conspicuous part of his place of business, factory or shop a signboard on which shall be
painted in large letters in English/ Hindi and in the language of the district his name and the words "Licensed to
manufacture /transfer/ sell replicas of firearms".
5. The licensee shall not manufacture replicas of arms of any category or description other than those allowed to be
manufactured under column (4).
Form VII - C
License to manufacture, sale, transfer, keeping for sale, transfer air weapons including air rifles and air pistols
UIN
License number
Name, description and business address of
licensee
Description of replicas of firearms allowed to be
manufactured
Date on which the license expires
Types of air weapons with muzzle energy and calibers
Annual production (Number)
1
2
3
4
5
6
The ...... of ...... 20 ..... (SEAL)
(Signature)
Licensing Authority ______ or
Specially empowered officer tosign the license under rule
(5)
___________________________
Designation _________________
Place ______________________
Form of
Renewal of License
Date and year of renewal
Date on which the renewed license expires
Signature and designation of the renewing
authority
SEAL
1
2
3
4
Conditions
1. (a) This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
(b)
This license is valid only so long as the licensee carries on the trade or business in the premises shown in column (3)
thereof, and will ipso facto lapse if the business is discontinued for a continuous period exceeding six months.
Page 106/180
----- PAGE 107 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(c)
The licensee shall not enter into any partnership connected with this license without the approval of the licensing
authority.
2. The licensee shall not sell or transfer any air weapons including air rifles and air guns having muzzle energy more
than 20 joules or 15 ft-lbs and/or bore more than 0.177" or 4.5 mm to a person, unless the said person produces a
license, or is exempted from the obligation to take out a license, to acquire, possess or carry such air weapons.
3. The licensee shall not sell or transfer any air weapons including air rifles and air guns having muzzle energy less than
20 joules or 15 ft-lbs and/or bore less than 0.177" or 4.5 mm to a person, without first obtaining an identification proof
and residence proof from the said buyer thereof.
4. The licensee shall maintain registers of all air weapons manufactured, or transferred, of all stock in hand, and of all
sales, showing the particulars in such forms as specified in rule 65.
5. The licensee shall make available for inspection his stock and his registers on the demand of any magistrate or any
police officer of a rank not below that of Inspector, or, if the Central Government so directs, of Sub-Inspector.
6. The licensee shall affix on a conspicuous part of his place of business, factory or shop a signboard on which shall be
painted in large letters in English/ Hindi and in the language of the district his name and the words "Licensed to
manufacture /transfer/ sell air weapons".
7. The licensee shall not manufacture air weapons of any type or description other than those allowed to be
manufactured under column (4).
Form VIII
Composite license for arms and ammunition dealers
Dealer Licenses
{|
| Deposit of Arms
|
|}
Serial No. of license ___________________ UIN _______________
Date and year on which the license expires _______/_______/__________
Name, description and business address of the
licensee
Description and number of arms
Description and quantity of ammunition
Name of the accredited shooting range where
allowed to test
To be sold or kept for sale etc.
To be deposited for safe custody under rule 48 or
under section 21
To be sold or kept for sale etc.
To be deposited for safe custody under rule 48 or
under section 21
1
2
3
4
5
6
The ...... of ...... 20 ..... (SEAL)
(Signature)
Licensing Authority ______ or
Specially empowered officer tosign the license under rule
(5)
Designation _________________
Page 107/180
----- PAGE 108 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Place ______________________
Form of
Renewal of License
Date and year of renewal
Date on which the renewed license expires
Signature and designation of the renewing
authority or specially empowered officer
SEAL
1
2
3
4
Conditions
1. (a) This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016;
(b)
This license entitles the dealer to take any arms or ammunition for testing or firing for demonstration to an accredited
shooting range only after obtaining prior permission of the licensing authority;
(c)
This license is valid only so long as he carries on the trade or business at the premises shown in column 1 thereof, and
will ipso facto lapse if the business is discontinued for a continuous period exceeding six months.
2. The licensee shall maintain registers of all arms and ammunition in stock and deposit; and of all sales showing the
particulars in such manner and forms as laid down in the rule 75.
3. The licensee shall make available for inspection his stock and his registers on the demand of any magistrate or any
police officer of a rank not below that of Inspector, or, if the Central Government so directs, of Sub-Inspector.
4. The licensee shall affix on a conspicuous part of his place of business or shop, a signboard, on which shall be painted
in large letters in English/Hindi and in the local language his name and the words "Licensed to sell/transfer arms and
ammunition as per the category of the license granted".
5. The licensee shall not sell the arms or ammunition covered by the license, elsewhere than at the place of business
specified in column 1.
6. The licensee shall at the time of sale or transfer of any arms or ammunition to a person holding a license in Form II,
Form III, Form IV and Form V endorse on the license-
(a)
the name, description and residence of the person who takes delivery of the articles sold or transferred;
(b)
the nature and quantity of the articles sold or transferred; and
(c)
the date of sale or transfer;
and shall sign the endorsement and affix his seal.
7. The licensee shall at the time of sale or transfer of a weapon enter in his register, the manufacturer's serial number
and other identification marks, if any, stamped on the firearm at the time of manufacture or otherwise.
8. The licensee shall give information of all sales or transfers of arms and ammunition, to such person and in such
manner as the Central Government may direct.
9. The licensee shall not sell or transfer ammunition to any person, licensed to possess or carry arms, without his first
obtaining a written certificate from such person to the effect that, with the quantity of ammunition proposed to be
acquired by him, the total quantity of ammunition in his possession shall not exceed the maximum quantity which he is
entitled to possess at any one time or his total allowance for the year:
Provided that he shall not in any case sell or transfer to any person any quantity of ammunition in excess of the
maximum which may be fixed by the Central Government for such person or which is endorsed on such person's
license.
10. Subject to the other conditions contained herein, no licensee shall, without reasonable cause, refuse to sell arms or
ammunition to any person who is entitled to purchase or acquire such arms or ammunition under the provisions of the
Page 108/180
----- PAGE 109 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Arms Act, 1959 or the Arms Rules, 2016.
11. During any period when the licensed premises are closed for business purposes, all firearms and ammunition, which
are on the premises, must be locked in a strong room or safe, for safe custody of firearms.
12. During any period when the licensed premises are open for business or any other purpose, firearms and ammunition
which are not displayed must be locked in a strong room or safe for safe custody of firearms.
13. The licensee may display firearms or ammunition during the business hours, however displayed firearms must be
unloaded and in the case of handguns, locked in a display counter or cabinet that prevents the unauthorized access to
the handguns displayed therein and in the case of other firearms excluding handguns, must be rendered inoperable by
means of a secure locking device or securely attached with a metal attachment to a non-portable structure in such a
manner that it cannot readily be removed. Further the firearm shall not be displayed with ammunition that can be
discharged from it.
14. The dealer may not at any time display or exhibit any firearms, and ammunition in any showcase or showwindow
which directly goes out on or overlooks any public street, road, throughway or public place where to the general public
has access, or permit it to be displayed or exhibited or cause it to be so displayed or exhibited.
15. The dealer and all persons employed by the dealer must be conversant with the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959
and the Arms Rules, 2016 and shall undergo the prescribed training for weapon handling and safe storage as mentioned
in rule 10 and will ensure that -
(i)
during business hours proper control is, at all times, exercised over all the firearms and ammunition;
(ii)
the prescribed registers are properly maintained;
(iii)
every reasonable precaution is taken against the loss or theft of the firearms and ammunition.
Conditions applicable on arms and ammunition kept for safe custody and under section 21
16. It covers only arms or ammunition of the description given in column 3 and 5 so long as they are kept in place
described in column 1, but does not authorise the licensee to carry arms.
17. The licensee shall maintain separate registers of all arms or ammunition deposited with him under this license -
(i)
under Section 21 of the Act, and
(ii)
for safe custody otherwise than under Section 21 of the Act,
showing particulars in such forms and manner as laid down in sub-rule (3) of rule 76 of these rules.
18. The licensee shall not receive for deposit arms or ammunition without verifying -
(a)
that they are not being deposited with any mala fide intention; and
(b)
in case they are being deposited otherwise than under Section 21 of the Act, that they are covered by a valid license
issued under these rules.
19. On the expiry of the period prescribed for forfeiture of the arms or ammunition deposited, the licensee shall deposit
them in the malkhana of the district or such other place as may be specified by the State Government for the purpose.
Form VIII-A
License for air weapon dealers
Serial No. of the license
U.I.N.
Name, description and business address of the
licensee
Description and number of air weapons to be sold
or kept for sale
Description and quantity of ammunition for air
weapons to be sold or kept for sale
Date and year on which the license expires
Page 109/180
----- PAGE 110 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
1
2
3
4
5
6
The ...... of ...... 20 ..... (SEAL)
(Signature)
Licensing Authority ______ or
Specially empowered officer tosign the license under rule
(5)
___________________________
Designation _________________
Place ______________________
Form of
Renewal of License
Date and year of renewal
Date on which the renewed license expires
Signature and designation of the renewing
authority or specially empowered officer
SEAL
1
2
3
4
Conditions
1. (a) This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016;
(b)
This license is valid only so long as the licensee carries on the trade or business at the premises shown in column (3)
thereof, and will ipso facto lapse if the business is discontinued for a continuous period exceeding six months.
2. The licensee shall maintain registers of all arms and ammunition in stock and deposit; and of all sales showing the
particulars in such manner and forms as laid down in the rule 85.
3. The licensee shall make available for inspection his stock and his registers on the demand of any magistrate or any
police officer of a rank not below that of Inspector, or, if the Central Government so directs, of Sub-Inspector.
4. The licensee shall affix on a conspicuous part of his place of business or shop, a signboard, on which shall be painted
in large letters in English/ Hindi and in the local language his name and the words "Licensed to sell/ transfer air
weapons".
5. The licensee shall not sell the arms or ammunition covered by the license, elsewhere than at the place of business
specified in column (3).
6. The licensee shall not sell or transfer any air weapons including air rifles and air guns having muzzle energy less than
20 joules or 15 ft-lbs and/or bore less than 0.177" or 4.5 mm to a person, without first obtaining an identification proof
and residence proof from the said buyer thereof.
7. The licensee shall at the time of sale or transfer of an air weapon enter in his register, the manufacturer's serial
number and other identification marks, if any, stamped on the air weapon at the time of manufacture or otherwise.
8. The licensee shall give information of all sales or transfers of air weapons, to such person and in such manner as the
Central Government may direct.
9. Subject to the other conditions contained herein, no licensee shall, without reasonable cause, refuse to sell air
weapons or their ammunition to any person who is entitled to purchase or acquire such air weapons or ammunition
under the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 or the Arms Rules, 2016.
10. During any period when the licensed premises are closed for business purposes, all air weapons and ammunition,
which are on the premises, must be locked under lock and key or a safe, for safe custody of firearms.
Page 110/180
----- PAGE 111 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
11. During any period when the licensed premises are open for business or any other purpose, air weapons and
ammunition which are not displayed must be locked under lock and key or a safe for safe custody.
12. The licensee may display air weapons or ammunition during the business hours, however displayed air weapons
must be unloaded and in the case of air pistols, locked in a display counter or cabinet that prevents the unauthorized
access to the air pistols displayed therein and in the case of other air weapons excluding air pistols, must be rendered
inoperable by means of a secure locking device or securely attached with a metal attachment to a non-portable structure
in such a manner that it cannot readily be removed. Further the air weapons shall not be displayed with ammunition that
can be discharged from it.
Form IX
License to gunsmiths to convert, shorten, repair (major) or test (other than proof-test) or keeping for conversion, repair
(major) or test (other than proof test) of firearms
UIN __________________ License Number ______________________
Name, description and business address of
licensee
Description of firearms allowed to be converted,
shortened, repaired (major), tested (other than proof-test) or to
be kept for conversion, shortening, repair (major) or test (other
than proof-test)
Description of ammunition allowed to be possessed
for testing the firearms repaired and Description of ammunition
allowed to be converted
Date on which the license expires
Category
Quantity (Number)
Category
Quantity (Number or Weight in Kgs.)
1
2
3
4
5
6
The ...... of ...... 20 ..... (SEAL)
(Signature)
Licensing Authority ______ or
Specially empowered officer tosign the license under rule
(5)
___________________________
Designation _________________
Place ______________________
Form of
Renewal of License
Date and year of renewal
Date on which the renewed license expires
Signature and designation of the renewing
authority
SEAL
1
2
3
4
Page 111/180
----- PAGE 112 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Conditions
1. (a) This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016;
(b)
This license is valid only so long as he carries on the trade or business at the premises shown in column 1 thereof, and
will ipso facto lapse if the business is discontinued for a continuous period exceeding six months.
(c)
The licensee shall not enter into any partnership connected with this license without the approval of the licensing
authority.
2. The licensee shall maintain registers of all arms and ammunition converted or shortened or repaired (major) showing
the particulars in such forms as prescribed under rule 82 of these rules.
3. The licensee shall make available for inspection his registers on the demand of any magistrate or any police officer of
a rank not below that of Inspector, or, if the Central Government so directs, of Sub-Inspector.
4. The licensee shall affix on a conspicuous part of his place of business, factory or shop a signboard on which shall be
painted in large letters in English / Hindi and in the language of the district his name and the words "Licensed to
convert/shorten and repair (major) arms and ammunition".
5. The licensee shall not convert, shorten or repair (major) arms and/or ammunition of any category or description other
than those allowed under column 2 and 4.
6. The licensee shall not convert/shorten/repair (major) arms or ammunition elsewhere than at the place of business or
factory specified in column 1.
7. This license entitles the licensee to fabricate components and parts of firearms for the purpose of repair of firearms of
the categories shown in column 2, but does not entitle him to manufacture such components or parts for the purpose of
or utilised for assembling into complete arms or ammunition. Conversion of arms of restricted category [Category I(b)
and I(c)] and of obsolete caliber weapons, which have gone out of production or for which no ammunition is readily
available, into permissible category arms is allowed under this license subject to the prior permission of the licensing
authority. Replacement of barrels of weapons falling under major repair is also permissible subject to condition 8.
8. The licensee shall not shorten the barrel of any firearm to less than 20 inches in any case.
9. This license does not entitle the licensee to convert blank cartridges or any ammunition having no projectile into
single/multiple projectile ammunition or to load or re-load any ammunition.
10. During any period when the licensed premises are closed for business purposes, all firearms and ammunition, which
are on the premises, shall be locked in a strong room or safe for safe custody of firearms.
11. During any period when the licensed premises are open for business or any other purpose, firearms and ammunition
which are not displayed shall be locked in a strong room or safe for safe custody of firearms.
12. The licensee may display firearms on which he has performed work in accordance with the provisions of arms rules,
in order to promote his craftsmanship, however displayed firearms must be unloaded and in the case of handguns,
locked in a display counter or cabinet that prevents the unauthorized access to the handguns displayed therein.
13. The licensee may only deactivate a firearm with the prior consent of the licensing authority.
14. The licensee is allowed to employ a person as an apprentice if such person is registered for such an apprenticeship
under the labour laws applicable in India and must exercise personal control or supervision over such apprentice who
performs any work on a firearm.
15. The licensee shall ensure the establishment of the approved safe or strong-room before commencement of business
under the license granted to him.
Form IX-A
License to gunsmiths to repair (minor) or test (other than proof-test) or keeping for repair (minor) or test (other than proof
test) of firearms
UIN __________________ License Number _______________
Name, description and business address of
licensee
Description of firearms allowed to be repaired
(minor) or to test (other than proof test) or keeping for repair
(minor) or test (other than proof test)
Description of ammunition allowed to be possessed
Page 112/180
----- PAGE 113 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
for testing the firearms repaired (minor)
Date on which the license expires
Category
Quantity (Number)
Category
Quantity (Number or Weight in Kgs.)
1
2
3
4
5
6
The ...... of ...... 20 ..... (SEAL)
(Signature)
Licensing Authority ______ or
Specially empowered officer tosign the license under rule
(5)
___________________________
Designation _________________
Place ______________________
Form of
Renewal of License
Date and year of renewal
Date on which the renewed license expires
Signature and designation of the renewing
authority
SEAL
1
2
3
4
Conditions
1. (a) This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
(b)
This license is valid only so long as the licensee carries on the trade or business in the premises shown in column 1
thereof, and will ipso facto lapse if the business is discontinued for a continuous period exceeding six months.
(c)
The licensee shall not enter into any partnership connected with this license without the approval of the licensing
authority.
2. The licensee shall maintain registers of all arms and ammunition repaired (minor) showing the particulars in such
forms as prescribed under rule 82 of these rules.
3. The licensee shall make available for inspection his registers on the demand of any magistrate or any police officer of
a rank not below that of Inspector, or, if the Central Government so directs, of Sub-Inspector.
4. The licensee shall affix on a conspicuous part of his place of business, factory or shop a signboard on which shall be
painted in large letters in English / Hindi and in the language of the district his name and the words "Licensed to repair
(minor) arms and ammunition".
5. The licensee shall not shorten the barrel of any firearm to less than 20 inches in any case.
6. During any period when the licensed premises are closed for business purposes, all firearms and ammunition, which
are on the premises, shall be locked in a strong room or safe for safe custody of firearms.
7. During any period when the licensed premises are open for business or any other purpose, firearms and ammunition
which are not displayed shall be locked in a strong room or safe for safe custody of firearms.
Page 113/180
----- PAGE 114 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
8. The licensee may display firearms on which he has performed work in accordance with the provisions of arms rules,
in order to promote his craftsmanship, however displayed firearms must be unloaded and in the case of handguns,
locked in a display counter or cabinet that prevents the unauthorized access to the handguns displayed therein.
9. The licensee is allowed to employ a person as an apprentice if such person is registered for such an apprenticeship
under the labour laws applicable in India and must exercise personal control or supervision over such apprentice who
performs any work on a firearm.
10. The licensee shall ensure the establishment of the approved safe or strong-room before commencement of business
under the license granted to him.
Form X
[Composite Import Licence For Arms and Ammunition]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
Import
In Transit
Import for Re-Export
Transport for Re-Export
Category of Item as per Schedule I - (please specify)
_______
License No.
UIN
Port of Import
Port of Export
1.
Name, description and address of the licensee
2.
Name, description and address of agent (if any) authorized for
the purpose of this consignment
3.
Number of packages
4.
ARMS
Description
Quantity
5.
AMMUNITION
Description
Weight (in Kgs) or Number
6.
Purpose for which required
7.
In case of Import, place where articles ported imported stored
or deposited
8.
Place of despatch and route
9.
Place of destination
10.
Name, description and address of the consignee
11.
Period of validity of License
The ...... of ...... 20 ..... (SEAL)
(Signature)
Page 114/180
----- PAGE 115 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Licensing Authority ____________
Designation _________________
Place ______________________
Conditions
1. The license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
2. An Account of the contents of each package shall be legibly written thereon and where the articles are conveyed by
rail, each package shall be marked with the word "Arms" or "Ammunition", as the case may be, so as to be readily
recognizable by the railway authorities.
3. The articles shall not be conveyed by any route other than that specified in column 8 and bulk shall not be broken nor
shall the consignment by stopped, before the articles reach the place of destination.
4. In case of Import, the articles shall be either -
(a)
deposited subject to the general or special sanction of the Central Government under section 34 of the Act, in a
warehouse licensed under section 58 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), or
(b)
forthwith dispatched to their place of destination.
5. The articles shall be delivered only to a person lawfully entitled to receive them.
[Form X-A]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
Composite Export Licence for Arms and Ammunition
Export
Export for Re-Import
Transport for Re-Export
(1)
(2)
(3)
1.
Licence No. UIN
2.
Name, description and address of the
Licencee/Exporter
3.
Name , description and address of agent (if any)
authorised for the purpose of export/purchase order
4.
Arms
Description
ITC(HS) Code
Quantity
5.
Ammunition
Description
ITC(HS) Code
Quantity
6.
Purchase Order No.
7.
Purpose for which required
8.
Place of Destination and Route
9.
Page 115/180
----- PAGE 116 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Period of validity of Licence
10.
FOB value
11.
Name of foreign buyer
12.
Name of Importer
13.
Port of Export
Port of Import
14.
Ultimate destination of export
15.
Name of End User
Explanation. - This Form shall apply to firearms and their following parts, namely: -
(j)
Barrel;
(k)
Cylinder;
(l)
Bolt;
(m)
Breech Block;
(n)
Slide;
(o)
Firing Pin;
(p)
Frame or Receiver;
(q)
Extractor;
(r)
Hammer/Striker.
Conditions
1. The licence is granted as per the extant provisions under the Arms Act, 1959 and the Arms Rules, 2016 subject to
provisions of the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992.
2. An Account of the contents of each package shall be legibly written thereon and each package shall be marked with
the word "Arms" or "Ammunition" or "Parts and Components" as the case may be, so as to be readily recognisable.
3. The articles shall not be conveyed by any route other than that specified in the licence and bulk shall not be broken
nor shall the consignment be stopped, before the articles reach the place of destination.
4. The articles shall be delivered only to a person lawfully entitled to receive them.
5. That the item(s) exported should not be used for purposes other than those declared in End User Certificate.
6. The licence shall be non-transferrable and issued in three original copies.
7. (a) The first copy of the export licence shall be returned to the issuing licensing authority within ten days of the date of
export and which date must be duly certified by the Indian customs authorities;
(b)
The second copy shall be returned to the issuing licensing authority within a period of ninety days after the export date
stated on the export licence, which must bear the signature, an official date and name stamp of the end user, to serve as
a delivery verification certificate:
Provided that failure to comply with conditions specified in clause (a) and clause (b) shall result in suspension of all
pending and future export transactions of the exporter till the time the said conditions are duly complied with.
Page 116/180
----- PAGE 117 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
8. On completion of the export transaction, the exporter shall retain one original copy of the export licence,bill of lading
or airway bill, packing lists and export invoice pertaining to the firearms or ammunition so exported and shall produce the
said documents whenever required to do so by the issuing licensing authority.
9. That the item(s) should not be subsequently transferred (re-exported) without the prior authorisation of the original
exporting Government.
10. That the item(s) should not be diverted, sold or transferred to any third party whatsoever except as indicated in End
User Certificate.
11. If required to provide verification or certification that possession of the item(s) has occurred.
12. The item (s) should not be used for any purpose that relates to development of weapons of mass destruction and
their delivery systems.
13. This Licence is further subject to compliance of Export and Import Policy of the Government of India, as amended
from time to time.
14. This Licence is valid for a maximum period of two years or completion of the order, whichever is earlier and the
validity of Licence may be extended from time to time, based on requirements and merits, by the Competent Authority.
15. The Firm is directed to submit a copy of the Licence duly endorsed (quantity of item exported) by concerned
customs authority after export of each consignment.
16. This Licence is being issued for port of loading/port of shipment indicated in the application. If there is any change
subsequently, endorsement from the Licencing Authority shall be required.
17. Upon execution of the export order, foreign buyer (as mentioned in the licence) shall intimate to the undersigned and
to the Embassy or Mission abroad about the execution, without fail.
The .............. of ............ 20...........(Seal)
(Signature)
Licencing Authority ___________Designation _________________
Place___________________
Form XI
Journey License
(to be issued if firearms are already endorsed on the license)
UIN ________________ License No. ___________________
1.
Name of the licensee
2.
Residential address of the licensee as endorsed on his arms
license
3.
Arms and ammunition that the licensee is entitled to carry
4.
Brief description of each firearm with details, e.g.
manufacturer's serial number and other identification marks
5.
Quantity and description of each kind of ammunition
6.
Place of departure
7.
Route of the journey
8.
Place of destination
9.
Period which the journey is likely to occupy
10.
Period for which the journey license is valid
The ...... of ...... 20 .....                                                           (SEAL)
Page 117/180
----- PAGE 118 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(Signature)
Licensing Authority ____________
Designation _________________
Place ______________________
Conditions
1. This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
2. The licensee shall ?
(a)
on demand by any authorized officer, produce the weapons covered by this license;
(b)
forthwith give information at the nearest police station of the loss or theft of any arms or ammunition covered by the
license; and
(c)
shall follow the route of journey as mentioned in column 7 of the license.
3. It covers only the person named in column 1 and the arms or ammunition mentioned in column 3.
Form XII
Transport License
(to be issued when firearms are not endorsed on the license or for transport by manufacturers or dealers)
UIN ________________ License No. ___________________
1.
Name, description and residence address of licensee and agent
(if any) authorized for the purpose of this consignment
2.
Licensee's place of business (if any)
3.
Arms and ammunition to be transported
Number of packages
Brief description of arms and number
Brief description of ammunition and weight in kilograms or
number
4.
Place of dispatch
5.
Route of transport
6.
Mode of transport
7.
Place of destination
8.
Name, description and address of consignee
9.
Period for which the License is valid[not exceeding
three months as provided under rule 97(5)]
The ...... of ...... 20 .....                                                           (SEAL)
(Signature)
Licensing Authority ____________
Designation _________________
Place ______________________
Endorsement 1
Date on which certificate of 'No Objection' (NOC) is obtained
vide Rule 98 from
Page 118/180
----- PAGE 119 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Authority
Place
Date
State Government
District Magistrate
Endorsement 2
Date on which a copy of Transport License is sent vide Rule 97(1) to
Authority
Place
Date
State Government
District Magistrate
Conditions
1. This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
2. The licensee shall-
(a)
on demand by any authorized officer, produce the weapons covered by this license; and
(b)
forthwith give information at the nearest police station of the loss or theft of any arms or ammunition covered by the
license.
3. The articles shall not be conveyed by any route other than that specified in column 5; and bulk shall not be broken,
nor shall the consignment be stopped before the articles reach the place of destination:
Provided that where the consignment is ready but could not be despatched in one bulk, for reasons beyond the control
of the licensee, the articles may be sent in lots provided proper intimation is sent to the licensing authority who may
extend the time-limit, if necessary.
4. An account of the contents of each package shall be legibly written thereon; and where the articles are conveyed by
rail, each package shall be marked with the word "Arms" or "Ammunition", as the case may be, so as to be readily
recognizable by the railway authorities.
5. The articles shall be delivered only to a person lawfully entitled to receive them as mentioned in column 8.
6. Where a license granted for industrial purposes has been made valid for a period longer than three months,
necessary entries shall promptly be made in the stock-registers maintained by the manufacturer or the dealer for the
purpose at the places, (viz., godown and factory).
Form XIII
Transport License for despatch of gun barrels or completed firearms for proof test
UIN ________________ License No. ___________________
1.
Name of the licensee manufacturer
2.
Address of the licensee manufacturer
3.
Name and designation of the responsible person
4.
Manufacturer's license number in Form VII
5.
Validity Period of license in Form VII
6.
Number of firearms allowed to be manufactured per annum
7.
Total number of gun barrels/ completed firearms which have
been despatched already to proof house for proof test for the
first time
Page 119/180
----- PAGE 120 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
8.
Total quantity of gun-barrels/ completed firearms to be
allowed to be despatched
Sr. No.
Type
Manufactured during the current year
Rectified
Total
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
a)
b)
c)
Total
9.
Total quantity of gun-barrels/ manufactured firearms to be
despatched after rectification (Column 3 of item 8)
Sr. No.
Year of manufacture
Number and date of communication of proof house
advising rectification
Serial No. of gun-barrels or completed firearms
rectified
Total
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
1. Certified that on the date of issue of this license, the licensee has not been restrained from operation of any of the
authorizations in his Form VII license, by the licensing authority or the renewing authority or the district Magistrate.
2. The licensee is hereby permitted to transport gun barrels/completed firearms vide item 8 to the establishment
indicated in Col. 7 of his Form VII license. He is also permitted to bring back from that establishment the gun barrels/
completed firearms covered by this license after proof test in one or more installments.
(Seal and Signature)
(District Magistrate)
Place :
Date :
Note. - The total of figures in item 7 and Col. 2 in item 8 should not exceed the licensed capacity vide item 6.
Form XIV
Transporter's license for transport of arms and ammunition
UIN ______________________ License No. ____________________
Name, description and business address of
licensee
Description of arms and ammunition allowed to be
transported
Date on which the license expires
Category of arms and ammunition
Maximum quantity during a calendar year
Maximum quantity in a single consignment
Page 120/180
----- PAGE 121 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Maximum quantity in multiple consignments under a
single shipment
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
The ...... of ...... 20 ..... (SEAL)
(Signature)
Licensing Authority ____________
or
Specially empowered officer tosign the license under rule
(5)
___________________________
Designation _________________
Place ______________________
Form of
Renewal of License
Date and year of renewal
Date on which the renewed license expires
Signature and designation of the renewing
authority
SEAL
1
2
3
4
Conditions
1. (a) This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
(b)
This license is valid only so long as the licensee carries on the trade or business in the premises shown in column (1)
thereof, and will ipso facto lapse if the business is discontinued for a continuous period exceeding six months.
(c)
The licensee shall not enter into any partnership connected with this license without the approval of the licensing
authority.
2. The licensee shall maintain registers of all arms and ammunition received for transportation, of all stock in hand, and
of all transportations made showing the particulars in such forms as may be prescribed for the purpose by the Central
Government.
3. The licensee shall make available for inspection his stock and his registers on the demand of any magistrate or any
police officer of a rank not below that of Inspector, or, if the Central Government so directs, of Sub-Inspector.
4. The licensee shall affix on a conspicuous part of his place of business, factory or shop a signboard on which shall be
painted in large letters in English/Hindi and in the language of the district his name and the words "Licensed to transport
arms or ammunition".
5. The licensee shall not transport arms and/or ammunition of any category or description other than those allowed to be
transported under column 2.
6. The licensee shall not keep arms or ammunition elsewhere than at the place of business specified in column (1) or at
the branch offices and representative offices of the transporter declared at the time of making application for a license in
Form XIV.
7. He shall not transport any quantity of arms and ammunition without his first obtaining a copy of the transport license in
Form XII from the consignor and ascertaining the purpose for such transportation on the basis of a written declaration
Page 121/180
----- PAGE 122 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
and shall not handover the consignment to any consignee without first obtaining copy of arms license from him and
proof of his bonafides to receive the consignment under the Act and these rules.
8. The transporter shall submit the following documents to the licensing authority -
(a)
proof that a proper functioning two way communication system between the vehicle transporting the arms or ammunition
and the applicant is in operation;
(b)
a detailed description of the safety measures fitted to the vehicle that shall be used; and
(c)
a detailed description of security precautions that shall be in place during transportation.
9. The transporter using road transport shall provide to the person in charge of transportation, a typed list or computer
printout on his letterhead of persons who will be directly involved in the transportation of the consignment of the arms
and ammunition, containing their names and identity numbers and such list must be attached to a certified copy of the
license in Form XIV.
10. An arms or ammunition transporter holding a license in Form XIV shall during the time of such transport, be in
possession of -
a consignment note on which the following particulars must appear:
(i)
(a)
the full name, address, license and UIN of the transporter;
(b)
the names, addresses and UINs of the consignor and the consignee in respect of arms and ammunition to be
transported;
(c)
the quantity, type of action, manufacturer's serial number, make and caliber of the firearms and quantity, make and
caliber of ammunition; and
(d)
the physical address where from the firearms and ammunition were collected and the physical address of their final
destination;
(ii)
the license in Form XII authorizing the transportation of such firearms and ammunition;
(iii)
any other document which may under these rules or any other law be required.
11. Wherein the licensee holding a license in Form XIV is obliged to store the firearms or ammunition for any period of
time after receipt and before delivery, such storage shall comply with the requirements for safe custody and storage as
specified in rule 10.
12. The licensee shall ensure direct supervision by him or through his personnel of an en-route consignment of arms or
ammunition which shall be accompanied by at least two able bodied guards.
13. The firearm transporter shall obtain from the consignee a written confirmation of the taking of possession of the
consignment of arms and ammunition and the confirmation shall contain the following information -
(i)
the name and surname of the recipient;
(ii)
the recipient's address;
(iii)
the date and time of delivery;
(iv)
the description of the arms and ammunition received; and
(v)
the signature of the recipient which serves as confirmation of the correct deliverance.
A copy of the written confirmation obtained above shall be delivered by the transporter to the licensing authority issuing
Page 122/180
----- PAGE 123 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
transport license in Form XII.
14. The licensee holding a license in Form XIV shall immediately notify in writing the police and licensing authority in the
event of non-delivery, loss or theft of the arms or ammunition.
15. The vehicle carrying arms and ammunition shall not stop for a longer period than is reasonably required and shall
avoid stops at places where public safety is likely to be in danger. Further the vehicle carrying arms and ammunition
shall be adequately secured and provided with fire extinguishers at the expense of the licensee holding a license in
Form XIV.
Form XV
License for the import into, possession for the duration of the journey in, transport across, and export out of India of
arms or ammunition carried by Nepal Government troops or police, from one place in Nepal to another place in Nepal
through Indian Territory
UIN ________________________ License Number _________________________
Description of licensee/ agent(s)
Number of retainers
Arms and ammunition that licensee is entitled to
import/ possess/ transport/ export
Place of entry in India
District (s) through which the arms or ammunition
shall pass
Place of departure from India
Period for which the license is valid
Brief description of the arms
Quantity and description of each kind of
ammunition
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
From the ...............
To the      ...............
The ....... of ....... 20
Date on which copy is sent to
the District Magistrate of
The ....... of ....... 20
............................ District
[vide Rule 111(2)]
(SEAL)
(Signature)
Ambassador of India in
Nepal
Conditions
1. This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
2. It covers only the person named, and the arms or ammunition described therein.
3. The licensee shall not, while in India, sell or transfer any arms or ammunition covered by this license.
Form XVI
License for firearm free zone
UIN
Page 123/180
----- PAGE 124 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
License Number
Name, description and business address of
licensee
Demarcated Area declared as Firearm Free Zone as
per the site plan enclosed (marked in red)
Date on which the license expires
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
The .......... of the ..........
SEAL
(Signature)
Licensing Authority ..................
Designation ........................
Place ...................................
Form of
Renewal of License
Date and year of renewal
Date on which the renewed license expires
Signature and designation of the renewing
authority
SEAL
1
2
3
4
Conditions
1. This license is granted subject to all the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959 and of the Arms Rules, 2016.
2. It covers only the name of the owner of the premises declared as firearm free zone for the demarcated area as
mentioned in column (4) of the license.
3. The licensee shall post notices at all the main entrances or at strategic places on the premises mentioned in column
(4) both in English and local language declaring the premises as firearm free zone.
4. The notices and signs shall be clearly visible and unobscured at all times.
5. Any change in the information furnished at the time of filing of application for firearm free zone shall be intimated to
the licensing authority within a period of seven working days.
III
Part II
Application Forms
Form A-1
(for individuals)
{|
Passport size photograph of the applicant
|-
|
| Form of application for an arms license
|-
|
| in Form II, III and IV
|-
Page 124/180
----- PAGE 125 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
|
| (See rule 11)
|}
Identity of the Applicant
1
Name
2
Parent/ Spouse Name
3
Sex
Male
Female
4
Place of birth (Nativity)
Country
State
District
5
Date of birth in Christian era
must be 21 years of age on the date of
application
in figures
DD/MM/YYYY
in words
6
Permanent Account No. (PAN)
7
Aadhar Card Number
8
Present address
District
State
(a)
Since when residing at the present address
DD/MM/YYYY
(b)
Telephone Number
Office
Residence
(c)
Mobile Number
(d)
*Nearest Police Station
9
Permanent Address
District
State
(a)
*Nearest Police Station
10
Occupation
Page 125/180
----- PAGE 126 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
*Note ?Nearest Police Station means the police
station under whose jurisdiction the place given in the address
comes
11
Office/ business address
12
Additional particulars if the license is required for crop
protection under rule 35
Location (village)
Area of land under cultivation
Other Particulars of the Applicant
13
Whether the applicant has been ?
(a)
convicted
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Offence
Sentence
Date of sentence
DD/MM/YYYY
(b)
ordered to execute a bond under Chapter VIII of Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) for keeping the peace or for
good behavior
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Date
DD/MM/YYYY
Period for which bound
(c)
prohibited under the Arms Act, 1959, or any other law from
having the arms or ammunition
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Date
DD/MM/YYYY
Period for which prohibited
14
Whether -
(a)
the applicant applied for a license before - if so, when, to
whom and with what result
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Date applied for
DD/MM/YYYY
Page 126/180
----- PAGE 127 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Name of the licensing authority
Result (pl. specify)
Approved/ Rejected/ Pending
(b)
the applicant's license was ever suspended or canceled/
revoked -
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Name of the
licensing authority
Reasons
(c)
any other member of the applicant's family is in possession of
any arms license, if so, particulars thereof
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Name
License No.
Weapons endorsed
1.
2.
3.
(d)
the applicant has a safe place to keep the arms and ammunition
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
(e)
the applicant has undergone training as specified under rule
10(whenever made applicable by the Central Government)
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Particulars of license being applied for
15
Need for license(see note 1 below)
16(a)
Description of arms for which
license is being sought
(Tick any one of the options)
Category - restricted/ permissible
Rifle
Shot Gun (BL/ML)
Hand Gun (Revolver/ Pistol)
Others ___________________
(b)
Description of ammunition or ingredients of ammunition for
which license is being sought
17
Page 127/180
----- PAGE 128 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Area within which applicant wishes
to carry arms
(Tick any one of the options)
District
Throughout India
18
Claims for special consideration
for obtaining the license, if any
(attach documentary evidence)
Additional Information
19
Details for an application for license in Form IV
(a)
Place or area for which the license is sought
(b)
Specification of the wild beasts which are permitted to be
destroyed as per the permit granted under the Wild life
(Protection) Act, 1972 (
53 of 1972
) to the applicant
Declaration:
I hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I am
liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, the Arms Rules,
2016, and other central enactments or the law for the time being in force.
Place ____________
Date _____________
Signature/ Thumb - impression of applicant
Notes:
1. Against column 15, the applicant should clearly mention the purpose(s) for which the license is required - such as
use, acquisition, possession, carrying, sport, display, destruction of wild animals which do injury to human beings or
cattle and damage to crops etc. as per the category of license applied (Form II, III or IV).
2. The following documents under rule 11 are to be submitted along with the application -
(a)
four passport size copies of the latest photograph of the applicant (in white background);
(b)
proof of date of birth;
(c)
identification proof - Aadhar Card or in case the applicant does not have Aadhar Card, a written declaration to be
submitted in the form of an Affidavit along with an alternative identification proof which may include ? Passport; Voter
Identification Card, PAN Card or Identity card issued to the employees.
(d)
residence proof in case the applicant does not possess Aadhar Card or Passport - (Election Card or Electricity Bill or
Landline Telephone Bill or Rent Deed or Lease Deed or Property documents or any other document to the satisfaction
of the licensing authority);
(e)
firearm training certificate in Form S-1 (whenever made applicable by the Central Government by passing a general or
special order);
(f)
safe use and storage of firearms undertaking in Form S-2 ;
(g)
Page 128/180
----- PAGE 129 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
self-attested copies of the educational and professional qualification certificates from professional category applicants as
specified in clause (a) of sub-rule (3) of rule 12;
(h)
medical certificates about mental health and physical fitness in Form S-3;
(i)
in case of protection for destruction of wild animals which do injury to human beings or cattle and damage to crops,
permit from the authority empowered under the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (
53 of 1972
);
3. Strike off the entries not relevant.
Warning:
Suppression of any factual information or furnishing of any false or wrong information in the application form in violation
of arms rules will render the applicant liable for punishment under Section 30 of the Arms Act, 1959.
Form A-2
(for companies)
Form of application for an arms license in Form II, III and V
(See rule 11)
Identity of the Applicant
1.
Name of the applicant company
2.
Permanent Account Number (P.A.N.)
3.
Corporate Identification Number (C.I.N.)
2.
Name of the applicant branch or
representative office of the company
(if the application is being filed by such branch or
representative office)
3.
Constitution of the applicant
company
(see Note 1 below)
4.
Designation of the 'responsible
person' who will sign on behalf of the applicant company
(duly authorized in writing or by way of a board resolution
wherein required)
Name of the 'responsible person' signing the application
5.
Registered Office Address of the company
Telephone No. (Office)
Mobile Number of the responsible person
E-mail
*Nearest Police Station
6.
Address of the branch or representative office by which the
application is being filed
Telephone (office/ residence)
Mobile No.
E-mail
Page 129/180
----- PAGE 130 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
*Nearest Police Station
*Note - Nearest Police Station means the police station under whose jurisdiction the place given in the address comes
Other Particulars of the Applicant
7.
Whether the applicant or its office bearers or directors has/
have ever been ?
(a)
convicted
(attach details in a separate sheet, if the answer is in
affirmative)
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Offence
Sentence
Date of sentence
DD/MM/YYYY
(b)
prohibited under the Arms Act, 1959, or any other law from
having the arms or ammunition
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Date
DD/MM/YYYY
Period for which prohibited
8.
Whether -
(a)
the applicant applied for a license before - if so, when, to
whom and with what result
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Date applied for
DD/MM/YYYY
Name of the licensing authority
Result (pl. specify)
Approved/ Rejected/ Pending
(b)
the applicant's license was ever suspended or canceled or
revoked -
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Name of the
licensing authority
Reasons
(c)
any other arms license already held by the company or where
the applicant is a branch or representative office of such
Page 130/180
----- PAGE 131 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
company, held by such branch or representative office
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Name
License No.
Weapons endorsed
1.
2.
3.
(d)
the applicant has a safe place to keep the arms and ammunition
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
(e)
the retainer or retainers to be employed by the applicant have
undergone training as specified in rule 10(whenever made
applicable by the Central Government)
Particulars of license being applied for
9.
Need for license
(see Note 2 below)
10. (a)
Description of arms for which
license is being sought
(Tick any one of the options)
Category ? Restricted/
Permissible
Rifle
Shot Gun (BL/ ML)
Hand Gun (Revolver/ Pistol)
Others
(b)
Description of ammunition or ingredients of ammunition for
which license is being sought
11.
Number of firearms which applicant wishes to apply for
12.
Area within which applicant wishes
to carry arms
(Tick any one of the options)
District
State
Throughout India
13.
Claims for special consideration
for obtaining the license, if any
(attach documentary evidence)
Declaration:
I, __________________________, the responsible person, _______________ (designation as mentioned in column 3)
Page 131/180
----- PAGE 132 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
of _________________________________ (name of the company), hereby declare that the above particulars given in
the application are true, complete and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of
any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I, personally, as well as the company are liable to be
proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, the Arms Rules, 2016, and
other central enactments or the law for the time being in force.
______________________________________________
Signature with stamp of the responsible person signing on behalf of the company
Notes:
1. Constitution of the company be mentioned -
Private Limited Company; Limited Company; Government Undertaking; Society: Co-operative Society; Institute;
University; Partnership Firm; Association of Persons (AOPs) or any other body under any special act or otherwise etc.
2. Against column 9, the applicant should clearly mention the purpose(s) for which the license is required - such as use,
acquisition, possession, carrying, protection, display, target practice or shooting, etc.
3. The applicant is required to submit the following documents along with the application -
(a)
written undertaking on the letter head of the company applicant duly signed by the responsible person appointed vide
clause (44) of rule 2 for filing an application under the arms rules;
(b)
original copy of the board resolution passed or an authority letter confirming the appointment of responsible person
referred to in clause (a) above;
(c)
certified copies of the founding documents of the Company including Memorandum and Articles of Association;
(d)
safe use and storage of firearms undertaking in Form S-2 as specified in rule 10;
Warning:
Suppression of any factual information or furnishing of any false or wrong information in the application form in violation
of arms rules will render the applicant company and the responsible person liable for punishment under Section 30 of
the Arms Act, 1959.
{|
Recent passportsizephotograph ofthe licensee
|-
|
|
|-
|
| Form A-3
|-
|
| (for individuals)
|-
|
|
|}
Form of application for renewal of arms license(s) granted in Form II, III, IV
(See rule 24)
Identity of the Licensee
1.
UIN (16 digit)
2.
Name
3.
Page 132/180
----- PAGE 133 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Parent/ Spouse Name
4.
Date of birth in Christian era
(a)
in figures
DD/MM/YYYY
(b)
in words
5.
Present Address
(a)
Telephone (Office/ Residence)
(b)
Mobile No.
(c)
E-mail
(d)
Nearest Police Station
6.
Occupation
7.
Office/ Business Address
License Particulars and Weapon Endorsements
8.
License Number
9.
Date of expiry
DD/MM/YYYY
10.
Area Validity
11.
Weapons Endorsed
Weapon 1
Weapon 2
Weapon 3
(a)
Type (Rifle/ Shotgun/ Handgun (Rev/ Pistol)
(b)
Bore/Caliber
(c)
Weapon Number
12.
Ammunition allowed
Cartridges Gun Powder/ Percussion Caps
Other Particulars of the Applicant
13.
License Particulars and Weapon Endorsements
(a)
convicted
Y
N
Page 133/180
----- PAGE 134 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
If yes, details thereof ?
Offence
Sentence
Date of sentence
DD/MM/YYYY
(b)
ordered to execute a bond under Chapter VIII of Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) for keeping the peace or for
good behavior
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Date
DD/MM/YYYY
Period for which bound
(c)
prohibited under the Arms Act, 1959, or any other law from
having the arms or ammunition
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Date
DD/MM/YYYY
Period for which prohibited
14.
Whether -
(a)
the applicant's license since last renewal or issuance of
license was ever suspended or cancelled/ revoked
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Name of the
licensing authority
Reasons
(b)
any other member of the applicant's family is in possession of
any arms license, if so, particulars thereof
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Name
License No.
Weapons endorsed
1.
2.
3.
(c)
the applicant has a safe place to keep the arms and ammunition
Y
N
Page 134/180
----- PAGE 135 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
If yes, details thereof ?
(d)
the applicant has undergone
prescribed training as specified under rule 10
(whenever made applicable by the Central Government)
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Declaration:
I hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I am
liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, the Arms Rules,
2016, and other central enactments or the law for the time being in force.
Signature/ Thumb-impression of applicant
Place .............
Date ..............
Note:- The exemptee sports persons shall attach a list of the arms and ammunition held by them in a separate sheet
against columns 11 and 12.
Warning:-
Suppression of any factual information or furnishing of any false or wrong information in the application form in violation
of arms rules will render the applicant liable for punishment under Section 30 of the Arms Act, 1959.
Form A-4
(for companies)
Form of application for renewal of license(s) granted in Form II, III and V
(See rule 24)
Identity of the Licensee
1.
UIN (16 digit)
2.
Name of the licensee company (see Note 1)
3.
Constitution of the licensee company
P.A.N./ C.I.N.
4.
Name of the responsible person
5.
Address of the licensee company
Telephone No. (office)
Mobile Number of the responsible person
E-mail
*Nearest Police Station
License particulars and weapon endorsements
6.
License Number
7.
Date of expiry
DD/MM/YYYY
8.
Area Validity
9.
Total Number of Weapons Endorsed
Page 135/180
----- PAGE 136 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
10.
Details of Weapons
1
2
3
(a)
Type
(Rifle/ Shot gun/ Handgun)
(b)
Bore
(c)
Weapon Number
Separate list be attached for more than three weapons
11.
Ammunition allowed
Cartridges
Gun Powder/ Percussion Caps
Other Particulars of the Applicant
12.
Whether the applicant or its office bearers or directors or responsible person since the issuance/ last renewal have ever
been -
(a)
convicted
(attach details in a separate sheet, if the answer is in
affirmative)
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Offence
Sentence
Date of sentence              DD/MM/YYYY
(b)
prohibited under the Arms Act, 1959, or any other law from
having the arms or ammunition
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Date                                   DD/MM/YYYY
Period for which prohibited
13.
Whether -
(a)
the applicant's license since the issuance or last renewal was
ever suspended or cancelled or revoked
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Name of the
licensing authority
Reasons
(b)
Page 136/180
----- PAGE 137 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
the licensee has a safe place to keep the arms and ammunition
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
(c)
the retainers appointed by the
company have undergone training requirements as specified in rule
10
(whenever made applicable by the Central Government)
Y
N
If yes, details thereof ?
Declaration:
I, ________, the responsible person (named in column 4) of ____________________ (company name),hereby declare
that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I personally as well as the
company are liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, the
Arms Rules, 2016, and other central enactments or the law for the time being in force.
______________________________________________
Signature with stamp of the responsible person
signing on behalf of the company
Note:
1. Constitution of the company be mentioned - Private Limited Company; Limited Company; Government undertaking;
Society: Co-operative Society; Institute; University; Partnership Firm; Association of Persons (AOPs) or any other body
under any special act or otherwise etc.
Warning:
Suppression of any factual information or furnishing of any false or wrong information in the Application Form in violation
of arms rules will render the applicant company and the responsible person liable for punishment under Section 30 of
the Arms Act, 1959.
Form A-5
(for individuals/ teams or groups)
Form of application for an arms license in Form VI for temporary import and export of arms and ammunition
Part A
(See rule 44, 45)
Application by
Individuals ?
bringing firearms of category III of Schedule
Into India
1.
Name
2.
Parent/ Spouse Name
3.
Nationality
4.
Passport Number
5.
VISA particulars for India
6.
Date of birth in Christian era
DD/MM/YYYY
Page 137/180
----- PAGE 138 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
7.
Original arms license number of the native country with
validity
DD/MM/YYYY
8.
Present Address(as per Passport)
Telephone (office/ residence)
Mobile No.
E-mail
9.
Purpose of bringing firearm into India
10.
Period of stay in India for which the license is sought
11.
Estimated date of arrival in India and port of entry
DD/MM/YYYY
12.
Estimated date of departure from India and port of exit
DD/MM/YYYY
13.
Firearms for which the license is being sought
Type
Bore
Number
14.
Details of sponsors/ organisers in India for the sporting
event/ tournament
Additional Information in case of sports
teams/ groups
1.
Name of the Manager or Group leader
2.
Parent/ Spouse Name
3.
Nationality
4.
Passport Number
5.
VISA particulars for India
6.
Place of birth
7.
Date of birth in Christian era
DD/MM/YYYY
8.
Present Address(as per Passport)
Telephone (office/ residence)
Mobile No.
E-mail
9.
Number of team members
Page 138/180
----- PAGE 139 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
10.
Event/ Tournament Details
Venue
Date
DD/MM/YYYY
11.
Period for which the license is sought
12.
Organisers/ sponsors in India
Declaration:
I hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I am
liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, the Arms Rules,
2016 and other central enactments or the law for the time being in force in India.
________________________________________
Signature of applicant/ Group or Team Leader
Place .....................
Date ......................
Notes:-
1. The application may be filed by the Group/ Team leader of sporting team visiting India giving details of individual team
members as specified in Part A along with the additional details given above.
2. The application may be made in advance to Indian Consulates/ High Commissions for obtaining a license on the
basis of an approval letter from the Indian organizers/ sponsors duly authenticated by Ministry of Sports and Youth
Affairs for sporting events/ tournaments to be held in India.
Part B
(See rule 43)
Applicable for tourists visiting
India ?
Acquisition and possession (but not use) during the course of
his stay in/carrying/ export out of India of category III, IV, V
(Made in India weapons only)
1.
Name
2.
Parent/Spouse Name
3.
Nationality
4.
Passport Number
5.
VISA details
6.
Date of birth in Christian era
DD/MM/YYYY
7.
Present Address(as per Passport)
Telephone (office/residence)
Mobile No.
E-mail
8.
Date of arrival in India and port of entry
Page 139/180
----- PAGE 140 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
9.
Estimated date of departure from India and port of exit
10.
Weapons for which the license is being sought
Category (III, IV or V)
Type
Bore
11.
Details of seller/ transferee from whom these weapons are to
be procured
Name
Address
UIN
License Number
Notes -
1. Weapon(s) on acquisition are to be produced before the licensing authority for necessary endorsement on the license
along with the original invoice/ bill/ transfer letter.
2. Every application for the grant of a license for export of category IV arms shall be accompanied by a certificate from
the Director-General of Archaeology of the Central Government to the effect that the arms intended to be exported do
not fall within the definition of "antiquity" under the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, 1972 (
52 of 1972
).
Declaration:
I hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I am
liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, the Arms Rules,
2016 and other central enactments or the law for the time being in force in India.
___________________
Signature of applicant
Place ........................
Date .........................
Form A - 6
(for companies)
Form of application for an arms license in Form VII for manufacture and proof test
(See rule 51)
1.
Name of the applicant
2.
Constitution of the applicant company
3.
Company Identification No. (CIN)
4.
Registered Office Address
Telephone
Mobile No.
E-mail
5.
Name of the responsible person with designation
6.
Address of the factory for manufacture and prooftesting
Telephone
Page 140/180
----- PAGE 141 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Mobile No.
E-mail
7.
Description of firearms to be manufactured/proof tested
Category
Proposed annual capacity(number)
8.
Description of ammunition to be manufactured/ proof tested
Category
Proposed annual capacity(Number or weight in kilograms)
9.
In case the manufacturer does not want in-house proof-testing,
name of the range or other place for proof-testing being applied
for
Declaration:
I, ________, the responsible person (named in column 5) of ____________________ (company name), hereby declare
that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I, personally as well as the
company are liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, the
Arms Rules, 2016, and other central enactments or the law for the time being in force.
____________________________________________
Signature and stamp of the responsible officer
signing on behalf of the company
Warning:
Suppression of any factual information or furnishing of any false or wrong information in the Application Form in violation
of arms rules will render the applicant liable for punishment under Section 30 of the Arms Act, 1959.
Documents to be enclosed as specified in rule 53-
A company applying for a license in Form VII under these rules will be required to provide -
(a)
original or certified copies of the company's founding documents including Memorandum and Articles of Association,
Certification of Registration of the Company under the Companies Act, 2013, CIN (Corporate Identification Number),
proof of address of its registered office, PAN card and certified lists of directors and shareholders as on the date of
application;
(b)
copy of Director Identification Numbers (DIN) of all the directors;
(c)
identification proof (Passport or PAN card or Voter's identification card) along with 2 recent photographs of all the
directors and the responsible person as defined in clause (44) of rule 2;
(d)
copy of Aadhar Card of all the directors and responsible person;
(e)
residence proof (Passport or Voter's identification card or electricity bill or landline telephone bill or rent deed or
lease-deed or any other document to the satisfaction of the licensing authority of all the directors and responsible
person);
(f)
copy of the latest balance sheet of the company and audited copy of Net-worth Certificate duly certified by a Chartered
Accountant;
(g)
estimated project outlay and means of finance for funding the project duly certified by a Chartered Accountant;
(h)
certified copy of the board resolution for filing the application under the arms rules along with full particulars of the
Page 141/180
----- PAGE 142 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
responsible person authorized to sign the same;
(i)
details of foreign control and/or ownership in the applicant company, as applicable, duly certified by a Chartered
Accountant.
Form A-7
Form of application for an arms license in
Form VII-A - for manufacture of arms of category V of Schedule I
Form VII-B - for manufacture of replicas of firearms
Form VII-C - for manufacture of air weapons
1.
Name of the applicant
2.
Nomenclature
Company/ Individual
3.
P.A.N./ C.I.N
4.
Business address
Telephone
Mobile No.
E-mail
5.
Name of the responsible person
6.
Address of the factory for manufacture of category V arms or
manufacture of replicas of firearms or air weapons
Telephone
Mobile No.
E-mail
7.
Description of arms/ replicas of firearms/ air weapons to be
manufactured
Category
Proposed Annual Capacity(Number)
Declaration:
I, ________, (Individual or the responsible person named in column 5) of ____________________ (company name),
hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I
personally as well as the company are liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of
the Arms Act, 1959, the Arms Rules, 1962, and other central enactments or the law for the time being in force.
_____________________________________________
Signature of the Individual applicant
or
Signature and stamp of the responsible person
signing on behalf of the applicant company
Warning:
Suppression of any factual information or furnishing of any false or wrong information in the Application Form in violation
of arms rules will render the applicant liable for punishment under Section 30 of the Arms Act, 1959.
Documents to be enclosed in case of fresh application
(a)
Firm and its Partners. - A firm and its partners applying for a license in Form VII A, Form VII B or Form VII-C under these
Page 142/180
----- PAGE 143 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
rules will be required to provide -
(a)
proof of the identity of the partners and of all the persons, the applicant firm proposes to employ in the business,
including names, physical and recent photographs.
(b)
medical certificate;
(c)
information on the arms of category V of Schedule I or replicas of firearms to be manufactured or air weapons, including
types and quantities;
(d)
proof that the firm meets the standards for protection of proprietary and classified information, as applicable;
(b)
Company. - A company applying for a license in Form VII-A, Form VII-B or Form VII-C under these rules will be required
to provide -
(a)
original or certified copies of the company's founding documents, articles of incorporation or other proof of licensed
business;
(b)
information on the arms of category V of Schedule I or replicas of firearms or air weapons to be manufactured, including
types and quantities;
(c)
proof that the company meets the standards for protection of proprietary and classified information, as applicable; and
(d)
information on foreign control and/or ownership in the applicant company, as applicable.
The company is also required to provide -
(e)
the identity of the company's officers;
(f)
the identity of the person who will be responsible for the day to day management of the manufacturing facility
(responsible person); and
(g)
proof of the identity of the responsible person, including name, physical address and recent photograph.
Form A - 8
Part I ? Form of application for an arms license in Form VIII for arms and ammunition dealers
(See rule 73)
1.
Name of the applicant
2.
Nomenclature
Company/ Individual
3.
Business Address (Shop)
Telephone
Mobile No.
E-mail
4.
Name of the responsible person
5.
Category of license applied for ?
Dealer License
Deposit of Arms
Page 143/180
----- PAGE 144 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
6.
Description of firearms to be sold or kept for sale
7.
Description of ammunition to be sold or kept for sale
8.
Description of arms and ammunition to be deposited under
section 21 of the Act or for safe custody under rule 48
Declaration:
I, _______________________, the Prop./Partner/Director/Responsible Person of ____________________ (company
name), hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I as
well as the company are liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of the Arms Act,
1959, the Arms Rules, 2016, and other central enactments or the law for the time being in force.
Place __________
Date ___________
Signature of the applicant
Warning:
Suppression of any factual information or furnishing of any false or wrong information in the Application Form in violation
of arms rules will render the applicant liable for punishment under Section 30 of the Arms Act, 1959.
List of documents to be submitted at the time of application and subsequent renewal thereof -
(1)
A written declaration along with certified copies of drawings stating that the applicant has facilities available of a strong
room for the safe custody of the firearms and ammunition;
(2)
A written undertaking in support of the application with specific reference to the steps which are contemplated in
connection with the safe custody of the firearms and ammunition including provision for entry access control, close
circuit television system, security guard, firefighting devices etc.;
(3)
Verification forms containing the names and addresses of every person authorized to trade on behalf the dealer
applicant at the premises, who must possess the requisite training for safe handling of firearms as specified in rule 10.
Form A - 8
Part II ? Form of application for an arms license in Form VIII-A for Air weapon dealers
(See rule 84, 85)
1.
Name of the applicant
2.
Nomenclature
Company/ Individual
3.
Business Address (Shop)
Telephone
Mobile No.
E-mail
4.
Name of the responsible person
5.
Description of air weapons to be sold or kept for sale
6.
Description of ammunition for air weapons to be sold or kept
for sale
Declaration:
Page 144/180
----- PAGE 145 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
I, _______________________, the Prop./Partner/Director/Responsible Person of ____________________ (company
name), hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I as
well as the company are liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of the Arms Act,
1959, the Arms Rules, 2016, and other central enactments or the law for the time being in force.
Place __________
Date ___________
Signature of the applicant
Warning: Suppression of any factual information or furnishing of any false or wrong information in the Application Form
in violation of arms rules will render the applicant liable for punishment under Section 30 of the Arms Act, 1959.
Form A - 9
Form of application for an arms license in Form IX or IX-A for accredited gunsmiths
(See rules 77 and 78)
1.
Name of the applicant
2.
Nomenclature
Company/ Individual
3.
Business Address (Shop/ Factory)
Telephone
Mobile No.
E-mail
4.
Name of the responsible person
5.
Professional qualification of the individual applying to act
as a gunsmith or of the employees of the company applying for a
gun smith license (applicable for a license in Form IX only)
6.
Description of firearms to be converted, shortened or repaired(major repair under license in Form IX)
7.
Description of firearms to be repaired(minor repair under
license in Form IX-A)
7.
Description of firearms or parts of firearms to be stored
8.
Description of ammunition to be stored for testing
Declaration:
I, ______________________, the proprietor/ partner/ director/ responsible person of ____________________
(company name), hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the
best of my knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any
stage, I as well as the company are liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of the
Arms Act, 1959, the Arms Rules, 2016, and any other law for the time being in force.
Place __________
Date ___________
Signature of the applicant
Warning: Suppression of any factual information or furnishing of any false or wrong information in the Application Form
in violation of arms rules will render the applicant liable for punishment under Section 30 of the Arms Act, 1959.
List of documents to be submitted at the time of application and subsequent renewal thereof -
(1)
Page 145/180
----- PAGE 146 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
A written declaration along with certified copies of drawings stating that the applicant has facilities available of a strong
room for the safe custody of the firearms and ammunition;
(2)
A written undertaking in support of the application with specific reference to the steps which are contemplated in
connection with the safe custody of the firearms and ammunition including provision for entry access control, close
circuit television system, security guard, firefighting devices etc.;
(3)
Verification forms containing the name and address of every person authorized to carry out conversion, shortening or
repair (major) on behalf the gunsmith at the premises, who must possess the requisite qualifications as specified under
rule 78.
[Form A - 10]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
Form of Application For An Arms Licence In Form X For Import, Transport In Transit and Import For Re-Export
(See rules 87, 88, 89, and 92)
Identity of the Applicant
(1)
(2)
(3)
1.
Name of the applicant
2.
UIN
3.
Description of arms license already held and
number thereof
4.
Nomenclature
Individual/ Company
5.
Business Address
Telephone
Mobile No.
E-mail
6.
Name of the responsible person
7.
Category of license applied for ?
Import
Transport in Transit
Import for Re-Export
8
Category of arms or ammunition as per Schedule I
for which the license is sought
9.
Number of packages
10.
Description and quantity of arms forming part of
the consignment for which the license is sought
HS Code
11.
Description and quantity or weight of ammunition
Page 146/180
----- PAGE 147 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
forming part of the consignment for which the license is sought
12.
Port of Import
13.
Port of Export
14.
Port of Import and Re-Import
(with route of transport)
15.
Place of destination and route of consignment to
be imported
16.
Estimated time likely to be taken for the
shipment/journey
17.
Name, description and address of conignee for
Import
Declaration:
I, _______________________, the proprietor/partner/director/ responsible person of ____________________ (the
company), hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of
my knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I
personally as well as the company are liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of
the Arms Act, 1959, the Arms Rules, 2016, and other central enactments or the law for the time being in force.
_________________________
Signature of the applicant
Place ______________
Date _______________
[Form A – 10A]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
Form of Application For An Arms Licence In Form X For Export, Export for Re-Import and Transport
(See rules 87,90, 91 and 92)
Identity of The Applicant
(1)
(2)
(3)
1.
Name of the applicant
2.
UIN
3.
Description of arms license already held and
number thereof
4.
Nomenclature
Individual/ Company
5.
Business Address
Telephone
Mobile No.
E-mail
6.
Page 147/180
----- PAGE 148 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Name of the responsible person
7.
Category of license applied for ?
Export
Export for Re-import  and  Transport
8
Category of arms or ammunition as per Schedule I
for which the license is sought
9.
Number of packages
10.
Description and quantity of arms forming part of
the purchase order for which the licence is sought
HS Code
11.
Description and quantity or weight of ammunition
forming part of the purchase order for which the licence is
sought
HS Code
12.
Port of Import
13.
Port of Export
14.
Port of Import and Re-Import
15.
Place of dispatch and route of consignment to be
exported
16.
Estimated time likely to be taken for the
shipment/journey
17.
Name, description and address of conignee for
export
Declaration:
I, _______________________, the proprietor/partner/director/ responsible person of ____________________ (the
company), hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of
my knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I
personally as well as the company are liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of
the Arms Act, 1959, the Arms Rules, 2016, and other central enactments or the law for the time being in force.
_________________________
Signature of the applicant
Place ______________
Date _______________
Form A-11
Form of application for journey license in Form XI for carrying of arms and ammunition
Application for Journey License
1.
Name
2.
Parent/ Spouse Name
Page 148/180
----- PAGE 149 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
3.
UIN
4.
Address as per license in Form III
Mobile No.
5.
License No.
6.
Validity of the license up to
DD/MM/YYYY
7.
Area validity as per license in Form III
8.
Mode of Journey (Road/ Rail/ Air)
9.
Names of States likely to be visited during the journey
10.
Period which the journey is likely to occupy
11.
Description of arms endorsed on license which the applicant
wishes to carry during journey
Weapon Type -
Weapon Number -
12.
Description of ammunition endorsed on license which the
applicant wishes to carry during journey
Declaration:
I hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I am
liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, the Arms Rules,
1962, and other central enactments or the law for the time being in force.
Signature/ Thumb - impression of applicant
Place .............
Date ..............
Form A - 12
Form of application for transport license in Form XII
(See rule 96)
Application for Transport License
1.
Consignor details
(Manufacturer/ Dealer etc.)
UIN
Address as per license
License No.
Validity of the license up to
DD/MM/YYYY
2.
Consignee details
UIN
Address as per license
License No.
Page 149/180
----- PAGE 150 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Validity of the license up to
DD/MM/YYYY
3.
Place of dispatch
4.
Place of destination
5.
Mode of transport (Road/ Rail/ Air)
By hand personally
6.
Names of States likely to be covered during transportation
7.
Probable period of transportation
Maximum three months
8.
Description of arms to be transported
Weapon Type ?
Weapon Number ?
9.
Description of ammunition to be transported
10.
Details of the previous sanction of the concerned authority
required under Rule 98
Declaration:
I hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I am
liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, the Arms Rules,
2016, and other central enactments or the law for the time being in force.
Signature/ Thumb - impression of the applicant
Place .............
Date ..............
Form A - 13
Form of application for an arms license in Form XIV for transporters license
(See rule 101)
1.
Name of the applicant
2.
Nomenclature
Individual/ Company
3.
Date of inception of transportation business
4.
Registered Office Address
Telephone
Mobile No.
E-mail
5.
Name of the responsible person
6.
Description of firearms to be transported
7.
Page 150/180
----- PAGE 151 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Description of ammunition to be transported
8.
Number of branch offices or representative offices in India
9.
Number of employees engaged in transportation business
10.
Particulars of the fleet maintained by the transporter
Declaration:
I, ________________________, the Proprietor/partner/director/responsible person of ____________________
(company name), hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the
best of my knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any
stage, I personally as well as the company are liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant
provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, the Arms Rules, 2016, and other central enactments or the law for the time being in
force.
Place __________
Date ___________
Signature of the applicant
Form A - 14
Form of application for a license in Form XV for firearm free zone
(See rule 46)
1.
Name of the applicant
2.
Nomenclature
Individual/ Company/ Others
3.
Date of inception of business
4.
Nature of business or activity carried out
4.
Address
Telephone
Mobile No.
E-mail
5.
Name of the responsible person in case the applicant is a
company
6.
Description of the Area to be
declared as Firearm Free Zone
(enclose site plan and mark in red the area to be declared
as firearm free zone)
7.
Reasons for applying for the premises to be declared as
fire-arm free zone
1.
2.
3.
8.
Number of surveillance staff employed at the premises to be
declared as firearm free zone
Page 151/180
----- PAGE 152 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Declaration:
I, ____________________, the proprietor/partner/director/responsible person of ____________________ (company
name),hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I
personally as well as the company are liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of
the Arms Act, 1959, the Arms Rules, 2016, and other laws for the time being in force.
Place __________
Date ___________
Signature of the applicant
Supplementary Forms
Form B-1
Application for registration with an outside licensing authority
(see rule 17)
Part A ? {|
|-
| Identity of the Applicant
|-
| 1.
| UIN
|
|-
| 2.
| Name
|
|-
| 3.
| Parent/ Spouse Name
|
|-
| 4.
| Place of birth (Nativity)
|
|-
| 5.
| Date of birth in Christian era
|
|-
| in figures DD/MM/YYYY
|
|-
| In words
|
|-
| 6.
| Present Address
|
|-
|
|
|-
| Telephone (Office/Residence)
Page 152/180
----- PAGE 153 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
|
|-
| Mobile No.
|
|-
| E-mail
|
|-
| Nearest Police Station
|
|-
| 7.
| Address as appearing on the license
|
|-
| Nearest Police Station
|
|-
| 8.
| Occupation
|
|-
| 9.
| Period of stay in the local jurisdiction
|
|}
Part B ? {|
|-
| Existing license particulars and weapon
endorsements
|-
| 10.
| License Number
|
|-
| 11.
| Issuing Authority
|
|-
| 12.
| Last Renewing Authority
|
|-
| 13.
| Date of expiry
|
|}
14.
Area Validity
15.
Weapons Endorsed
Page 153/180
----- PAGE 154 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Weapon 1
Weapon 2
Weapon 3
Type [Rifle/ Shot Gun/ Hand Gun (Rev/ Pistol)]
Bore
Weapon Number
16.
Ammunition allowed
Cartridges Gun Powder/ Percussion Caps
17.
Mention restriction on sale of weapon, if any
18.
Details of additional licensees under rule 20, if any
Additional Licensee No.1
Name
Father's/ Spouse Name
License No.
Additional Licensee No. 2
Name
Father's/ Spouse Name
License No.
Part C ? {|
|-
| Other Particulars of the Licensee
|-
| 19.
| Whether the licensee, since the last renewal/ issuance of
license has been ?
|
|-
| (a)
| convicted - if so, the offence (s), the sentence and date of
sentence
|
|-
| (b)
| ordered to execute a bond under Chapter VIII of Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) for keeping the peace or for
good behavior - if so, ? when and for what period
|
|-
| (c)
| prohibited under the Arms Act, 1959, or any other law from
having the arms/ ammunition
|
|-
| 20.
| Whether -
|
|-
| (a)
Page 154/180
----- PAGE 155 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
| the applicant's license since last renewal/ issuance was ever
suspended or canceled/ revoked - if so, when and by whom and on
what account
|
|-
| (b)
| any other member of the applicant's
family is in possession of any arms license, if so, particulars
thereof
(other than additional licenses vide para 18)
|
|-
| (c)
| the applicant has a safe place to keep the arms
|
|}
Declaration:
I hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I am
liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, the Arms Rules,
2016, and laws for the time being in force.
Signature/ Thumb - impression of applicant
Place .............
Date .............
Warning: Suppression of any factual information or furnishing of any false or wrong information in the Application Form
in violation of arms rules will render the applicant liable for punishment under Section 30 of the Arms Act, 1959.
Form B-2
Application for allied services related to licenses issued in Form II, III and IV
Part A ? {|
|-
| Identity of the Licensee
|-
| 1.
| Name of the licensee
|
|-
| 2.
| Parent/ Spouse Name
|
|}
3.
Present Address
District
State
Telephone Number
Office
Residence
Mobile Number
Nearest Police Station
4.
UIN
Page 155/180
----- PAGE 156 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
5.
License Number
Date of Expiry
DD/MM/YYYY
6.
Area validity of the license
7.
Firearms endorsed on the license
Weapon 1
Weapon 2
Weapon 3
Type
(Rifle/ Shot Gun/ Hand Gun)
Bore/ Caliber
Weapon Number
Part B ? {|
|-
| Acquisition of a Firearm
|-
| 1.
| Type of firearm to be acquired
(Rifle/ Shot Gun/ Hand Gun/ Others)
|
|-
| 2.
| Reason for acquisition of firearm
|
|-
| 3.
| Claims for special consideration for acquisition of additional
firearm
|
|}
Part C ? {|
|-
| Endorsement of
firearms on the license
(see rule 18)
|-
| A
| Acquisition of firearm
|
|-
| (a)
| Validity of permission to acquire
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| (b)
| Date of acquisition of firearm
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
Page 156/180
----- PAGE 157 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
| B
| Acquisition from manufacturer or arms dealer
|
|-
| (a)
| Name of the vendor
|
|-
| (b)
| UIN of the vendor
|
|-
| (c)
| Invoice number
|
|-
| (d)
| Invoice date
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| C
| Acquisition from another licensee
|
|-
| (a)
| Name of the transferor licensee
|
|-
| (b)
| Parent/Spouse Name
|
|-
| 9
| UIN
|
|-
| 10
| License number
|
|-
| 11
| Validity period of license
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| 12
| Details of permission to sell obtained by transferor
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| Name of the licensing authority
|
|-
Page 157/180
----- PAGE 158 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
| Reference No.
|
|-
| Date
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| Expiry date (if any)
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| D
| Details to be furnishedin case acquisition of
firearm is made from any place not covered under the area
validity of the license of the applicant
|
|-
| 13
| Reference No. of NOC issued by the licensing authority under
rule 98
|
|-
| Date of NOC
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| Validity of NOC
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| 14
| Transport License Number Issued in Form XII
|
|-
| Name of the issuing authority of transport license
|
|-
| Date of transport license
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| Validity period of transport license
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| E
| Details of firearms to be endorsed
|
|-
| 15
| Type of firearm
(Hand Gun/ Shot Gun/ Rifle)
|
|-
| Make of firearm
|
|-
Page 158/180
----- PAGE 159 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
| Caliber/ bore
|
|-
| Serial Number of firearm
|
|-
| List of documents to be enclosed
|-
| 1
| Original Invoice (refer Para B)
|-
| 2
| Sale confirmation from the transferor licensee (refer Para C)
|-
| 3
| No objection certificate and transport license (refer Para D)
|-
| 4
| Coloured photograph of the firearm acquired showing the serial
number of the firearm (refer Para E)
|-
| Note:The licensing authority may require the
licensee to get the physical inspection of the firearm before
endorsement of the same on the license.
|}
Part D ? {|
|-
| Permission to sell or transfer firearm or
ammunition under section 5 of the Arms Act, 1959
|-
| 1.
| Details of firearm to be sold or transferred
|
|-
| Type of firearm
(Rifle/ Shot Gun/ Hand Gun)
|
|-
| Bore/ Caliber
|
|-
| Weapon Number
|
|-
| 2.
| Details of ammunition to be sold or transferred
|
|-
| Bore/ caliber of ammunition
|
|-
Page 159/180
----- PAGE 160 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
| Quantity of ammunition
|
|-
| 3.
| Reason for sale or transfer of
firearm or ammunition
(defective condition of the firearm/ economic reason/ any
other reason)
|
|-
| 4.
| Particulars of the purchaser or transferee to whom the firearm
or ammunition is to be sold or transferred
|
|-
|
| If to be sold or transferred to another licensee
|
|-
| (a)
| Name of the prospective buyer or transferee
|
|-
| (b)
| Address of the prospective buyer or transferee
|
|-
| (c)
| UIN
|
|-
| (d)
| License Number
|
|-
| (e)
| Validity of license
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| (f)
| Validity of purchase period
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
|
| If to be sold to an authorised arms and ammunition dealer
|
|-
| (a)
| Name of the dealer
|
|-
Page 160/180
----- PAGE 161 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
| (b)
| Address of the dealer
|
|-
| (c)
| UIN
|
|-
| This may be treated as the mandatory notice under clause
(b)
of sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Arms Act, 1959
|}
Part E ? {|
|-
| Deletion of Firearms or Ammunition from the
license
|-
| 1.
| Detail of firearm sold or transferred
|
|-
| Type of firearm
(Rifle/ Shot Gun/ Hand Gun)
|
|-
| Bore/ Caliber
|
|-
| Weapon Number
|
|-
| 2.
| Details of ammunition sold or transferred
|
|-
|
| Bore/ caliber of ammunition
|
|-
| Quantity of ammunition
|
|-
| 3.
| Details of permission to sell granted
|
|-
| Reference Number
|
|-
| Date
| DD/MM/YYYY
Page 161/180
----- PAGE 162 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
|-
| 4.
| Particulars of the purchase or transferee
|
|-
| (a)
| In case sold to an arms dealer
|
|-
| Name and address of the arms and ammunition Dealer
|
|-
| UIN
|
|-
| Serial No. of certificate of acquisition
|
|-
| Date of the certificate of acquisition
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| (b)
| In case sold to another licensee
|
|-
| 5.
| Name of the purchaser or transferee
|
|-
| UIN
|
|-
| License number
|
|-
| Validity of license
|
|-
| Validity of permission to acquire possessed by the transferee
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| List of documents to be enclosed
|-
| 1.
Acquisition certificate of the arms dealer; or
|-
| 2. Written
confirmation from the purchaser or transferee along with the
signed copy of his license
|}
Part F ? {|
Page 162/180
----- PAGE 163 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
|-
| Extension of time limit for acquisition of firearm
(see rule 18)
|-
| 1.
| Date of grant of permission to acquire firearm
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| 2.
| Date of expiry of permission to acquire firearm
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| 3.
| Period of validity of the license
| DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| 4.
| Reasons for not been able to acquire the firearm within the
stipulated period
|
|-
| 5.
| Details of the firearm to be acquired for which extension is
being sought
|
|-
| 6.
| Any other claims for special consideration
|
|}
Declaration:
I hereby declare that the above particulars given in the application are true, complete and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I understand that in the event of any information being found false or incorrect at any stage, I am
liable to be proceeded against and action taken under the relevant provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, the Arms Rules,
2016, and other laws for the time being in force.
Signature/ Thumb - impression of applicant
Place .............
Date ..............
Warning: - Suppression of any factual information or furnishing of any false or wrong information in the Application Form
in violation of arms rules will render the applicant liable for punishment under Section 30 of the Arms Act, 1959.
Form B-3
Application for addition/ deletion of retainer
(See rule 22)
For companies
To be filled in separately for every addition
or deletion
1.
Name of the licensee company
2.
UIN
3.
Page 163/180
----- PAGE 164 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
License number
4.
Validity of the license
DD/MM/YYYY
5.
Details of weapons endorsed on the license
1.
2.
3.
6.
Retainer details
(a)
Name of the retainer
(b)
Parent/ Spouse Name
(c)
Date of birth
DD/MM/YYYY
(d)
Date since employed with the organization
DD/MM/YYYY
(e)
Present address
(f)
Nearest Police Station
(g)
Tele/ Mobile Number(s)
(h)
Permanent address
(i)
Nearest police station
___________________
(Signature the licensee)
Date__________
___________________
(Signature the retainer)
Form B-4
Application for additional licensees under license in Form III
(See rule 20)
(to be filed along with Form A-1)
Part A ? {|
|-
| Identity of the Parent Licensee
|-
| 1.
| Name of the licensee
|
|-
| 2.
| Parent/ Spouse Name
|
Page 164/180
----- PAGE 165 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
|-
| 3.
| Present address
|
|-
| District
| State
|-
| Telephone Number
| Office
| Residence
|-
| Mobile Number
|
|-
| Nearest Police Station
|
|-
| 4.
| UIN
|
|-
| 5.
| License number
Date of expiry
|
DD/MM/YYYY
|-
| 6.
| Area validity of the license
|
|-
| 7.
| Firearms endorsed on the license
| Weapon 1
| Weapon 2
| Weapon 3
|-
| Type
(Rifle/ Shot Gun/ Hand Gun)
|
|
|
|-
| Bore/ Caliber
|
|
|
|-
| Weapon Number
|
Page 165/180
----- PAGE 166 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
|
|
|}
Part B ? {|
|-
| Identity of the First Additional Licensee
|-
| 1.
| Name of the first additional licensee
|
|-
| 2.
| Parent/ Spouse Name
|
|-
| 3.
| Relationship with parent licensee
|
|-
| 4.
| Present address
|
|-
| District
| State
|-
| Telephone Number
| Office
| Residence
|-
| Mobile Number
|
|-
| Nearest Police Station
|
|-
| 5.
| Firearms endorsed on the license
| Weapon 1
| Weapon 2
| Weapon 3
|-
| Type
(Rifle/ Shot Gun/ Hand Gun)
|
|
|
|-
| Bore/ Caliber
|
|
Page 166/180
----- PAGE 167 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
|
|-
| Weapon Number
|
|
|
|}
Part C ? {|
|-
| Identity of the Second Additional Licensee
|-
| 1.
| Name of the second additional licensee
|
|-
| 2.
| Parent/ Spouse Name
|
|-
| 3.
| Relationship with parent licensee
|
|-
| 4.
| Present address
|
|-
| District
| State
|-
| Telephone Number
| Office
| Residence
|-
| Mobile Number
|
|-
| Nearest Police Station
|
|-
| 5.
| Firearms endorsed on the license
| Firearm 1
| Firearm 2
| Firearm 3
|-
| Type
(Rifle/ Shot Gun/ Hand Gun)
|
|
|
Page 167/180
----- PAGE 168 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
|-
| Bore/ Caliber
|
|
|
|-
| Weapon Number
|
|
|
|}
Declaration -
I, hereby declare that, the person(s) being appointed as additional licensee reside with me at the my registered address
as mentioned in my license in Form III and fall within the definition of close relatives as given under rule 20. In case any
of the additional licensees shifts temporarily or permanently from my premises, it will be my responsibility to furnish the
information to the licensing authority for cancellation of the license of such additional licensee.
Place
(Signature of the parent licensee)
Date
Form S-1
Standard format of training certificate
[See rule 10(1)]
To
The Licensing Authority,
_______________________
Training Certificate
This is to certify the person whose particulars are furnished below has completed the training as stipulated under rule
10(1) of the Arms Rules, 2016
1
Name of the person
2
Father's Name/ Spouse Name
3
Residential address
4
Age and date of birth
5
Training period undergone
From __/__/__
To __/__/__
6
Details of firearms for which
training has been imparted
(please specify)
1.    Handguns
2.    Rifle
3.    Shotguns
4.    Air
weapons
7
Purpose of training
Page 168/180
----- PAGE 169 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(please specify)
1.    Application for arms license
2.    Employ with arms dealer
3.    Employ with manufacturer
4.    Others
The training curriculum included the following modules:
a) basic arms and ammunition safety practices, including safe handling and carry procedures;
b) firing techniques and procedures;
c) care of arms and ammunition;
d) safe storage and transportation of arms and ammunition.
The person named above was also imparted reasonable working knowledge of important provisions of the Arms Act,
1959 and Arms Rules, 2016 relevant to him and made to understand responsibilities of the arms owner or user,
particularly in relation to children.
Date
Place
Signatures of the
Certifying Person
Form S-2
Standard format of undertaking for safe storage of firearms
[See rule 10(4)]
To
The Licensing Authority,
_______________________
Undertaking
This is to solely affirm and declare that -
1. I have applied for grant of a new arms license/ renewal of arms license (bearing number _____________ and my UIN
is __________)
2. I undertake to practice safe storage of the firearm (in knocked down condition) when I am not carrying the firearm(s)
with me.
3. I undertake to educate the children about the dangers of interacting with arms and ammunition.
4. I have the capacity to store the firearm safely and securely in a safe or steel almirah in order to minimize the risk that
it could be stolen or accessed by someone else.
It is hereby solely affirmed that the declaration made above is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and if at any
subsequent date, if any of the said declarations is found false or incorrect, I shall be liable for the same including
cancellation or revocation of my license and subject to penal provisions under the Arms Act, 1959.
Place:
(Signatures of the Applicant/ Licensee)
Date:
Note: Enclose proof of safe storage as mentioned at S.No. 4
Form S-3
Standard format of medical certificate
[See clause (g) of sub-rule (4) of rule 11)]
(On the letter head of the medical practitioner)
This is to certify that I have carefully examined the person whose particulars are furnished below -
1
Name of the
person examined
2
Father's
Name/ Spouse Name
3
Page 169/180
----- PAGE 170 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Residential
address
4
Age and date
of birth
5
Height
6
Weight (in
Kgs)
7
Blood
pressure (please specify)
8
Deformity, if any
(particularly
in upper limbs)
9
Any other
observation
On the basis of examination, it is certified that the person examined as mentioned in column 1 above -
1. is in good physical health and is free from any physical deformity;
2. has been found to be of stable mental condition and is not inclined to violence;
3. has been found not dependent on any substance which has an intoxicating or narcotic effect.
Signature of the person examined named in column (1) _________________
Signature of the medical practitioner ________________________________
Registration Number ______________________________________________
Seal
Form S-4
Standard format of police report
(See rule 14)
Draft Covering Letter
Office of the DM/ Commissioner of Police
Ref. No. __________
Date : ____________
To
The Station House Officer,
Police Station ____________,
__________________________.
Sub. : Report under section 13(2) of Arms Act, 1959 of the officer in charge of the nearest police station (of present
address of the applicant) on application for grant of arms license or renewal of an arms license
S.No.
Particulars
Contents
1
Name of the applicant
Mr./ Mrs./ Messrs
2
Nature of license applied for (fresh applications)
3
License No.
Page 170/180
----- PAGE 171 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(renewal application)
4
Address of the applicant
Note: As per provisions of Section 13(2) of Arms Act, 1959, on receipt of an application, the licensing authority shall call
for the report from the officer-in-charge of the nearest police station on the application and such officer shall send his
report within the prescribed time. Accordingly the report be sent in the format attached here within 30 days.
For DM/CoP
Enclosures:
Copy of application form (original)/renewal form along with enclosures
Antecendent Verification Report
(To be Filled in by the Police Department)
1.
Name of the applicant
2.
Father/ Spouse Name
3.
Present address
Nearest police station of the present address
4. (a)
(b)
(c)
Whether the applicant has ever been convicted?
Yes
No
If so, the offence(s) the sentence and date of sentence
Ordered to execute a bond under Chapter VII of Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 to 1974) for keeping the peace or for
good behavior.
Yes
No
If so, when and for what period?
Prohibited under the Arms Act, 1959, or any other law from
acquiring, having in his possession or carrying any arms or
ammunition
If yes, the details thereof
5.
Has the applicant any serious enmity or quarrel which is
likely to lead to a breach of peace? If yes, Give details
Yes
No
6.
Has the address and date of birth of the applicant been
verified? Give details.
Yes
No
7.
Has the profession/ business of the applicant been verified?
Give details.
Yes
No
8.
Page 171/180
----- PAGE 172 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Is any complaint registered against applicant in the Police
Station? If so, give details.
Yes
No
9.
Is the applicant involved in any criminal case? If so, give
details.
Yes
No
10.
Has applicant been arrested in any criminal case? If so, give
details.
Yes
No
11.
Is applicant's name enlisted in police station's bad character
register? If so, give details according to the records of police
station?
Yes
No
12.
Is applicant's name appears in any case registered by other
department of Government of India such as CBI, Narcotics Control
Bureau, DRI, Enforcement Directorate etc. which finds mention in
the Daily Diary Register of the police station (summons, warrants
etc.). If so, give details.
Yes
No
13.
Has the applicant registered a complaint in Police Station
regarding threat to life? If so, give details.
Yes
No
14.
Detail of any political or communal organization of which the
applicant is a member.
Certified that, I have checked the contents of the application form for grant of arms license submitted by the applicant.
Dated:
Signatures
SHO
Police
Station
IV
(See rule 27)
Table A
Fees payable for licenses
Part I
Licenses issued Under Section 3 for
Acquistion and Possession
Sr. No.
License Form No.
Page 172/180
----- PAGE 173 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
License Fee at the time of grant of license((in
Rs.)
Renewal fee for each subsequent year(in Rs.)
1
2
3
4
1.
I
2000
1000
2.
II
1000
1000
3.
III, IV, V
(a)
Handguns ? Revolvers/ Pistols
(both restricted or permissible)
1000
500
(b)
Centre fire rifles (semi-automatic) and any other restricted
firearm of category I(b) or I(c)
1000
1000
(c)
Breach loading centre fire rifles
(not semi-automatic)
1000
500
(d)
.22 bore rim-fire Rifles
(including semi-automatic)
1000
500
(e)
Smooth bore breech loading shotguns
(including semi-automatic)
1000
500
(f)
Air Weapons including air rifles
and air guns having muzzle energy exceeding 20 joules or 15
ftlbs. or bore exceeding 0.177" or 4.5 mm
Firearm replicas
Electronic disabling devices having
firing range of less than 15 feet
Paint ball markers or guns
Blank firing firearms
Page 173/180
----- PAGE 174 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Muzzle Loading (ML) Guns
Accessories for any firearms designed or adapted to diminish
the noise or flash caused by the firing thereof
1000
500
(g)
Sword, bayonet, dagger and spear lance.
500
100
(h)
Weapons of category V of Schedule I other than those mentioned
in (g)
500
100
Part II
Other Types of Licenses
Sr. No.
Form No.
License Fee at the time of grant of license(in
Rs.)
Renewal fee for each subsequent year wherever
applicable(in Rs.)
1
2
3
4
4.
III-B
Permits to retainers of companies
(for each entry of addition/ deletion)
1000
N/A
5.
V-B
Permits to members of rifle associations/ clubs
-
N/A
6.
VI
Temporary export/ import licenses
to tourists/ sports persons/ others
(for each firearm)
1000
N/A
7. [
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1342(E), dated 27.10.2017 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
VII
Manufacture and Proof Test
I
Firearms - Annual Licensed Capacity
(a)
Page 174/180
----- PAGE 175 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
Not exceeding 1000 units
Rs. 5000
N/A
(b)
More than 1000 units but not exceeding 10000 units
Rs. 15000
N/A
(c)
More than 10000 units
Rs. 5000
N/A
II
Ammunition - Annual Licensed Capacity
(a)
Not exceeding 1 lac cartridges
Rs. 5000
N/A
(b)
More than 1 lac cartridges but not exceeding 10 lac cartridges
Rs.15000
N/A
(c)
More than 10 lac cartridges
Rs. 50000
N/A
8.
VII-A
Manufacture of Category V arms of Schedule I (arms other than firearms)
Rs. 5000
N/A
9.
VII-B
Manufacture of replica of firearms including of antique muzzle loading weapons and air weapons including air rifles/ air
guns
Rs. 5000
N/A
10.
VII-C
Manufacture of air weapons
Rs. 5000
N/A]
11.
VIII
Arms and ammunition dealers
2000
1000
12.
VIII-A
Air Weapons Dealers
1000
500
Page 175/180
----- PAGE 176 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
13.
IX
Gunsmiths
(for conversion and major repairs)
5000
2000
14.
IX-A
Gunsmiths
(for carrying out minor repairs)
2000
1000
15. [
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1342(E), dated 27.10.2017 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
X
[X and X-A Composite Import or Export licence for arms and ammunition including parts thereof (for each consignment
for the purpose of import and for each purchase order for the purpose of export)]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1079(E), dated 1.11.2018 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
5000
N/A]
16
XI
Journey license
(for each firearm)
500
N/A
17.
XII
Transport license -
Arms and ammunition (for
individuals)
(for each firearm)
500
N/A
Arms and ammunition (for
dealers and manufacturers)
(for a single consignment or maximum three part
consignments with in a period of 3 months under the same
Transport License)
2000
N/A
Sr. No.
License Form No.
License Fee at the time of grant of license(in
Rs.)
Renewal fee for each subsequent year wherever
applicable(in Rs.)
1
2
3
4
Page 176/180
----- PAGE 177 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
18.
XIII
Transport license for proof testing
(for each consignment)
10000
N/A
19.
XIV
Transporters license
10000
2000
20. [
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1342(E), dated 27.10.2017 (w.e.f. 15.7.2016).]
XV
For Import and Transportation for Govt. of Nepal(for each Consignment)
5000
N/A]
Table B
Fee for allied services
S.No.
License Form
Particulars of service
Fee Amount (Rs.)
1
2
3
4
1.
III
Registration with outside licensing authority under rule 17(1)
500
2.
III
Addition/deletion of retainer under
rule 22
(for companies)
500
3.
All
Change of address within the existing licensing authority
under rule 17(3)
500
4.
II, III, IV
Endorsement of firearm under rule
18
(for each firearm)
500
5.
II, III, IV
Addition/deletion of firearm
Page 177/180
----- PAGE 178 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
(for each firearm)
500
6.
II, III, IV
Transfer of firearms(s) to legal heir under rule 25 (for each
firearm)
1000
7.
II, III, V
Change of particulars of 'responsible person' under rule 22(4)
by companies
1000
8.
All
Correction of information in license under rule 33
500
9.
All
Grant of NOC under rule 98
500
10.
II, III, IV, V
License book
100
11.
All
Any other service not mentioned above
500
V
(See rule 16)
Prescribed time limits for various services under the rules for licensing authorities under Schedule II
S.No.
Nature of Service
Rule No.
Prescribed Time Period
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
1
Police Verification
14
30 days of the receipt of application
2
Grant or refusal of a license
13
60 days of the receipt of police report under rule 13
3
Grant or refusal of additional license
20
30 days of the receipt of police report under rule 13
Page 178/180
----- PAGE 179 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
4
Renewal of license
24
30 days of the receipt of police report under rule 13
5
Endorsement of arms or ammunition on license
18
7 days of the receipt of application of endorsement of weapon
6
Registration of licensee by an outside licensing authority
17
15 days of the receipt of application of registration by the
new licensing authority
7
Addition/ Deletion of weapon
18
7 days of the receipt of application
8
Permission to sell a firearm
-
3 days of the expiry of stipulated period under Section 5
9
Extension of area validity of license
19
15 days of the receipt of application by the competent
authority under Schedule II
10
Change of Address
17
15 days of the receipt of application of registration by the
licensing authority
11
Addition/ deletion of retainer of companies
22
7 days of the receipt of application
12
Grant of journey license
-
2 Working days of the receipt of application
13
Grant of transport license
96
2 Working days of the receipt of application
14
Grant of NOC
98
2 Working days of the receipt of application
15
Issuance of duplicate booklet
28
7 days of the receipt of application
Page 179/180
----- PAGE 180 -----
The Arms Rules, 2016
16
Disposal of Appeals
108
60 days of the receipt of appeal
17
Any other service not defined above
7 days of the receipt of application
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 180/180