
----- PAGE 1 -----
Authority for Advance Rulings (Procedure for Appointment as Chairman and Vice-Chairman) Ru...
Authority for Advance Rulings (Procedure for Appointment as
Chairman and Vice-Chairman) Rules, 2016
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/183927489/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Authority for Advance Rulings (Procedure for Appointment as Chairman and Vice-Chairman) Rules, 2016
UNION OF INDIA
India
Authority for Advance Rulings (Procedure for Appointment as Chairman and Vice-Chairman) Rules, 2016
Rule
AUTHORITY-FOR-ADVANCE-RULINGS-PROCEDURE-FOR-APPOINTMENT-AS-CHAIRMAN-AND-VICE-CHAIRMAN
-RULES-2016 of 2016
Published on 21 January 2016
Commenced on 21 January 2016
[This is the version of this document from 21 January 2016.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Authority for Advance Rulings (Procedure for Appointment as Chairman and Vice-Chairman) Rules, 2016
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 100(E), dated 21st January, 2016
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Revenue)
G.S.R. 100(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of Section 245-O, read with subsection (1) and
clause (p) of sub-section 2 of Section 295 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (
43 of 1961
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Authority for Advance Rulings (Procedure for Appointment as Chairman and Vice-Chairman) Ru...
), the Board hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Authority for Advance Rulings (Procedure for Appointment as Chairman and
Vice-Chairman) Rules, 2016.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Income-tax Act, 1961 (
43 of 1961
);
(b)
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Authority;
(c)
"Vice-Chairman" means the Vice-Chairman of the Authority;
(d)
words and expressions used and not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
[ Selection Committee.
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1001(E), dated 24.10.2016 (w.e.f. 21.1.2016).]
(1)
The Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Authority shall be appointed by the Central Government from a panel of names
recommended by a Selection Committee consisting of the following members, namely:-
(a)
The Chief Justice of India or a Judge of the Supreme Court as nominated by the Chief Justice of India as Chairman;
(b)
The Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue;
(c)
The Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Law and Justice, Department of Legal Affairs;
(d)
The Secretary to the Government of India in Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Department of
Personnel and Training.
(2)
Any three members of the Selection Committee including the Chairman shall form a quorum for the meeting of the
Committee.
(3)
The Selection Committee shall recommend a panel of three names for appointment of Chairman and Vice-Chairman.
(4)
The Committee shall make its recommendations to the Central Government, within a period not exceeding one hundred
and twenty days from the date of reference made to the Committee.
4.
Manner of selection of panels of names for Chairman.
(1)
Whenever any vacancy of Chairman exists or as and when such vacancy arises or is likely to arise, the Central
Government may make a reference to the Committee in respect of such vacancy for recommendations of a panel of
names.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Authority for Advance Rulings (Procedure for Appointment as Chairman and Vice-Chairman) Ru...
(2)
The Committee shall devise its own procedure for selecting the persons for inclusion in the panel of names to be
recommended for appointment as the Chairman.
5.
Manner of selection of panels of names for Vice-Chairman.
(1)
Whenever any vacancy of Vice-Chairman exists or as and when such vacancy arises or is likely to arise, vacancy shall
be circulated through open advertisement and applicants shall be asked to forward complete application through
Registrar of High Courts.
(2)
The Selection Committee may devise its own procedure for selecting the persons from the applicants for inclusion in the
panel of names to be recommended for appointment as the Vice-Chairman.
6.
Medical fitness.
- No retired person shall be appointed as a Chairman or Vice-Chairman unless he is declared medically fit by a Medical
Board to be constituted by the Central Government for the purpose.]
Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1001(E), dated 24.10.2016 (w.e.f. 21.1.2016).
3. Method of appointment.- (1) Vacancy shall be circulated through open advertisement and applicants shall be asked to
forward complete application through Registrar of Supreme Court or High Court, as the case may be.
(2) For the purpose of appointment to the post of Chairman and Vice-Chairman, there shall be a Selection Committee
consisting of the following members, namely: -
(a) the Chief Justice of India or a Judge of the Supreme Court as nominated by the Chief Justice of India as Chairman;
(b) the Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue;
(c) the Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Law and Justice, Department of Legal Affairs;
(d) the Secretary to the Government of India in Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Department of
Personnel and Training.
(3) Any three members of the Selection Committee including the Chairman shall form a quorum for the meeting of the
Committee.
(4) The Selection Committee may devise its own procedure for selection and appointment of the Chairman and the
Vice-Chairman.
(5) The Selection Committee shall recommend a panel of three names in order of priority for appointment of Chairman
and Vice-Chairman.
4. Medical fitness.- No person shall be appointed as a Chairman or Vice-Chairman unless he is declared medically fit by
a Medical Board to be constituted by the Central Government for the purpose.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3