
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary
Movement) Rules, 2016
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/180532525/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Rule
THE-HAZARDOUS-AND-OTHER-WASTES-MANAGEMENT-AND-TRANSBOUNDARY-MOVEMENT-RULES-2016 of
2016
Published on 4 April 2016
Commenced on 4 April 2016
[This is the version of this document from 4 April 2016.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 395(E), dated 4th April, 2016
Last Updated 11th March, 2019
Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change
G.S.R. 395(E). - Whereas the draft rules, namely the Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary
Movement) Rules, 2015, were published by the Government of India in the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate
Change vide number G.S.R. 582(E), dated the 24th July, 2015 in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary Part II, section 3,
Page 1/80
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
sub-section (ii) inviting objections and suggestions from all persons likely to be affected thereby, before the expiry of the
period of sixty days from the date on which copies of the Gazette containing the said notification were made available to
the public;
And Whereas the copies of the said Gazette containing the said notification were made available to the public on the
24th day of July, 2015;
And Whereas the objections and suggestions received within the specified period from the public in respect of the said
draft rules have been duly considered by the Central Government;
Now, Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 6, 8 and 25 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (
29 of 1986
), and in supersession of the Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2008,
except as respects things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Central Government hereby makes
the following rules, namely:-
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Hazardous and Other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules,
2016.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Application.
- These rules shall apply to the management of hazardous and other wastes as specified in the Schedules to these rules
but shall not apply to -
(a)
waste-water and exhaust gases as covered under the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act,
1974 (
6 of 1974
) and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 (
14 of 1981
) and the rules made thereunder and as amended from time to time;
(b)
wastes arising out of the operation from ships beyond five kilometres of the relevant baseline as covered under the
provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (
44 of 1958
) and the rules made thereunder and as amended from time to time;
(c)
radio-active wastes as covered under the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act, 1962 (
33 of 1962
) and the rules made thereunder and as amended from time to time;
(d)
bio-medical wastes covered under the Bio-Medical Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 1998 made under the
Act and as amended from time to time; and
(e)
wastes covered under the Municipal Solid Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 2000 made under the Act and as
amended from time to time.
3.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
Page 2/80
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
1. "Act" means the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (
29 of 1986
);
2. "actual user" means an occupier who procures and processes hazardous and other waste for reuse, recycling,
recovery, pre-processing, utilisation including co-processing;
3. "authorisation" means permission for generation, handling, collection, reception, treatment, transport, storage, reuse,
recycling, recovery, pre-processing, utilisation including co-processing and disposal of hazardous wastes granted under
sub-rule (2) of rule 6;
4.
"Basel Convention" means the United Nations Environment Programme Convention on the Control of Transboundary
Movement of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal;
5.
"captive treatment, storage and disposal facility" means a facility developed within the premises of an occupier for
treatment, storage and disposal of wastes generated during manufacture, processing, treatment, package, storage,
transportation, use, collection, destruction, conversion, offering for sale, transfer or the like of hazardous and other
wastes;
6.
"Central Pollution Control Board" means the Central Pollution Control Board constituted under subsection (1) of section
3 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (
6 of 1974
);
7.
"common treatment, storage and disposal facility" means a common facility identified and established individually or
jointly or severally by the State Government, occupier, operator of a facility or any association of occupiers that shall be
used as common facility by multiple occupiers or actual users for treatment, storage and disposal of the hazardous and
other wastes;
8.
"co-processing" means the use of waste materials in manufacturing processes for the purpose of energy or resource
recovery or both and resultant reduction in the use of conventional fuels or raw materials or both through substitution;
9.
"critical care medical equipment" means life saving equipment and includes such equipment as specified by the Ministry
of Health and Family Welfare from time to time;
10.
"disposal" means any operation which does not lead to reuse, recycling, recovery, utilisation including coprocessing and
includes physico-chemical treatment, biological treatment, incineration and disposal in secured landfill;
11.
"export", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means taking out of India to a place outside India;
12.
"exporter" means any person or occupier under the jurisdiction of the exporting country who exports hazardous or other
wastes, including the country which exports hazardous or other waste;
13.
"environmentally sound management of hazardous and other wastes" means taking all steps required to ensure that the
hazardous and other wastes are managed in a manner which shall protect health and the environment against the
adverse effects which may result from such waste;
14.
"environmentally sound technologies" means any technology approved by the Central Government from time to time;
15.
"facility" means any establishment wherein the processes incidental to the generation, handling, collection, reception,
treatment, storage, reuse, recycling, recovery, pre-processing, co-processing, utilisation and disposal of hazardous and,
or, other wastes are carried out;
16.
Page 3/80
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
"Form" means a form appended to these rules;
17.
"hazardous waste" means any waste which by reason of characteristics such as physical, chemical, biological, reactive,
toxic, flammable, explosive or corrosive, causes danger or is likely to cause danger to health or environment, whether
alone or in contact with other wastes or substances, and shall include -
(i)
waste specified under column (3) of Schedule I;
(ii)
waste having equal to or more than the concentration limits specified for the constituents in class A and class B of
Schedule II or any of the characteristics as specified in class C of Schedule II; and
(iii)
wastes specified in Part A of Schedule III in respect of import or export of such wastes or the wastes not specified in
Part A but exhibit hazardous characteristics specified in Part C of Schedule III;
18.
"import", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means bringing into India from a place outside India;
19.
"importer" mean any person or occupier who imports hazardous or other waste;
20.
"manifest" means transporting document prepared and signed by the sender authorised in accordance with the
provisions of these rules;
21.
"occupier" in relation to any factory or premises, means a person who has, control over the affairs of the factory or the
premises and includes in relation to any hazardous and other wastes, the person in possession of the hazardous or
other waste;
22.
"operator of disposal facility" means a person who owns or operates a facility for collection, reception, treatment, storage
and disposal of hazardous and other wastes;
23.
"other wastes" means wastes specified in Part B and Part D of Schedule III for import or export and includes all such
waste generated indigenously within the country;
24.
"pre-processing" means the treatment of waste to make it suitable for co-processing or recycling or for any further
processing;
25.
"recycling" means reclamation and processing of hazardous or other wastes in an environmentally sound manner for the
originally intended purpose or for other purposes;
26.
"reuse" means use of hazardous or other waste for the purpose of its original use or other use;
27.
"recovery" means any operation or activity wherein specific materials are recovered;
28.
"Schedule" means a Schedule appended to these rules;
29.
"State Government" in relation to a Union territory means, the Administrator thereof appointed under article 239 of the
Constitution;
30.
"State Pollution Control Board" means the State Pollution Control Board constituted under section 4 of the Water
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (
6 of 1974
) and includes, in relation to a Union territory, the Pollution Control Committee;
31.
Page 4/80
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
"storage" mean storing any hazardous or other waste for a temporary period, at the end of which such waste is
processed or disposed of;
32.
"transboundary movement" means any movement of hazardous or other wastes from an area under the jurisdiction of
one country to or through an area under the jurisdiction of another country or to or through an area not under the
jurisdiction of any country, provided that at least two countries are involved in the movement;
33.
"transport" means off-site movement of hazardous or other wastes by air, rail, road or water;
34.
"transporter" means a person engaged in the off-site transportation of hazardous or other waste by air, rail, road or
water;
35.
"treatment" means a method, technique or process, designed to modify the physical, chemical or biological
characteristics or composition of any hazardous or other waste so as to reduce its potential to cause harm;
36.
"used oil" means any oil-
(i)
derived from crude oil or mixtures containing synthetic oil including spent oil, used engine oil, gear oil, hydraulic oil,
turbine oil, compressor oil, industrial gear oil, heat transfer oil, transformer oil and their tank bottom sludges; and
(ii)
suitable for reprocessing, if it meets the specification laid down in Part A of Schedule V but does not include waste oil;
37.
"utilisation" means use of hazardous or other waste as a resource;
38.
"waste" means materials that are not products or by-products, for which the generator has no further use for the
purposes of production, transformation or consumption.
Explanation. - for the purposes of this clause,
(i)
waste includes the materials that may be generated during, the extraction of raw materials, the processing of raw
materials into intermediates and final products, the consumption of final products, and through other human activities
and excludes residuals recycled or reused at the place of generation; and
(ii)
by-product means a material that is not intended to be produced but gets produced in the production process of
intended product and is used as such;
39.
"waste oil" means any oil which includes spills of crude oil, emulsions, tank bottom sludge and slop oil generated from
petroleum refineries, installations or ships and can be used as fuel in furnaces for energy recovery, if it meets the
specifications laid down in Part-B of Schedule V either as such or after reprocessing.
40.
[ "waste collector" means a person who collects hazardous and other wastes on behalf of actual user or operator of
disposal facility from the occupier;]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 178(E), dated 1.3.2019 (w.e.f. 4.4.2016).]
(2)
Words and expressions used in these rules and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
Chapter II
Procedure for Management of Hazardous and other Wastes
4. Responsibilities of the occupier for management of hazardous and other wastes.
(1)
For the management of hazardous and other wastes, an occupier shall follow the following steps, namely:-
(a)
Page 5/80
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
prevention;
(b)
minimization;
(c)
reuse,
(d)
recycling;
(e)
recovery, utilisation including co-processing;
(f)
safe disposal.
(2)
The occupier shall be responsible for safe and environmentally sound management of hazardous and other wastes.
(3)
The hazardous and other wastes generated in the establishment of an occupier shall be sent or sold to an authorised
actual user or shall be disposed of in an authorised disposal facility.
(4)
The hazardous and other wastes shall be transported from an occupier's establishment to an authorised actual user or
to an authorised disposal facility in accordance with the provisions of these rules.
(5)
The occupier who intends to get its hazardous and other wastes treated and disposed of by the operator of a treatment,
storage and disposal facility shall give to the operator of that facility, such specific information as may be needed for safe
storage and disposal.
(6)
The occupier shall take all the steps while managing hazardous and other wastes to-
(a)
contain contaminants and prevent accidents and limit their consequences on human beings and the environment; and
(b)
provide persons working in the site with appropriate training, equipment and the information necessary to ensure their
safety.
5. Responsibilities of State Government for environmentally sound management of hazardous and other wastes.
(1)
Department of Industry in the State or any other government agency authorised in this regard by the State Government,
to ensure earmarking or allocation of industrial space or shed for recycling, pre-processing and other utilisation of
hazardous or other waste in the existing and upcoming industrial park, estate and industrial clusters;
(2)
Department of Labour in the State or any other government agency authorised in this regard by the State Government
shall,-
(a)
ensure recognition and registration of workers involved in recycling, pre-processing and other utilisation activities;
(b)
assist formation of groups of such workers to facilitate setting up such facilities;
(c)
undertake industrial skill development activities for the workers involved in recycling, pre-processing and other
utilisation;
(d)
undertake annual monitoring and to ensure safety and health of workers involved in recycling, preprocessing and other
utilisation.
(3)
Every State Government may prepare integrated plan for effective implementation of these provisions and to submit
annual report to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, in the Central Government.
Page 6/80
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
6. Grant of authorisation for managing hazardous and other wastes.
(1)
Every occupier of the facility who is engaged in handling, generation, collection, storage, packaging, transportation, use,
treatment, processing, recycling, recovery, pre-processing, co-processing, utilisation, offering for sale, transfer or
disposal of the hazardous and other wastes shall be required to make an application in Form 1 to the State Pollution
Control Board and obtain an authorisation from the State Pollution Control Board within a period of sixty days from the
date of publication of these rules. Such application for authorisation shall be accompanied with a copy each of the
following documents, namely: -
(a)
consent to establish granted by the State Pollution Control Board under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution)
Act, 1974 (25 of 1974) and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 (21 of 1981);
(b)
Consent to operate granted by the State Pollution Control Board under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution)
Act, 1974 (25 of 1974) and/or Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, (21 of 1981);
(c)
in case of renewal of authorisation, a self-certified compliance report in respect of effluent, emission standards and the
conditions specified in the authorisation for hazardous and other wastes:
Provided that an application for renewal of authorisation may be made three months before the expiry of such
authorisation:
Provided further that-
(i)
any person authorised under the provisions of the Hazardous Waste (Management, Handling and Transboundary
Movement) Rules, 2008, prior to the date of commencement of these rules, shall not be required to make an application
for authorisation till the period of expiry of such authorisation;
(ii)
any person engaged in recycling or reprocessing of the hazardous waste specified in Schedule IV and having
registration under the provisions of the Hazardous Waste (Management, Handling and Transboundary Movement)
Rules, 2008, shall not be required to make an application for authorisation till the period of expiry of such registration.
(1A)
[ An occupier shall not be required obtain an authorisation under this rule, from the State Pollution Control Board, in
case the consent to establish or consent to operate, is not required from the State Pollution Control Board or Pollution
Control Committee under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (25 of 1974) and Air (Prevention and
Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 (21 of 1981);
Provided that the hazardous and other wastes generated by the occupier shall be given to the actual user, waste
collector or operator of the disposal facility, in accordance with the Central Pollution Control Board guidelines.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 178(E), dated 1.3.2019 (w.e.f. 4.4.2016).]
(2)
On receipt of an application complete in all respects for the authorisation, the State Pollution Control Board may, after
such inquiry as it considers necessary, and on being satisfied that the applicant possesses appropriate facilities for
collection, storage, packaging, transportation, treatment, processing, use, destruction, recycling, recovery,
pre-processing, co-processing, utilisation, offering for sale, transfer or disposal of the hazardous and other waste, as the
case may be, and after ensuring technical capabilities and equipment complying with the standard operating procedure
or other guidelines specified by the Central Pollution Control Board from time to time and through site inspection, grant
within a period of one hundred and twenty days, an authorisation in Form 2 to the applicant, which shall be valid for a
period of five years subject to such conditions as may be laid down therein. For commonly recyclable hazardous waste
as given in Schedule IV, the guidelines already prepared by the Central Pollution Control Board shall be followed:
Provided that in the case of an application for renewal of authorisation, the State Pollution Control Board may, before
granting such authorisation, satisfy itself that there has been no violation of the conditions specified in the authorisation
earlier granted by it and same shall be recorded in the inspection report.
(3)
The authorisation granted by the State Pollution Control Board under sub-rule (2) shall be accompanied by a copy of the
Page 7/80
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
field inspection report signed by that Board indicating the adequacy of facilities for collection, storage, packaging,
transportation, treatment, processing, use, destruction, recycling, recovery, pre-processing, co-processing, utilisation,
offering for sale, transfer or disposal of the hazardous and other wastes and compliance to the guidelines or standard
operating procedures specified by the Central Pollution Control Board from time to time.
(4)
The State Pollution Control Board may, for the reasons to be recorded in writing and after giving reasonable opportunity
of being heard to the applicant, refuse to grant any authorisation under these rules.
(5)
Every occupier authorised under these rules, shall maintain a record of hazardous and other wastes managed by him in
Form 3 and prepare and submit to the State Pollution Control Board, an annual return containing the details specified in
Form 4 on or before the 30th day of June following the financial year to which that return relates.
(6)
The State Pollution Control Board shall maintain a register containing particulars of the conditions imposed under these
rules for management of hazardous and other wastes and it shall be open for inspection during office hours to any
interested or affected person.
(7)
The authorised actual user of hazardous and other wastes shall maintain records of hazardous and other wastes
purchased in a passbook issued by the State Pollution Control Board along with the authorisation.
(8)
Handing over of the hazardous and other wastes to the authorised actual user shall be only after making the entry into
the passbook of the actual user.
7. Power to suspend or cancel an authorisation.
(1)
The State Pollution Control Board, may, if in its opinion the holder of the authorisation has failed to comply with any of
the conditions of the authorisation or with any provisions of the Act or these rules and after giving him a reasonable
opportunity of being heard and after recording reasons thereof in writing cancel or suspend the authorisation issued
under rule 6 for such period as it considers necessary in the public interest.
(2)
Upon suspension or cancellation of the authorisation, the State Pollution Control Board may give directions to the
person whose authorisation has been suspended or cancelled for the safe storage and management of the hazardous
and other wastes, and such occupier shall comply with such directions.
8. Storage of hazardous and other wastes.
(1)
The occupiers of facilities may store the hazardous and other wastes for a period not exceeding ninety days and shall
maintain a record of sale, transfer, storage, recycling, recovery, pre-processing, co-processing and utilisation of such
wastes and make these records available for inspection:
Provided that the State Pollution Control Board may extend the said period of ninety days in following cases, namely:-
(i)
small generators (up to ten tonnes per annum) up to one hundred and eighty days of their annual capacity;
(ii)
actual users and disposal facility operators up to one hundred and eighty days of their annual capacity,
(iii)
occupiers who do not have access to any treatment, storage, disposal facility in the concerned State; or
(iv)
the waste which needs to be specifically stored for development of a process for its recycling, recovery, pre-processing,
co-processing or utilisation;
(v)
in any other case, on justifiable grounds up to one hundred and eighty days.
9. Utilisation of hazardous and other wastes.
(1)
The utilisation of hazardous and other wastes as a resource or after pre-processing either for co-processing or for any
Page 8/80
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
other use, including within the premises of the generator (if it is not part of process), shall be carried out only after
obtaining authorisation from the State Pollution Control Board in respect of waste on the basis of standard operating
procedures or guidelines provided by the Central Pollution Control Board.
(2)
Where standard operating procedures or guidelines are not available for specific utilisation, the approval has to be
sought from Central Pollution Control Board which shall be granting approval on the basis of trial runs and thereafter,
standard operating procedures or guidelines shall be prepared by Central Pollution Control Board:
Provided, if trial run has been conducted for particular waste with respect to particular utilisation and compliance to the
environmental standards has been demonstrated, authorisation may be granted by the State Pollution Control Board
with respect to the same waste and utilisation, without need of separate trial run by Central Pollution Control Board and
such cases of successful trial run, Central Pollution Control Board shall intimate all the State Pollution Control Board
regarding the same.
(3)
No trial runs shall be required for co-processing of waste in cement plants for which guidelines by the Central Pollution
Control Board are already available; however, the actual users shall ensure compliance to the standards notified under
the Environment (Protection) Act,1986 (29 of 1986), for cement plant with respect to co-processing of waste:
Provided that till the time the standards are notified, the procedure as applicable to other kind of utilisation of hazardous
and other waste, as enumerated above shall be followed.
10. Standard Operating Procedure or guidelines for actual users.
- The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change or the Central Pollution Control Board may issue guidelines
or standard operating procedures for environmentally sound management of hazardous and other wastes from time to
time.
Chapter III
Import and Export of Hazardous and other Wastes
11. Import and export (transboundary movement) of hazardous and other wastes.
- The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change shall be the nodal Ministry to deal with the transboundary
movement of the hazardous and other wastes in accordance with the provisions of these rules.
12. Strategy for Import and export of hazardous and other wastes.
(1)
No import of the hazardous and other wastes from any country to India for disposal shall be permitted.
(2)
The import of hazardous and other wastes from any country shall be permitted only for recycling, recovery, reuse and
utilisation including co-processing.
(3)
The import of hazardous waste in Part A of Schedule III may be allowed to actual users with the prior informed consent
of the exporting country and shall require the permission of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change.
(4)
The import of other wastes in Part B of Schedule III may be allowed to actual users with the permission of the Ministry of
Environment, Forest and Climate Change.
(5)
The import of other wastes in Part D of Schedule III will be allowed as per procedure given in rule 13 and as per the note
below the said Schedule.
(6)
No import of the hazardous and other wastes specified in Schedule VI shall be permitted.
(6A)
[ ***]
[Omitted 'sub-rule 6A' by Notification No. G.S.R. 178(E), dated 1.3.2019 (w.e.f. 4.4.2016).]
(7)
The export of hazardous and other wastes from India listed in Part A and Part B of Schedule III and Schedule VI shall be
with the permission of Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. In case of applications for export of
hazardous and other waste listed in Part A of Schedule III and Schedule VI, they shall be considered on the basis of
Page 9/80
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
prior informed consent of the importing country.
(8)
The import and export of hazardous and other wastes not specified in Schedule III, but exhibiting the hazardous
characteristics outlined in Part C of Schedule III shall require prior written permission of the Ministry of Environment,
Forest and Climate Change before it is imported to or exported from India, as the case may be.
13. Procedure for import of hazardous and other wastes.
(1)
Actual users intending to import or transit for transboundary movement of hazardous and other wastes specified in Part
A and Part B of Schedule III shall apply in Form 5 along with the documents listed therein, to the Ministry of
Environment, Forest and Climate Change for the proposed import together with the prior informed consent of the
exporting country in respect of Part A of Schedule III waste, and shall send a copy of the application, simultaneously, to
the concerned State Pollution Control Board for information and the acknowledgment in this respect from the concerned
State Pollution Control Board shall be submitted to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change along with
the application.
(2)
For the import of other wastes listed in Part D of Schedule III, the importer shall not require the permission of the
Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. However, the importer shall furnish the required information as per
Form 6 to the Customs authorities, accompanied with the following documents in addition to those listed in Schedule
VIII, wherever applicable. For used electrical and electronic assemblies listed at serial numbers 4 (e) to 4(i) of Schedule
VIII (Basel No. B1110), there is no specific requirement of documentation under these rules:
(a)
the import license from Directorate General of Foreign Trade, if applicable;
(b)
the valid consents under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (25 of 1974) and the Air (Prevention
and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 (21 of 1981) and the authorisation under these rules as well as the authorisation
under the E-Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2011, as amended from time to time, whichever applicable;
(c)
importer who is a trader, importing waste on behalf of actual users, shall obtain one time authorisation in Form 7 and
copy of this authorisation shall be appended to Form 6.
(3)
For Part B of Schedule III, in case of import of any used electrical and electronic assemblies or spares or part or
component or consumables as listed under Schedule I of the E-Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2011, as
amended from time to time, the importer need to obtain extended producer responsibility-authorisation as producer
under the said E-Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2011.
(4)
Prior to clearing of consignment of wastes listed in Part D of Schedule III, the Custom authorities shall verify the
documents as given in column (3) of Schedule VIII.
(5)
On receipt of the complete application with respect to Part A and Part B of Schedule III, the Ministry of Environment,
Forest and Climate Change shall examine the application considering the comments and observations, if any, received
from the State Pollution Control Boards, and may grant the permission for import within a period of sixty days subject to
the condition that the importer has -
(i)
the environmentally sound facilities;
(ii)
adequate arrangements for treatment and disposal of wastes generated;
(iii)
a valid authorisation and consents from the State Pollution Control Board;
(iv)
prior informed consent from the exporting country in case of Part A of Schedule III wastes.
(6)
Page 10/80
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change shall forward a copy of the permission to the concerned Port
and Customs authorities, Central Pollution Control Board and the concerned State Pollution Control Board for ensuring
compliance with respect to their respective functions given in Schedule VII.
(7)
The importer of the hazardous and other wastes shall maintain records of the hazardous and other waste imported by
him in Form 3 and the record so maintained shall be made available for inspection.
(8)
The importer of the hazardous and other wastes shall file an annual return in Form 4 to the State Pollution Control Board
on or before the 30th day of June following the financial year to which that return relates.
(9)
Samples of hazardous and other wastes being imported for testing or research and development purposes up to 1000
gm or 1000 ml shall be exempted from need of taking permission for import under these rules.
(10)
The Port and Customs authorities shall ensure that shipment is accompanied with the movement document as given in
Form 6 and the test report of analysis of the waste, consignment, wherever applicable, from a laboratory accredited or
recognised by the exporting country. In case of any doubt, the customs may verify the analysis.
14. Procedure for Export of hazardous and other wastes from India.
(1)
Any occupier intending to export waste specified in Part A of Schedule III, Part B of Schedule III and Schedule VI, shall
make an application in Form 5 along with insurance cover to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change for
the proposed transboundary movement of the hazardous and other wastes together with the prior informed consent in
writing from the importing country in respect of wastes specified in Part A of Schedule III and Schedule VI.
(2)
On receipt of an application under sub-rule (1), the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change may give
permission for the proposed export within a period of sixty days from the date of submission of complete application and
may impose such conditions as it may consider necessary.
(3)
The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change shall forward a copy of the permission granted under sub-rule
(2) to the State Pollution Control Board of the State where the waste is generated and the Pollution Control Board of the
State where the port of export is located and the concerned Port and Customs authorities for ensuring compliance of the
conditions of the export permission.
(4)
The exporter shall ensure that no consignment is shipped before the prior informed consent is received from the
importing country, wherever applicable.
(5)
The exporter shall also ensure that the shipment is accompanied with movement document in Form 6.
(6)
The exporter of the hazardous and other wastes shall maintain the records of the hazardous or other waste exported by
him in Form 3 and the record so maintained shall be available for inspection.
15. Illegal traffic.
(1)
The export and import of hazardous or other wastes from and into India, respectively shall be deemed illegal, if,-
(i)
it is without permission of the Central Government in accordance with these rules; or
(ii)
the permission has been obtained through falsification, mis-representation or fraud; or
(iii)
it does not conform to the shipping details provided in the movement documents; or
(iv)
it results in deliberate disposal (i.e., dumping) of hazardous or other waste in contravention of the Basel Convention and
of general principles of international or domestic law.
Page 11/80
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
(2)
In case of illegal import of the hazardous or other waste, the importer shall re-export the waste in question at his cost
within a period of ninety days from the date of its arrival into India and its implementation will be ensured by the
concerned Port and the Custom authority. In case of disposal of such waste by the Port and Custom authorities, they
shall do so in accordance with these rules with the permission of the Pollution Control Board of the State where the Port
exists.
(3)
In case of illegal import of hazardous or other waste, where the importer is not traceable then the waste either can be
sold by the Customs authority to any user having authorisation under these rules from the concerned State Pollution
Control Board or can be sent to authorised treatment, storage and disposal facility.
Chapter - IV Treatment, Storage and Disposal Facility for Hazardous and other Wastes
16. Treatment, storage and disposal facility for hazardous and other wastes.
(1)
The State Government, occupier, operator of a facility or any association of occupiers shall individually or jointly or
severally be responsible for identification of sites for establishing the facility for treatment, storage and disposal of the
hazardous and other waste in the State.
(2)
The operator of common facility or occupier of a captive facility, shall design and set up the treatment, storage and
disposal facility as per technical guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board in this regard from time to time
and shall obtain approval from the State Pollution Control Board for design and layout in this regard.
(3)
The State Pollution Control Board shall monitor the setting up and operation of the common or captive treatment,
storage and disposal facility, regularly.
(4)
The operator of common facility or occupier of a captive facility shall be responsible for safe and environmentally sound
operation of the facility and its closure and post closure phase, as per guidelines or standard operating procedures
issued by the Central Pollution Control Board from time to time.
(5)
The operator of common facility or occupier of a captive facility shall maintain records of hazardous and other wastes
handled by him in Form 3.
(6)
The operator of common facility or occupier of a captive facility shall file an annual return in Form 4 to the State Pollution
Control Board on or before the 30th day of June following the financial year to which that return relates.
Chapter - V Packaging, Labelling, and Transport of Hazardous and other Wastes.
17. Packaging and Labelling.
(1)
Any occupier handling hazardous or other wastes and operator of the treatment, storage and disposal facility shall
ensure that the hazardous and other wastes are packaged in a manner suitable for safe handling, storage and transport
as per the guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board from time to time. The labeling shall be done as per
Form 8.
(2)
The label shall be of non-washable material, weather proof and easily visible.
18. Transportation of hazardous and other wastes.
(1)
The transport of the hazardous and other waste shall be in accordance with the provisions of these rules and the rules
made by the Central Government under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and the guidelines issued by the Central Pollution
Control Board from time to time in this regard.
(2)
The occupier shall provide the transporter with the relevant information in Form 9, regarding the hazardous nature of the
wastes and measures to be taken in case of an emergency and shall label the hazardous and other wastes containers
as per Form 8.
Page 12/80
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
(3)
In case of transportation of hazardous and other waste for final disposal to a facility existing in a State other than the
State where the waste is generated, the sender shall obtain 'No Objection Certificate' from the State Pollution Control
Board of both the States.
(4)
In case of transportation of hazardous and other waste for recycling or Utilization including co-processing, the sender
shall intimate both the State Pollution Control Boards before handing over the waste to the transporter.
(5)
In case of transit of hazardous and other waste for recycling, utilisation including co-processing or disposal through a
State other than the States of origin and destination, the sender shall give prior intimation to the concerned State
Pollution Control Board of the States of transit before handing over the wastes to the transporter.
(6)
In case of transportation of hazardous and other waste, the responsibility of safe transport shall be either of the sender
or the receiver whosoever arranges the transport and has the necessary authorization for transport from the concerned
State Pollution Control Board. This responsibility should be clearly indicated in the manifest.
(7)
The authorisation for transport shall be obtained either by the sender or the receiver on whose behalf the transport is
being arranged.
19. Manifest system (Movement Document) for hazardous and other waste to be used within the country only.
(1)
The sender of the waste shall prepare seven copies of the manifest in Form 10 comprising of colour code indicated
below and all seven copies shall be signed by the sender:
Copy number with colour code
Purpose
(1)
(2)
Copy 1
(White)
To be forwarded by the sender to the State Pollution Control
Board after signing all the seven copies.
Copy 2
(Yellow)
To be retained by the sender after taking signature on it from
the transporter and the rest of the five signed copies to be
carried by the transporter.
Copy 3
(Pink)
To be retained by the receiver (actual user or treatment
storage and disposal facility operator) after receiving the waste
and the remaining four copies are to be duly signed by the
receiver.
Copy 4
(Orange)
To be handed over to the transporter by the receiver after
accepting waste.
Copy 5
(Green)
To be sent by the receiver to the State Pollution Control
Board.
Copy 6
(Blue)
Page 13/80
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
To be sent by the receiver to the sender.
Copy 7
(Grey)
To be sent by the receiver to the State Pollution Control
Board of the sender in case the sender is in another State.
(2)
The sender shall forward copy 1 (white) to the State Pollution Control Board, and in case the hazardous or other wastes
is likely to be transported through any transit State, the sender shall intimate State Pollution Control Boards of transit
States about the movement of the waste.
(3)
No transporter shall accept waste from the sender for transport unless it is accompanied by signed copies 3 to 7 of the
manifest.
(4)
The transporter shall submit copies 3 to 7 of the manifest duly signed with date to the receiver along with the waste
consignment.
(5)
The receiver after acceptance of the waste shall hand over copy 4 (orange) to the transporter and send copy 5 (green)
to his State Pollution Control Board and send copy 6 (blue) to the sender and the copy 3 (pink) shall be retained by the
reciever.
(6)
The copy 7 (grey) shall only be sent to the State Pollution Control Board of the sender, if the sender is in another State.
Chapter VI
Miscellaneous
20. Records and returns.
(1)
The occupier handling hazardous or other wastes and operator of disposal facility shall maintain records of such
operations in Form 3.
(2)
The occupier handling hazardous and other wastes and operator of disposal facility shall send annual returns to the
State Pollution Control Board in Form 4.
(3)
The State Pollution Control Board based on the annual returns received from the occupiers and the operators of the
facilities for disposal of hazardous and other wastes shall prepare an annual inventory of the waste generated; waste
recycled, recovered, utilised including co-processed; waste re-exported and waste disposed and submit to the Central
Pollution Control Board by the 30th day of September every year. The State Pollution Control Board shall also prepare
the inventory of hazardous waste generators, actual users, and common and captive disposal facilities and shall submit
the information to Central Pollution Control Board every two years.
(4)
The Central Pollution Control Board shall prepare the consolidated review report on management of hazardous and
other wastes and forward it to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, along with its recommendations
before the 30th day of December once in every year.
21. Responsibility of authorities.
- The authority specified in column (2) of Schedule VII shall perform the duties as specified in column (3) of the said
Schedule subject to the provisions of these rules.
22. Accident reporting.
- Where an accident occurs at the facility of the occupier handling hazardous or other wastes and operator of the
disposal facility or during transportation, the occupier or the operator or the transporter shall immediately intimate the
State Pollution Control Board through telephone, e-mail about the accident and subsequently send a report in Form 11.
23. Liability of occupier, importer or exporter and operator of a disposal facility.
(1)
The occupier, importer or exporter and operator of the disposal facility shall be liable for all damages caused to the
Page 14/80
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
environment or third party due to improper handling and management of the hazardous and other waste.
(2)
The occupier and the operator of the disposal facility shall be liable to pay financial penalties as levied for any violation
of the provisions under these rules by the State Pollution Control Board with the prior approval of the Central Pollution
Control Board.
24. Appeal.
(1)
Any person aggrieved by an order of suspension or cancellation or refusal of authorisation or its renewal passed by the
State Pollution Control Board may, within a period of thirty days from the date on which the order is communicated to
him, prefer an appeal in Form 12 to the Appellate Authority, namely, the Environment Secretary of the State.
(2)
The Appellate Authority may entertain the appeal after expiry of the said period of thirty days, if it is satisfied that the
appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.
(3)
Every appeal filed under this rule shall be disposed of within a period of sixty days from the date of its filing.
I
[See rule 3 (1) (17) (i)]
List of processes generating hazardous wastes
S.No.
Processes
Hazardous Waste*
(1)
(2)
(3)
1.
Petrochemical processes and pyrolytic operations
1.1
Furnace or reactor residue and debris
1.2
Tarry residues and still bottoms from distillation
1.3
Oily sludge emulsion
1.4
Organic residues
1.5
Residues from alkali wash of fuels
1.6
Spent catalyst and molecular sieves
1.7
Oil from wastewater treatment
2.
Crude oil and natural gas production
2.1
Drill cuttings excluding those from water based mud
2.2
Sludge containing oil
2.3
Drilling mud containing oil
3.
Cleaning, emptying and maintenance of petroleum oil storage
tanks including ships
Page 15/80
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
3.1
cargo residue, washing water and sludge containing oil
3.2
cargo residue and sludge containing chemicals
3.3
Sludge and filters contaminated with oil
3.4
Ballast water containing oil from ships
4.
Petroleum refining or re-processing of used oil or recycling
of waste oil
4.1
Oil sludge or emulsion
4.2
Spent catalyst
4.3
Slop oil
4.4
Organic residue from processes
4.5
Spent clay containing oil
5.
Industrial operations using mineral or synthetic oil as
lubricant in hydraulic systems or other applications
5.1
Used or spent oil
5.2
Wastes or residues containing oil
5.3
Waste cutting oils
6.
Secondary production and / or industrial use of zinc
6.1
Sludge and filter press cake arising out of production of
Zinc Sulphate and other Zinc Compounds.
6.2
Zinc fines or dust or ash or skimmings in dispersible form
6.3
Other residues from processing of zinc ash or skimmings
6.4
Flue gas dust and other particulates
7.
Primary production of zinc or lead or copper and other
non-ferrous metals except aluminium
7.1
Flue gas dust from roasting
7.2
Process residues
7.3
Arsenic-bearing sludge
7.4
Page 16/80
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Non-ferrous metal bearing sludge and residue.
7.5
Sludge from scrubbers
8.
Secondary production of copper
8.1
Spent electrolytic solutions
8.2
Sludge and filter cakes
8.3
Flue gas dust and other particulates
9.
Secondary production of lead
9.1
Lead bearing residues
9.2
Lead ash or particulate from flue gas
9.3
Acid from used batteries
10.
Production and/or industrial use of cadmium and arsenic and
their compounds
10.1
Residues containing cadmium and arsenic
11.
Production of primary and secondary aluminum
11.1
Sludges from off-gas treatment
11.2
Cathode residues including pot lining wastes
11.3
Tar containing wastes
11.4
Flue gas dust and other particulates
11.5
Drosses and waste from treatment of salt sludge
11.6
Used anode butts
11.7
Vanadium sludge from alumina refineries
12.
Metal surface treatment, such as etching, staining,
polishing, galvanizing, cleaning, degreasing, plating, etc.
12.1
Acidic and alkaline residues
12.2
Spent acid and alkali
12.3
Spent bath and sludge containing sulphide, cyanide and toxic
metals
12.4
Page 17/80
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Sludge from bath containing organic solvents
12.5
Phosphate sludge
12.6
Sludge from staining bath
12.7
Copper etching residues
12.8
Plating metal sludge
13.
Production of iron and steel including other ferrous alloys
(electric furnace; steel rolling and finishing mills; Coke oven
and by products plant)
13.1
Spent pickling liquor
13.2
Sludge from acid recovery unit
13.3
Benzol acid sludge
13.4
Decanter tank tar sludge
13.5
Tar storage tank residue
13.6
Residues from coke oven by product plant.
14.
Hardening of steel
14.1
Cyanide-, nitrate-, or nitrite-containing sludge
14.2
Spent hardening salt
15.
Production of asbestos or asbestos-containing materials
15.1
Asbestos-containing residues
15.2
Discarded asbestos
15.3
Dust or particulates from exhaust gas treatment.
16.
Production of caustic soda and chlorine
16.1
Mercury bearing sludge generated from mercury cell process
16.2
Residue or sludges and filter cakes
16.3
Brine sludge
17.
Production of mineral acids
17.1
Process acidic residue, filter cake, dust
Page 18/80
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
17.2
Spent catalyst
18.
Production of nitrogenous and complex fertilizers
18.1
Spent catalyst
18.2
Carbon residue
18.3
Sludge or residue containing arsenic
18.4
Chromium sludge from water cooling tower
19.
Production of phenol
19.1
Residue or sludge containing phenol
19.2
Spent catalyst
20.
Production and/or industrial use of solvents
20.1
Contaminated aromatic, aliphatic or napthenic solvents may or
may not be fit for reuse.
20.2
Spent solvents
20.3
Distillation residues
20.4
Process Sludge
21.
Production and/or industrial use of paints, pigments,
lacquers, varnishes and inks
21.1
Process wastes, residues and sludges
21.2
Spent solvent
22.
Production of plastics
22.1
Spent catalysts
22.2
Process residues
23.
Production and /or industrial use of glues, organic cements,
adhesive and resins
23.1
Wastes or residues (not made with vegetable or animal
materials)
23.2
Spent solvents
24.
Page 19/80
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Production of canvas and textiles
24.1
Chemical residues
25.
Industrial production and formulation of wood preservatives
25.1
Chemical residues
25.2
Residues from wood alkali bath
26.
Production or industrial use of synthetic dyes,
dye-intermediates and pigments
26.1
Process waste sludge/residues containing acid, toxic metals,
organic compounds
26.2
Dust from air filtration system
26.3
Spent acid
26.4
Spent solvent
26.5
Spent catalyst
27.
Production of organic-silicone compound
27.1
Process residues
28.
Production/ formulation of drugs/pharmaceutical and health
care product
28.1
Process Residue and wastes
28.2
Spent catalyst
28.3
Spent carbon
28.4
Off specification products
28.5
Date-expired products
28.6
Spent solvents
29.
Production, and formulation of pesticides including
stock-piles
29.1
Process wastes or residues
29.2
Sludge containing residual pesticides
29.3
Date-expired and off-specification pesticides
Page 20/80
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
29.4
Spent solvents
29.5
Spent catalysts
29.6
Spent acids
30.
Leather tanneries
30.1
Chromium bearing residue and sludge
31.
Electronic Industry
31.1
Process residue and wastes
31.2
Spent etching chemicals and solvents
32.
Pulp and Paper Industry
32.1
Spent chemicals
32.2
Corrosive wastes arising from use of strong acid and bases
32.3
Process sludge containing adsorbable organic halides(AOX)
33.
Handling of hazardous chemicals and wastes
33.1
Empty barrels/containers/liners contaminated with hazardous
chemicals /wastes
33.2
Contaminated cotton rags or other cleaning materials
34.
De-contamination of barrels / containers used for handling of
hazardous wastes/chemicals
34.1
Chemical-containing residue arising from decontamination.
34.2
Sludge from treatment of waste water arising out of cleaning
/ disposal of barrels / containers
35.
Purification and treatment of exhaust air/gases, water and
waste water from the processes in this schedule and common
industrial effluent treatment plants (CETP?s)
35.1
Exhaust Air or Gas cleaning residue
35.2
Spent ion exchange resin containing toxic metals
35.3
Chemical sludge from waste water treatment
35.4
Oil and grease skimming
Page 21/80
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
35.5
Chromium sludge from cooling water
36.
Purification process for organic compounds/solvents
36.1
Any process or distillation residue
36.2
Spent carbon or filter medium
37.
Hazardous waste treatment processes, e.g. pre-processing,
incineration and concentration
37.1
Sludge from wet scrubbers
37.2
Ash from incinerator and flue gas cleaning residue
37.3
Concentration or evaporation residues
38.
Chemical processing of Ores containing heavy metals such as
Chromium, Manganese, Nickel, Cadmium etc.
38.1
Process residues
38.2
Spent acid
* The inclusion of wastes contained in this Schedule does not preclude the use of Schedule II to demonstrate that the
waste is not hazardous. In case of dispute, the matter would be referred to the Technical Review Committee constituted
by Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change.
Note: The high volume low effect wastes such as fly ash, Phosphogypsum, red mud, jarosite, Slags from
pyrometallurgical operations, mine tailings and ore beneficiation rejects are excluded from the category of hazardous
wastes. Separate guidelines on the management of these wastes shall be issued by Central Pollution Control Board.
II
[See rule 3 (1) (17) (ii)]
List of waste constituents with concentration limits
Class A: Based on leachable concentration limits [Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure (TCLP) or Soluble
Threshold Limit Concentration (STLC)]
Class
Constituents
Concentration in mg/l
(1)
(2)
(3)
A1
Arsenic
5.0
A2
Barium
100.0
A3
Cadmium
1.0
A4
Page 22/80
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Chromium and/or
Chromium (III) compounds
5.0
A5
Lead
5.0
A6
Manganese
10.0
A7
Mercury
0.2
A8
Selenium
1.0
A9
Silver
5.0
A10
Ammonia
50*
A11
Cyanide
20*
A12
Nitrate (as
nitrate-nitrogen)
1000.0
A13
Sulphide (as
H2S)
5.0
A14
1,1-Dichloroethylene
0.7
A15
1,2-Dichloroethane
0.5
A16
1,4-Dichlorobenzene
7.5
A17
2,4,5-Trichlorophenol
400.0
A18
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol
2.0
A19
2,4-Dinitrotoluene
0.13
A20
Page 23/80
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Benzene
0.5
A21
Benzo (a)
Pyrene
0.001
A22
Bromodicholromethane
6.0
A23
Bromoform
10.0
A24
Carbon
tetrachloride
0.5
A25
Chlorobenzene
100.0
A26
Chloroform
6.0
A27
Cresol (ortho+
meta+ para)
200.0
A28
Dibromochloromethane
10.0
A29
Hexachlorobenzene
0.13
A30
Hexachlorobutadiene
0.5
A31
Hexachloroethane
3.0
A32
Methyl ethyl
ketone
200.0
A33
Naphthalene
5.0
A34
Nitrobenzene
2.0
A35
Pentachlorophenol
100.0
Page 24/80
----- PAGE 25 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
A36
Pyridine
5.0
A37
Tetrachloroethylene
0.7
A38
Trichloroethylene
0.5
A39
Vinyl chloride
0.2
A40
2,4,5-TP
(Silvex)
1.0
A41
2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic
acid
10.0
A42
Alachlor
2.0
A43
Alpha HCH
0.001
A44
Atrazine
0.2
A45
Beta HCH
0.004
A46
Butachlor
12.5
A47
Chlordane
0.03
A48
Chlorpyriphos
9.0
A49
Delta HCH
0.004
A50
Endosulfan
(alpha+ beta+ sulphate)
0.04
A51
Endrin
0.02
Page 25/80
----- PAGE 26 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
A52
Ethion
0.3
A53
Heptachlor (&
its Epoxide)
0.008
A54
Isoproturon
0.9
A55
Lindane
0.4
A56
Malathion
19
A57
Methoxychlor
10
A58
Methyl
parathion
0.7
A59
Monocrotophos
0.1
A60
Phorate
0.2
A61
Toxaphene
0.5
A62
Antimony
15
A63
Beryllium
0.75
A64
Chromium (VI)
5.0
A65
Cobalt
80.0
A66
Copper
25.0
A67
Molybdenum
350
A68
Page 26/80
----- PAGE 27 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Nickel
20.0
A69
Thallium
7.0
A70
Vanadium
24.0
A71
Zinc
250
A72
Fluoride
180.0
A73
Aldrin
0.14
A74
Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane
(DDT), Dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE),
Dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (DDD)
0.1
A75
Dieldrin
0.8
A76
Kepone
2.1
A77
Mirex
2.1
A78
Polychlorinated
biphenyls
5.0
A79
Dioxin
(2,3,7,8-TCDD)
0.001
Class B: Based on Total Threshold Limit Concentration (TTLC)
Class
Constituent
Concentration in mg/kg
(1)
(2)
(3)
B1
Asbestos
10000
B2
Total Petroleum
Page 27/80
----- PAGE 28 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Hydrocarbons (TPH) (C5 - C36)
5,000
Note:
(1)
The testing method for list of constituents at A1 to A61 in Class-A, shall be based on Toxicity Characteristic Leaching
Procedure (TCLP) and for extraction of leachable constituents, USEPA Test Method 1311 shall be used.
(2)
The testing method for list of constituents at A62 to A79 in Class-A, shall be based on Soluble Threshold Limit
Concentration (STLC) and Waste Extraction Test (WET) Procedure given in Appendix II of section 66261 of Title 22 of
California Code regulation (CCR) shall be used.
(3)
In case of ammonia (A10), cyanide (A11) and chromium VI (A64), extractions shall be conducted using distilled water in
place of the leaching media specified in the TCLP/STLC procedures.
(4)
A summary of above specified leaching/extraction procedures is included in manual for characterization and analysis of
hazardous waste published by Central Pollution Control Board and in case the method is not covered in the said
manual, suitable reference method may be adopted for the measurement.
(5)
In case of asbestos, the specified concentration limits apply only if the substances are in a friable, powdered or finely
divided state.
(6)
The hazardous constituents to be analyzed in the waste shall be relevant to the nature of the industry and the materials
used in the process.
Wastes which contain any of the constituents listed below shall be considered as hazardous, provided they exhibit the
characteristics listed in Class-C of this Schedule :
1.
Acid Amides
2.
Acid anhydrides
3.
Amines
4.
Anthracene
5.
Aromatic
compounds other than those listed in Class A
6.
Bromates,
(hypo-bromites)
7.
Chlorates
(hypo-chlorites)
8.
Carbonyls
9.
Ferro-silicate
and alloys
10.
Halogen-
containing compounds which produce acidic vapours on contact with
humid air or water e.g. silicon tetrachloride, aluminum chloride,
Page 28/80
----- PAGE 29 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
titanium tetrachloride
11.
Halogen-
silanes
12.
Halogenated
Aliphatic Compounds
13.
Hydrazine (s)
14.
Hydrides
15.
Inorganic Acids
16.
Inorganic
Peroxides
17.
Inorganic Tin
Compounds
18.
Iodates
19.
(Iso-and
thio-) Cyanates
20.
Manganese-silicate
21.
Mercaptans
22.
Metal Carbonyls
23.
Metal hydrogen
sulphates
24.
Nitrides
25.
Nitriles
26.
Organic azo and
azooxy Compounds
27.
Organic
Peroxides
28.
Organic Oxygen
Compounds
29.
Organic Sulphur
Compounds
30.
Organo- Tin
Page 29/80
----- PAGE 30 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Compounds
31.
Organo nitro-
and nitroso compounds
32.
Oxides and
hydroxides except those of hydrogen, carbon, silicon, iron,
aluminum, titanium, manganese, magnesium, calcium
33.
Phenanthrene
34.
Phenolic
Compounds
35.
Phosphate
compounds except phosphates of aluminum, calcium and iron
36.
Salts of
pre-acids
37.
Total Sulphur
38.
Tungsten
Compounds
39.
Tellurium and
tellurium compounds
40.
White and Red
Phosphorus
41.
2-Acetylaminofluorene
42.
4-Aminodiphenyl
43.
Benzidine and
its salts
44.
Bis
(Chloromethyl) ether
45.
Methyl
chloromethyl ether
46.
1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane
47.
3,3'-Dichlorobenzidine
and its salts
48.
4-Dimethylaminoazobenzene
49.
Page 30/80
----- PAGE 31 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
4-Nitrobiphenyl
50.
Beta-Propiolactone
Class C : Based on hazardous Characteristics. - Apart from the concentration limit given above, the substances or
wastes shall be classified as hazardous waste if it exhibits any of the following characteristics due to the presence of any
hazardous constituents:
Class C1: Flammable. - A waste exhibits the characteristic of flammability or ignitability if a representative sample of the
waste has any of the following properties, namely:-
(i)
flammable liquids, or mixture of liquids, or liquids containing solids in solution or suspension (for example, paints,
varnishes, lacquers, etc; but not including substances or wastes otherwise classified on account of their dangerous
characteristics), which give off a flammable vapour at temperature less than 600C. This flash point shall be measured as
per ASTM D 93-79 closed-cup test method or as determined by an equivalent test method published by Central
Pollution Control Board;
(ii)
it is not a liquid and is capable, under standard temperature and pressure, of causing fire through friction, absorption of
moisture or spontaneous chemical changes and, when ignited, burns vigorously and persistently creating a hazard;
(iii)
it is an ignitable compressed gas;
(iv)
It is an oxidizer and for the purposes of characterisation is a substance such as a chlorate, permanganate, inorganic
peroxide, or a nitrate, that yields oxygen readily to stimulate the combustion of organic matter.
Class C2: Corrosive. - A waste exhibits the characteristic of corrosivity if a representative sample of the waste has either
of the following properties, namely:-
(i)
it is aqueous and has a pH less than or equal to 2 or greater than or equal to 12.5;
(ii)
it is a liquid and corrodes steel (SAE 1020) at a rate greater than 6.35 mm per year at a test temperature of 55 0C;
(iii)
it is not aqueous and, when mixed with an equivalent weight of water, produces a solution having a pH less than or
equal to 2 or greater than or equal to 12.5;
(iv)
it is not a liquid and, when mixed with an equivalent weight of water, produces a liquid that corrodes steel (SAE1020) at
a rate greater than 6.35 mm per year at a test temperature of 550C.
Note: For the purpose of determining the corrosivity, the Bureau of Indian Standard 9040 C method for pH
determination, NACE TM 01 69 : Laboratory Corrosion Testing of Metals and EPA 1110A method for corrosivity towards
steel (SAE1020) to establish the corrosivity characteristics shall be adopted.
Class C3: Reactive or explosive. - A waste exhibits the characteristic of reactivity if a representative sample of the waste
it has any of the following properties, namely:-
(i)
it is normally unstable and readily undergoes violent change without detonating;
(ii)
it reacts violently with water or forms potentially explosive mixtures with water;
(iii)
when mixed with water, it generates toxic gases, vapours or fumes in a quantity sufficient to present a danger to human
health or the environment;
(iv)
it is a cyanide or sulphide bearing waste which, when exposed to pH conditions between 2 and 12.5, can generate toxic
gases, vapours or fumes in a quantity sufficient to present a danger to human health or the environmental;
(v)
it is capable of detonation or explosive reaction if it is subjected to a strong initiating source or if heated under
Page 31/80
----- PAGE 32 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
confinement;
(vi)
it is readily capable of detonation or explosive decomposition or reaction at standard temperature and pressure;
(vii)
it is a forbidden explosive.
Class C4: Toxic. - A waste exhibits the characteristic of toxicity, if, :-
(i)
the concentration of the waste constituents listed in Class A and B (of this schedule) are equal to or more than the
permissible limits prescribed therein;
(ii)
it has an acute oral LD50 less than 2,500 milligrams per kilogram;
(iii)
it has an acute dermal LD50 less than 4,300 milligrams per kilogram;
(iv)
it has an acute inhalation LC50 less than 10,000 parts per million as a gas or vapour;
(v)
it has acute aquatic toxicity with 50% mortality within 96 hours for zebra fish (Brachidanio rerio) at a concentration of 500
milligrams per litre in dilution water and test conditions as specified in BIS test method 6582 - 2001.
(vi)
it has been shown through experience or by any standard reference test-method to pose a hazard to human health or
environment because of its carcinogenicity, mutagenecity, endocrine disruptivity, acute toxicity, chronic toxicity,
bio-accumulative properties or persistence in the environment.
Class C5: Substances or Wastes liable to spontaneous combustion. - Substances or Wastes which are liable to
spontaneous heating under normal conditions encountered in transport, or to heating up on contact with air, and being
then liable to catch fire.
Class C6: Substances or Wastes which, in contact with water emit flammable gases. - Substances or Wastes which, by
interaction with water, are liable to become spontaneously flammable or to give off flammable gases in dangerous
quantities.
Class C7: Oxidizing. - Substances or Wastes which, while in themselves not necessarily combustible, may, generally by
yielding oxygen cause, or contribute to, the combustion of other materials.
Class C8: Organic Peroxides. - Organic substances or Wastes which contain the bivalent O?O structure, which may
undergo exothermic self-accelerating decomposition.
Class C9: Poisons (acute). - Substances or Wastes liable either to cause death or serious injury or to harm human
health if swallowed or inhaled or by skin contact.
Class C10: Infectious substances. - Substances or Wastes containing viable micro-organisms or their toxins which are
known or suspected to cause disease in animals or humans.
Class C11: Liberation of toxic gases in contact with air or water. - Substances or Wastes which, by interaction with air or
water, are liable to give off toxic gases in dangerous quantities.
Class C12: Eco-toxic. - Substances or Wastes which if released, present or may present immediate or delayed adverse
impacts to the environment by means of bioaccumulation or toxic effects upon biotic systems or both.
Class C13: Capable, by any means, after disposal, of yielding another material, e.g., leachate, which possesses any of
the characteristics listed above.
III
[See rules 3 (1) (17) (iii), 3 (23), 12, 13 and 14]
Part A ? List of hazardous wastes applicable for import and export with Prior Informed Consent [Annexure VIII of the
Basel Convention*]
Basel No.
Description of Hazardous Wastes
(1)
(2)
A1
Page 32/80
----- PAGE 33 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Metal and Metal bearing wastes
A1010
Metal wastes and waste consisting of alloys of any of the
following but excluding such wastes specifically listed in Part B
and Part D
-
Antimony
-
Cadmium
-
Lead
-
Tellurium
A1020
Waste having as constituents or contaminants, excluding metal
wastes in massive form, any or the following:
-
Antimony, antimony compounds
-
Cadmium, cadmium compounds
-
Lead, lead compounds
-
Tellurium, tellurium compounds
A1040
Waste having metal carbonyls as constituents
A1050
Galvanic sludges
A1070
Leaching residues from zinc processing, dust and sludges such
as jarosite, hematite, etc.
A1080
Waste zinc residues not included in Part B, containing lead
and cadmium in concentrations sufficient to exhibit hazard
characteristics indicated in Part C
A1090
Ashes from the incineration of insulated copper wire
A1100
Dusts and residues from gas cleaning systems of copper
smelters
A1120
Waste sludges, excluding anode slimes, from electrolyte
purification systems in copper electrorefining and electrowinning
operations
A1140
Waste cupric chloride and copper cyanide catalysts not in
liquid form note the related entry in Schedule VI
A1150
Precious metal ash from incineration of printed circuit boards
not included in Part B
A1160
Page 33/80
----- PAGE 34 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Waste lead acid batteries, whole or crushed
A1170
Unsorted waste batteries excluding mixtures of only Part B
batteries. Waste batteries not specified in Part B containing
constituents mentioned in Schedule II to an extent to render them
hazardous
A2
Wastes containing principally inorganic constituents, which
may contain metals and organic materials
A2010
Glass waste from cathode-ray tubes and other activated glasses
A2030
Waste catalysts but excluding such wastes specified in Part B
A3
Wastes containing principally organic constituents, which
may contain metals and inorganic materials
A3010
Waste from the production or processing of petroleum coke and
bitumen
A3020
Waste mineral oils unfit for their originally intended use
A3050
Wastes from production, formulation and use of resins, latex,
plasticizers, glues or adhesives excluding such wastes specified
in Part B (B4020)
A3120
Fluff-light fraction from shredding
A3130
Waste organic phosphorus compounds
A4
Wastes which may contain either inorganic or organic
constituents
A4010
Wastes from the production, preparation and use of
pharmaceutical products but excluding such waste specified in
Part B
A4040
Wastes from the manufacture, formulation and use of
wood-preserving chemicals (does not include wood treated with
wood preserving chemicals)
A4070
Waste from the production, formulation and use of inks, dyes,
pigments, paints, lacquers, varnish excluding those specified in
Part B (B4010)
A4100
Wastes from industrial pollution control devices for cleaning
of industrial off-gases but excluding such wastes specified in
Part B
A4120
Wastes that contain, consist of or are contaminated with
peroxides.
Page 34/80
----- PAGE 35 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
A4130
Wastes packages and containers containing Schedule II
constituents in concentration sufficient to exhibit Part C of
Schedule III hazard characteristics.
A4140
Waste consisting of or containing off specification or
outdated chemicals (unused within the period recommended by the
manufacturer) corresponding to constituents mentioned in Schedule
II and exhibiting Part C of Schedule III hazard characteristics.
A4160
Spent activated carbon not included in Part B, B2060
*This List is based on Annexure VIII of the Basel Convention on Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Wastes and
comprises of wastes characterized as hazardous under Article I, paragraph 1(a) of the Convention. Inclusion of wastes
on this list does not preclude the use of hazard.
Characteristics given in Annexure VIII of the Basel Convention (Part C of this Schedule) to demonstrate that the wastes
are not hazardous. Hazardous wastes in Part-A are restricted and cannot be allowed to be imported without permission
from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and the Directorate General of Foreign Trade license, if
applicable.
Part B ? List of other wastes applicable for import and export and not requiring Prior Informed Consent [Annex IX of the
Basel Convention*]
Basel No.
Description of wastes
(1)
(2)
B1
Metal and metal-bearing wastes
B1010
Metal and metal-alloy wastes in metallic, non-dispersible
form:
-
Thorium scrap
-
Rare earths scrap
B1020
Clean, uncontaminated metal scrap, including alloys, in bulk
finished form (sheet, plates, beams, rods, etc.), of:
-
Antimony scrap
-
Beryllium scrap
-
-
Cadmium scrap
-
-
Lead scrap (excluding lead acid batteries)
-
Selenium scrap
-
Tellurium scrap
B1030
Page 35/80
----- PAGE 36 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Refractory metals containing residues
B1031
Molybdenum, tungsten, titanium, tantalum, niobium and rhenium
metal and metal alloy wastes in metallic dispersible form (metal
powder), excluding such wastes as specified in Part A under
entry A1050, Galvanic sludges
B1040
Scrap assemblies from electrical power generation not
contaminated with lubricating oil, PCB or PCT to an extent to
render them hazardous
B1050
Mixed non-ferrous metal, heavy fraction scrap, containing
cadmium, antimony, lead & tellurium mentioned in Schedule II
in concentrations sufficient to exhibit Part C characteristics
B1060
Waste selenium and tellurium in metallic elemental form
including powder
B1070
Waste of copper and copper alloys in dispersible form, unless
they contain any of the constituents mentioned in Schedule II to
an extent that they exhibit Part C characteristics
B1080
Zinc ash and residues including zinc alloys residues in
dispersible form unless they contain any of the constituents
mentioned in Schedule II in concentration such as to exhibit
Part C characteristics
B1090
Waste batteries conforming to a standard battery
specification, excluding those made with lead, cadmium or
mercury
B1100
Metal bearing wastes arising from melting, smelting and
refining of metals:
-
Slags from copper processing for further processing or
refining containing arsenic, lead or cadmium
-
Slags from precious metals processing for further refining
-
Wastes of refractory linings, including crucibles,
originating from copper smelting
-
Tantalum-bearing tin slags with less than 0.5% tin
B1110
Used Electrical and electronic assemblies other than those
listed in Part D of Schedule III
Electronic assemblies consisting only of metals or alloys
Waste electrical and electronic assemblies or scrap (including
printed circuit boards) not containing components such as
accumulators and other batteries included in Part A of Schedule
III, mercuryswitches, glass from cathode-ray tubes and other
Page 36/80
----- PAGE 37 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
activated glass and PCB-capacitors, or not contaminated with
Schedule II constituents such as cadmium, mercury, lead,
polychlorinated biphenyl) or from which these have been removed,
to an extent that they do not possess any of the characteristics
contained in Part C of Schedule III (note the related entry in
Schedule VI, A1180)
B1120
Spent catalysts excluding liquids used as catalysts,
containing any of:
Transition metals, excluding waste catalysts (spent
catalysts, liquid used catalysts or other catalysts) in Part A
and Schedule VI:
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Scandium
Vanadium
Manganese
Cobalt
Copper
Yttrium
Niobium
Hafnium
Tungsten
- Titanium
- Chromium
- Iron
- Nickel
- Zinc
- Zirconium
- Molybdenum
- Tantalum
- Rhenium
Lanthanides (rare earth metals):
-
Lanthanum
- Cerium
-
-
-
-
-
-
Praseodymium
Samarium
Page 37/80
----- PAGE 38 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Gadolinium
Dysprosium
Erbium
Ytterbium
- Neodymium
- Europium
- Terbium
- Holmium
- Thulium
- Lutetium
B1130
Cleaned spent precious metal bearing catalysts
B1140
Precious metal bearing residues in solid form which contain
traces of inorganic cyanides
B1150
Precious metals and alloy wastes (gold , silver, the platinum
group but not mercury) in a dispersible form, non-liquid form
with appropriate packaging and labelling
B1160
Precious metal ash from the incineration of printed circuit
boards (note the related entry in Part A A1150)
B1170
Precious metal ash from the incineration of photographic film
B1180
Waste photographic film containing silver halides and
metallic silver
B1190
Waste photographic paper containing silver halides and
metallic silver
B1200
Granulated slag arising from the manufacture of iron and
steel
B1210
Slag arising from the manufacture of iron and steel including
slags as a source of Titanium dioxide and Vanadium
B1220
Slag from zinc production, chemically stabilised, having a
high iron content (above 20%) and processed according to
industrial specifications mainly for construction
B1230
Mill scale arising from the manufacture of iron and steel
B1240
Copper Oxide mill-scale
B2
Wastes containing principally inorganic constituents,
which may contain metals and organic materials
B2010
Wastes from mining operations in non-dispersible form:
-
Natural graphite waste
Page 38/80
----- PAGE 39 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
-
Slate wastes
-
Mica wastes
-
Leucite, nepheline and nepheline syenite waste
-
Feldspar waste
-
Fluorspar waste
-
Silica wastes in solid form excluding those used in foundry
operations
B2020
Glass wastes in non-dispersible form:
-
Cullet and other waste and scrap of glass except for glass
from cathode-ray tubes and other activated glasses
B2030
Ceramic wastes in non-dispersible form:
-
-
Cermet wastes and scrap (metal
ceramic composites)
Ceramic based fibres
B2040
Other wastes containing principally inorganic constituents:
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Partially refined calcium sulphate
produced from flue gas desulphurization (FGD)
Waste gypsum wallboard or
plasterboard arising from the demolition of buildings
Slag from copper production,
chemically stabilized, having a high iron content (above 20%)
and processed according to industrial specifications mainly for
construction and abrasive applications
Sulphur in solid form
Limestone from production of
calcium cyanamide (pH<9)
Sodium, potassium, calcium
chlorides
Carborundum (silicon carbide)
Broken concrete
Page 39/80
----- PAGE 40 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Lithium-tantalum and lithium-niobium containing glass scraps
B2060
Spent activated carbon not containing any of Schedule II
constituents to the extent they exhibit Part C characteristics,
for example, carbon resulting from the treatment of potable
water and processes of the food industry and vitamin production
(note the related entry in Part A A4160)
B2070
Calcium fluoride sludge
B2080
Waste gypsum arising from chemical industry processes not
included in Schedule VI (note the related entry in A2040)
B2090
Waste anode butts from steel or aluminium production made of
petroleum coke or bitumen and cleaned to normal industry
specifications (excluding anode butts from chlor alkali
electrolyses and from metallurgical industry)
B2100
Waste hydrates of aluminium and waste alumina and residues
from alumina production, excluding such materials used for gas
cleaning, flocculation or filtration processes
B2130
Bituminous material (asphalt waste) from road construction
and maintenance, not containing tar (note the related entry in
Schedule VI, A3200)
B3
Wastes containing principally organic constituents, which
may contain metals and inorganic materials
[***]
[Omitted 'B3010 solid plastic waste Polymethyl methacrylate' by Notification No. G.S.R. 178(E), dated 1.3.2019 (w.e.f.
4.4.2016).]
B3027
Self-adhesive label laminate waste containing raw materials
used in label material production
B3030
Textile wastes
The following materials, provided they are not mixed with
other wastes and are prepared to a specification:
-
[Silk waste (including cocoons unsuitable for reeling, yarn waste and garneted stock)
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 178(E), dated 1.3.2019 (w.e.f. 4.4.2016).]
?
Not carded or combed
?
Other** Export of silk waste is exempted from requiring permission from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate
Change.]
-
Waste of wool or of fine or coarse animal hair, including
yarn waste but excluding garnetted stock
?
noils of wool or of fine animal hair
Page 40/80
----- PAGE 41 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
?
other waste of wool or of fine animal hair
?
waste of coarse animal hair
-
Cotton waste (including yarn waste and garnetted stock)
?
yarn waste (including thread waste)
?
garnetted stock
?
other
?
Flax tow and waste
?
Tow and waste (including yarn waste and garnetted stock) of
true hemp (Cannabis sativa L.)
-
Tow and waste (including yarn waste and garnetted stock) of
jute and other textile bast fibres (excluding flax, true hemp
and ramie)
-
Tow and waste (including yarn waste and garnetted stock) of
sisal and other textile fibres of the genus Agave
-
Tow, noils and waste (including yarn waste and garneted
stock) of coconut
-
Tow, noils and waste (including yarn waste and garneted
stock) of abaca (Manila hemp or Musa textilis Nee)
-
Tow, noils and waste (including yarn waste and garneted
stock) of ramie and other vegetable textile fibres, not
elsewhere specified or included
-
Waste (including noils, yarn waste and garnetted stock) of
man-made fibres
?
of synthetic fibres
?
of artificial fibres
-
Worn clothing and other worn textile articles
-
Used rags, scrap twine, cordage, rope and cables and worn out
articles of twine, cordage, rope or cables of textile materials
?
sorted
?
other
B3035
Page 41/80
----- PAGE 42 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Waste textile floor coverings, carpets
B3040
Rubber Wastes
The following materials, provided they are not mixed with
other wastes:
-
-
Waste and scrap of hard rubber
(e.g., ebonite)
Other rubber wastes (excluding such wastes specified
elsewhere)
B3050
Untreated cork and wood waste:
-
-
Wood waste and scrap, whether or
not agglomerated in logs, briquettes, pellets or similar forms
Cork waste: crushed, granulated or ground cork
B3060
Wastes arising from agro-food industries provided it is not
infectious:
-
Wine lees
-
Dried and sterilized vegetable waste, residues and
by-products, whether or not in the form of pellets, of a kind
used in animal feeding, not elsewhere specified or included
-
Degras: residues resulting from the treatment of fatty
substances or animal or vegetable waxes
-
Waste of bones and horn-cores, unworked, defatted, simply
prepared (but not cut to shape), treated with acid or
degelatinised
-
Fish waste
-
Cocoa shells, husks, skins and other cocoa waste
-
Other wastes from the agro-food industry excluding
by-products which meet national and international requirements
and standards for human or animal consumption
B3070
The following wastes:
-
-
-
Waste of human hair
Waste straw
Deactivated fungus mycelium from penicillin production to be
used as animal feed
Page 42/80
----- PAGE 43 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
B3080
Waste parings and scrap of rubber
B3090
Paring and other wastes of leather or of composition leather
not suitable for the manufacture of leather articles, excluding
leather sludges, not containing hexavalent chromium compounds
and biocides (note the related entry in Schedule VI, A3100)
B3100
Leather dust, ash, sludges or flours not containing
hexavalent chromium compounds or biocides (note the related
entry in Schedule VI, A3090)
B3110
Fellmongery wastes not containing hexavalent chromium
compounds or biocides or infectious substances (note the related
entry in Schedule VI, A3110)
B3120
Wastes consisting of food dyes
B3130
Waste polymer ethers and waste non-hazardous monomer ethers
incapable of forming peroxides
B3140
Waste pneumatic and other tyres, excluding those which do not
lead to resource recovery, recycling, reclamation but not for
direct reuse
B4
Wastes which may contain either inorganic or organic
constituents
B4010
Wastes consisting mainly of water-based or latex paints, inks
and hardened varnishes not containing organic solvents, heavy
metals or biocides to an extent to render them hazardous (note
the related entry in Part A, A4070)
B4020
Wastes from production, formulation and use of resins, latex,
plasticizers, glues or adhesives, not listed in Part A, free of
solvents and other contaminants to an extent that they do not
exhibit Part C characteristics (note the related entry in Part
A, A3050)
B4030
Used single-use cameras, with batteries not included in Part
A
* This list is based on Annexure IX of the Basel Convention on Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Wastes and
comprises of wastes not characterized as hazardous under Article-I of the Basel Convention. The wastes in Part-B are
restricted and cannot be allowed to be imported without permission from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and
Climate Change and the Directorate General of Foreign Trade license, if applicable.
Note:
(1)
Copper dross containing copper greater than 65% and lead and Cadmium equal to or less than 1.25% and 0.1%
respectively; spent cleaned metal catalyst containing copper; and copper reverts, cake and residues containing lead and
cadmium equal to or less than 1.25% and 0.1% respectively are allowed for import without Director General of Foreign
Trade license to units (actual users) authorised by State Pollution Control Board and with the Ministry of Environment,
Page 43/80
----- PAGE 44 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Forest and Climate Change's permission. Copper reverts, cake and residues containing lead and cadmium greater than
1.25% and 0.1% respectively are under restricted category for which import is permitted only against Director General of
Foreign Trade license for the purpose of processing or reuse by units permitted with the Ministry of Environment, Forest
and Climate Change (actual users).
(2)
Zinc ash or skimmings in dispersible form containing zinc more than 65% and lead and cadmium equal to or less than
1.25% and 0.1% respectively and spent cleaned metal catalyst containing zinc are allowed for import without Director
General of Foreign Trade license to units authorised by State Pollution control Board, Ministry of Environment, Forest
and Climate Change's permission (actual users) upto an annual quantity limit indicated in registration letter. Zinc ash
and skimmings containing less than 65% zinc and lead and cadmium equal to or more than 1.25% and 0.1%
respectively and hard zinc spelter and brass dross containing lead greater than 1.25% are under restricted category for
which import is permitted against Director General of Foreign Trade license and only for purpose of processing or reuse
by units registered with the Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change (actual users).
Part C ? List of Hazardous Characteristics
Code
Characteristic
H 1
Explosive
An explosive substance or waste is a solid or liquid substance
or waste (or mixture of substances or wastes) which is in itself
capable by chemical reaction of producing gas at such a
temperature and pressure and at such a speed as to cause damage to
the surrounding.
H 3
Flammable liquids
The word "flammable" has the same meaning as
"inflammable". Flammable liquids are liquids, or
mixtures of liquids, or liquids containing solids in solution or
suspension (for example, paints, varnishes, lacquers, etc. but not
including substances or wastes otherwise classified on account of
their dangerous characteristics) which give off a flammable vapour
at temperatures of not more than 60.5ºC, closed-cup test, or
not more than 65.6ºC, open-cup test. (Since the results of
open-cups tests and of closed-cup tests are not strictly
comparable and even individual results by the same test are often
variable, regulations varying from the above figures to make
allowance for such differences would be within the spirit of this
definition).
H 4.1
Flammable solids
Solids, or waste solids, other than those classed as
explosives, which under conditions encountered in transport are
readily combustible, or may cause or contribute to fire through
friction.
H 4.2
Substances or wastes liable to spontaneous combustion
Substances or wastes which are liable to spontaneous heating
under normal conditions encountered in transport, or to heating up
on contact with air, and being then liable to catch fire.
H 4.3
Substances or wastes which, in contact with water emit
Page 44/80
----- PAGE 45 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
flammable gases
Substances or wastes which, by interaction with water, are
liable to become spontaneously flammable or to give off flammable
gases in dangerous quantities.
H 5.1
Oxidizing
Substances or wastes which, while in themselves not necessarily
combustible, may, generally by yielding oxygen cause, or
contribute to, the combustion or other materials.
H 5.2
Organic Peroxides
Organic substances or wastes which contain the
bivalent-o-o-structure are thermally unstable substances which may
undergo exothermic self-accelerating decomposition.
H 6.1
Poisons (acute)
Substances or wastes liable either to cause death or serious
injury or to harm human health if swallowed or inhaled or by skin
contact.
H 6.2
Infectious substances
Substances or wastes containing viable micro-organisms or their
toxins which are known or suspected to cause disease in animals or
humans.
H 8
Corrosives
Substances or wastes which, by chemical action, will cause
severe damage when in contact with living tissue, or, in the case
of leakage, will materially damage, or even destroy, other goods
or the means of transport; they may also cause other hazards.
H 10
Liberation of toxic gases in contact with air or water
Substances or wastes which, by interaction with air or water,
are liable to give off toxic gases in dangerous quantities.
H 11
Toxic (delayed or chronic)
Substances or wastes which, if they are inhaled or ingested or
if they penetrate the skin, may involve delayed or chronic
effects, including carcinogenicity).
H 12
Eco-toxic
Substances or wastes which if released, present or may present
immediate or delayed adverse impacts to the environment by means
of bioaccumulation or toxic effects upon biotic systems or both.
H 13
Capable,by any means, after disposal, of yielding
another material, e.g., leachate, which possesses any of the
characteristics listed above.
Part D ? List of other wastes applicable for import and export without permission from Ministry of Environment, Forest
and Climate Change [Annex IX of the Basel Convention*]
Basel No.
Page 45/80
----- PAGE 46 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Description of wastes
(1)
(2)
B1
Metal and metal-bearing wastes
B1010
Metal and metal-alloy
wastes in metallic, non-dispersible form :
- Precious metals
(gold, silver, platinum but not mercury) * *
- Iron and steel
scrap * *
- Nickel scrap * *
- Aluminium scrap* *
- Zinc scrap * *
- Tin scrap * *
- Tungsten scrap * *
- Molybdenum scrap *
*
- Tantalum scrap * *
- Cobalt scrap * *
- Bismuth scrap * *
- Titanium scrap * *
- Zirconium scrap * *
- Manganese scrap * *
- Germanium scrap * *
- Vanadium scrap * *
- Hafnium scrap * *
- Indium scrap * *
- Niobium scrap * *
- Rhenium scrap * *
- Gallium scrap * *
- Magnesium scrap * *
- Copper scrap * *
- Chromium scrap * *
B1050
Mixed non-ferrous metal, heavy fraction scrap,
containing metals other than specified in Part B1050 and not
containing constituents mentioned in Schedule II in
concentrations sufficient to exhibit Part C characteristics* *
B1100
Metal bearing wastes
arising from melting, smelting and refining of metals:
- Hard Zinc spelter *
*
- Zinc-containing
drosses * *:
~ Galvanizing slab
zinc top dross (>90% Zn)
~ Galvanizing slab
zinc bottom dross (>92% Zn)
Page 46/80
----- PAGE 47 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
~ Zinc die casting
dross (>85% Zn)
~ Hot dip galvanizers
slab zinc dross (batch) (>92% Zn)
~ Zinc skimmings
- Aluminium skimmings (or skims) excluding salt
slag
B1110
Electrical and electronic assemblies (including
printed circuit boards, electronic components and wires) destined
for direct reuse and not for recycling or final disposal
- Used electrical and electronic assemblies
imported for repair and to be re-exported back after repair
within one year of import * * *
- Used electrical and electronic assemblies
imported for rental purpose and re-exported back within one year
of import * * *
- Used electrical and electronic assemblies
exported for repair and to be re-import after repair
- Used electrical and electronic assemblies
imported for testing, research and development, project work
purposes and to be re-exported back within a period of three
years from the date of import * * *
- Spares imported for warranty replacements
provided equal number of defective or nonfunctional parts are
exported back within one year of the import * * *
- Used electrical and electronic assemblies
imported by Ministry of Defence, Department of Space and
Department of Atomic Energy * * *
- Used electrical and electronic assemblies (not
in bulk; quantity less than or equal to three) imported by the
individuals for their personal uses
- Used Laptop, Personal Computers, Mobile,
Tablet up to 01 number each imported by organisations in a year
- Used electrical and electronic assemblies
owned by individuals and imported on transfer of residence
- Used multifunction print and copying machines
(MFDs)* * * *
- Used electrical and electronic assemblies
imported by airlines for aircraft maintenance and remaining
either on board or under the custodianship of the respective
airlines warehouses located on the airside of the custom bonded
areas.
[- Used electrical and electronic assemblies
imported for testing, research and development, project work
purposes by the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research
(DSIR) approved research and development units or units in
Software Technology Parks of India (STPI), Electronic Hardware
Technology Park (EHTP), Export Oriented Units (EOU) and
Biotechnology Parks (BTP) with investment of Rs. 50 Crore in a
Research and Development (R&D) facility***
Page 47/80
----- PAGE 48 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 544(E), dated 11.6.2018 (w.e.f. 4.4.2016)]
- Used plant and machinery having a residual
life of at least 5 years for manufacturing of electrical and
electronic items by the electronic industry***]
[Electrical and electronic assemblies and components manufactured in and exported from India if found defective or
non-functional can be imported back by Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) within twelve months from the date
of export.]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 178(E), dated 1.3.2019 (w.e.f. 4.4.2016).]
B3
Wastes containing principally organic
constituents, which may contain metals and inorganic materials
B3020
Paper, paperboard and paper product wastes * *
The following materials, provided they are not
mixed with hazardous wastes:
Waste and scrap of paper or paperboard of:
- unbleached paper or paperboard or of
corrugated paper or paperboard
- other paper or paperboard, made mainly of
bleached chemical pulp, not coloured in the mass
- paper or paperboard made mainly of mechanical
pulp (for example newspapers, journals and similar printed
matter)
- other, including but not limited to
(1) laminated paperboard
(2) unsorted scrap
B3140
Aircraft Tyres exported to Original Equipment
Manufacturers for re-treading and re-imported after re-treading
by airlines for aircraft maintenance and remaining either on
board or under the custodianship of the respective airlines
warehouses located on the airside of the custom bonded areas
Note:
* This list is based on Annexure IX of the Basel Convention on Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Wastes and
comprises of wastes not characterized as hazardous under Article-I of the Basel Convention.
* * Import permitted in the country to the actual user or to the trader on behalf of the actual users authorised by SPCB on
one time basis and subject to verification of documents specified in Schedule VIII of these rules by the Custom
Authority.
* * * Import permitted in the country only to the actual users from Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) and subject
to verification of documents specified in Schedule VIII of these rules by the Custom Authority.
[* * * * Import permitted in the country to the actual users or trader in accordance with the documents required and
verified by the Custom Authority as specified under Schedule VIII of these rules. The policy for free trade for
multifunction print and copying machine to be reviewed once the MFDs are domestically manufactured.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 670 (E), dated 6.7.2016 (w.e.f. 4.4.2016).]
All other wastes listed in Part D of Schedule III having no "Stars" are permitted without any documents from MoEF&CC
subject to compliance of the conditions of the Customs Authority, if any.
IV
[See rules 6 (1) (ii) and 6 (2)]
List of commonly recyclable hazardous wastes
S.No.
Wastes
Page 48/80
----- PAGE 49 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
(1)
(2)
1.
Brass Dross
2.
Copper Dross
3.
Copper Oxide mill scale
4.
Copper reverts, cake and residue
5.
Waste Copper and copper alloys in dispersible from
6.
Slags from copper processing for further processing or
refining
7.
Insulated Copper Wire Scrap or copper with PVC sheathing
including ISRI-code material namely "Druid"
8.
Jelly filled Copper cables
9.
Spent cleared metal catalyst containing copper
10.
Spent catalyst containing nickel, cadmium, Zinc, copper,
arsenic, vanadium and cobalt
11.
Zinc Dross-Hot dip Galvanizers SLAB
12.
Zinc Dross-Bottom Dross
13.
Zinc ash/Skimmings arising from galvanizing and die casting
operations
14.
Zinc ash/Skimming/other zinc bearing wastes arising from
smelting and refining
15.
Zinc ash and residues including zinc alloy residues in
dispersible from
16.
Spent cleared metal catalyst containing zinc
17.
Used Lead acid battery including grid plates and
other lead scrap/ashes/residues not covered under Batteries
(Management and Handling) Rules, 2001. [Battery scrap, namely:
Lead battery plates covered by ISRI, Code word "Rails"
Battery lugs covered by ISRI, Code word "Rakes". Scrap
drained/dry while intact, lead batteries covered by ISRI, Code
word "rains".
18.
Components of waste electrical and electronic
assembles comprising accumulators and other batteries included in
Page 49/80
----- PAGE 50 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Part A of Schedule III, mercury-switches, activated glass cullets
from cathode-ray tubes and other activated glass and
PCB-capacitors, or any other component contaminated with Schedule
II constituents (e.g. cadmium, mercury, lead, polychlorinated
biphenyl) to an extent that they exhibit hazard characteristics
indicated in part C of Schedule III.
19.
Paint and ink Sludge/residues
20.
Used oil and waste oil
V
[See rules 3 (36) and 3 (39)]
Part A ? Specifications of Used Oil Suitable for recycling
S.No.
Parameter
Maximum permissible Limits
(1)
(2)
(3)
1.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)
< 2ppm *
2.
Lead
100 ppm
3.
Arsenic
5 ppm
4.
Cadmium + Chromium + Nickel
500 ppm
5.
Polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAH)
6%
Part B ? Specification of fuel derived from waste oil
S.No.
Parameter
Maximum permissible limits
(1)
(2)
(3)
1.
Sediment
0.25%
2.
Lead
100 ppm
3.
Arsenic
5 ppm
4.
Page 50/80
----- PAGE 51 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Cadmium+Chromium+Nickel
500 ppm
5.
Polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAH)
6%
6.
Total halogents
4000 ppm
7.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)
<2 ppm *
8.
Sulfur
4.5%
9.
Water Content
1%
*The detection limit is 2 ppm by gas Liquid Chromatography (GLC) using Electron Capture detector (ECD)
VI
[See rules 12 (6), 12 (7) and 14(1)]
Hazardous and other wastes prohibited for import
Basel No.
Description of hazardous and other wastes
(1)
(2)
A1
Metal and Metal bearing wastes
A1010
Metal wastes and waste consisting of alloys of any of the
following but excluding such wastes specifically listed in Part
B and Part D of Schedule III
-
Arsenic
-
Beryllium
-
Mercury
-
Selenium
-
Thallium
A1020
Wastes having as constituents or contaminants, excluding
metal wastes in massive form, any of the following:
-
Beryllium; beryllium compounds
-
Selenium; selenium compounds
A1030
Wastes having as constituents or contaminants any of the
following:
Page 51/80
----- PAGE 52 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
-
Arsenic; arsenic compounds
-
Mercury; mercury compounds
-
Thallium; thallium compounds
A1040
Waste having hexavalent chromium compounds as constituents
A1140
Waste cupric chloride and copper cyanide catalysts in liquid
form (note the related entry in Part A of Schedule III)
A1060
Wastes liquors from the pickling of metals
A1110
Spent electrolytic solutions from copper electrorefining and
electrowinning operations
A1130
Spent etching solutions containing dissolved copper
A1180
Waste electrical and electronic assembles or scrap (does not
include scrap assemblies from electric power generation)
containing components such as accumulators and other batteries
included in Part A of Schedule III, mercury-switches, glass from
cathode-ray tubes and other activated glass and PCBcapacitors,
or contaminated with Schedule II constituents (e.g. cadmium,
mercury, lead, polychlorinated biphenyl) to an extent that they
exhibit hazard characteristics indicated in Part C of Schedule
III (note the related entry in Part B B1110)
A1190
Waste metal cables coated or insulated with plastics
containing or contaminated with coal tar, PCB, lead, cadmium,
other organohalogen compounds or other constituents as mentioned
in Schedule II to the extent that they exhibit hazard
characteristics indicated in Part C of Schedule III
A2
Wastes containing principally inorganic constituents,
which may contain metals and organic materials
A2020
Waste inorganic fluorine compounds in the form of liquids or
sludges but excluding such wastes specified in Part B
A2040
Waste gypsum arising from chemical industry processes, if it
contains any of the constituents mentioned in Schedule 2 to the
extent that they exhibit hazard characteristics indicated in
Part C of Schedule III (note the related entry in Part B B2080)
A2050
Waste asbestos (dusts and fibres)
A2060
Coal-fired power plant fly-ash containing Schedule II
constituents in concentrations sufficient to exhibit Part C
characteristics
Page 52/80
----- PAGE 53 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
A3
Wastes containing principally organic constituents, which
may contain metals and inorganic materials
A3030
Wastes that contain, consist of or are contaminated with
leaded anti-knock compounds sludges.
A3040
Waste thermal (heat transfer) fluids
A3060
Waste nitrocellulose
A3070
Waste phenols, phenol compounds including chlorophenol in the
form of liquids or sludges
A3080
Waste ethers not including those specified in Part B
A3090
Waste leather dust, ash, sludges and flours when containing
hexavalent chromium compounds or biocides (note the related
entry in Part B B3100)
A3100
Waste paring and other waste of leather or of composition
leather not suitable for the manufacture of leather articles,
containing hexavalent chromium compound and biocides (note the
related entry in Part B B3090)
A3110
Fellmongery wastes containing hexavalent chromium compounds
or biocides or infectious substances (note the related entry in
Part B B3110)
A3140
Waste non-halogenated organic solvents but excluding such
wastes specified in Part B
A3150
Waste halogenated organic solvents
A3160
Waste halogenated or unhalogenated non-aqueous distillation
residues arising from organic solvent recovery operations
A3170
Waste arising from the production of aliphatic halogenated
hydrocarbons (such as chloromethane, dichloro-ethane, vinyl
chloride, vinylidene chloride, allyl chloride and
epichlorhydrin)
A3180
Wastes, substances and articles containing, consisting of or
contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB),
polychlorinated terphenyl (PCT), polychlorinated naphthalene
(PCN) or polybrominated biphenyl (PBB) or any other
polybrominated analogues of these compounds
A3190
Waste tarry residues (excluding asphalt cements) arising from
refining, distillation and any pyrolytic treatment of organic
materials
Page 53/80
----- PAGE 54 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
A3200
Bituminous material (asphalt waste) from road construction
and maintenance, containing tar (note the related entry in Part
B, B2130)
A4
Wastes which may contain either inorganic or organic
constituents
A4020
Clinical and related wastes; that is wastes arising from
medical, nursing, dental, veterinary, or similar practices, and
wastes generated in hospitals or other facilities during the
investigation or treatment of patients, or research projects.
A4030
Waste from the production, formulation and use of biocide and
phyto-pharmaceuticals, including waste pesticides and herbicides
which are off-specification, out-dated (unused within the period
recommended by the manufacturer), or unfit for their originally
intended use,
A4050
Wastes that contain, consist of, or are contaminated with any
of the following:
-
Inorganic cyanides, excepting precious-metal-bearing residues
in solid form containing traces of inorganic cyanides.
-
Organic cyanides
A4060
Waste oils/water, hydrocarbons/water mixtures, emulsions
A4080
Wastes of an explosive nature (but excluding such wastes
specified in Part B)
A4090
Waste acidic or basic solutions, other than those specified
at B2120 of this Schedule
A4110
Wastes that contain, consist of or are contaminated with any
of the following:
-
Any congenor of polychlorinated dibenzo-furan.
-
Any congenor of polychlorinated dibenzo-P-dioxin.
A4150
Waste chemical substances arising from research and
development or teaching activities which are not identified and
/or are new and whose effects on human health and /or the
environment are not known
B1
Metal and Metal bearing wastes
B1110
Used critical care medical equipment for re-use
B1115
Page 54/80
----- PAGE 55 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Waste metal cables coated or insulated with plastics, not
included in A1190 of this schedule, excluding those destined for
operations which do not lead to resource recovery, recycling,
reclamation, direct re-use or alternative uses or any other
disposal operations involving, at any stage, uncontrolled
thermal processes, such as open-burning.
B1250
Waste end-of-life motor vehicles, containing neither liquids
nor other hazardous components
B2
Wastes containing principally inorganic constituents,
which may contain metals and organic materials
B2050
Coal-fired power plant fly-ash, note the related entry at
A2060 of this Schedule
B2110
Bauxite residue (red mud) (pH moderated to less than 11.5)
B2120
Waste acidic or basic solutions with a pH greater than 2 and
less than 11.5, which are not corrosive or otherwise hazardous
(note the related entry at A4090 of this schedule)
B3
Wastes containing principally organic constituents, which
may contain metals and inorganic materials
B3010
Solid plastic waste
The following plastic or mixed plastic waste, prepared to a
specification:
-
Scrap plastic of non-halogenated polymers and co-polymers,
including but not limited to the following:
Ethylene, Styrene, Polypropylene, polyethylene terephthalate,
Acrylonitrile, Butadiene, Polyacetals, Polyamides, polybutylene
tere-phthalate, Polycarbonates, Polyethers, polyphenylene
sulphides, acrylic polymers, alkanes C10-C13 (plasticiser),
polyurethane (not containing CFC's), Polysiloxanes,[polymethyl methacrylate]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 178(E), dated 1.3.2019 (w.e.f. 4.4.2016).]
, polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinyl butyral, Polyvinyl
acetate
-
Cured waste resins or condensation products including the
following: urea formaldehyde resins, phenol formaldehyde resins,
melamine formaldehyde resins, epoxy resins, alkyd resins,
polyamides
-
The following fluorinated polymer wastes (excluding
post-consumer wastes): perfluoroethylene/ propylene, perfluoro
alkoxy alkane, tetrafluoroethylene/per fluoro vinyl ether (PFA),
tetrafluoroethylene/per fluoro methylvinyl ether (MFA),
polyvinylfluoride , polyvinylidenefluoride
[***]
Page 55/80
----- PAGE 56 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
[Omitted 'Note -Import is permitted to the units in Special Economic Zones and Export Oriented Units notified by the
Central Government.' by Notification No. G.S.R. 178(E), dated 1.3.2019 (w.e.f. 4.4.2016).]
B3026
The following waste from the pre-treatment of composite
packaging for liquids, not containing constituents mentioned in
Schedule II in concentrations sufficient to exhibit Part C
characteristics:
-
Non-separable plastic fraction
-
Non-separable plastic-aluminium fraction
-
B3065
Waste edible fats and oils of animal or vegetable origin
(e.g. frying oil)
B3140
Waste pneumatic tyres for direct reuse
Y 46
Wastes collected from household/municipal waste
Y 47
Residues arising from the incineration of household wastes
VII
[See rules 13 (6) and 21]
List of authorities and corresponding duties
S. No.
Authority
Corresponding Duties
(1)
(2)
(3)
1.
Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change under the
Environment (Protection)Act, 1986
(i)
Identification of hazardous and other wastes
(ii)
Permission to exporters of hazardous and other wastes
(iii)
Permission to importer of hazardous and other wastes
(iv)
Permission for transit of hazardous and other wastes through
India.
(v)
Promote environmentally sound management of hazardous and
other waste.
(vi)
Sponsoring of training and awareness programme on Hazardous
and Other Waste Management related activities.
2.
Central Pollution Control Board constituted under the Water
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974
Page 56/80
----- PAGE 57 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
(i)
Co-ordination of activities of State Pollution Control Boards
(ii)
Conduct training courses for authorities dealing with
management of hazardous and other wastes
(iii)
Recommend standards and specifications for treatment and
disposal of wastes and leachates, recommend procedures for
characterisation of hazardous wastes.
(iv)
Inspection of facilities handling hazardous waste as and when
necessary.
(v)
Sector specific documentation to identify waste for inclusion
in these rules.
(vi)
Prepare and update guidelines to prevent or minimise the
generation and handling of hazardous and other wastes.
(vii)
Prepare and update guidelines/ Standard Operating Procedures
(SoPs) for recycling, utilization, preprocessing, co-processing
of hazardous and other wastes.
(viii)
To prepare annual review report on management of hazardous
waste.
(ix)
Any other function assigned by the Ministry of Environment,
Forest and Climate Change, from time to time.
3.
State Government/Union Territory Government/Administration
(i)
Identification of site (s) for common Hazardous and Other
Waste Treatment Storage and Disposal Facility (TSDF)
(ii)
Asses Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) reports and convey
the decision of approval of site or otherwise Acquire the site
or inform operator of facility or occupier or association of
occupiers to acquire the site
(iii)
Notification of sites.
(iv)
Publish periodically an inventory of all potential or
existing disposal sites in the State or Union Territory
4.
State Pollution Control Boards or Pollution Control
Committees constituted under the Water (Prevention and Control
of Pollution) Act, 1974
(i)
Inventorisation of hazardous and other wastes
(ii)
Grant and renewal of authorisation
Page 57/80
----- PAGE 58 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
(iii)
Monitoring of compliance of various provisions and conditions
of permission including conditions of permission for issued by
Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change for exports
and imports
(iv)
Examining the applications for imports submitted by the
importers and forwarding the same to Ministry of Environment,
Forest and Climate Change
(v)
Implementation of programmes to prevent or reduce or minimise
the generation of hazardous and other wastes.
(vi)
Action against violations of these rules.
(vii)
Any other function under these Rules assigned by Ministry of
Environment, Forest and Climate Change from time to time.
5.
Directorate General of Foreign Trade constituted under the
Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992
(i)
Grant of licence for import of hazardous and other wastes
(ii)
Refusal of licence for hazardous and other wastes prohibited
for imports and export
6.
Port authority under Indian Ports Act, 1908 (
15 of 1908
) and
Customs Authority under the Customs Act, 1962 (
52 of 1962
)
(i)
Verify the documents
(ii)
Inform the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate
Change of any illegal traffic
(iii)
Analyse wastes permitted for imports and exports, wherever
required.
(iv)
Train officials on the provisions of these rules and in the
analysis of hazardous and other wastes
(v)
Take action against exporter or importer for violations under
the Indian Ports Act, 1908 or Customs Act, 1962
VIII
[See rules 13(2) and 13 (4)]
List of documents for verification by Customs for import of other wastes specified in Part D of Schedule III
S. No.
Basel No.
Page 58/80
----- PAGE 59 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Description of other wastes
List of Documents
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
1
B1010
Metal and metal-alloy
wastes in metallic, non-dispersible form:
- Precious metals
(gold, silver, platinum)
- Iron and steel
scrap
- Nickel scrap
- Aluminium scrap
- Zinc scrap
- Tin scrap
- Tungsten scrap
- Molybdenum scrap
- Tantalum scrap
- Cobalt scrap
- Bismuth scrap
- Titanium scrap
- Zirconium scrap
- Manganese scrap
- Germanium scrap
- Vanadium scrap
- Hafnium scrap
- Indium scrap
- Niobium scrap
- Rhenium scrap
- Gallium scrap
- Magnesium scrap
- Copper scrap
- Chromium scrap
(a) Duly filled up
Form 6 - Movement document;
(b) The import
license from Directorate General of Foreign Trade, wherever
applicable;
(c) Pre-shipment
inspection certificate issued by the inspection agency of the
exporting country or the inspection and certification agency
approved by Directorate General of Foreign Trade;
(d) The valid
consents to operate under the Air and Water Acts and the
authorisation under these rules, for actual users. For traders,
only valid one time authorisation from concerned SPCB is
required;
(e) The chemical
Page 59/80
----- PAGE 60 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
analysis report of the waste being imported;
(f) an acknowledged copy of the annual return
filed with concerned State Pollution Control Board for import in
the last financial year.
2
B1050
Mixed non-ferrous metal, heavy fraction scrap,
containing metals other than specified in Part B1050 and not
containing constituents mentioned in Schedule II in
concentrations sufficient to exhibit Part C characteristics**
(a) Duly filled up
Form 6 - Movement document;
(b) The import
license from Directorate General of Foreign Trade, wherever
applicable;
(c) Pre-shipment
inspection certificate issued by the inspection agency of the
exporting country or the inspection and certification agency
approved by Directorate General of Foreign Trade;
(d) The valid
consents to operate under the Air and Water Acts and the
authorisation under these rules, for actual users. For traders,
only valid authorisation from concerned SPCB is required;
(e) The chemical
analysis report of the waste being imported;
(f) An acknowledged copy of the annual return
filed with concerned SPCB for import in the last financial year.
3
B1100
Metal bearing wastes
arising from melting, smelting and refining of metals:
- Hard Zinc spelter
- Zinc-containing
drosses:
~ Galvanizing slab
zinc top dross (>90% Zn)
~ Galvanizing slab
zinc bottom dross (>92% Zn)
~Zinc die casting
dross (>85% Zn)
~ Hot dip galvanizers
slab zinc dross (batch) (>92% Zn)
~ Zinc skimmings
? Aluminium skimmings (or skims)
(a) Duly filled up
Form 6 - Movement document;
(b) The import
license from Directorate General of Foreign Trade, wherever
applicable;
(c) Pre-shipment
inspection certificate issued by the inspection agency of the
Page 60/80
----- PAGE 61 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
exporting country or the inspection and certification agency
approved by Directorate General of Foreign Trade;
(d) The valid
consents to operate under the Air and Water Acts and the
authorisation under these rules, for actual users. For traders,
only valid authorisation from concerned SPCB is excluding salt
slag required;
(e) The chemical
analysis report of the waste
(f) An acknowledged copy of the annual return
filed with concerned SPCB for import in the last financial year.
4
B1110
Electrical and electronic assemblies (including
printed circuit boards, electronic components and wires) destined
for direct reuse and not for recycling or final disposal
(a)
Used electrical and electronic assemblies
imported for repair and to be re-exported after repair within one
year of import
(a) Duly filled up
Form 6 - Movement document;
(b) Undertaking for
re-export;
(c) Details of
previous import, if there has been any and confirmation regarding
their re-export;
(d) An acknowledged
copy of the annual return filed with concerned SPCB for import in
the last financial year
(e) Certificate from exporting company for
accepting the repaired and unrepairable electrical and electronic
assemblies and the spares or part or component or consumables
being re-exported.
(b)
Used electrical and electronic assemblies
imported for rental purpose and re-exported back within one year
of import
(a) Duly filled up
Form 6 - Movement document;
(b) Undertaking for
re-export;
(c) Details of
previous import, if there has been any and confirmation regarding
their re-export;
(d) An acknowledged copy of the annual return
filed with concerned SPCB for import in the last financial year
(c)
Used electrical and electronic assemblies
exported for repair and to be re-imported after repair
(a) Duly filled up
Page 61/80
----- PAGE 62 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Form 6 - Movement document;
(b) Proof of export of the defective electrical
and electronic assemblies i.e. shipping or airway document
authenticated by Customs
(d)
Used electrical and electronic assemblies
imported for testing, research and development, project work
purposes and to be re-exported back within a period of three
years from the date of import
(a) Duly filled up
Form 6 - Movement document;
(b) Undertaking for
re-export;
(c) Details of
previous import, if there has been any and confirmation regarding
their re-export;
(d) Chartered
Engineer Certificate or certificate from accredited agency of
exporting country indicating the functionality, manufacturing
date, residual life and serial number;
(e) an acknowledged
copy of the annual return filed with concerned SPCB for import in
the last financial year;
(f) Certificate from exporting company for
accepting the second hand functional or nonfunctional electrical
and electronic assemblies and/or the spares or part or component
or consumables being re-exported at the end of three years.
[d(i)
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 544(E), dated 11.6.2018 (w.e.f. 4.4.2016)]
Used electrical and electronic assemblies
imported for testing, research and development, project work
purposes by the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research
(DSIR) approved research and development units or units in
Software Technology Parks of India (STPI), Electronic Hardware
Technology Park (EHTP), Export Oriented Units (EOU) and
Biotechnology Parks (BTP) with investment of Rs. 50 Crore in a
Research and Development (R&D) facility.
(a) Duly filled up
Form 6 ? Movement document;
(b) Details of
previous import, if any.
(c) Chartered
Engineer Certificate or certificate from accredited agency of
exporting country indicating the functionality, manufacturing
date, residual life and serial number;
(d) An acknowledged
copy of the annual return filed with concerned State Pollution
Control Board for import in the last financial year.
(e) A certificate of investment of Rs. 50 crores
or above in Research and Development (R&D) facility
d(ii)
Page 62/80
----- PAGE 63 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Used plant and machinery having a residual life
of at least 5 years for manufacturing of electrical and
electronic items by the electronic industry.
(a) Duly filled up
Form 6 ? Movement document;
(b) Details of
previous import, if any.
(c) Chartered
Engineer Certificate or certificate from accredited agency of
exporting country indicating the functionality, manufacturing
date, residual life and serial number;
(d) An acknowledged copy of the annual return
filed with concerned State Pollution Control Board for import in
the last financial year.]
(e)
Spares imported for warranty replacements
provided equal number of defective / nonfunctional parts are
exported back within one year of the import.
(a) Duly filled up
Form 6 - Movement document;
(b) if refurbished
components being imported as replacement to defective component
then undertaking for export of equivalent numbers of defective
components;
(c) Details of
previous import, if there has been any and confirmation regarding
their re-export;
(d) Certificate from
exporting company for accepting the re-export of defective or
nonfunctional spares or part or component or consumables being
re-exported;
(e) Documents on the declared policy regarding
the use of second hand or refurbished spare parts for repair of
electrical and electronic assemblies during warranty period.
(f)
Used electrical and electronic assemblies
imported by Ministry of Defence, Department of Space and
Department of Atomic Energy.
---
(g)
Used electrical and electronic assemblies (not
in bulk; quantity less than or equal to three) imported by the
individuals for their personal uses.
---
(h)
Used Laptop, Personal Computers, Mobile, Tablet
up to 03 number each imported by organisations in a year.
---
(i)
Used electrical and electronic assemblies owned
by individuals and imported on transfer of residence.
Page 63/80
----- PAGE 64 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
As per existing guidelines of Custom Authority
(j)
Used electrical and electronic assemblies,
spares, imported by airlines for aircraft maintenance and
remaining either on board or under the custodianship of the
respective airlines warehouses located on the airside of the
custom bonded areas.
----
(j)
Used multifunction print and copying machines
(MFDs)*
(a) The country of
Origin Certificate along with bill of lading and packaging;
(b) The certificate
issued by the inspection agency as certified by the exporting
country or the inspection and certification agency approved by
Directorate General Foreign Trade (DGFT) for functionality,
having residual life of not less than five years and serial
number;
(c) Extended Producer
Responsibility- Authorisation under e-waste (Management and
Handling) Rules, 2011 as amended from time to time as Producer;
(d) The MFDs shall be
for printing A 3 size and above;
(e) An acknowledged copy of the annual return
filed with concerned SPCB for import in the last financial year.
5
B3020
Paper, paperboard and
paper product wastes The following materials, provided they are
not mixed with hazardous wastes:
Waste and scrap of
paper or paperboard of:
- unbleached paper or
paperboard or of corrugated paper or paperboard
- other paper or paperboard, made mainly of
bleached chemical pulp, not coloured in the mass
(a) Duly filled up
Form 6 ? Movement document;
(b) The import
license from Directorate General of Foreign Trade, wherever
applicable;
(c) Pre-shipment
inspection certificate issued by the inspection agency of the
exporting country or the inspection and certification agency
approved by Directorate General of Foreign Trade;
(d) The valid consents to operate under the Air
and Water Acts and the authorisation under these rules, for
actual users. For traders, only valid authorisation from
concerned SPCB is required;
- paper or paperboard
Page 64/80
----- PAGE 65 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
made mainly of mechanical pulp (for example newspapers, journals
and similar printed matter)
- other, including but not limited to (1)
laminated paperboard (2) unsorted scrap
(f) an acknowledged copy of the annual return
filed with concerned State Pollution Control Board for import in
the last financial year.
6.
B3140
Aircraft Tyres exported to Original Equipment
Manufacturers for re-treading and re-imported after re-treading
by airlines for aircraft maintenance and remaining either on
board or under the custodianship of the respective airlines
warehouses located on the airside of the custom bonded areas
As per existing guidelines of Custom Authority
Note: * The policy for free trade for multifunction print and copying machine to be reviewed once the MFDs are
domestically manufactured.
Form 1
[See rule 6 (1)]
Application required for grant/renewal of authorisation for generation or collection or storage or transport or reception or
recycling or reuse or recovery or pre-processing or co-processing or utilisation or treatment or disposal of hazardous
and other waste
Part A ? General (to be filled by all)
1. (a) Name and address of the unit and location of facility :
(b)
Name of the occupier of the facility or operator of disposal facility with designation, Tel, Fax and e-mail:
(c)
Authorisation required for (Please tick mark appropriate activity or activities:
(i)
Generation
{|
|-
| (ii)
| Collection
| {|
|-
|
|}
|-
| (iii)
| Storage
| {|
|-
|
|}
|-
| (iv)
| Transportation
| {|
|-
|
Page 65/80
----- PAGE 66 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
|}
|-
| (v)
| Reception
| {|
|-
|
|}
|-
| (vi)
| Reuse
| {|
|-
|
|}
|-
| (vii)
| Recycling
| {|
|-
|
|}
|-
| (viii)
| Recovery
| {|
|-
|
|}
|-
| (ix)
| Pre-processing
| {|
|-
|
|}
|-
| (x)
| Co-processing
| {|
|-
|
|}
|-
| (xi)
| Utilisation
| {|
|-
|
|}
|-
Page 66/80
----- PAGE 67 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
| (xii)
| Treatment
| {|
|-
|
|}
|-
| (xiii)
| Disposal
| {|
|-
|
|}
|-
| (xiv)
| Incineration
| {|
|-
|
|}
|}
(d)
In case of renewal of authorisation previous authorisation numbers and dates and provide copies of annual returns of
last three years including the compliance reports with respect to the conditions of Prior Environmental Clearance,
wherever applicable:
2. (a) Nature and quantity of waste handled per annum (in metric tonne or kilo litre)
(b)
Nature and quantity of waste stored at any time (in metric tonne or kilo litre)
3. (a) Year of commissioning and commencement of production:
(b)
Whether the industry works:
(i)
01 Shift
{|
|-
| (ii)
| 02 Shifts
| {|
|-
|
|}
|-
| (iii)
| Round the clock
| {|
|-
|
|}
|}
4. Provide copy of the Emergency Response Plan (ERP) which should address procedures for dealing with emergency
situations (viz. Spillage or release or fire) as specified in the guidelines of Central Pollution Control Board. Such ERP
Page 67/80
----- PAGE 68 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
shall comprise the following, but not limited to:
• Containing and controlling incidents so as to minimise the effects and to limit danger to the persons, environment and
property;
• Implementing the measures necessary to protect persons and the environment;
• Description of the actions which should be taken to control the conditions at events and to limit their consequences,
including a description of the safety equipment and resources available;
• Arrangements for training staff in the duties which they are expected to perform;
• Arrangements for informing concerned authorities and emergency services; and
• Arrangements for providing assistance with off-site mitigatory action.
5. Provide undertaking or declaration to comply with all provisions including the scope of submitting bank guarantee in
the event of spillage, leakage or fire while handling the hazardous and other waste.
Part B ? To be filled by hazardous waste generators
1. (a) Products and by-products manufactured (names and product wise quantity per annum):
(b)
Process description including process flow sheet indicating inputs and outputs (raw materials, chemicals, products,
by-products, wastes, emissions, waste water etc.) Please attach separate sheets:
(c)
Characteristics (waste-wise) and Quantity of waste generation per annum:
(d)
Mode of management of (c) above:
i. Capacity and mode of secured storage within the plant;
ii. Utilisation within the plant (provide details);
iii. If not utilised within the plant, please provide details of what is done with this waste;
iv. Arrangement for transportation to actual users/ TSDF;
(e)
Details of the environmental safeguards and environmental facilities provided for safe handling of all the wastes at point
(c) above;
2. Hazardous and other wastes generated as per these rules from storage of hazardous chemicals as defined under the
Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989.
Part C ? To be filled by Treatment, storage and disposal facility operators
1. Provide details of the facility including:
(i)
Location of site with layout map;
(ii)
Safe storage of the waste and storage capacity;
(iii)
The treatment processes and their capacities;
(iv)
Secured landfills;
(v)
Incineration, if any;
(vi)
Leachate collection and treatment system;
(vii)
Fire fighting systems;
(viii)
Environmental management plan including monitoring; and
(ix)
Arrangement for transportation of waste from generators.
2. Provide details of any other activities undertaken at the Treatment, storage and disposal facility site.
3. Attach a copy of prior Environmental Clearance.
Page 68/80
----- PAGE 69 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
[Part D: To be filled by recyclers or pre-processors or co-processors or waste collectors or users of hazardous and other
wastes]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 178(E), dated 1.3.2019 (w.e.f. 4.4.2016).]
1. Nature and quantity of different wastes received per annum from domestic sources or imported or both:
2. Installed capacity as per registration issued by the District Industries Centre or any other authorised Government
agency. Provide copy:
3. Provide details of secured storage of wastes including the storage capacity:
4. Process description including process flow sheet indicating equipment details, inputs and outputs (input wastes,
chemicals, products, by-products, waste generated, emissions, waste water, etc.). Attach separate sheets:
5. Provide details of end users of products or by-products:
6. Provide details of pollution control systems such as Effluent Treatment Plant, scrubbers, etc. including mode of
disposal of waste:
7. Provide details of occupational health and safety measures:
8. Has the facility been set up as per Central Pollution Control Board guidelines? If yes, provide a report on the
compliance with the guidelines:
9. Arrangements for transportation of waste to the facility:
Signature of the Applicant
Designation
Date...............
Place..............
Form 2
[See rule 6(2)]
Form for grant or Renewal of Authorisation by State Pollution Control Board to the Occupiers, Recyclers, Reprocessors,
Reusers, User and Operators of Disposal Facilities
1. Number of authorisation and date of issue :
2. Reference of application (No. and date) :
3. .............of ...................... is hereby granted an authorisation based on the enclosed signed inspection report for
generation, collection, reception, storage, transport, reuse, recycling, recovery, preprocessing, co-processing, utilisation,
treatment, disposal or any other use of hazardous or other wastes or both on the premises situated at.............................
Details of Authorisation
Sl. No.
Category of Hazardous Waste as per the Schedules I,
II and III of these rules
Authorised mode of disposal or recycling or
utilisation or coprocessing, etc.
Quantity (ton/annum)
(1)
The authorisation shall be valid for a period of ..........................
(2)
The authorisation is subject to the following general and specific conditions (Please specify any conditions that need to
be imposed over and above general conditions, if any):
A. General conditions of authorisation:
1. The authorised person shall comply with the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, and the rules made
there under.
2. The authorisation or its renewal shall be produced for inspection at the request of an officer authorised by the State
Pollution Control Board.
3. The person authorised shall not rent, lend, sell, transfer or otherwise transport the hazardous and other wastes except
what is permitted through this authorisation.
4. Any unauthorised change in personnel, equipment or working conditions as mentioned in the application by the
person authorised shall constitute a breach of his authorisation.
5. The person authorised shall implement Emergency Response Procedure (ERP) for which this authorisation is being
Page 69/80
----- PAGE 70 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
granted considering all site specific possible scenarios such as spillages, leakages, fire etc. and their possible impacts
and also carry out mock drill in this regard at regular interval of time;
6. The person authorised shall comply with the provisions outlined in the Central Pollution Control Board guidelines on
"Implementing Liabilities for Environmental Damages due to Handling and Disposal of Hazardous Waste and Penalty"
7. It is the duty of the authorised person to take prior permission of the State Pollution Control Board to close down the
facility.
8. The imported hazardous and other wastes shall be fully insured for transit as well as for any accidental occurrence
and its clean-up operation.
9. The record of consumption and fate of the imported hazardous and other wastes shall be maintained.
10. The hazardous and other waste which gets generated during recycling or reuse or recovery or pre-processing or
utilisation of imported hazardous or other wastes shall be treated and disposed of as per specific conditions of
authorisation.
11. The importer or exporter shall bear the cost of import or export and mitigation of damages if any.
12. An application for the renewal of an authorisation shall be made as laid down under these Rules.
13. Any other conditions for compliance as per the Guidelines issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate
Change or Central Pollution Control Board from time to time.
14. Annual return shall be filed by June 30th for the period ensuring 31st March of the year.
B. Specific conditions:
Date:
Signature of Issuing
Authority
Designation and
Seal
Form 3
[See rules 6(5), 13(7), 14(6), 16(5) and 20 (1)]
Format for Maintaining Records of Hazardous and other Wastes
1. Name and address of the facility :
2. Date of issuance of authorisation and its reference number :
3. Description of hazardous and other wastes handled (Generated or Received)
Date
Type of waste with category as per Schedules I, II and III
of these rules
Total quantity (Metric Tonnes)
Method of Storage
Destined to or received from
* Fill up above table separately for indigenous and imported waste.
5. Date of environmental monitoring (as per authorisation or guidelines of Central Pollution Control Board):
Signature of occupier
Date...............
Place..............
Form 4
[See rules 6(5), 13(8), 16(6) and 20 (2)]
Form for Filing Annual Returns
[To be submitted to State Pollution Control Board by 30th day of June of every year for the preceding period April to
March]
1. Name and address of facility:
2. Authorisation No. and Date of issue:
3. Name of the authorised person and full address with telephone, fax number and e-mail:
4. Production during the year (product wise), wherever applicable
Part A ? . To be filled by hazardous waste generators
1. Total quantity of waste generated category wise
Page 70/80
----- PAGE 71 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
2. Quantity dispatched
(i)
to disposal facility
(ii)
to recycler or co-processors or pre-processor
(iii)
others
3. Quantity utilised in-house, if any -
4. Quantity in storage at the end of the year -
Part B ? . To be filled by Treatment, storage and disposal facility operators
1. Total quantity received -
2. Quantity in stock at the beginning of the year -
3. Quantity treated -
4. Quantity disposed in landfills as such and after treatment -
5. Quantity incinerated (if applicable) -
6. Quantity processed other than specified above -
7. Quantity in storage at the end of the year -
Part C ? . To be filled by recyclers or co-processors or other users
1. Quantity of waste received during the year -
(i)
domestic sources
(ii)
imported (if applicable)
2. Quantity in stock at the beginning of the year -
3. Quantity recycled or co-processed or used -
4. Quantity of products dispatched (wherever applicable) -
5. Quantity of waste generated -
6. Quantity of waste disposed -
7. Quantity re-exported (wherever applicable)-
8. Quantity in storage at the end of the year -
Signature of the Occupier or
Operator of the disposal facility
Date...............
Place..............
Form 5
[See rules 13 (1) and 14 (1)]
Application for Import or Export of Hazardous and other Waste for reuse or Recycling or Recovery or Co-Processing or
Utilisation
To be Filled in by Applicant
S. No.
Description
Details to be furnished by the importer or
exporter
(1)
(2)
(3)
1.
Importer or Exporter (name and address) in India
Contact person
Tel, fax and e-mail
Facility location/address
Page 71/80
----- PAGE 72 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Reason for import or export
2.
Importer or exporter (name and address) outside of India
3.
Details of waste to be imported or exported
(a)
Quantity
(b)
Basel No.
(c)
Single/multiple movement
(d)
Chemical composition of waste (attach details), where
applicable
(e)
Physical characteristics
(f)
Special handling requirements, if applicable
4.
For Schedule III A hazardous waste whether Prior Informed
Consent has been obtained
5.
For importer
(a)
Process details along with environmental safeguard measures
(attach separate sheet)
(b)
Capacity of recycling or co-processing or recovery or
utilization
Enclose a copy each of valid authorisation and valid
consent to operate from SPCB
6.
Details of import against the Ministry of Environment, Forest
and Climate Change permission in the previous three years
7.
Port of entry
9. Undertaking :
I hereby solemnly undertake that:
(i)
The information is complete and correct to the best of my knowledge and legally-enforceable written contractual
obligations have been entered into and that my applicable insurance or other financial guarantees are or shall be in
force covering the transboundary movement.
(ii)
The waste permitted shall be fully insured for transit as well as for any accidental occurrence and its clean-up operation.
(iii)
The record of consumption and fate of the imported waste shall be recorded and report sent to the SPCB every quarter.
(iv)
The hazardous or other waste which gets generated in our premises by the use of imported hazardous or other wastes
in the form of raw material shall be treated and disposed of as per conditions of authorisation.
(v)
I agree to bear the cost of export and mitigation of damages if any.
Page 72/80
----- PAGE 73 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
(vi)
I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting a false certificate/ undertaking/ disobedience of the rules
and lawful orders including the possibility of fine and imprisonment.
(vii)
The exported wastes shall be taken back, if it is not acceptable to the importer.
Signature of the Applicant
Designation
Date...............
Place..............
Form - 6
[See rules 13(2), 13 (10) and 14 (5)]
Transboundary Movement - Movement Document
S.No
Description
Details to be furnished by the exporter or
importer
(1)
(2)
(3)
1
Exporter (Name and Address)
Contact Person
Tele, Fax and email
:
:
:
2.
Generator(s) of the waste (Name
and Address)1
Contact Person
Tele, Fax and email
:
:
:
Site of generation
:
3.
Importer or Actual user (Name and
Address)
Contact person
Tele, Fax and email
:
:
:
4.
Trader (Name and Address)
Contact person
Tele, Fax and email
:
:
:
Page 73/80
----- PAGE 74 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Details of actual user (Name, Address, Telephone and email)
:
5.
Corresponding to applicant Ref. No., If any
:
6.
Bill of lading (attach copy)
:
7.
Country of import/export
:
8.
General description of waste
:
(a)
Quantity
(b)
Physical characteristics
(c)
Chemical composition of waste (attach details), where
applicable
(d)
Basel No.
(e)
UN Shipping name
(f)
UN Class
(g)
UN No
(h)
H Number
(i)
Y Number
(j)
ITC (HS)
(k)
Customs Code (H.S.)
(l)
Other (specify)
9.
Type of packages
:
Number
:
10.
Special handling requirements including emergency provision
in case of accidents
:
11.
Movement subject to single/multiple consignment
In case of multiple movement-
Page 74/80
----- PAGE 75 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
(a)
Expected dates of each shipment or expected frequency of the
shipments
:
(b)
Estimated total quantity and quantities for each individual
shipment
:
12.
Transporter of waste (Name and Address)1
:
Contact Person
Tele, Fax and email
Registration number
:
Means of transport (road, rail, inland waterway, sea, air)2
:
Date of Transfer
:
Signature of Carrier?s representative
:
13.
Exporter?s declaration for hazardous and other waste
:
I certify that the information in
Sl. Nos. 1 to 12 above are complete and correct to my best
knowledge. I also certify that legally-enforceable written
contractual obligations have been entered into and are in force
covering the transboundary movement regulations/rules.
Date:.............................
Signature:............................
Name:...............................
To be Completed by Importer (Actual user or Trader)
14.
Shipment received by importer/ actual user/trader2 / 3
Quantity
received..........................Kg/litres
Date:
Name:                          Signature:
15.
Methods of recovery
R code*
Technology employed (Attached details if necessary)
16.
I certify that nothing other than
declared goods covered as per these rules is intended to be
imported in the above referred consignment and will be recycled
/utilized.
Signature:
Date:
17.
Page 75/80
----- PAGE 76 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Specific Conditions on Consenting to the Movement if
applicable.
(attach details)
Notes:- (1) Attach list, if more than one; (2) Select
appropriate option; (3) Immediately contact competent authority
in case of any emergency; (4) If more than one transporter
carriers, attach information as required in SL. No. 12.
List of abbreviations used in the Movement Document
Recovery Operations (*)
R1 Use as a fuel (other than in direct incineration) or other means to generate energy.
R2 Solvent reclamation/regeneration.
R3 Recycling/reclamation of organic substances which are not used as solvents.
R4 Recycling/reclamation of metals and metal compounds.
R5 Recycling/reclamation of other inorganic materials.
R6 Regeneration of acids or bases.
R7 Recovery of components used for pollution abatement.
R8 Recovery of components from catalysts.
R9 Used oil re-refining or other reuses of previously used oil.
R10 Land treatment resulting in benefit to agriculture or ecological improvement
R11 Uses of residual materials obtained from any of the operations numbered R 1 to R 10
Date:
Signature:
Place:
Designation:
Form 7
[See rule 13 (2) (c)]
Application form for one Time Authorisation of Traders for Part- D of Schedule III, Waste
[To be submitted by trader to the State Pollution Control Board]
1.
Name and address of trader with Telephone, Fax Number and
e-mail
:
2.
TIN/VAT Number/Import/ Export Code
:
3.
Description and quantity of other waste to be imported
:
4.
Details of storage, if any
:
5.
Names and address of authorised actual user (s)
:
Signature of the authorised person
Date:
Place:
Form 8
[See rules 17 (1) and 18 (2)]
Labelling of Containers of Hazardous and Other Waste
Handle with care
Page 76/80
----- PAGE 77 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Waste category and characteristics as per Part C of Schedules
II and III of these rules .................
Incompatible wastes and substances .................
Total quantity ....................
Date of storage
Physical State of the waste (Solid/Semi-solid/liquid):
Sender's name and address
Receiver's name and address
Phone...............
Phone...............
E-mail................
E-mail................
Tel. and Fax No................
Tel. and Fax No................
Contact person...................
Contact person...................
In case of emergency please Contact .........................
Note:
1. Background colour of labeI - fluorescent yellow.
2. The word, 'Hazardous Wastes' and 'Handle With Care' to be prominent and written in red, in Hindi, English and in
vernacular language.
3. The word 'Other Wastes' to be written prominently in orange, in Hindi, English and in vernacular language.
4. Label should be of non-washable material and weather proof.
Form 9
[See rule 18 (2)]
Transport Emergency (Trem) Card
[To be carried by the transporter during transportation of hazardous and other wastes, provided by the sender of waste]
1. Characteristics of hazardous and other wastes:
S. No.
Type of waste
Physical properties/
Chemical constituents
Exposure hazards
First Aid requirements
2. Procedure to be followed in case of fire :
3. Procedure to be followed in case of spillage/accident/explosion :
4. For expert services, please contact :
(i)
Name and Address
(ii)
Telephone No. :
(Name, contact number and signature of sender)
Date...............
Place..............
Form 10
[See rule 19 (1)]
Manifest for Hazardous and other Waste
1.
Sender's name and mailing address
(including Phone No. and e-mail) :
2.
Page 77/80
----- PAGE 78 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
Sender's authorisation No.:
3.
Manifest Document No.:
4.
Transporter's name and address:
(including Phone No. and e-mail)
5.
Type of vehicle:
(Truck/Tanker/Special Vehicle)
6.
Transporter's registration No.:
7.
Vehicle registration No.:
8.
Receiver's name and mailing
address
(including Phone No. and e-mail):
9.
Receiver's authorisation No.:
10.
Waste description:
11.
Total quantity:
No. of Containers:
..................... m3or MT
..................... Nos.
12.
Physical form:
(Solid/Semi- Solid/Sludge/Oily/Tarry/Slurry/Liquid)
13.
Special handling instructions and additional information :
14.
Sender's Certificate
I hereby declare that the contents of the
consignment are fully and accurately described above by proper
shipping name and are categorised, packed, marked, and labelled,
and are in all respects in proper conditions for transport by
road according to applicable national government regulations.
Name and stamp:                 Signature:                 Month                 Day                 Year
{|
|-
| 15.
| Transporter acknowledgement of receipt of Wastes
|
|-
| Name and stamp:                 Signature:                 Month                 Day                 Year
|-
|
| {|
|-
|
Page 78/80
----- PAGE 79 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|}
|-
| 16.
| Receiver's certification for receipt of hazardous and other
waste
|-
| Name and stamp:                 Signature:                 Month                 Day                 Year
|-
|
| {|
|-
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|}
|}
Form 11
[See rule 22]
Format For Reporting Accident
[To be submitted by the facility or sender or receiver or transporter to the State Pollution Control Board]
1.
The date and time of the accident
:
2.
Sequence of events leading to accident
:
3.
Details of hazardous and other wastes involved in accident
:
4.
The date for assessing the effects of the accident on health or
the environment
:
Page 79/80
----- PAGE 80 -----
The Hazardous and other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
5.
The emergency measures taken
:
6.
The steps taken to alleviate the effects of accidents
:
7.
The steps take to prevent the recurrence of such an accident
:
Date:
Signature:
Place:
Designation:
Form 12
[See rule 24 (1)]
Application for filing Appeal against the Order passed by State Pollution Control Board
1.
Name and address of the person making the appeal
:
2.
Number, date of order and address of the authority which passed
the order, against which appeal is being made
: (certified copy of the order be attached)
3.
Ground on which the appeal is being made
:
4.
Relief sought for
:
5.
List of enclosures other than the order referred in point 2
against which the appeal is being filed.
:
Signature ......................................
Name and address ....................
Date:
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 80/80