
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Indira Gandhi Matritva Sahyog Rules, 2016
The Indira Gandhi Matritva Sahyog Rules, 2016
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/126438007/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Indira Gandhi Matritva Sahyog Rules, 2016
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Indira Gandhi Matritva Sahyog Rules, 2016
Rule THE-INDIRA-GANDHI-MATRITVA-SAHYOG-RULES-2016 of 2016
Published on 12 April 2016
Commenced on 12 April 2016
[This is the version of this document from 12 April 2016.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Indira Gandhi Matritva Sahyog Rules, 2016
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 416 (E), dated 12th April, 2016
Ministry of Women and Child Development
G.S.R. 416 (E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) read with clauses (a) and (b) of subsection (2)
of Section 39 of the National Food Security Act, 2013 (
20 of 2013
), the Central Government, in consultation with the State Governments, hereby makes the following rules to regulate the
maternity benefit entitlement provided under clause (b) of Section 4 of the said Act for every pregnant woman and
lactating mother, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Indira Gandhi Matritva Sahyog Rules, 2016
(1)
These rules may be called the Indira Gandhi Matritva Sahyog Rules, 2016.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the National Food Security Act, 2013 (
20 of 2013
);
(b)
"Indira Gandhi Matritva Sahyog Yojana" means the scheme of the Central Government made under clause (b) of
Section 4 of the said Act under which maternity benefit of six thousand rupees shall be provided to pregnant women and
lactating mothers who are not less than nineteen years of age for first two live births, which presently extended to fifty
three pilot districts across the country.
(c)
"Integrated Child Development Services Scheme" means the scheme of the Central Government:
(i)
to improve the nutritional and health status of children in the age-group of 0-6 years;
(ii)
to lay the foundation for proper psychological, physical and social development of the child;
(iii)
to reduce the incidence of mortality, morbidity, malnutrition and school dropouts;
(iv)
to achieve effective co-ordination of policy and implementation among the various departments to promote child
development; and
(v)
to enhance the capability of the mothers to look after the normal health and nutritional needs of the children through
proper nutrition and health education.
(d)
"Mother Child Protection Card" means a joint card of the Ministry of Women and Child Development and Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare which is a comprehensive multipurpose card which provides information on utilization of
health and nutrition services for children and women provided by aforesaid Ministries;
(e)
"section" means section of the Act;
(f)
words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Beneficiaries entitled to maternity benefit.
(1)
Every pregnant woman and lactating mother who are not less than nineteen years of age shall be entitled to maternity
benefit of not less than six thousand rupees to support their health and nutrition needs for the first two live births.
(2)
The maternity benefit shall be provided under the Indira Gandhi Matritva Sahyog Yojana of the Central Government.
4.
Registration of beneficiaries.
- The maternity benefit shall be given to the pregnant woman and lactating mother who register themselves at
anganwadi centres set up under Integrated Child Development Services Scheme.
5.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Indira Gandhi Matritva Sahyog Rules, 2016
Disbursement of the maternity benefit.
(1)
The maternity benefit shall be disbursed by the concerned State Governments or Union territory Administrations to the
bank or post office account of the beneficiary directly and there shall be no disbursement of maternity benefit in cash or
through cheque.
(2)
All transactions shall be carried out by State Governments or Union territory Administrations through the Public Financial
Management System developed by the Controller General of Accounts, Ministry of Finance.
(3)
The structure existing under Integrated Child Development Services shall be used as the platform for transferring the
maternity benefit to the bank or post office account of the beneficiaries.
6.
Number of installments.
- The maternity benefit shall be provided in two equal installments of three thousand rupees each upon fulfilment of
certain health and nutrition conditions, the details of which are given in (d) in the following table, namely:-
Table
Cash Transfer
Conditions
Amount (In Rs.)
First installment (in third trimester)
(i) Registration of
Pregnancy at Anganwadi Center or health centres preferably within
fourth month of pregnancy, and
(ii) At least two Antenatal Check ups and taken
Iron Folic Acid tablets and Tetanus Toxoid.
Rs.3,000.00
Second installment (6 months after delivery)
(i) The birth of the
child is registered;
(ii) The child has
received Bacillus Calmette Guerin, Diphtheria Pertusis Tetanus I,
II and III and three Oral Polio Vaccine doses;
(iii) Attended at
least three growth monitoring and Infant and Young Child Feeding
counselling sessions within three months from delivery; and
(iv) Exclusive breastfeeding for six months and
introduction of complimentary feeding as certified by the mother.
Rs.3,000.00
7.
Cost sharing.
- To provide the maternity benefit under the Act, the Central Government shall provide sixty per cent share of the total
cost to general category States, ninety per cent share of the total cost to eight north-eastern States and three Himalayan
States and hundred per cent to Union territory Administrations. Detailed categorisation of States is given below -
(a)
The General Category States includes Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand,
Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh;
and West Bengal;
(b)
North-Eastern States includes Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and
Sikkim and Himalayan States includes Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand;
(c)
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Indira Gandhi Matritva Sahyog Rules, 2016
Union territory Administrations includes Union territories of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Daman and Diu,
Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Delhi, Lakshadweep and Puducherry.
8.
Verification Tool.
- The Mother Child Protection Card shall be the primary verification tool for the beneficiaries to avail maternity benefit
under these rules.
9.
Enforcement and maintenance of records.
(1)
The State Governments or Union territory Administrations shall ensure timely release of installments of maternity benefit
to beneficiaries' account upon fulfilment of conditions given in rule 6.
(2)
The State Governments or Union territory Administrations shall maintain proper records of the beneficiaries as per the
Indira Gandhi Matritva Sahyog Yojana guidelines.
10.
Rules not in derogation of any Scheme.
- The provisions of these rules shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any existing Scheme implemented by the
Central Government.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4