
----- PAGE 1 -----
Procedure for Selection of Members of Monetary Policy Committee and Terms and Conditions o...
Procedure for Selection of Members of Monetary Policy Committee
and Terms and Conditions of their Appointment Rules, 2016
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/135080332/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Procedure for Selection of Members of Monetary Policy Committee and Terms and Conditions of their Appointment
Rules, 2016
UNION OF INDIA
India
Procedure for Selection of Members of Monetary Policy Committee and Terms and Conditions of their Appointment
Rules, 2016
Rule
PROCEDURE-FOR-SELECTION-OF-MEMBERS-OF-MONETARY-POLICY-COMMITTEE-AND-TERMS-AND-CONDITI
ONS-OF-THEIR-APPOINTMENT-RULES-2016 of 2016
Published on 27 June 2016
Commenced on 27 June 2016
[This is the version of this document from 27 June 2016.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Procedure for Selection of Members of Monetary Policy Committee and Terms and Conditions of their Appointment
Rules, 2016
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 633(E), 27th June, 2016
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Economic Affairs)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Procedure for Selection of Members of Monetary Policy Committee and Terms and Conditions o...
G.S.R. 633(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 45ZC and sub-section (2) of section
45ZD of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (
2 of 1934
), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Procedure for Selection of Members of Monetary Policy Committee and Terms and
Conditions of their Appointment Rules, 2016.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (
2 of 1934
);
(b)
"Chairperson" means the Chairperson of the Search-cum-Selection Committee;
(c)
"member" means a member of the Search-cum-Selection Committee referred to in clause (d) of subsection (2) of section
45ZC of the Act;
(d)
"Member of the Monetary Policy Committee" means a Member of the Monetary Policy Committee referred to in clause
(d) of sub-section (2) of section 45ZB of the Act;
(e)
"Search-cum-Selection Committee" means the Search-cum-Selection Committee referred to in subsection (2) of section
45ZC of the Act.
(2)
All other words and expressions used in these rules and not defined herein shall have the same meaning respectively
assigned to them under the Act.
3.
Procedure for selection of Members of Monetary Policy Committee.
(1)
The Search-cum-Selection Committee shall follow such procedure as may be determined by the Central Government
from time to time.
(2)
The procedure referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be fair, transparent and efficient.
(3)
The Search-cum-Selection Committee may recommend up to three persons for every vacancy.
4.
Nomination of experts for Search-cum-Selection Committee.
(1)
The Central Government shall maintain a list of independent experts from the field of economics or banking or finance or
Monetary Policy, who are eligible to serve as members.
(2)
The Central Government shall select the members from the list maintained under sub-rule (1) for constituting the
Search-cum-Selection Committee.
Explanation. - For the purpose of sub-rule (1), the term "independent" shall mean a person who is not an employee of
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Procedure for Selection of Members of Monetary Policy Committee and Terms and Conditions o...
the Central Government or the Bank.
5.
Terms and conditions of appointment of Members of Monetary Policy Committee.
(1)
No Member of the Monetary Policy Committee appointed under clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 45ZB shall,
during the term of his membership, have any financial or other interests as are likely to prejudicially affect his functions
as such Member.
(2)
A Member of the Monetary Policy Committee referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be a part-time Member.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3