
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Aadhaar (Sharing of Information) Regulations, 2016
The Aadhaar (Sharing of Information) Regulations, 2016
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/79477206/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Aadhaar (Sharing of Information) Regulations, 2016
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Aadhaar (Sharing of Information) Regulations, 2016
Act 5 of 2016
Published on 12 September 2016
Commenced on 12 September 2016
[This is the version of this document from 12 September 2016.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Aadhaar (Sharing of Information) Regulations, 2016
(Regulations No. 5 of 2016)
[Dated 12th September, 2016]
No. 13012/64/2016/Legal/UIDAI (No. 5 of 2016). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1), and
sub-clause (o) of sub-section (2), of Section 54 read with sub-clause (k) of sub-section (2) of Section 23, and
sub-sections (2) and (4) of Section 29, of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and
Services) Act,2016,the Unique Identification Authority of India hereby makes the following regulations, namely:-
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title and commencement.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Aadhaar (Sharing of Information) Regulations, 2016
(1)
These regulationsmay be called the Aadhaar (Sharing of Information) Regulations, 2016.
(2)
These regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016;
(b)
"Aadhaar Letter" means a document for conveying the Aadhaar number to a resident;
(c)
"Aadhaar number holder" means an individual who has been issued anAadhaar number under the Act;
(d)
"Authority" means the Unique Identification Authority of India established under sub-section (1) of section 11;
(e)
"requesting entity" means an agency or person that submits the Aadhaar number, and demographic information or
biometric information, of an individual to the Central Identities Data Repository for authentication.
(2)
All other words and expressions used in these regulations but not defined, and defined in the Act and the rules and other
regulations made there under, shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act or the rules or other
regulations, as the case may be.
Chapter II
Restrictions on Sharing of Identity Information
3.
Sharing of information by the Authority.
(1)
Core biometric information collected by the Authority under the Act shall not be shared with anyone for any reason
whatsoever.
(2)
The demographic information and photograph of an individual collected by the Authority under the Act may be shared by
the Authority with a requesting entity in response to an authentication request for e-KYC data pertaining to such
individual, upon the requesting entity obtaining consent from the Aadhaar number holder for the authentication process,
in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Aadhaar (Authentication) Regulations, 2016.
(3)
The Authority shall share authentication records of the Aadhaar number holder with him in accordance with regulation
28 of the Aadhaar (Authentication) Regulations, 2016.
(4)
The Authority may share demographic information and photograph, and the authentication records of an Aadhaar
number holder when required to do so in accordance with Section 33 of the Act.
4.
Sharing of information by a requesting entity.
(1)
Core biometric information collected or captured by a requesting entity from the Aadhaar number holder at the time of
authentication shall not be stored except for buffered authentication as specified in the Aadhaar (Authentication)
Regulations, 2016, and shall not be shared with anyone for any reason whatsoever.
(2)
The identity information available with a requesting entity:
(a)
shall not be used by the requesting entity for any purpose other than that specified to the Aadhaar number holder at the
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Aadhaar (Sharing of Information) Regulations, 2016
time of submitting identity information for authentication; and
(b)
shall not be disclosed further without the prior consent of the Aadhaar number holder.
(3)
A requesting entity may share the authentication logs of an Aadhaar number holder with the concerned Aadhaar number
holder upon his request or for grievance redressal and resolution of disputes or with the Authority for audit purposes, as
specified in regulation 18 of the Aadhaar (Authentication) Regulations, 2016.
5.
Responsibility of any agency or entity other than requesting entity with respect to Aadhaar number.
(1)
Any individual, agency or entity which collects Aadhaar number or any document containing the Aadhaar number, shall:
(a)
collect, store and use the Aadhaar number for a lawful purpose;
(b)
inform the Aadhaar number holder the following details:-
i. the purpose for which the information is collected;
ii. whether submission of Aadhaar number or proof of Aadhaar for such purpose is mandatory or voluntary, and if
mandatory, the legal provision mandating it;
iii. alternatives to submission of Aadhaar number or the document containing Aadhaar number, if any;
(c)
obtain consent of the Aadhaar number holder to the collection, storage and use of his Aadhaar number for the specified
purposes.
(2)
Such individual, agency or entity shall not use the Aadhaar number for any purpose other than those specified to the
Aadhaar number holder at the time of obtaining his consent.
(3)
Such individual, agency or entity shall not share the Aadhaar number with any person without the consent of the
Aadhaar number holder.
6.
Restrictions on sharing, circulating or publishing of Aadhaar number.
(1)
The Aadhaar number of an individual shall not be published, displayed or posted publicly by any person or entity or
agency.
(2)
Any individual, entity or agency, which is in possession of Aadhaar number(s) of Aadhaar number holders, shall ensure
security and confidentiality of the Aadhaar numbers and of any record or database containing the Aadhaar numbers.
(3)
Without prejudice to sub-regulations (1) and (2), no entity, including a requesting entity, which is in possession of the
Aadhaar number of an Aadhaar number holder, shall make public any database or record containing the Aadhaar
numbers of individuals, unless the Aadhaar numbers have been redacted or blacked out through appropriate means,
both in print and electronic form.
(4)
No entity, including a requesting entity, shall require an individual to transmit his Aadhaar number over the Internet
unless such transmission is secure and the Aadhaar number is transmitted in encrypted form except where transmission
is required for correction of errors or redressal of grievances.
(5)
No entity, including a requesting entity, shall retain Aadhaar numbers or any document or database containing Aadhaar
numbers for longer than is necessary for the purpose specified to the Aadhaar number holder at the time of obtaining
consent.
7.
Liability for contravention of the regulations.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Aadhaar (Sharing of Information) Regulations, 2016
- Without prejudice to any action that may be taken under the Act, any contravention of regulations 3, 4, 5 and 6 of these
regulations shall constitute a violation of sub-section (2) of Section 29 of the Act.
8.
Redressal of grievances of Aadhaar number holders.
- In the event the identity information of an Aadhaar number holder has been shared or published in a manner contrary
to the provisions of the Act or regulations, the Aadhaar number holder may raise queries and grievances in accordance
with the regulation 32 of the Aadhaar (Enrolment and Update) Regulations, 2016.
Chapter III
Miscellaneous
9.
Information dissemination about sharing of Aadhaar numbers.
- The Authority may take necessary measures to educate Aadhaar number holders about the uses of Aadhaar numbers
and implications associated with its sharing.
10.
Savings.
- All procedures, orders, processes, standards and policies issued and MOUs, agreements or contracts entered by the
Unique Identification Authority of India, established vide notification of the Government of India in the Planning
Commission number A-43011/02/2009-Admin. I, dated the 28th January, 2009 or any officer of such authority, prior to
the establishment of the Authority under the Act shall continue to be in force to the extent that they are not inconsistent
with the provisions of the Act and regulations framed thereunder.
11.
Power to issue clarifications and guidelines.
- In order to remove any difficulties or clarify any matter pertaining to application or interpretation of these regulations,
the Authority may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4