
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Chironji Grading and Marking Rules, 2016
The Chironji Grading and Marking Rules, 2016
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/25370872/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Chironji Grading and Marking Rules, 2016
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Chironji Grading and Marking Rules, 2016
Rule THE-CHIRONJI-GRADING-AND-MARKING-RULES-2016 of 2016
Published on 19 December 2016
Commenced on 19 December 2016
[This is the version of this document from 19 December 2016.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Chironji Grading and Marking Rules, 2016
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 1154(E), dated 19th December, 2016
Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
(Department of Agriculture, Co-Operation and Farmers Welfare)
G.S.R. 1154(E). - Whereas the Chironji Grading and Marking Rules, 2016, in exercise of the powers conferred by
section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937) was published in the Gazette of India,
Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (i) vide notification number G.S.R.506(E), dated the 13th May, 2016
inviting objections and suggestions from all persons likely to be affected thereby within forty five days from the date on
which copies of the said notification published in the Gazette of India were made available to the public;
And whereas, copies of the said notification were made available to the public on 13th May, 2016;
And, whereas, no objections or suggestions have been received from the general public in respect of the said rules;
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Chironji Grading and Marking Rules, 2016
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act,
1937 (1 of 1937), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title, application and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Chironji Grading and Marking Rules, 2016.
(2)
They shall apply to Chironji kernels obtained from the dried fruits of the plant Buchanania lanzan Spreng of the family
Anacardiaceae.
(3)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Agricultural Marketing Adviser" means the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India;
(b)
"Authorized packer" means a person or a body of persons who has been granted a Certificate of Authorization to grade
and mark Chironji in accordance with the grade standards and procedure provided under these rules;
(c)
"Certificate of Authorization" means a certificate issued under the provisions of the General Grading and Marking Rules,
1988 authorising a person or a body of persons to grade and mark Chironji with the grade designation mark;
(d)
"General Grading and Marking Rules" means the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1988 made under section 3 of
the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937);
(e)
"grade designation mark" means the Agmark insignia referred to in rule 5;
(f)
"Schedule" means Schedules appended to these rules.
(2)
Words and expressions used in these rules and not defined but defined in the Agricultural Produce (Grading and
Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937) and the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1988 shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the said Act and rules.
3.
Grade designations.
- The grade designations to indicate the quality of Chironji shall be as set out in column (1) of the Table in Schedule II.
4.
Quality.
- For the purposes of these rules, the quality of Chironji shall be as specified in Schedule II.
5.
Grade designation mark.
- The grade designation mark shall be "AGMARK insignia" consisting of a design incorporating the Certificate of
Authorization number, the word "AGMARK", name of commodity and grade designation resembling the design as set
out in Schedule I.
6.
Method of packing.
(1)
Chironji shall be packed in new, clean and dried jute bags, paper bags, cloth bags, with inner lining of food grade
material or poly-woven bags, poly pouches, High Density Poly Ethylene (HDPE) bags or any other food grade packing
material as approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser or an officer authorized by him in this behalf in accordance
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Chironji Grading and Marking Rules, 2016
with rule 11 of the General Grading and Marking Rules.
(2)
The packing material shall be free from insect and fungal infestation and shall not impart any toxic substance or
undesirable odour or flavour to the product.
(3)
Chironji shall be packed in pack sizes as per the provisions in the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules,
2011 or as per instructions issued by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser from time to time.
(4)
Graded material of small pack sizes of the same lot or batch and grade may be packed in a master container with
complete details thereon along with grade designation mark.
(5)
Each package shall contain Chironji of the same type and of the same grade designation.
(6)
Each package shall be properly and securely closed and sealed so as to preclude any contamination.
7.
Method of marking.
(1)
The grade designation mark shall be securely affixed to or printed on each package in a manner approved by the
Agricultural Marketing Adviser or an officer authorized by him in this behalf in accordance with rule 11 of the General
Grading and Marking Rules.
(2)
In addition to the grade designation mark, following particulars shall be clearly and indelibly marked on each package,
namely :-
(a)
Name of the commodity;
(b)
Grade;
(c)
Variety or trade name (optional);
(d)
Lot number;
(e)
Date of packing;
(f)
Address of the place of packing;
(g)
Net weight;
(h)
Name and address of the packer;
(i)
Maximum retail price (inclusive of all taxes);
(j)
Best before__________month______year;
(k)
any other particulars as may be specified under the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011, the Food
Safety and Standards Act, 2006 (
34 of 2006
) or any other law for the time being in force or instructions issued by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser or an officer
authorized by him in this behalf in accordance with the General Grading and Marking Rules.
(3)
The ink used for marking on packages shall not contaminate the Chironji.
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Chironji Grading and Marking Rules, 2016
(4)
The authorized packer, may, after obtaining prior approval of the Agricultural Marketing Adviser or an officer authorized
by him in this behalf in accordance with rule 11 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, mark his private trade mark
or trade brand on the graded packages which do not indicate quality other than that indicated by the grade designation
mark affixed to the graded packages in accordance with these rules.
8.
Special conditions of Certificate of Authorization.
(1)
In addition to the conditions specified in sub-rule (8) of rule 3 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, every
authorized packer shall follow all instructions specified by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser from time to time.
(2)
The authorized packer shall either set up his own laboratory or have access to an approved State Grading Laboratory or
cooperative or association laboratory or a private commercial laboratory manned by a qualified chemist approved by the
Agricultural Marketing Adviser or an officer authorized by him in this behalf in accordance with rule 9 of the General
Grading and Marking Rules for testing the quality of Chironji.
(3)
The premises shall be maintained in hygienic and sanitary conditions with proper ventilations and well lighted
arrangement and the personnel engaged in these operations shall be in sound health and free from any infectious,
contagious or communicable diseases.
(4)
The authorized packer shall have storage facilities with pucca floor and free from rodent and insect infestation.
(5)
The authorized packer and the aforesaid approved chemist shall comply with all instructions regarding testing, grading,
packing, marking, sealing and maintenance of records which may be issued by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser or an
officer authorized by him in this behalf in accordance with the General Grading and Marking Rules from time to time.
I
(See rule 5)
(Design of Agmark insignia)
Name of the commodity _________________________
Grade _______________________________________
II
(See rules 3 and 4)
(Grade designation and quality of Chironji)
1. Chironji is a kernel obtained from the dried fruit of the plant Buchanania lanzan Spreng of the family Anacardiaceae
for human consumption.
2. Minimum requirements:
(i)
Chironji kernel shall be -
(a)
mature and clean ;
(b)
wholesome;
(c)
of characteristic taste and flavour;
(d)
free from living and dead insects, insect fragments;
(e)
free from fungus infestation and moulds;
(f)
free from added colouring matter;
(g)
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Chironji Grading and Marking Rules, 2016
free from rodent hair and excreta;
(h)
free from rancidity and mustiness;
(i)
free from any other edible and non-edible seeds.
(ii)
Chironji kernel shall not emit foul odour, or found deformed due to moist condition.
(iii)
Chironji shall comply with the restrictions in regard to residual levels of metal contaminants, insecticides and pesticides
residues, microbial requirements, crop contaminants, naturally occurring toxic substances and other food safety
requirements as specified under the Food Safety and Standards (Contaminants, Toxins and Residues) Regulations,
2011 and the Food Safety and Standards (Food Products Standards and Food Additives) Regulations, 2011 for
domestic trade.
(iv)
Chironji shall comply with the residual limits of heavy metals, pesticides and other food safety requirements as laid down
by the Codex Alimentarius Commission, or as per the requirements of the importing countries.
3. Criteria for grade designation and quality of Chironji:
Table
Grade designation
Organic foreign matter, percent. by mass(maximum)
Moisture, per cent. by mass(maximum)
Damaged and discoloured kernels, per cent. by mass(maximum)
Broken kernels, per cent. by mass(maximum)
Protein content, per cent. by mass(minimum)
Total soluble solids, per cent. by mass(minimum)
Oil content, per cent. by mass(minimum)
Acidity of extracted fat expressed as Oleic acid(maximum)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Special
Nil
5.5
1.0
1.0
24.0
10.0
54.0
10.0
Standard
0.1
6.0
1.5
2.0
22.0
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Chironji Grading and Marking Rules, 2016
8.5
52.0
12.0
General
0.2
6.5
2.0
3.0
19.0
7.5
48.0
14.0
4. Other requirements:
(i)
The condition of the Chironji shall be such so as to enable it -
(a)
to withstand transport and handling; and
(b)
to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
(ii)
Chironji shall be stored in cool and dry place; maintained in a clean and hygienic condition.
Explanations. - For the purpose of this Schedule,-
1. "Organic matter" means stalks, pieces of shells and other vegetable matters of the plant.
2. "Broken kernels" means pieces of Chironji kernels.
3. "Damaged or discoloured" means Chironji kernels affected by sunburn, scars, mechanical injury, discolouration and
insects.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6