
----- PAGE 1 -----
Treaty Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of Mongolia on t...
Treaty Between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of Mongolia on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/132281852/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Treaty Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of Mongolia on the Transfer of Sentenced
Persons
UNION OF INDIA
India
Treaty Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of Mongolia on the Transfer of Sentenced
Persons
Rule
TREATY-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-MONGOLIA-
ON-THE-TRANSFER-OF-SENTENCED-PERSONS of 2017
Published on 16 March 2017
Commenced on 16 March 2017
[This is the version of this document from 16 March 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Treaty Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of Mongolia on the Transfer of Sentenced
Persons
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R.254(E), 16th March, 2017
Ministry of Home Affairs
G.S.R.254(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 3 of Repatriation of Prisoners
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
Treaty Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of Mongolia on t...
Act, 2003 (
49 of 2003
), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act shall apply to Mongolia with effect from the
28th day of May, 2016, and notifies the full text of the treaty entered into between the Government of the Republic of
India and the Government of the Mongolia on 17.5.2015 and Instruments of Ratification exchanged on 28.4.2016 for the
transfer of prisoners between that country and India as follows, namely :-
Treaty Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of Mongolia on the Transfer of Sentenced
Persons
The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of Mongolia (hereinafter referred to as "the Contracting
States")
On the basis of mutual respect for sovereignty, equality and mutual benefit.
In order to have sentenced persons to serve their sentences in their country of nationality to facilitate their social
rehabilitation.
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
1.
Definitions.
For the purpose of this Treaty:
(a)
"Transferring State" means the State which may transfer or has transferred a sentenced person out of its territory;
(b)
"Receiving State" means the State which may receive or has received a sentenced person into its territory;
(c)
"Sentenced person" means a person who has been sentenced to imprisonment by a court in the Transferring State;
(d)
"Judgment" means a decision or order of a court or tribunal imposing a sentence;
(e)
"Sentence" means any punishment or measure involving deprivation of liberty ordered by a court or tribunal for a
determinate period of time or for life imprisonment in the exercise of its criminal jurisdiction;
Article 2
2.
General Principles.
Each State may, in accordance with the provisions of this Treaty and subject to its domestic law, transfer a sentenced
person to the other State to enforce the sentence imposed on the person by the court of the Transferring State in the
territory of the Receiving State. To that end, the sentenced person or any other person who is entitled to act on the
sentenced person's behalf may express the sentenced person's willingness to be transferred under this Treaty.
Article 3
3.
Central Authorities.
1. For the purpose of implementing this Treaty, the States shall communicate with each other through the Central
Authorities designated therefore.
2. The Central Authorities referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Article shall be the Ministry of Home Affairs for the Republic
of India and the Ministry of Justice for Mongolia.
3. Should either State change its designated Central Authority, it shall notify the other State of such a change in writing
through diplomatic channels.
Article 4
4.
Conditions for Transfer.
1. A sentenced person may be transferred under this Agreement on the following conditions:
(a)
the sentenced person is a national of the Receiving State;
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
Treaty Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of Mongolia on t...
(b)
the death penalty has not been imposed on the sentenced person;
(c)
the conduct on account of which the sentence was imposed on the sentenced person also constitutes a criminal offence
under the laws of the Receiving State;
(d)
no criminal proceeding is pending against the sentenced person in the transferring State in which his presence is
required.
(e)
the judgment imposed on the sentenced person is effective without any possibility of further appeals;
(f)
at the time of the receipt of request for transfer, the sentenced person still has at least one year left of the sentence to
serve;
(g)
the transfer is consented to in writing by the sentenced person, or by the person's legal representative when either State
considers it necessary in view of the person's age, physical or mental condition;
(h)
both States agree to the transfer; and
(i)
transfer of custody of the sentenced person to the receiving State shall not be prejudicial to the sovereignty, security or
any other interest of the transferring State
2. In exceptional cases, the States may agree to a transfer even if the period of time left to be served by the sentenced
person is less than that as specified in Paragraph 1(f) of this Article.
Article 5
5.
Required Documents.
1. If a transfer is requested, the transferring State shall provide the following documents or statements to the Receiving
State, unless the requested State has already indicated that it will not agree to the transfer:
(a)
a certified copy of the judgment, including the relevant provisions of law on which the judgment is based;
(b)
a statement indicating the nature, duration and date of commencement of Sentence;
(c)
a statement describing the behavior or the person during the service of the sentence and the period of time already
served and remaining to be served as well as time spent in pre-trial detention, any reduction of sentence and other
factors relevant to enforcement of the sentence;
(d)
a written declaration of the consent to the transfer as referred to in Paragraph 1(e) of Article 4 of this Treaty; and
(e)
a statement indicating the physical and mental conditions of the sentenced person.
(2)
The Receiving State shall provide the Transferring State with the following documents:
(a)
documents or statements certifying that the sentenced person is a national of the Receiving State;
(b)
relevant provisions of the law of the Receiving State stipulating that the conduct for which the sentence was imposed on
the sentenced person also constitutes a criminal offence; and
(c)
information on the procedures of Receiving State, under its domestic law, to enforce the sentence imposed by the
Transferring State.
Article 6
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
Treaty Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of Mongolia on t...
6.
Requests and Replies.
1. A sentenced person may apply to either State for transfer under this Treaty. The State to which the sentenced person
has made an application for transfer must notify the other State in writing of the application.
2. A request for transfer may be made by either State. The requested State shall promptly inform the requesting State of
its decision as to whether or not to agree to the requested transfer.
3. Requests for and replies to transfers shall be made in writing and transmitted through the channels as provided for in
Paragraph 1 of Article 3 of this Treaty.
Article 7
7.
Notification to the Sentenced Persons.
1. Each State shall, within its territory, notify the sentenced persons, to whom this Treaty is applicable, that they may be
transferred in accordance with provisions of this Treaty.
2. Each State shall inform in writing the sentenced persons concerned within its territory of the measures taken or
decisions made by the Transferring State or the Receiving State upon requests for transfer in accordance with Articles 5
and 6 of this Treaty.
Article 8
8.
Consent of the Sentenced Person and its Verification.
1. The Transferring State shall in accordance with its law or the procedures `thereof ensure that the sentenced person or
his or her legal representative voluntarily gives consent to the transfer with full knowledge of the legal consequences of
the transfer and confirms such knowledge in a declaration indicating consent to the transfer.
2. Where the Receiving State requests, the Transferring State shall afford the opportunity to the Receiving State to
verify, through a designated official, that the sentenced person has expressed consent in accordance with the conditions
set out in the paragraph above.
Article 9
9.
Delivery of the Transferred Person.
Where an agreement is reached on a transfer, States shall determine the time, place and procedure for transfer, by
means of consultation through the channels as provided for in Paragraph 1 of the Article 3 of the this Treaty.
Article 10
10.
Continued Enforcement of the Sentence.
1. After receiving the sentenced person, the Receiving State shall continue to enforce the sentence pursuant to the
nature and duration of the sentence determined by the Transferring State.
2. If, the sentence as determined by the Transferring State is by its nature or duration incompatible with the domestic
law of Receiving State, the Receiving State may, with the prior consent of Transferring State, adapt the sentence to a
sentence prescribed in accordance with the sentence prescribed by its own domestic law for a similar offence. When
adapting the sentence:
(a)
the Receiving State shall be bound by the findings of facts insofar as they appear from the judgment imposed by the
Transferring State;
(b)
the Receiving State shall not adapt a penalty of imprisonment to a pecuniary penalty;
(c)
the adapted sentence shall, as far as possible, correspond with the sentence imposed by the courts of the Transferring
State.
(d)
the adapted sentence shall be no more severe than that imposed by the Transferring State in terms of the nature or
duration, nor exceed the maximum duration of penalty applicable to a similar criminal offence prescribed by the law of
the Receiving State;
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
Treaty Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of Mongolia on t...
(e)
the period of time already served by the sentenced person under a sentence of imprisonment in the territory of the
Transferring State shall be deducted.
3. The continued enforcement of the sentence after the transfer shall be governed by the laws and procedures of the
Receiving State, including those providing for the reduction of sentence and parole and t hose governing other
measures adopted during the enforcement of sentence.
Article 11
11.
Effect of Completion of Sentence for the Transferring State.
When the receiving State notifies the transferring State under paragraph 1(a) of Article 13 of this Agreement that the
sentence has been completed, such notification shall have the effect of discharging that sentence in the transferring
State.
Article 12
12.
Review of Judgment and Pardon, Amnesty or Commutation.
1. The transferring State alone shall decide on any application for the review of the judgment.
2. Either of the Contracting States may grant pardon, amnesty or commutation of the sentence in accordance with its
Constitution or other laws.
Article 13
13.
Information on the Enforcement of the Sentence.
The Receiving State shall provide information to the Transferring State concerning the enforcement of the sentence
when:
(a)
the enforcement of the sentence has been completed
(b)
the sentenced person has escaped from custody or died before the enforcement of the penalty has been completed; or
(c)
the Transferring State requests a specific statement.
Article 14
14.
Transit.
1. When one State is to implement an agreement with a third country on the transfer of sentenced persons through the
territory of the other State, the former State shall request permission from the State for such a transit.
2. Such permissions are not required where air transportation is used and no landing in the territory of the other State is
Scheduled.
3. The requested State shall, insofar as it is not contrary to its domestic law, grant the request for transit made by the
requesting State.
Article 15
15.
Languages.
For the purpose of this Treaty, the Central Authorities of the States may communicate with each other in English.
However, supporting materials shall be provided in the official language of one State, and translated into the official
language of the other State.
Article 16
16.
Exemption from Legalization.
For the purpose of this Treaty, any document made by competent authorities of the States and transmitted through the
channels provided for in paragraph 1 of Article 3 of this Treaty, affixed with the signature or seal of the competent
authorities of one State, may used in the territory of the Other State without any form of legalization.
Article 17
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
Treaty Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of Mongolia on t...
17.
Costs.
1. The Receiving State shall bear the costs of:
(a)
the transfer of the sentenced person, except the costs incurred exclusively in the territory of the Transferring State; and
(b)
the continued enforcement of the sentence after the transfer.
2. The Receiving State has the right to recover all or part of the costs from the sentenced person.
Article 18
18.
Settlement of Disputes.
Any dispute arising out of the interpretation, application, or implementation of this Treaty shall be resolved through
diplomatic channels if the Central Authorities are themselves unable to reach an agreement.
Article 19
19.
Entry into Force and Termination.
1. This Treaty is subject to ratification. The instruments of ratification shall be exchanged at New Delhi. This shall enter
into force on the thirtieth day after the date of the exchange of the instruments of ratification.
2. Either State may terminate this Treaty at any time by notice in writing to the other State through diplomatic channels.
Termination shall take effect on the one hundred and eightieth day after the date on which the notification is given.
3. This Treaty applies to any requests for transfer presented after its entry into force even if the relevant criminal
offences before the entry into force of this Treaty.
In witness whereof, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have signed this
Agreement.
Done in duplicate at Ulaanbaatar on this 17th day of May 2015, in Hindi, Mongolian and English languages, all texts
being equally authentic. In case of any divergence in interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
On Behalf of the Governmentof the
Republic of India
On Behalf of the Governmentof Mongolia
Sd/-
Sd/-
(Somnath Ghose)
(D. Dorligjav)
Ambassador Extraordinary &Plenipotentiary
of theRepublic of India to Mongoloia
Minister for Justice ofMongolia
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6