
----- PAGE 1 -----
Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Republic of Estonia on t...
Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Republic of Estonia on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/45554922/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Republic of Estonia on the Transfer of Sentenced
Persons
UNION OF INDIA
India
Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Republic of Estonia on the Transfer of Sentenced
Persons
Rule
AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-ESTONIA-O
N-THE-TRANSFER-OF-SENTENCED-PERSONS of 2017
Published on 20 March 2017
Commenced on 20 March 2017
[This is the version of this document from 20 March 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Republic of Estonia on the Transfer of Sentenced
Persons
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 270(E), dated 20th March, 2017
Ministry of Home Affairs
G.S.R. 270(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 3 of the Repatriation of
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Republic of Estonia on t...
Prisoners Act, 2003 (
49 of 2003
), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act shall apply to Estonia with effect from the 1st
day of March, 2017 and notifies the full text of the agreement entered into between the Government of the Republic of
India and the Government of Estonia on the 15th day of November, 2016 as follows. Instrument of the Ratification of the
Agreement was signed by the President of India on 07-12-2016 and by the Republic of Estonia on 27-02-2017.
Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Republic of Estonia on the Transfer of Sentenced
Persons
The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Estonia, hereinafter referred to as the
Contracting States;
Desiring to facilitate the social rehabilitation of sentenced persons into their own countries; and
Considering that this objective should be fulfilled by giving foreign nationals, who have been convicted and sentenced as
a result of their commission of criminal offences, the opportunity to serve their sentences within their own society;
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
1.
Definitions
For the purposes of this Agreement:
(a)
"Judgement" means a decision or order of a court or tribunal imposing a sentence;
(b)
"Receiving State" means a State to which the sentenced person may be, or has been, transferred in order to serve his
sentence or remainder thereof;
(c)
"sentence" means any punishment or measure involving deprivation of liberty ordered by a court or tribunal for a
determinate period of time or for life imprisonment in the exercise of its criminal jurisdiction;
(d)
"sentenced person" means a person undergoing a sentence of imprisonment under a judgment passed by a criminal
court including the courts established under the law for the time being in force in the Contracting States;
(e)
"Transferring State" means the State in which the sentence was imposed on the person who may be, or has been
transferred.
Article 2
2.
General Principles
1. A person sentenced in the territory of one Contracting State may be transferred to the territory of the other
Contracting State in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement in order to serve the sentence imposed on him.
To that end, he may express to the Transferring State or the Receiving State his willingness to be transferred under this
Agreement.
2. Transfer may be requested by any sentenced person who is a national of a Contracting State or by any other person
who is entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with the law of the Contracting State by making an application to the
Contracting State and in the manner prescribed by the Government of that Contracting State
Article 3
3.
Central Authorities
1. Authorities in charge of the implementation of this Agreement for the Contracting States are:
(a)
For the Republic of India: Ministry of Home Affairs
(b)
For the Republic of Estonia: Ministry of Justice.
2. In case either Contracting State changes its competent authorities, it shall notify the other State of the same through
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Republic of Estonia on t...
diplomatic channels.
Article 4
4.
Conditions for transfer
1. A sentenced person may be transferred under this Agreement on the following conditions:
(a)
the person is a national of the Receiving State;
(b)
the death penalty has not been imposed on the sentenced person;
(c)
the judgment is final;
(d)
no criminal proceedings are pending against the sentenced person in the Transferring State in which his presence is
required;
(e)
the sentenced person has not been convicted for an offence under the military law;
(f)
at the time of receipt of the request for transfer, the sentenced person still has at least six months of the sentence to
serve or is undergoing a sentence of life imprisonment;
(g)
that the acts or omissions for which that person was sentenced in the Transferring State are those which are punishable
as a crime in the Receiving State, or would constitute a criminal offence if committed on its territory;
(h)
transfer of custody of the sentenced person to the Receiving State shall not be prejudicial to the sovereignty, security or
any other essential interest of the Transferring State;
(i)
consent to the transfer is given by the sentenced person or, where in view of his age or physical or mental condition
either Contracting State considers it necessary, by any other person entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with the
law of the Contracting State; and
(j)
the Transferring and Receiving States agree to the transfer.
2. In exceptional cases, the Transferring and Receiving States may agree to a transfer even if the remaining period to be
served by the sentenced person is less than six months.
Article 5
5.
Obligation to furnish information
1. If the sentenced person has expressed an interest to the Transferring State in being transferred under this
Agreement, the Transferring State shall send the following information and documents to the Receiving State unless
either the Receiving or the Transferring State has already decided that it will not agree to the transfer:
(a)
the name and nationality, date and place of birth of the sentenced person and his address, if any, in the Receiving State
along with a copy of his passport or any other personal identification documents, and fingerprints of the Sentenced
Person, as possible;
(b)
a statement of the facts upon which the sentence was based;
(c)
the nature, duration and date of commencement of the sentence;
(d)
a certified copy of the judgment and a copy of the relevant provisions of the law under which the sentence has been
passed against the sentenced person;
(e)
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Republic of Estonia on t...
a medical, social or any other report regarding the antecedents and character of the sentenced person, where it is
relevant for the disposal of his application or for deciding the nature of his confinement;
(f)
any other information which the Receiving State may specify as required, to enable it to consider the possibility of
transfer and to enable it to inform the sentenced person of the full consequences of transfer for him under its law;
(g)
the request of the sentenced person to be transferred or of a person entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with the
law of the Transferring State;
(h)
a statement indicating how much of the sentence has already been served, including information on any pretrial
detention, remission, or any other factor relevant to the enforcement of the sentence; and
(i)
A statement from the Transferring State agreeing to the transfer of the Sentenced Person.
2. For the purposes of enabling a decision to be made on a request under this Agreement, the Receiving State shall
send the following information and documents to the Transferring State unless either the Receiving or the Transferring
State has already decided that it will not agree to the transfer:
(a)
A statement or document indicating that the sentenced person is a national of the Receiving State;
(b)
A copy of the relevant law of the Receiving State which provides that the acts or omissions on account of which the
sentence has been imposed in the Transferring State constitute a criminal offence according to the law of the Receiving
State, or would constitute a criminal offence if committed on its territory;
(c)
A statement of the effect of any law or regulation relating to the duration and enforcement of the sentence in the
Receiving State after the sentenced person's transfer including, if applicable, a statement of the effect of paragraph 2 of
Article 9 of this Agreement on his transfer;
(d)
The willingness of the Receiving State to accept the transfer of the sentenced person and an undertaking to administer
the remaining part of the sentence of the sentenced person; and
(e)
Any other information or document which the Transferring State may consider necessary.
Article 6
6.
Requests and replies
1. Requests for transfer shall be made in writing in the prescribed proforma, if any, and addressed by the Central
Authority of the Transferring State through diplomatic channels to the Central Authority of the Receiving State. Replies
shall be communicated through the same channels.
2. The Receiving State shall promptly inform the Transferring State of its decision whether or not to agree to the
requested transfer.
Article 7
7.
Consent and its verification
1. The Transferring State shall ensure that the person required to give consent to the transfer in accordance with
paragraph 1(i) of Article 4 of this Agreement, does so voluntarily and with full knowledge of the legal consequences
thereof. The procedure for giving such consent shall be governed by the law of the Transferring State.
2. The Transferring State shall afford an opportunity to the Receiving State to verify that the consent is given in
accordance with the conditions set out in paragraph 1 of this Article.
Article 8
8.
Effect of transfer for the Receiving State
1. The competent authorities of the Receiving State shall continue the enforcement of the sentence through a court or
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Republic of Estonia on t...
administrative order, as may be required under its national law, under the conditions set out in Article 9 of this
Agreement.
2. Subject to the provisions of Article 11 of this Agreement, the enforcement of the sentence shall be governed by the
law of the Receiving State and that State alone shall be competent to take all appropriate decisions.
Article 9
9.
Continued enforcement of sentence
1. The Receiving State shall be bound by the legal nature and duration of the sentence as determined by the
Transferring State.
2. If the sentence is by its nature or duration, or both, incompatible with the law of the Receiving State, that State may,
with the prior consent of the Transferring State, by court or administrative order, adapt the sentence to a sentence
prescribed by its own law for a similar offence. As to its nature and duration, the adapted sentence shall, as far as
possible, correspond with that imposed by the judgment of the Transferring State. It shall, however, not aggravate, by its
nature or duration, the sentence imposed by the Transferring State.
Article 10
10.
Effect of completion of sentence for the Transferring State
When the Receiving State notifies the Transferring state under paragraph 1(a) of Article 13 of this Agreement that the
sentence has been completed, such notification shall have the effect of discharging the sentence in the Transferring
state.
Article 11
11.
Review of judgment and Pardon, amnesty or commutation
1. The Transferring State alone shall decide on any application for review of the judgment.
2. Either of the contracting States may grant pardon, amnesty or commutation of the sentence in accordance with its
constitution or other laws.
Article 12
12.
Termination of enforcement of sentence
1. The Transferring State shall promptly notify the Receiving State of any decisions taken in its territory which entails
terminating the enforcement of the sentence or part thereof.
2. The Receiving State shall terminate enforcement of the sentence or part thereof as soon as it is informed by the
Transferring State of any decision or measure as a result of which the sentence ceases to be enforceable.
Article 13
13.
Information on enforcement of sentence
1. The Receiving State shall notify the Transferring State:
(a)
when the enforcement of the sentence has been completed; or
(b)
If the sentenced person escapes from custody before enforcement of the sentence has been completed. In such cases
the Receiving State shall take measures to secure his arrest for the purposes of serving the remainder of his sentence
and to render him/ her liable for committing an offence under the relevant law of the Receiving State.
2. The Receiving State shall furnish a special report concerning the enforcement of the sentence, if so required by the
Transferring State.
Article 14
14.
Transit
1. If either Contracting State enters into arrangements for the transfer of sentenced persons with any third State, the
other Contracting State shall cooperate in facilitating the transit through its territory of the sentenced persons being
transferred pursuant to such arrangements, except that it may refuse to grant transit
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Republic of Estonia on t...
(a)
if the sentenced person is one of its own nationals.
(b)
if the request may infringe upon the sovereignty, safety, public order or any other essential interest of the Contracting
State.
2. The Contracting State intending to make such a transfer shall give advance notice to the other Contracting State of
such transit.
Article 15
15.
Costs
Any costs incurred in the application of this Agreement shall be borne by the Receiving State, except costs incurred
exclusively in the territory of the Transferring State. The Receiving State may, however, demand or seek to recover all or
part of the costs of transfer from the sentenced person or from some other source.
Article 16
16.
Language
Requests and supporting documents shall be in English or shall be accompanied by a translation into English.
Article 17
17.
Scope of Application
This Agreement shall be applicable to the enforcement of sentences imposed either before or after the entry into force of
this Agreement.
Article 18
18.
Settlement of Disputes
(1)
The Central Authorities shall endeavor to mutually resolve any dispute arising out of the interpretation, application or
implementation of this Agreement.
(2)
If the Central Authorities are unable to resolve the dispute mutually, it shall be resolved through diplomatic channels.
Article 19
19.
Handing Over of Sentenced Persons
The handing over of the transferred person by the Transferring State to the Receiving State shall occur at a place to be
agreed upon between the Transferring and Receiving State. The Receiving State shall be responsible for the transport
of the prisoner from the Transferring State and shall also be responsible for custody of the sentenced person outside the
territory of the Transferring State.
Article 20
20.
Amendments
Any amendments or modifications to this Agreement agreed to by the Contracting States shall come into force in the
same manner as the Agreement itself.
Article 21
21.
Final Provisions
1. Each Contracting State shall notify the other as soon as possible, in writing, through diplomatic channels, upon the
completion of its necessary legal procedures required for the entry into force of this Agreement. The Agreement shall
come into force on the first day of the second month of the date of the last notification.
2. The Agreement shall remain in force for an indefinite period. It may, however, be terminated by either of the
Contracting State by giving a written notice of termination to the other Contracting State. The termination shall take
effect after six months of the date of such notice.
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Republic of Estonia on t...
3. Notwithstanding any termination, this Agreement shall continue to apply to the enforcement of sentences of prisoners
who have been transferred under this Agreement before the date on which such termination takes effect.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have signed this
Agreement.
Done at New Delhi on the 15th day of November 2016, in two originals, each in the, Hindi, Estonian and English
languages, all texts being equally authentic. In case of differences in interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
For the Government ofthe Republic of India
For the Government ofthe Republic of Estonia
Sd/-(Dilip Kumar)Joint Secretary to the Government of India
Sd/-(Riho Kruuv)Ambassador of the Republic of Estonia
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7