
----- PAGE 1 -----
Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Socialist
Republic of Vietnam
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/113004316/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
UNION OF INDIA
India
Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Rule
TREATY-ON-EXTRADITION-BETWEEN-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-SOCIALIST-REPUBLIC-OF-VIETNAM
of 2017
Published on 25 April 2017
Commenced on 25 April 2017
[This is the version of this document from 25 April 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 419(E), dated 25th April, 2017
Ministry of External Affairs
G.S.R. 419(E). - Whereas, the Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
was signed at New Delhi on the 12th day of October, 2011 and the Instruments of Ratification of the said Extradition
Treaty were exchanged at Hanoi on the 12th day of August, 2013;
And Whereas, the said Extradition Treaty entered into force with effect from the 12th day of August, 2013 in accordance
Page 1/8
----- PAGE 2 -----
Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
with the provisions of paragraph (1) of Article 22 of the Treaty;
And Whereas, the said Extradition Treaty is specified in the Schedule to this Order;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) read with clause (a) of subsection (3) of section 3
of the Extradition Act, 1962 (
34 of 1962
), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act, other than the provisions of Chapter III,
shall apply to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam with effect from the date of entry into force of the said Extradition Treaty.
Schedule
Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
The Republic of India and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, hereinafter referred to as "the Parties";
Desiring to provide for more effective cooperation between the two countries in the prevention and suppression of crime,
and to facilitate relations between the two countries in the area of extradition by concluding a treaty on extradition of
offenders;
Recognising that concrete steps are necessary to combat terrorism;
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
1.
Obligation to Extradite.
Each Party agrees to extradite to the other Party, in accordance with the provisions of this Treaty, any person who is
found in its territory and sought by the other Party for prosecution, trial, or execution of punishment for an extraditable
offence, whether such offence was committed before or after the entry into force of this Treaty.
Article 2
2.
Extraditable Offences.
1. For the purposes of this Treaty, extraditable offences are offences which, at the time of the request, are punishable
under the laws of both Parties by deprivation of liberty for a period of at least one year or by a more severe penalty.
2. An offence shall also be an extraditable offence if it involves an attempt or a plan to commit, aiding or abetting the
commission of or being an accessory before or after the fact to, an offence described in paragraph 1.
3.
Where the request for extradition relates to a person sentenced to deprivation of liberty by a court of the Requesting
Party for any extraditable offence, extradition shall be granted only if a period of at least six (6) months of the sentence
remains to be served.
4.
For the purposes of this Article, in determining whether an offence is an offence against the laws of both Parties:-
(a)
it shall not matter whether the laws of the Parties place the conduct constituting the offence within the same category of
offence or denominate the offence by the same terminology;
(b)
the totality of the conduct alleged against the person whose extradition is sought shall be taken into account and it shall
not matter whether, under the laws of the Parties, the constituent elements of the offence differ.
5.
Where extradition of a person is sought for an offence against a law relating to taxation, customs duties, foreign
exchange control or other revenue matters, extradition shall not be refused on the grounds that the law of the Requested
Party does not impose the same kind of tax or duty or does not contain a tax, duty, customs or exchange regulation of
the same kind as the law of the Requesting Party.
6.
Where the offence has been committed outside the territory of the Requesting Party, extradition shall be granted where
the law of the Requested Party provides for the punishment of an offence committed outside its territory in similar
circumstances. Where the law of the Requested Party does not so provide, the Requested Party may, in its discretion,
grant extradition.
7.
Page 2/8
----- PAGE 3 -----
Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
If the request for extradition refers to several offences, each of which is punishable under the laws of both Parties, but
some of which do not fulfil the other conditions set out in paragraphs l and 2 of this Article, extradition may be granted
for the offences provided that the person is to be extradited for at least one extraditable offence.
Article 3
3. Refusal of Extradition.
1. Extradition shall not be granted in any of the following circumstances:
a) The person whose extradition is requested is a citizen of Requested Party;
b) The person whose extradition is requested cannot be prosecuted or does not have to serve the sentence imposed
due to lapse of the statute of limitations;
c) The person whose extradition is requested for prosecution has been convicted under a final judgement by a
competent court for the conduct to which the request relates or the case has been suspended according to the criminal
procedural law of Requested Party; or
d) Where the request for extradition relates to more than one offenses and each of which is punishable under the law of
the Requesting State but does not fall under Article 2 of this Treaty.
2. Extradition shall not be granted, if the Requested State considers that, having regard to all the circumstances,
including the trivial of the nature of the offence, or in the interest of justice, it would be unjust or inexpedient to extradite
the person.
3. Extradition shall not be granted if the offence in respect of which it is requested is a military offence.
Article 4
4. The Political Offence Exception.
1. Extradition shall not be refused if the offence of which it is requested is an offence of a political character.
2. For the purpose of this Treaty the following offences shall not be regarded as offences of a political character:
(a)
an offence in respect of which the both Contracting States have the obligation to extradite or submit the case to their
competent authorities for prosecution, by reason of a multilateral international treaty/convention to which both are parties
or may become parties in future;
(b)
the taking or attempted taking of the life or an assault on the person of a Head of State or Head of Government of one of
the Contracting States, or of member of the Head of State's of Head of Government's family;
(c)
murder or culpable homicide/ manslaughter;
(d)
an offence, involving firearms, explosives, incendiaries, destructive devices or substances, causing death, grievous
bodily harm or serious damage to property;
(e)
a conspiracy or attempt to commit, or participation in, any of the foregoing offences;
(f)
offences related to terrorism which at the time of the request is, under the law of the Contracting State, not to be
regarded as political offence;
(g)
kidnapping, abduction, false imprisonment or unlawful detention, including the taking of a hostage.
Article 5
5. Postponement of Extradition.
1. When the person sought is being investigated, prosecuted or has been tried or is serving a sentence in the
Requested Party for an offence other than that for which extradition is requested, the Requested Party may postpone
the extradition of the person sought until the conclusion of the proceeding or the service of the whole or any part of the
sentence imposed. The Requested Party shall inform the Requesting Party of any postponement. When the conditions
of the postponement no longer exist, the Requested Party shall promptly inform the Requesting Party and resume the
process for extradition unless otherwise informed by the Requesting Party.
2. When the postponement of extradition referred to in the paragraph l would bar the criminal proceedings due to the
lapse of time or create a serious difficulty for the proceedings, the Requested Party may, at the request of the
Page 3/8
----- PAGE 4 -----
Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Requesting Party and pursuant to its laws, grant temporary extradition of the person whose extradition is sought.
3. The person whose temporary extradition is granted shall be returned as soon as the criminal proceedings are
completed or the mutually agreed time permitted for the request for temporary extradition is ended. The Requested
Party may extend, upon request, the initial agreed time period if it deems that reasonable grounds for such extension
exist.
Article 6
6. Extradition of Nationals.
1. Neither of the Parties shall be bound to extradite its own nationals under this Treaty.
2. If extradition is refused solely on the basis of the nationality of the person sought, the Requested Party shall, at the
request of the Requesting Party, submit the case to its authorities for prosecution.
3. Nationality shall be determined at the time of the commission of the offence for which extradition is requested.
Article 7
7. Extradition Procedures.
1. The request for extradition under this Treaty shall be made through the diplomatic channel.
2. The request shall be accompanied by:
(a)
as accurate a description as possible of the person sought, together with any other information which would help to
establish his identity, nationality and residence;
(b)
a statement of the facts of the offence for which extradition is requested, and
(c)
the text, if any, of the law :
(i)
defining that offence; and
(ii)
prescribing the maximum punishment for that offence.
3. If the request relates to an accused person, it must also be accompanied by a warrant of arrest issued by a judge,
magistrate or other competent authority in the territory of the Requesting State and by such evidence as, according to
the law of the Requested State, would justify his committal for trial if the offence had been committed in the territory of
the Requested State, including evidence that the person requested is the person to whom the warrant of arrest refers.
4. If the request relates to a person already convicted and sentenced, it shall also be accompanied:
(a)
by a certificate of the conviction and sentence;
(b)
by a statement that the judgement is final and no further proceedings are pending and showing how much of the
sentence has not been carried out.
5. Documents, in support of an extradition request, shall be received and admitted as evidence in extradition
proceedings, provided the documents are certified by a judge or magistrate to be the original documents or true copies
of such documents and are authenticated by the official seal of the court or by the competent authority.
6. In relation to a convicted person who was not present at his/her trial, the person shall be treated for the purposes of
paragraph (4) of this Article as if he/she had been accused of the offence of which he/she was convicted.
7. If the Requested State considers that the evidence produced or information supplied for the purposes of this Treaty is
not sufficient in order to enable a decision to be taken as to the request, additional evidence or information shall be
submitted within such time as the Requested State shall require.
Article 8
8.
Supplementary Information.
1. If the Requested Party considers that the information furnished in support of a request for extradition is not sufficient
in accordance with this Treaty to enable extradition to be granted, that Party may request that supplementary
information be furnished within such time as it may specify.
2. If the person whose extradition is sought is under arrest and the supplementary information furnished is not sufficient
Page 4/8
----- PAGE 5 -----
Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
in accordance with this Treaty or is not received within the time specified, the person may be released from custody.
Such release shall not preclude the Requesting Party from making a new request for the extradition of the person.
3. When the person is released from custody in accordance with paragraph 2, the Requested Party shall notify the
Requesting Party as soon as practicable.
Article 9
9.
Provisional Arrest.
1. In case of urgency, Requesting Party may request the provisional arrest of the person sought pending the
presentation of the request for extradition. A request for provisional arrest may be transmitted through the diplomatic
channel or directly between the Ministry of Public Security of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and Ministry of External
Affairs of the Republic of India.
2. The application for provisional arrest shall be in writing and contain:-
(a)
a description of the person sought, including information concerning the person's nationality;
(b)
the location of the person sought, if known;
(c)
a brief statement of the facts of the case, including, if possible, the time and location of the offence;
(d)
a description of the laws violated;
(e)
a statement of the existence of a warrant of arrest or detention, or a finding of guilt or judgement of conviction against
the person sought; and
(f)
a statement that a request for extradition for the person sought will follow.
3. On receipt of such an application, the Requested Party shall take the necessary steps to secure the arrest of the
person sought and the Requesting Party shall be promptly notified of the result.
4. The person arrested shall be set at liberty if the Requesting Party fails to present the request for extradition,
accompanied by the documents specified in Article 7, within sixty (60) days from the date of arrest, provided that this
shall not prevent the institution of proceedings with a view to extraditing the person sought if the request is subsequently
received.
Article 10
10.
Simplified Extradition.
If the person sought consents to surrender to the Requesting State, the Requested State may, subject to its laws,
surrender the person as expeditiously as possible without further proceedings.
Article 11
11.
Concurrent Requests.
1. Where requests are received from two or more States for the extradition of the same person either for the same
offence or for different offences, the Requested Party shall determine to which of those States the person is to be
extradited and shall notify those States of its decision.
2. In determining to which State a person is to be extradited, the Requested Party shall consider all relevant factors,
including but not limited to:-
(a)
the nationality and the ordinary place of residence of the person sought;
(b)
whether the requests were made pursuant to treaty;
(c)
the time and place where each offence was committed;
(d)
Page 5/8
----- PAGE 6 -----
Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
the respective interests of the Requesting States;
(e)
the gravity of the offences;
(f)
the nationality of the victim;
(g)
the possibility of further extradition between the Requesting States; and
(h)
the respective dates of the requests.
Article 12
12.
Surrender.
1. The Requested Party shall, as soon as a decision on the request for extradition has been made, communicate that
decision to the Requesting Party through the diplomatic channel. Reasons shall be given for refusal of a request for
extradition.
2. The Requested Party shall surrender the person sought to the competent authorities of the Requesting Party at a
location in the territory of the Requested Party acceptable to both Parties.
3. The Requesting Party shall remove the person from the territory of the Requested Party within such reasonable
period as the Requested Party specifies and, if the person is not removed within that period, the Requested Party may
set that person at liberty and may refuse extradition for the same offence.
4. If circumstances beyond its control prevent a Party from surrendering or removing the person to be extradited, it shall
notify the other Party, and in this case the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article shall not apply. The Parties shall
mutually decide upon a new date of surrender or removal, which shall not be later than 60 days from the date of the
decision.
Article 13
13.
Re-extradition.
Where the person extradited has absconded the criminal proceeding against him and returned to the territory of the
Requested Party, the Requesting Party may submit a request for re-extradition of that person.
Article 14
14.
Seizure and Surrender of Property.
1. The Requested State may seize and surrender to the Requesting State, all articles, documents, and evidence
connected with the offence in respect of which extradition is granted.
2. The Requested State, if so requested, may surrender the articles to the Requesting State even if the extradition
cannot be carried out owing to the death, disappearance or escape of the person sought.
3. Where the law of the Requested State to the protection of rights of third parties so requires, any property so
surrendered shall be returned to Requested State as soon as practicable and free of charge.
Article 15
15.
Rule of Specialty.
1. A person extradited under this Treaty may not be detained, tried, or punished in the Requesting State except for:
(a)
the offence for which extradition has been granted or a differently denominated offence based on the same facts, on
which extradition granted, provided such offence is extraditable or is a lesser included offence;
(b)
an offence in respect of which he/she was extradited, or another offence in respect of which he/she could be convicted
based on the proven facts used to support the request for his/her extradition; or
(c)
an offence for which the executive authority of the Requested State consents to the person's detention, trial, or
punishment for an offence. For the purpose of this subparagraph:
Page 6/8
----- PAGE 7 -----
Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
(i)
the Requested State may require to submit the documents called for in Article 7;
(ii)
a copy of the statement, if any, made by the extradited person with the request of the offence shall be submitted to the
Requested State; and
(iii)
the person extradited may be detained by the Requesting State for such period of time as the Requested State may
authorize, while the request is being processed.
2. A person extradited under this Treaty may not be extradited to a third State for an offence committed prior to his/ her
extradition unless the Requested State consents.
3. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall not prevent the detention, trial, or punishment of an extradited person or the
extradition of that person to a third State, if;
(a)
that person leaves the territory of the Requested State after extradition and voluntarily returns to it; or
(b)
that person does not leave the territory of the Requested State within 60 days of the day on which that person is free to
leave.
Article 16
16.
Notification of the Results.
The Requesting Party shall timely notify the Requested Party of the information relating to the proceeding against or the
execution of punishment upon the person extradited or the re-extradition of that person to a third State.
Article 17
17.
Transit.
1. To the extent permitted by its law, transportation of a person surrendered to one Party by a third State through the
territory of the other Party shall be authorized on request in writing made through the Central Authorities.
2. Authorization for transit shall not be required when air transport is to be used and no landing is scheduled in the
territory of the Party of transit. If an unscheduled landing occurs in the territory of that Party, it may require the other
Party to furnish a request for transit as provided in paragraph 1 of this Article. That Contracting State shall detain the
person to be transported until the request for transit is received and the transit is effected, so long as the request is
received within 4 (four) days (96 hours) of the unscheduled landing.
Article 18
18.
Costs.
1. The Requested Party shall meet the cost of any proceedings in its jurisdiction arising out of a request for extradition.
2. The Requested Party shall bear the cost incurred in its territory in connection with the arrest and detention of the
person whose extradition is sought, or the seizure and surrender of property.
3. The Requesting Party shall bear the cost incurred in conveying the person whose extradition is granted from the
territory of the Requested Party and the cost of transit.
Article 19
19.
Central Authorities.
For the purpose of this Treaty, the Requesting States shall communicate through their Central Authorities. The Central
Authorities for the Republic of India shall be the Ministry of External Affairs and for the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
shall be Ministry of Public Security.
Article 20
20.
Consultation.
1. The Parties shall consult, at the request of either Party, concerning the interpretation and the application of this
Treaty.
Page 7/8
----- PAGE 8 -----
Treaty on Extradition between the Republic of India and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
2. The Ministry of Public Security of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and Ministry of External Affairs of the Republic of
India may consult with each other directly in connection with the processing of individual cases and in furtherance of
maintaining and improving procedures for the implementation of this Treaty.
Article 21
21.
Obligations under International Conventions/ Treaties.
The present Treaty shall not affect the rights and obligations of the Requesting State arising from International
Conventions/Treaties to which they are parties.
Article 22
22.
Entry into Force and Termination.
1. This Treaty is subject to ratification. This Treaty shall enter into force upon the exchange of the instruments of
ratification.
2. Either Party may terminate this Treaty by notice in writing at any time. Termination shall take effect six (6) months
after the date on which the notice is given.
In Witness Whereof, the undersigned, being duly authorized by their respective Governments have signed this Treaty.
Done in duplicate at New Delhi on the 12th day of October, 2011 in the Hindi, Vietnamese and English languages, all
texts being equally authentic. In case of any divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
For and on behalf of
The
Republic of India
The Socialist Republic
of Vietnam
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 8/8