
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of
Employees) Rules, 2017
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/113677333/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
Rule
THE-BUREAU-OF-ENERGY-EFFICIENCY-TERMS-AND-CONDITIONS-OF-SERVICE-OF-EMPLOYEES-RULES-2017
of 2017
Published on 21 August 2017
Commenced on 21 August 2017
[This is the version of this document from 21 August 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R.1041(E), dated 21st August, 2017
Ministry of Power
G.S.R.1041(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 10 read with clause (d) of sub-section
(2) of section 56 of the Energy Conservation Act, 2001 (52 of 2001), the Central Government hereby makes the
following rules, namely:-
Part I
Page 1/16
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
Preliminary
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules,
2017.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Energy Conservation Act, 2001 (52 of 2001);
(b)
"authorised medical practitioner" means -
(i)
a registered medical practitioner appointed or designated by the Central Government, or as the case may be, the State
Government, for treatment of its officers, employees and their family members including dependents;
(ii)
a registered medical practitioner having a degree recognised under the Indian Medical Council Act,1956 (102 of 1956);
(iii)
a registered medical practitioner having a degree or diploma in Ayurveda or Unani or Homoeopathy of not less than four
years duration from a University, Statutory Board, Council, Faculty of Indian Medicine and Homoeopathy or equivalent
included in the Schedules of the Indian Medicine Central Council Act, 1970 (
48 of 1970
) or, as the case may be, the Homoeopathy Central Council Act, 1973 (
59 of 1973
);
(c)
"Bureau" means the Bureau of Energy Efficiency constituted under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act;
(d)
"competent authority" means the Director-General of the Bureau and includes any other officer so designated by him for
the purpose of medical facility and terms and conditions for its application, leased residential accommodation and
travelling allowance;
(e)
"controlling officer" means an officer designated by the competent authority for the purposes of travelling allowance,
leased accommodation and medical attendance;
(f)
"dependent" means a member of the family of an employee, except the spouse, only if his income from all sources
including pension and pension equivalent to gratuity does not exceed the limit specified by the Central Government from
time to time for availing such benefits;
(g)
"employee" means an officer or an employee of the Bureau appointed against sanctioned posts including those
appointed on deputation or on contract basis under these rules;
(h)
"empanelled hospital or diagnostic centre" means -
(i)
a Government Hospital or diagnostic centre including all recognised private hospitals or diagnostic centres under the
Central Government Health Scheme for specialised and general purpose treatment and any other hospital as
recognised by the Central Government with which arrangements have been made by the Central Government for the
Page 2/16
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
treatment of Central Government servants;
(ii)
maternity and child welfare centres, having arrangements for in-patient treatment and medical attendance for treatment
of their employees, members of their families ;
(i)
"family" for the purposes of medical attendance means employee of the Bureau, his wife or husband, as the case may
be, and parents, sisters, widowed sisters, widowed daughters, minor brothers, children, step-children, divorced or
separated daughters and step mother wholly dependent upon the employee of the Bureau and are normally residing
with him;
(j)
"Form" means the form appended to these rules;
(k)
"medical attendance" means the attendance in an empanelled hospital or in a consulting room of an authorised medical
practitioner or other clinic or at the residence of the employee, as may be advised by the authorised medical practitioner
including pathological, bacteriological, radiological or other methods of examination for the purpose of diagnosis, as are
available in any Government or Government recognised hospital, laboratory or diagnostic centre, as are considered
necessary by the authorised medical practitioner or other medical practitioner certifies to be necessary;
(l)
"patient" means an employee or a member of his family, to whom these rules applies and who has fallen ill and requires
medical attention; and
(m)
"Schedule" means the Schedule, annexed to these rules.
(2)
Words and expressions used herein and not defined, but defined in the Act, shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Appointments to the posts in the Bureau.
- Subject to the overall control of the Bureau,-
(a)
every appointment to the post in the Bureau equivalent to Group 'A' and Group 'B' posts under the Central Government
other than those specified in sub-section (2) of the section 9 of the Act, shall be made by the Director-General of the
Bureau; and
(b)
every appointment to the post in the Bureau equivalent to Group 'C' posts under the Central Government shall be made
by the Secretary of the Bureau.
Part II
Pay, Allowances and Other Conditions of Service
4.
Pay and allowances.
(1)
The pay and allowances for the persons appointed through direct recruitment, deputation or short term contract shall be
determined and fixed in accordance with the instructions or orders issued by the Central Government from time to time.
(2)
Every employee of the Bureau shall be entitled for dearness allowance, transport allowance, children education
allowance or reimbursement of tuition fee, daily allowance, leave, leave travel concession, encashment of leave at the
time of availing leave travel concession, other allowances and other facilities as applicable to Central Government
employees of corresponding level.
(3)
The provisions of the Employees' Provident Fund Scheme, 1952 made under the Employees' Provident Funds and
Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 (
19 of 1952
Page 3/16
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
) and gratuity as applicable to statutory bodies under the Central Government, shall apply to the employees of the
Bureau.
(4)
The employees of the Bureau shall be entitled for -
(a)
medical facilities in accordance with the provisions of Part IV;
(b)
leased residential accommodation facility in lieu of house rent allowance in accordance with provisions of Part V and the
employees not seeking the facility of leased accommodation shall be entitled to house rent allowance admissible to the
employees of Central Government;
(c)
travelling allowances in accordance with the provisions of Part VI;
(d)
any other allowances available to servants of the Central Government for which provisions have not been made in these
rules;
(e)
other facilities such as pay or advances including advance pay, advances in connection with legal proceedings, interest
free and interest bearing advances such as, but not restricted to motor car or motor cycle or scooter advance, cycle
advance, house building advance, personal computer advance including welfare measures such as incentives for
promoting small family norms, with respect to which no express provision has been made in these rules, the provisions
of the rules made by the Central Government as are applicable to servants of Central Government, shall apply to
employees of the Bureau.
5.
Service of employees on deputation.
(1)
The counting of past service of an employee on deputation from the Central Government or a State Government or
Union Territories or Public Sector Undertakings or Autonomous bodies, as the case may be, shall on absorption, be
governed by the instructions issued by the Central Government in this behalf.
(2)
Such allowances as are not admissible to the regular employees of corresponding level in the Bureau, shall not be
admissible to the officers on deputation or short term contract, even if they were admissible in their parent organisation.
(3)
The employees joining on deputation or short term contract shall be eligible for contribution to the Provident Fund, to
which they are subscribing in their parent organization, and where such employees have been members of the
Contributory Provident Fund, the Bureau shall bear the cost of the employer's contribution as applicable in each case.
(4)
In respect of employees, joining on deputation basis, the Bureau shall pay to the parent Department leave salary
contribution and pension contribution/Contributory Provident Fund (employer's share) contribution in accordance with
the instructions issued by the Central Government from time to time.
(5)
When the Bureau determines that the services of the deputationist are no longer required, it may repatriate him to his
parent Department even before completion of his normal period of deputation as and when a situation arises for
premature reversion to the parent cadre of the deputationist, after giving advance intimation of not exceeding one month
to the lending Ministry or Department or organisation and the employee concerned.
6.
Placement of employees.
(1)
The Director-General of the Bureau may post any employee at any time, in any post, not lower in the Level in the Pay
Matrix than the post for which the employee was recruited.
(2)
An employee may hold more than one post in the exigency of work for which no extra remuneration shall be paid except
Page 4/16
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
as otherwise provided in Fundamental Rules, 1922.
Part III
Annual Assessment, Disciplinary Proceedings and Penalties
7.
Annual Performance Appraisal.
- The general principles and guidelines for writing of annual performance appraisal including system of self appraisal,
their periodicity including writing of part reports, authorities competent to record and review such reports, including
formats, time limit for completion of writing of such reports for all categories of Central Government servants as specified
by the Central Government, shall apply to the employees of the Bureau.
8.
Disciplinary proceedings and imposition of penalty.
(1)
In the matter of conduct, discipline and imposition of penalty, the provisions of the Central Civil Services (Conduct)
Rules, 1964 and the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965 shall mutatis mutandis apply
to the employees of the Bureau.
(2)
The authority competent to impose penalty and penalty which it may impose with reference to rule 11 of the Central Civil
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965 and authority competent to hear appeal with reference to rule
24 of those rules, against the imposed penalty shall be as specified in the following table, namely:-
Description of post
Appointing Authority
Authority competent to impose penalty with reference to rule 11
Penalty
Appellate Authority
All posts equivalent to Group 'A' posts under
the Central Government.
Director-General, Bureau of Energy Efficiency
Director-General, Bureau of Energy Efficiency
All
Secretary (Power)
All posts equivalent to Group 'B' posts under
the Central Government.
Director-General, Bureau of Energy Efficiency
Director-General, Bureau of Energy Efficiency
All
Secretary (Power)
All posts equivalent to Group 'C' posts under
the Central Government.
Secretary, Bureau of Energy Efficiency
Secretary, Bureau of Energy Efficiency
All
Director-General, Bureau of Energy Efficiency
(3)
The Minister for Power, who is the ex-officio Chairperson of the Governing Council of the Bureau, shall be the authority
competent with reference to rule 29 of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965 for the
purpose of revision and review of the penalty imposed on any employee of the Bureau.
Part IV
Medical Facility and terms and Conditions for its Application
9.
Outdoor medical treatment, entitlement and submission of claim.
(1)
Page 5/16
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
Every employee of the Bureau shall be entitled to reimbursement of medical expenses, for himself and his family limited
to two months pay in the Pay Matrix, as on 1stJuly of each financial year.
(2)
The annual limit specified in sub-rule (1) shall not include the expenses incurred on major tests such as Magnetic
Resonance Imaging, Computed Tomography Scan, Angiography which shall be reimbursable on actual basis or as per
the approved rates fixed under the Central Government Health Scheme in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,
whichever is lower.
(3)
The employee may claim the re-imbursement, subject to annual ceiling amount referred to in sub-rule (1), on production
of medical bills or cash receipts or invoices accompanied by a certificate from an authorised medical practitioner in Form
I.
(4)
The Bureau shall prepare and maintain a list of authorised medical practitioners, area-wise, on the request of the
employees and based on relevant documentary proof including prescription with registration number of the concerned
Registered Medical Practitioner.
(5)
If an employee receives treatment from the Out Patient Department of the Central Government or the State Government
empanelled hospital, or Central Government Health Scheme recognised hospital, the attending physician shall be
treated as authorised medical practitioner for the Bureau.
10.
Indoor medical treatment and entitlement.
(1)
The employee and his family shall be entitled for re-imbursement of expenditure incurred by him on actual basis
provided the treatment has been taken at the Central Government or State Government or Central Government Health
Scheme empanelled hospital.
(2)
The medical treatment shall include the cost of treatment, cost of transplantation and implantation, bacteriological or
radiological scanning and nursing home facilities.
(3)
The entitlement of room for indoor treatment in case of hospitalisation including treatment abroad during foreign visit,
grant of medical advance, and the procedure to be followed in respect thereof, as applicable to Central Government
employees, shall mutatis mutandis be applicable to the employee of the Bureau of corresponding level.
11.
Submission of claims.
(1)
The final claim for reimbursement of medical expenses for a particular spell of illness shall ordinarily be preferred within
three months from the date of completion of the treatment shown in the prescription issued by the attending physician,
unless the competent authority, on a reasonable cause being shown, condones the delay.
(2)
The employees shall submit-
(a)
a copy of the prescription with registration number of the authorised medical practitioner;
(b)
the original bills or cash memos of medicines or tests; and
(c)
the claim for reimbursement.
(3)
The application for medical claims shall be in Form II.
(4)
The expenses on indoor treatment shall initially be met by the employee himself and he shall apply for medical
reimbursement on completion of the treatment.
Page 6/16
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
(5)
Where the claim for reimbursement is in respect of the family and the declaration of dependency on an employee has
not been furnished by the employee at the beginning of the year as required, a declaration at the time of preferring a
claim towards the treatment of the members of the family and the dependent may be accepted from the employee in
Form III and Form IV, respectively.
Part V
Leased Residential Accommodation
12.
Leased residential accommodation.
(1)
An employee of the Bureau who does not avail the house rent allowance may opt for leased residential accommodation
as per lease deed in the format as specified in Form V on the following terms and conditions, namely:-
(a)
there shall be no self-lease or lease from a blood relation;
(b)
the advance rent or the security deposit up to three months of the admissible agreed lease amount shall be allowed
subject to adjustment against rent payable to the owner of the leased accommodation within the tenure of lease
agreement;
(c)
if both husband and wife are employees of the Bureau and are posted at the same station, leased accommodation shall
be admissible to only one of them;
(d)
if a spouse of the employee of the Bureau is a Government servant or an employee of a public sector undertaking and is
posted at the same station, the benefit of leased accommodation shall be admissible to the employee of the Bureau
subject to submission of a no objection certificate from the office of the spouse;
(e)
the leased accommodation shall be used only by the employee and his family;
(f)
the leased accommodation shall not be sub-leased or sub-let;
(g)
the Bureau shall have the right to inspect the leased premises to ensure that they are being used in compliance with the
rules;
(h)
where inspection undertaken reveals that the leased accommodation is not being used or has not been used in
compliance with these rules, the Bureau shall -
(i)
terminate the lease deed forthwith ;and
(ii)
initiate disciplinary proceedings against the defaulting employee.
(2)
The employees of the Bureau, including those on deputation in Bureau of Energy Efficiency shall be eligible for availing
the leased residential accommodation.
(3)
The monthly rental ceiling for residential accommodation shall be limited to one and half times the house rent allowance
as is admissible to the employee in the Central Government.
(4)
The period of lease shall not be less than eleven months and no change in the terms and conditions of the lease shall
be made unless the extension or continuance of lease is for a period less than eleven months.
(5)
The beneficiary employee of the leased accommodation shall be allowed to retain the accommodation for the period
specified against the happening of any of the following events on payment of usual normal rent by the employee or his
Page 7/16
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
survivor, as the case may be, provided the accommodation is required for bona fide use of the employee or for members
of his family, namely:-
S. No.
Details of the event
Permissible period for retention of leased
accommodation
1
Retirement
Four months
2
Death of an employee or any member of his family
Four months
3
Transfer
Two months (Where transfer of an employee takes
place in the midst of an academic session, the competent
authority in exceptional circumstances may extend the period of
two months upto the end of academic session, if the shifting of
the employee is likely to affect the education of his children
adversely).
4
Any kind of leave which qualifies for payment of
House Rent Allowance
Full period of leave
5
Leave on medical ground
Six months, inclusive of various kinds of leave
which may be due to the employee at the time of proceeding on
medical leave.
6
Reversion of a deputationist to his parent
department
Two months (if served in the Bureau of Energy
Efficiency for a period of not less than one year). One month (if
served in the Bureau of Energy Efficiency for a period of less
than one year).
(6)
The competent authority may relax the terms and conditions in the lease deed in exceptional cases, wherever it is
established that such terms and conditions cause undue hardship to the concerned employee.
(7)
The Bureau shall decide if any doubt or dispute arises regarding the implementation of rules specified in Part V.
Part VI
Travelling Allowance
13.
General Principles.
(1)
The general principles governing the regulation of compensatory allowances as specified in rule 44 of the Fundamental
Rules, 1922 and rule 21 of the General Financial Rules, 2005 shall apply, as regards to standards of financial propriety
for incurring or authorising expenditure from public money.
(2)
In Bureau, for determining the entitlement for travelling allowance and daily allowance, namely, hotel accommodation
Page 8/16
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
charges, travelling allowance within the city, and food expenses, of the employees, shall categorise the employees of
the Bureau into five groups based on their pay ranges in accordance with the arrangements made for the employees of
the Central Government from time to time.
(3)
The classification of cities or towns for the purpose of these rules shall be in accordance with the notification issued by
the Central Government in this regard from time to time.
(4)
The expenses towards hotel accommodation at the tour station shall be admissible to the employees of the Bureau in
accordance with the rates specified by the Central Government for its employees from time to time and the expenditure
on accommodation at tour station shall be reimbursed based on actual expenditure supported by bills.
Part VII
Retirement
14.
Retirement.
- Save as otherwise provided in these rules, every employee of the Bureau shall retire from the service of the Bureau in
the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of sixty years:
Provided that an employee of the Bureau whose date of birth is the first day of a month shall retire from service of the
Bureau on the afternoon of the last day of the preceding month on attaining the age of sixty years.
15.
Premature Retirement.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 14, the competent authority in the Bureau may, if it is of the opinion that it is
in the public interest so to do, retire any employee of the Bureau by giving him notice of not less than three months' in
writing or three months' pay and allowances in lieu of such notice-
(a)
if he is, in a post equivalent to Group `A' or Group `B' post in the Central Government in a substantive, quasi-permanent
or temporary capacity and had entered the service of the Bureau before attaining the age of thirty-five years, after he
has attained the age of fifty years; or
(b)
in any other case after he has attained the age of fifty-five years.
(2)
If on a review of the case either on a representation from the employee of the Bureau retired prematurely or otherwise, it
is decided to reinstate him in service, the competent authority ordering reinstatement may regulate the intervening
period between the date of premature retirement and the date of reinstatement by the grant of leave of the kind due and
admissible, including extraordinary leave, or by treating it as dies non depending upon the facts and circumstances of
the case:
Provided that the intervening period shall be treated as a period spent on duty for all purposes including pay and
allowances, if it is specifically held by the authority ordering reinstatement that the premature retirement was itself not
justified in the circumstances of the case, or if the order of premature retirement is set aside by a court of law:
Provided further that, if the order of premature retirement is set aside by a court of law with specific directions in regard
to regulation of the period between the date of premature retirement and the date of reinstatement and no further appeal
is proposed to be filed, the aforesaid period shall be regulated in accordance with the order of the court of law.
(3)
Any employee of the Bureau may, by giving notice of not less than three months in writing to the competent authority,
retire from service after he has attained the age of fifty years, if he is an employee of the Bureau holding a post
equivalent to a Group `A' or Group `B' post in the Central Government, and had entered the service of the Bureau before
attaining the age of thirty-five years, and in all other cases after he has attained the age of fifty-five years.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the competent authority in the Bureau may, if it is of the opinion that
it is in the public interest so to do, retire any employee of the Bureau holding a post equivalent to a Group `Ç' post in the
Central Government after he has completed thirty years' service by giving him notice of not less than three months in
Page 9/16
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
writing or three months' pay and allowances in lieu of such notice.
(5)
An employee of the Bureau holding a post equivalent to Group `Ç' post, in the Central Government, may, by giving
notice of not less than three months in writing or three months' pay and allowances in lieu of such notice to the
competent authority, retire from Bureau's service after he has completed thirty years' service.
(6)
An employee of the Bureau referred to in sub-rule (3), sub-rule (4), and sub-rule (5) may request in writing to the
competent authority to accept notice of less than three months giving reasons thereof:
Provided that the competent authority may consider the request for curtailment of the period of notice on merits, if it is
satisfied that the curtailment of the period of notice shall not cause any administrative inconvenience.
(7)
An employee of the Bureau, who has elected to retire under sub-rules (3) and (5) and has given the necessary
intimation to that effect to the competent authority, shall not be allowed to withdraw his election subsequently, except
with the specific approval of such authority:
Provided that the request for withdrawal is within the intended date of his retirement.
Note 1. - An employee may give three months' notice referred to in sub-rule (1), sub-rule (3), sub-rule (4) and sub-rule
(5) before the employee attains the age specified in sub-rules (2) and (3) or has completed the age of thirty years
specified in sub-rules (4) and (5), provided that the retirement takes place after he has attained the relevant age or has
completed thirty years service, as the case may be.
Note 2. - In computing the period of notice of three months referred to in the aforesaid sub-rules, the date of service of
the notice and the date of its expiry shall be excluded.
16.
Post retirement benefit of medical facility.
(1)
Every employee retiring from the service of the Bureau shall be entitled to reimbursement of medical expenses
necessary for outdoor and indoor medical treatment for himself and the members of his family, as specified in rule 9 and
rule 10, after retirement for the whole life of the retired employee and dependents.
(2)
The benefit of re-imbursement for outdoor medical treatment under rule 9, referred to in sub-rule (1), shall be limited to
two months pay with grade pay or Level in Pay Matrix drawn on the date of retirement.
Part VIII
Other Conditions of Service
17.
Other Conditions of Service.
- The other conditions of service covered in the Fundamental Rules and Supplementary Rules which are applicable to
the servants of the Central Government on which no express provision has been made in these rules shall, mutatis
mutandis, be applicable to the employees of the Bureau.
18.
Modified Assured Career Progression Scheme.
- The provisions of the Modified Assured Career Progression Scheme, made by the Central Government, as are
applicable to the servants of the Central Government shall, mutatis mutandis, be applicable to the employees of the
Bureau.
19.
Power to relax.
- Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by order and for
reasons to be recorded in writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class or category of
persons.
Schedule
[See rule 2(1) (m)]
List of posts existing in Bureau of Energy Efficiency
1. Director-General,
Page 10/16
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
2. Deputy Director-General,
3. Secretary
4. Energy Economist re-designated as Director
5. Assistant Energy Economist re-designated as Joint Director
6. Public Relation Manager or Media Manager
7. Senior Private Secretary
8. Finance and Accounts Officer
9. Private Secretary
10. Accountant
11. Stenographer
12. Driver
Form I
[See rule 9 (3)]
Reimbursement of medical claim
Month...........................
1. Name and designation:
2. Name of the patient and his/her relationship with the employee:
3. Place at which patient fell ill:
4. Name of the doctor or hospital:
5. Level in the Pay Matrix (as on 1st July, 20 ):
6. Details of the amounts claimed:
7. Total number of bills attached:
Claim details
Amount claimed
Amount admitted
Consultation charges
Number and dates of consultations
Special consultations
Number and dates of consultations
Pathological charges
Cost of medicines
Cash memo Number and Date
Rupees(in words)
Note. - Where medical treatment involves major tests or diagnostic procedures, Essentiality Certificate from authorised
medical practitioner or attending physician shall be attached.
I, hereby, declare that the statements made in the application are true to the best of my knowledge and belief and that
the person for whom the medical expenses were incurred is wholly dependent upon me.
Enclosure:
Date:
Signature of the claimant
Yearly amount admissible
Amount availed so far
Total number of bills attached
Total amount of bills claimed
Total amount of bills admitted
Remaining balance
Received an amount of Rs..........................................against medical expenses.
Signature of the Employee receiving the amount of bills admitted.
Date:
Form II
[See rule 11(3)]
Page 11/16
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
Application Form
Form of application for claiming:
(a)
reimbursement of medical claims or expenses incurred in connection with medical attendance or treatment of
employees of the Bureau and their families;
(b)
reimbursement of claim or expenses incurred for medical attendance or treatment taken from authorised medical
practitioner in a Hospital.
1. Name and Designation of the Employee:
(In Block Letters)
2. (i)Whether married or unmarried:
(ii)
If married, the place where the Wife/Husband is employed:
3. Level in the Pay Matrix of the employee:
4. Residential Address:
5. Name of the patient and his/her relationship with the employee:
6. Place at which the patient fell ill:
7. Details of the amounts claimed:
I. Medical attendance:
Fees for consultation indicating -
(a)
the name and designation of the medical officer consulted and the hospital or dispensary or clinic to which attached:
(b)
the number and date of consultation and the fee paid for each consultation:
(c)
the number and date of injection and the fee paid for each injection:
II. Hospital treatment:
Name of the hospital Charges for hospital treatment, indicating separately the charges for -
(i)
Accommodation (State whether it was according to the entitlement of employee; where the accommodation is higher
than entitlement , a certificate should be attached to the effect that the entitled accommodation was not available):
(ii)
Diet:
(iii)
Surgical operation or medical treatment or confinement:
(iv)
Pathological, Bacteriological, Radiological or other similar tests, indicating-
(a)
the name of the hospital or laboratory at which undertaken; and
(b)
whether undertaken on the advice of the Medical officer in charge of the case at the hospital?
If so,a certificate to the effect should be attached.
(v)
Medicines:
(vi)
Special medicines:
(Cash memos should be attached)
(vii)
Ordinary nursing:
(viii)
Special nursing:
Page 12/16
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
(Certificate of special nursing attached)
(ix)
Doctor's consultation/visit charges:
(x)
Ambulance Charges:
(State the journey -to an fro-undertaken)
(xi)
Blood if not available certificate from the Hospital Blood Bank (in case of blood purchased from outside):
(xi)
Any other charges, namely, charges for electric light, iron, fan, heater, air conditioning and other charges, state also
whether the facilities referred to are a part of the facilities normally provided to all patients and no choice was left to the
patient:
III. Consultation with specialist:
Fees paid to a Specialist or a Medical Officer other than the authorised Medical Attendant indicating-
(a)
the name and designation of the specialist or medical officer consulted and the hospital to which they are attached;
(b)
the number and dates of consultations and the fees charged for each consultation;
(c)
whether consultation was referred at the hospital or at the consulting room of the specialist or medical officer or at the
residence of the patient:
8. Copy of discharge certificate attached:
(in case of indoor treatment only)
9. Copy of the permission (for indoor treatment) from the Bureau to be attached:
10. Self explanatory letter attached (in case the treatment has been taken from private unrecognised hospital):
11. Total amount claimed:
12. Less advance, if taken:
13. Net amount claimed:
14. List of enclosures:
Declaration to be signed by the employee
I, hereby declare, that the statements in the application are true to the best of my knowledge and belief. The claim for
medical expenses incurred is in respect of undersigned/ the person who is wholly dependent upon me.
Date:
Signature of the employee/retired employee
Form III
[See rule 11(5)]
*Declaration
I Declare, that the #parents, sisters, widowed sisters, widowed or divorced or separated daughters and their minor
children, brothers, children, step-mother, and step-children, not suffering from any permanent disability of any kind
(physical or mental) are wholly/mainly dependent upon me.
I further declare that the income of my #parents, sisters, widowed sisters, widowed/divorced or separated daughter
brothers or children, stepmother and stepchildren, not suffering from any permanent disability of any kind (physical or
mental) from all sources including pension does not exceed the present limit of Rs................. , specified by the Central
Government for availing the benefits.
Signature of the employee/retired employee with date
*The declaration regarding the income and the residence of dependent should be furnished by the employee concerned,
once in the beginning of every calendar year and on the date of retirement.
#Strike off, which is not applicable.
Form IV
[See rule 11(5)]
Declaration by Employee of Members of His Family and Dependent(S)
Page 13/16
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
For Medical Treatment
Name of the employee:
Designation:
Details of the family members are as under-
S.No.
Name
Date of birth
Relationship with employee
Occupation
Place of residence
I, hereby, declare that-
(a)
I have read the eligibility conditions with regard to declaration of dependents as specified in rule 2(f) for availing medical
facility;
(b)
I, declare, the above named family members, as my dependents, for availing medical treatment facility.
(c)
Monthly income of none of the above family members exceed one thousand and five hundred rupees per month.
(d)
My parents reside with me and are wholly dependent on me.
(e)
My spouse is working in the ___________________________and we opt to avail the medical treatment facility provided
by the Bureau and a certificate issued by my spouse's employer certifying non-availment of medical facility from them is
enclosed.
(f)
My spouse is not working.
Enclosures: Spouse's Employer Certificate
Dependent's residence proof
Signature of employee___________
Name_________________
Date__________________
Address_______________
Form V
[See rule 12 (1)]
To be executed on a Non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value
Lease Deed
The Deed Of Lease made on this..................... day of ...................two thousand and .................... between Shri/Smt.
.............................son/daughter/wife of ................................. residing at ..................................
.................................................................. (hereinafter called "the Lessor" with respect to the latter premises which
expression shall wherever the context permits, be deemed to include his/her heirs, successors, legal representatives
and assigns) of the one part and M/s. Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), a Statutory body of Ministry of Power, 4th
Floor, Sewa Bhawan, R. K. Puram, New Delhi through its ........................... (hereinafter called "the Lessee" which
expression shall wherever the context permits be deemed to include their successors and assigns) of the other part,
witnesses as follows:
In consideration of the rent hereinafter reserved and all the convenants and conditions hereinafter contained to be
observed and performed on the part of the Lessee, the Lessor does hereby grant, transfer, demise by way of lease, the
premises consisting of ............... ........................................................ situated at ........................... .............................. of
which the Lessor is entitled in law to execute this deed, together with the appurtenant land/space, the rights to make use
of entrances, passage, stair cases, landing and other easements belonging and pertaining to the said premises unto and
to the use of the Lessee for a period of ....... months @ Rs............... commencing from .................. by paying unto the
Lessor during the said period a rent of Rs............... (Rupees ............................................................) per month, inclusive
Page 14/16
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
of hire charges of the fittings, equipments and fixtures in the premises* (as per Schedule attached to this Deed*) and
subject to the following conditions:
I. The Lessee hereby covenants with the Lessor as follows:
(i)
That the Lessee shall pay to the Lessor the said monthly rent by cheque on or before the 15th day of each English
calendar month.
(ii)
That the Lessee shall use the demised premises for the residential use of Sh......................................., who shall pay the
charges for consumption of electricity and water to the Lessor or the concerned authorities, as per bills received by him.
(iii)
That the Lessee shall permit the Lessor or his/her authorised representatives to enter upon the demised premises at all
reasonable times for the purpose either for inspection or repair of the demised premises, as and when necessary.
(iv)
That subject to the Lessor's covenants, the Lessee shall keep the interior of the demised premises in good order and
condition (reasonable wear and tear and damages by fires, earthquake, flood, tempest, lightening, violence of any army
or of a mob or other irresistible or inevitable force or accident are accepted) and attend to minor repairs such as fuses,
leakages of water, taps etc.
(v)
That the Lessee shall not erect on the demised premises any permanent structure without the written consent of the
Lessor, provided that the Lessee may, without the Lessor's consent, erect temporary partitions at his own cost.
(vi)
That the Lessee shall not sublet, assign or otherwise part with the possession of the demised premises without the
consent of the Lessor.
(vii)
That the Lessee shall be entitled to terminate the lease at any time during the initial or renewed term of the lease upon
serving one month's previous notice in writing of its intention so to do.
(viii)
That the Bureau shall have the right to inspect the leased premises at any time to ensure that the same is being used in
compliance with the existing rules.
(ix)
That the Lessee shall deliver the demised premises to the Lessor on the expiration or earlier determination of the lease,
together with the Lessor's fittings and fixtures, if any, in such condition as is consistent with the covenants and
conditions herein contained.
II. The Lessor hereby covenants with the Lessee as follows:
(i)
That the Lessor shall pay all taxes, rates, license fees, ground rent and charges of whatever character assessed, levied,
charged and imposed by or payable to any lawful authority in respect of the demised premises and if the Lessor fails or
neglects to pay the same, the Lessee may make such payment and deduct the same with interest at the rate of 12% per
annum from the rent or otherwise recover it from the Lessor.
(ii)
That the Lessor shall effect all major repairs such as leakages in electricity, sanitary fittings, water pipes or cracks etc. at
his/her own cost immediately upon such defects are notified to him/her by the Lessee and if the Lessor fails or neglects
to make such repairs the Lessee may cause the same done and deduct the expenses of such repairs with interest at the
rate of 12% per annum from the rent or otherwise recover it from the Lessor.
(iii)
That the Lessor shall arrange for the white wash, distemper, paints, polish the demised premises before occupation by
the Lessee and thereafter once in two years during the lease period or extended lease period, at his/her cost.
(iv)
That the Lessee shall peacefully and quietly hold and enjoy the demised premises during the lease period without any
interruption or disturbance by the Lessor or any person rightfully claiming under or in trust for him/her.
(v)
Page 15/16
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Rules, 2017
That the Lessor represents and warrants that he/she is fully entitled to execute this lease deed and that he/she will hold
the Lessee free and harm-less of any demands, claims, actions or proceedings by others in respect of quite possession
of the demised premises.
III. It is hereby mutually agreed as follows:
(i)
That the Lessee shall be entitled to renew the lease for a further period of ......... year/months on the same mutually
agreed terms and conditions for which the Lessee shall give to the Lessor a notice in writing not less than one month
before the expiration of the term hereby granted and the Lessor shall grant fresh lease for a further period of .............
year/months from the date of expiration of the term hereby granted.
(ii)
The Lessor or his/her authorised agent(s) shall acknowledge and give valid and duly stamped receipt(s) which shall be
conclusive proof of such payment.
In Witness Whereof the parties hereto have executed there presents at ............... on the day, month and year first above
written in the presence of:
Witnesses
1.
Lessor (Name..............)
Lessee
2.
for and on behalf of
Bureau of Energy Efficiency.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 16/16