
----- PAGE 1 -----
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Grievance and Complaint Handling Procedure) Regu...
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Grievance and Complaint
Handling Procedure) Regulations, 2017
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/191087545/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Grievance and Complaint Handling Procedure) Regulations, 2017
UNION OF INDIA
India
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Grievance and Complaint Handling Procedure) Regulations, 2017
Rule
INSOLVENCY-AND-BANKRUPTCY-BOARD-OF-INDIA-GRIEVANCE-AND-COMPLAINT-HANDLING-PROCEDURE-R
EGULATIONS-2017 of 2017
Published on 6 December 2017
Commenced on 6 December 2017
[This is the version of this document from 6 December 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Grievance and Complaint Handling Procedure) Regulations, 2017
Published vide Notification No. IBBI/2017-18/GN/REG/21, dated 6.12.2017
No. IBBI/2017-18/GN/REG/21. - In exercise of the powers conferred under sections 196, 217, read with section 240 of
the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (31 of 2016), the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India hereby makes
the following Regulations, namely :-
Chapter I
Preliminary
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Grievance and Complaint Handling Procedure) Regu...
1.
Short title, commencement and application.
(1)
These regulations may be called the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Grievance and Complaint Handling
Procedure) Regulations, 2017.
(2)
These regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
(3)
These regulations shall apply to grievances and complaints against service providers.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
Unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"aggrieved" means a stakeholder who has filed a grievance with the Board on failing to get his grievance redressed from
the concerned service provider;
(b)
"associated person" means a proprietor, partner, director, officer, or an employee of a service provider, a professional or
a valuer engaged by a service provider or any other person acting for or on behalf of a service provider;
(c)
"Board" means the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India established under sub-section (1) of section 188 of the
Code;
(d)
"Code" means the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (31 of 2016);
(e)
"complaint" means a written expression by a stakeholder alleging contravention of any provision of the Code or rules,
regulations, or guidelines made thereunder or circulars or directions issued by the Board by a service provider or any of
its associated persons and includes a complaint-cum-grievance;
(f)
"complaint-cum-grievance" means a complaint and grievance in the same matter.
(g)
"complainant" means a stakeholder who has filed a complaint or a complaint-cum-grievance with the Board;
(h)
"grievance" means a written expression by a stakeholder of his suffering on account of conduct of a service provider or
its associated persons;
(i)
"service provider" means an insolvency professional agency, an insolvency professional, an insolvency professional
entity or an information utility;
(j)
"stakeholder" means a debtor, a creditor, a claimant, a service provider, a resolution applicant and any other person
having an interest in the insolvency, liquidation, voluntary liquidation, or bankruptcy transaction under the Code.
(2)
The words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations, but defined in the Code, shall have the same
meaning as assigned to them in the Code.
Chapter II
Filing of Grievance and Complaint
3.
Filing of grievance and complaint.
(1)
A stakeholder, who wishes to file a grievance, shall file it with the Board.
(2)
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Grievance and Complaint Handling Procedure) Regu...
A grievance shall state:-
(i)
details of identity of the aggrieved;
(ii)
details of identity of the service provider;
(iii)
details of the conduct of the service provider that has caused the suffering to the aggrieved;
(iv)
details of suffering, whether pecuniary or otherwise, the aggrieved has undergone;
(v)
how the conduct of the service provider has caused the suffering of the aggrieved;
(vi)
details of his efforts to get the grievance redressed from the service provider and why the response, if any, of the service
provider is not satisfactory; and
(vii)
how the grievance may be redressed.
(3)
A stakeholder, who wishes to file a complaint, shall file it with the Board in Form A along with a demand draft for two
thousand and five hundred rupees drawn in favour of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India payable at New
Delhi or an online acknowledgement of two thousand and five hundred rupees paid to the credit of the Board towards
fee.
(4)
A grievance or a complaint, as the case may be, shall be filed within forty-five days of the occurrence of the cause of
action for the grievance or the complaint:
Provided that a grievance or a complaint may be filed after the aforesaid period, if there are sufficient reasons justifying
the delay, but such period shall not exceed 30 days.
(5)
A grievance or a complaint shall be filed with the Board online:
Provided that a grievance or complaint shall be filed by mail at
[email protected]
or by post or hand delivery at the Office of the Board, until the Board provides a facility for online filing of grievances and
complaints.
4.
Identity of the stakeholder.
(1)
A stakeholder filing a grievance, or a complaint shall disclose its identity in the grievance or the complaint, as the case
may be, and also the identity of the authorised representative, who is authorised to file it.
(2)
A stakeholder filing a grievance or a complaint, as the case may be, may request the Board to keep its identity
confidential and in that case the Board shall keep it confidential unless its disclosure is necessary for processing the
grievance or complaint or under any law.
5.
Registration number.
(1)
Where the Board is in receipt of more than one grievance or more than one complaint in the same matter, it may club
such grievances or such complaints together for their disposal.
(2)
The Board shall assign a unique registration number to every grievance and every complaint and communicate the said
registration number to the aggrieved or the complainant within a week of its receipt.
(3)
The Board shall not take any cognizance of any anonymous grievance or complaint.
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Grievance and Complaint Handling Procedure) Regu...
Chapter III
Disposal of Grievance
6.
Disposal of grievance.
(1)
The Board may seek additional information and records from the aggrieved and information and records from the
concerned service provider to decide if the grievance requires any redress by the service provider.
(2)
The aggrieved and the service provider shall submit the information and records sought under sub-regulation (1) within
fifteen days thereof.
(3)
The Board shall close the grievance within forty-five days of its receipt if it does not require any redress.
(4)
The Board shall direct the service provider to redress the grievance within forty-five days of its receipt if it requires any
redress.
Chapter IV
Disposal of Complaint
7.
Disposal of complaint.
(1)
The Board may seek additional information and records from the complainant and information and records from the
concerned service provider to form a prima facie view whether the contravention alleged in the complaint is correct.
(2)
The complainant and the service provider shall submit the information and records sought under sub-regulation (1)
within fifteen days thereof.
(3)
The Board shall form an opinion whether there exists a prima facie case within forty-five days of the receipt of the
complaint.
(4)
The Board shall close the complaint where it is of the opinion under sub-regulation (3) that there does not exist a prima
facie case and communicate the same to the complainant.
(5)
If the complainant is not satisfied with the decision of the Board under sub-regulation (4), he may request a review of
such decision.
(6)
The Board shall dispose of the review under sub-regulation (5) within thirty days of the receipt of the request for review
by an order with an opinion whether there exists a prima facie case.
(7)
Where the Board is of the opinion under this regulation that there exists a prima facie case, it may order an inspection
under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3, order an investigation under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7 or issue a show
cause notice under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 11 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Inspection and
Investigation) Regulations, 2017, as may be warranted.
(8)
Where the Board is of the opinion that the complaint is not frivolous, it shall refund the fee of two thousand five hundred
rupees received under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3.
Chapter V
Statistics
8.
The Board shall periodically disclose summary statistics about receipt and disposal of grievances and complaints on its
web site.
Form A
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Grievance and Complaint Handling Procedure) Regu...
[Under sub-regulation (3) of regulation (3) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Grievance and Complaint
Handling Procedure) Regulations, 2017]
Date ..........
To
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India
(Write here the address of the Board)
Dear Madam / Sir,
Subject: Complaint against [name of the service provider / associated person]
I, hereby submit a complaint against [name of the service provider / associated person]. The details of the same are set
out as under:
Sl. No.
Particulars
Description
1
Name of the complainant
2
Identity of the complainant
Aadhaar No / CIN
3
Name of the authorised representative, if
complaint is filed on behalf of the complainant
4
Identity of the authorised representative
Aadhaar No.
5
Complete address for correspondence with
complainant / authorised representative: (Along with Email ID &
Phone No.)
6
Name of the service provider/its associated
persons complained against
7
Identity of the service provider
Aadhaar No/CIN (If known)
8
Complete address of the service provider (Along
with Email ID & Phone No)
9
Details of the alleged contravention of any
provision of the Code or rules, regulations, or guidelines made
thereunder or circulars or directions issued by the Board by a
service provider or its associated persons.
Please quote the exact section, sub-section,
rules, regulation, or clause, as the case may be.
10
Details of alleged conduct or activity of the
service provider or its associated persons, along with date and
place of such conduct or activity, which contravenes the
provision of the law.
Please narrate details.
11
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Grievance and Complaint Handling Procedure) Regu...
Details of suffering, whether pecuniary or
otherwise, the complainant has undergone.
12
How the conduct or activity of the service
provider or its associated persons has caused the suffering of
the complainant or to any other stakeholder.
13
Details of evidence in support of alleged
contravention.
14
Does the complainant have a grievance? If so,
how it may be redressed?
15
Is complaint being filed within forty-five days
of the occurrence of the cause of action for the complaint?
If not explain the reasons for delay.
16
Whether the fee of Rs.2500 has been paid
Yes/No
17
The Bank account No. and details of the
complainant to which the fee can be refunded
18
Whether the complainant wishes to keep its
identity confidential
Yes/No.
19
List of documents attached in support of the
complaint:
a. Authorisation, if it is filed by an
authorised representative;
b. Demand draft for Rs.2500/Online
acknowledgement of credit of Rs. 2500 to the account of the
Board;
c.
d.
.
.
m.
n.
20
Any other details in support of the complaint.
Yours faithfully
Signature
Name of the Complainant/Authorised Representative
Verification
I, ....................................., the complainant/authorised representative of the complainant do hereby declare that what is
stated above is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.
Verified today, the ......................... day of .................., 20xx, at ........................
Signature
Name of the Complainant / Authorised Representative
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Grievance and Complaint Handling Procedure) Regu...
Date:
Place:
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7