
----- PAGE 1 -----
All India Council for Technical Education (Norms and Standards for the conduct of Post Gra...
All India Council for Technical Education (Norms and Standards for
the conduct of Post Graduate Diploma in Management) Regulations,
2017
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/86804351/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
All India Council for Technical Education (Norms and Standards for the conduct of Post Graduate Diploma in
Management) Regulations, 2017
UNION OF INDIA
India
All India Council for Technical Education (Norms and Standards for the conduct of Post Graduate Diploma in
Management) Regulations, 2017
Rule
ALL-INDIA-COUNCIL-FOR-TECHNICAL-EDUCATION-NORMS-AND-STANDARDS-FOR-THE-CONDUCT-OF-POST-G
RADUATE-DIPLOMA-IN-MANAGEMENT-REGULATIONS-2017 of 2017
Published on 14 December 2017
Commenced on 14 December 2017
[This is the version of this document from 14 December 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
All India Council for Technical Education (Norms and Standards for the conduct of Post Graduate Diploma in
Management) Regulations, 2017
Published vide Notification No. F.No. AICTE/P&AP/PGDM/2017 dated 14.12.2017
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
All India Council for Technical Education (Norms and Standards for the conduct of Post Gra...
All India Council for Technical Education
F.No. AICTE/P&AP/PGDM/2017. - Preamble: Management Education in India has expanded exponentially in the recent
past. In order to properly regulate and enhance the quality of management education imparted in institutions who are
offering Post Graduate Diploma Programmes in Management (PGDM), it has been felt that norms and standards
regarding academic calendar, admission, AICTE model curriculum and fee refund be spelt out precisely through
regulation.
Now, therefore;
In exercise of powers conferred under sub-section (1) of section 23 read with section 10 (b)(g)(i)(j)(m)(n) and (o) of the
All India Council for Technical Education Act, 1987 (52 of 1987) and in supersession of all earlier notifications/ public
notice issued by AICTE, the AICTE hereby makes the following Regulations, namely:
1.
Short title and commencement.
- (i) These Regulations may be called "All India Council for Technical Education (Norms and Standards for the conduct
of Post Graduate Diploma in Management) Regulations, 2017".
(ii)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette;
2.
Applicability.
- These Regulations are applicable to Management Institutions conducting PGDM Programmes.
3.
Definitions.
- In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:
(i)
`Act' means All India Council for Technical Education Act, 1987 (52 of 1987);
(ii)
`Council' means the All India Council for Technical Education constituted under Section 3 of the Act;
(iii)
`Management Institutions' herein shall mean the institutions offering PGDM courses approved by AICTE;
4.
The duration of the PGDM Programme shall not be less than 21 months.
5.
The Academic calendar for admission of students shall be followed as prescribed by AICTE. The admission shall be
started from 1st March and end by 30th June every year.
6.
Admissions to PGDM Institutions shall be made only from the candidates qualified from anyone of the six All India tests
i.e.; CAT, XAT, CMAT, ATMA, MAT, GMAT or state level entrance examination, if any conducted by the respective
State Government.
The candidates shall be short listed on the basis of the overall rank computed taking into account of the following
components and their weights:
? Score in the Common Admission test (CAT, XAT, CMAT, ATMA, MAT, GMAT)
-35 to 60%
? Score for academic performance in X Std., XII Std., Under Graduate Degree/Post Graduate Degree
- 5 to 25%
? Group discussion/interview
- 20 to 45%
? Weightage for participation in Sports, Extra-curricular activities, Academic diversity and Gender diversity
– 5 to 20%
PGDM Institutions shall publish the information regarding the names of the Common Admission Tests, from which the
candidates are selected for admissions, the percentage of scores of above components in their website, admission
brochure well before the admission process is initiated and inform the applicants through specific communications.
The institution shall inform AICTE and clearly display on the institution's website the eligibility criteria, selection
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
All India Council for Technical Education (Norms and Standards for the conduct of Post Gra...
procedure and the merit list of the candidates who have applied for the programme. The selection of the candidates
shall be strictly on the basis of merit only.
7.
PGDM Institutions shall upload students' enrolment data in the prescribed format on AICTE Portal since its
establishment before December 2017. Thereafter students' enrolment data shall be uploaded on AICTE Portal within
one month from the last date for admissions every year.
8.
PGDM Institutions may devise their own curriculum for PGDM Programmes, however it shall be in conformity with the
Model curriculum framed by AICTE and they shall incorporate significant part of academic components in their
curriculum.
9.
PGDM Institutions shall publish the fee being charged in their web-site and in admission brochure.
10.
PGDM Institutions shall refund fees collected after deducting an amount Rs. 1000/- as processing fee and return the
certificates to the students withdrawing from the institutions before the last date of admission for whatever the reasons
as per the procedure prescribed by AICTE. The last date for withdrawal of admissions for the purpose of refund of fees
shall be 30th June every year.
11.
All stand-alone PGDM institutes shall constitute Board of Governors (BOG) for ensuring the effective management of
the institutions and planning strategy for future development.
12.
All PGDM institutions shall upload both the transcripts and certificates of all students on the National Academic
Depositary (NAD).
13.
Rules with respect to matters relating to examinations and arbitration shall be decided by the All India Board of
Management, AICTE.
14.
Institution shall appoint Ombudsman as per All India Council for Technical Education (Establishment of Mechanism of
Grievance Redressal) Regulation, 2012, F. No. 37-3/Legal/2012, dated 25.05.2012.
15.
Apart from specific norms and standards laid down by the above regulation, updated norms and standards for grant of
approval/ extension of approval in the AICTE-Approval Process Handbook published from time to time shall be
applicable to PGDM Institutions.
16.
Interpretation.
- If any question arises as to the interpretation of these Regulations, the same shall be decided by the Council. The
Council shall have the power to issue clarification to remove any doubt which may arise in regard to implementation of
these Regulations.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3