
----- PAGE 1 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of Kenya for the Avoidance of Double
Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes
on Income
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/174881873/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Kenya for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
UNION OF INDIA
India
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Kenya for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
Rule
AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-R
EPUBLIC-OF-KENYA-FOR-THE-AVOIDANCE-OF-DOUBLE-TAXATION-AND-THE-PREVENTION-OF-FISCAL-EVASI
ON-WITH-RESPECT-TO-TAXES-ON-INCOME of 2018
Published on 19 February 2018
Commenced on 19 February 2018
[This is the version of this document from 19 February 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/18
----- PAGE 2 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Kenya for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
Published vide Notification No. S.O. 731(E), dated 19.2.2018
S.O. 731(E). - Whereas, an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the
Republic of Kenya for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on
income was signed at Nairobi, Kenya on the 11th July, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as the said Agreement);
And whereas, the said Agreement entered into force on the 30th day of August, 2017, being the date of the later of the
notifications of the completion of the procedures required by the respective laws for entry into force of the said
Agreement, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 31 of the said Agreement;
And whereas, sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 3 of Article 31 of the said Agreement provided that the provisions of the
said Agreement shall have effect in India in respect of income derived in any fiscal year beginning on or after the first
day of April following the calendar year in which the said Agreement enters into force;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 90 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of
1961), the Central Government hereby notifies that all the provisions of said Agreement, as annexed hereto shall be
given effect to in the Union of India.
Annexure
The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Kenya
Desiring to conclude an Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with
respect to taxes on income and with a view to promoting economic cooperation between the two countries,
Have Agreed as follows:
Article 2
1.
Persons Covered.
This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
Article 2
2.
Taxes Covered.
1. This Agreement shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its political subdivisions
or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
2. There shall be regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income, or on elements of income including
taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property, and taxes on the total amounts of wages or
salaries paid by enterprises.
3.
The existing taxes to which the Agreement shall apply are, in particular:
(a)
in the case of India: the income-tax, including any surcharge thereon (hereinafter referred to as "Indian tax");
(b)
in the case of Kenya: taxes on income chargeable under the Income Tax Act (Cap. 470) (hereinafter referred to as
"Kenyan tax").
4.
The Agreement shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes which are imposed after the date of
signature of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The competent authorities of the Contracting
States shall notify each other of any significant changes which have been made in their respective taxation laws.
Article 3
3. General Definitions.
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
the term "India" means the territory of India and includes the territorial sea and air space above it as well as any other
maritime zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and jurisdiction, according to the Indian law and in
accordance with international law, including the U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea;
(b)
Page 2/18
----- PAGE 3 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
the term "Kenya" means all territory of Kenya in state boundaries, including internal and territorial waters and also
Special Economic Zone and Continental Shelf, and all installations erected thereon as defined in the Continental shelf
Act over which Kenya exercises its sovereign rights for the purpose of exploiting natural resources of the sea bed, its
subsoil and superjacent waters, in accordance with the international law;
(c)
the terms "Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State" mean India or Kenya as the context requires;
(d)
the term "person" includes an individual, a company, a body of persons and any other entity which is treated as a
taxable unit under the taxation laws in force in the respective Contracting States;
(e)
the term "company" means anybody corporate or any entity which is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(f)
the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively an
enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other
Contracting State;
(g)
the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise that has its place of
effective management in a Contracting State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the
other Contracting State;
(h)
the term "competent authority" means:
(i)
in the case of India, the Finance Minister, Government of India, or his authorized representative;
(ii)
in the case of Kenya, the Cabinet Secretary responsible for Finance or his authorized representative;
(i)
the term "national" means:
(i)
any individual possessing the nationality of a Contracting State;
(ii)
any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in a Contracting State;
(j)
the term "tax" means Indian or Kenyan tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any amount which is payable in
respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this Agreement applies or which represents a penalty
or fine imposed relating to those taxes;
(k)
The term "fiscal year" means:
(i)
in the case of India: the financial year beginning on the 1st day of April;
(ii)
in the case of Kenya: the year of income beginning on the 1st day of January.
2. As regards the application of the Agreement at any time by a Contracting State, any term not defined therein shall,
unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the law of that State for the
purposes of the taxes to which the Agreement applies and any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State
prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that State.
Article 4
4. Resident.
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the laws
of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of incorporation, place of management or
any other criterion of a similar nature and also includes that State and any political subdivision or local authority thereof.
This term, however, does not include any person who is liable to tax in that State in respect only of income from sources
Page 3/18
----- PAGE 4 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
in that State.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his
status shall be determined as follows:
(a)
he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him. If he has a
permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State with which his
personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);
(b)
if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home
available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an habitual abode;
(c)
if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State of
which he is a national;
(d)
if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the
question by mutual agreement.
3. Where, by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1, a person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which its place of effective management is situated.
If the State in which its place of effective management is situated cannot be determined, then the competent authorities
of the Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
Article 5
5.
Permanent Establishment.
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:
(a)
a place of management;
(b)
a branch;
(c)
an office;
(d)
a factory;
(e)
a workshop;
(f)
a sales outlet;
(g)
a warehouse in relation to a person providing storage facilities for others;
(h)
a farm, plantation or other place where agricultural, forestry, plantation or related activities are carried on; and
(i)
a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources.
3. The term `Permanent Establishment' also encompasses: -
(a)
A building site, construction, assembly or installation project or supervisory activities in connection therewith, but only if
such site, project or activities last more than six months.
(b)
The furnishing of services, including consultancy services, by an enterprise through employees or other personnel
engaged by the enterprise for such purpose, but only if activities of that nature continue (for the same or connected
Page 4/18
----- PAGE 5 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
project) within a Contracting State for a period or periods aggregating more than 90 days within any 12-month period.
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to
include:
(a)
the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;
(b)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage or
display;
(c)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by
another enterprise;
(d)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or for collecting
information, for the enterprise;
(e)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity of
a preparatory or auxiliary character;
(f)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in subparagraphs (a) to
(e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or
auxiliary character.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person - other than an agent of an independent status
to whom paragraph 7 applies - is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned Contracting State in respect of
any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, if such a person
(a)
has and habitually exercises in that State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise, unless the
activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through a fixed place of
business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that
paragraph, or
(b)
has no such authority, but habitually maintains in the first-mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise from which
he regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of that enterprise;
(c)
habitually secures orders in the first-mentioned State, wholly or almost wholly for the enterprise itself.
6.
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall, except in
regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collects
premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of
independent status to whom paragraph 7 applies.
7.
An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State merely because it carries
on business in that State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status,
provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. However, when the activities of such an
agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise and conditions are made or imposed between that
enterprise and the agent in their commercial and financial relations which differ from those which would have been made
between independent enterprises he will not be considered an agent of an independent status within the meaning of this
paragraph.
8.
The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a
resident of the other Contracting State or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent
Page 5/18
----- PAGE 6 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company, a permanent establishment of the other.
Article 6
6. Income From Immovable Property.
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture or
forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State,
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which
the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed
property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working
of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources; ships, boats and aircraft shall not be
regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form
of immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and to
income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
Article 7
7. Business Profits.
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on
business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on
or has carried on business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of
them as is attributable to that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other
Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be
attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly
independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are
incurred for the purposes of the business of the permanent establishment, including executive and general
administrative expenses so incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or
elsewhere, in accordance with the provisions of and subject to the limitations of the tax laws of that State. However, no
such deduction shall be allowed in respect of amounts, if any, paid (otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual
expenses) by the permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices, by way of
royalties, fees or other similar payments in return for the use of patents, know-how or other rights, or by way of
commission or other charges for specific services performed or for management, or, except in the case of banking
enterprises, by way of interest on moneys lent to the permanent establishment. Likewise, no account shall be taken, in
the determination of the profits of a permanent establishment, for amounts charged (otherwise than toward
reimbursement of actual expenses), by the permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of its
other offices, by way of royalties, fees or other similar payments in return for the use of patents, know-how or other
rights, or by way of commission or other charges for specific services performed or for management, or, except in the
case of a banking enterprise, by way of interest on moneys lent to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other
offices.
4. Insofar as it has been customary in a Contracting State to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanent
establishment on the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in
paragraph 2 shall preclude Contracting State from determining the profits to be taxed by such an apportionment as may
be customary; the method of apportionment adopted shall, however, be such that the result shall be in accordance with
the principles contained in this Article.
5. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
6. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
7. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Agreement, then the
Page 6/18
----- PAGE 7 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
Article 8
8. Shipping and Air Transport.
1. Profits derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic
shall be taxable only in the Contracting State in which the place of effective management of the enterprise is situated.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, profits derived from the operation of ships in international traffic may
be taxed in the Contracting State in which such operation is carried on; but the tax so charged shall not exceed 50 per
cent of the tax otherwise imposed by the internal law of that State.
3. If the place of effective management of a shipping enterprise is aboard a ship, then it shall be deemed to be situated
in the Contracting State in which the home harbor of the ship is situated, or, if there is no such home harbor, in the
Contracting State of which the operator of the ship is a resident.
4. Profits derived by a transportation enterprise which is a resident of a Contracting State from the use, maintenance, or
rental of containers (including trailers and other equipment for the transport of containers) used for the transport of
goods or merchandise in international traffic which is supplementary or incidental to its international operation of ships or
air-crafts shall be taxable only in that Contracting State unless the containers are used solely within the other contracting
State.
5. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or an
international operating agency.
Article 9
9.
Associated Enterprises.
1. Where
(a)
an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an
enterprise of the other Contracting State, or
(b)
the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting
State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State, and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the
two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations which differ from those which would be made between
independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises,
but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed
accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State and taxes accordingly profits on which
an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included are
profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between the two
enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shall
make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such
adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Agreement and the competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall if necessary consult each other.
3. The provisions of paragraph 2 shall not apply where judicial, administrative or other legal proceedings have resulted
in a final ruling that by actions giving rise to an adjustment of profits under paragraph 1, one of the enterprises
concerned is liable to penalty with respect to fraud, gross negligence or willful default.
Article 10
10.
Dividends.
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident of the other
Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends. This paragraph
shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
Page 7/18
----- PAGE 8 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares or other rights, not being debt-claims,
participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment
as income from shares by the laws of the State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal
services from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 15, as the
case may be, shall apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting
State, that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends
are paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the company's
undistributed profits to a tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits
consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in such other State.
Article 11
11.
Interest.
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises, and according to the laws of that
State, but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not
exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the interest.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest arising in a Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that
State, provided that it is derived and beneficially owned by:
(a)
the Government, a political sub-division or a local authority of the other Contracting State; or
(b)
i) in the case of India, the Reserve Bank of India and the Export-Import bank of India; and ii) in the case of Kenya, the
Central Bank of Kenya; or
(c)
any other government financial institution/entity as may be agreed upon from time to time between the Competent
authorities of the Contracting States through exchange of letters.
4. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt claims of every kind, whether or not secured by
mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from
government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of
this Article.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the debt claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 15, as the case may be, shall apply.
6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where, however,
the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a
permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was
incurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed
to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the interest having regard to the debt claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
Page 8/18
----- PAGE 9 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments
shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this
Agreement.
Article 12
12.
Royalties.
1. Royalties arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that
other State.
2. However, such royalties may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise, and according to the laws of
that State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties is a resident of the other Contracting State the tax so charged shall
not exceed 10 percent of the gross amount of the royalties.
3. The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or
the right to use any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films or films or tapes used for
television or radio broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or for the use
of, or the right to use, industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, or for information concerning industrial, commercial
or scientific experience.
4. The provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the royalties arise, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the right or property in respect of which the royalties are paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 15, as the case may be, shall apply.
5. Royalties shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where, however,
the person paying the royalties whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a
permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the liability to pay the royalties was incurred, and
such royalties are borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such royalties shall be deemed to arise in
the Contracting State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the royalties having regard to the use, right or information for which they are paid,
exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such
relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of
the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other
provisions of this Agreement.
Article 13
13.
Fees for Management, Professional and Technical Services.
1. Fees for management, professional and technical services arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the
other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such fees for management, professional and technical services may be taxed in the Contracting State in
which they arise, and according to the law of that State, but if the beneficial owner of fees for management, professional
and technical services is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the
gross amount of the fees for management, professional and technical services.
3. The term "fees for management, professional and technical services" as used in this article means payments of any
kind to any person, other than to an employee of the person making the payments and those mentioned in Articles 15
and 16 of this Agreement in consideration for any services of a managerial, technical, professional or consultancy nature
including the provision of services of technical or other personnel.
4. The provisions of paragraph1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the fees for management, professional
and technical services being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in
which the fees for management, professional and technical services arise, through a permanent establishment situated
therein or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein and the fees for
management, professional and technical services are effectively connected with such permanent establishment or a
fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 15 as the case may be shall apply.
Page 9/18
----- PAGE 10 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
5. Fees for management, professional and technical services shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the
payer is that Contracting State itself, a political sub-division, a local authority or a resident of that State. Where, however,
the person paying the fees for management, professional and technical services, whether he is a resident of that State
or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment in connection with which the liability to pay the fees for
management, professional and technical services was incurred and such fees for management, professional and
technical services are borne by such permanent establishment then such fees for management, professional and
technical services shall be deemed to arise in the Contracting State in which the permanent establishment is situated.
6. Where, owing to a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner of the fees for management,
professional and technical services or between both of them and some other person, the amount of the fees for
management, professional and technical services paid, having regard to the service for which they are paid, exceeds the
amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship,
the provisions of this article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In that case the excess part of the payment
shall remain taxable according to the law of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this
Agreement
Article 14
14.
Capital Gains.
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6
and situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed
base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing
independent personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or
with the whole enterprise) or of such fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international traffic, or movable property pertaining to the
operation of such ships or aircraft shall be taxable only in the Contracting State in which the place of effective
management of the enterprise is situated.
4. Gains from the alienation of shares of the capital stock of a company, or of an interest in a partnership, trust or estate,
the property of which consists directly or indirectly principally of immovable property situated in a Contracting State may
be taxed in that State.
5. Gains from the alienation of shares other than those mentioned in paragraph 4 in a company which is a resident of a
Contracting State may be taxed in that State.
6. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
Article 15
15.
Independent Personal Services.
1. Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State from the performance of professional
services or other independent activities of a similar character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following
circumstances when such income may also be taxed in the other Contracting State:
(a)
if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing his activities;
in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in that other State; or
(b)
if his stay in the other Contracting State is for a period or periods amounting to or exceeding in the aggregate 183 days
in any period of 12 - months commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned; in that case, only so much of the
income as is derived from his activities performed in that other State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "professional services" includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching
activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, surgeons, dentists and
accountants.
Article 16
Page 10/18
----- PAGE 11 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
16.
Dependent Personal Services.
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 17, 19, 20, 21 and 22 salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a
resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is
exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom
may be taxed in that other State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of
an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if:
(a)
the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any twelve
month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned, and
(b)
the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State, and
(c)
the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in the other State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised
aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic, by an enterprise of a Contracting State may be taxed only in the
Contracting State in which the place of effective management of the enterprise is situated.
Article 17
17.
Directors' Fees.
Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member or
on behalf of a member of the board of directors in a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be
taxed in that other State.
Article 18
18.
Artistes and Sports persons.
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 15 and 16, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from
personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an entertainer or a sportsperson in his capacity as such
accrues not to the entertainer or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the
provisions of Articles 7, 15 and 16, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the entertainer or
sportsperson are exercised.
3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, shall not apply to income from activities performed in a Contracting State by
entertainers or sports persons if the activities are substantially supported by public funds of one or both of the
Contracting States or of political subdivisions or local authorities thereof. In such a case, the income shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the entertainer or sportsperson is a resident.
Article 19
19.
Pensions.
1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 20, pensions and other similar remuneration paid to a resident of a
Contracting State in consideration of past employment shall be taxable only in that State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, pensions paid and other payments made under a public scheme which
is part of the social security system of a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof shall be
taxable only in that State.
Article 20
20.
Government Service.
1. (a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a political
subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or
Page 11/18
----- PAGE 12 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
authority shall be taxable only in that State.
(b)
However, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the
services are rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who:
(i)
is a national of that State; or
(ii)
did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. (a) Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority
thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in
that State.
(b)
However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of, and a
national of, that State.
3. The provisions of Articles 16, 17, 18 and 19 shall apply to salaries, wages and other similar remuneration and to
pensions in respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political
subdivision or a local authority thereof.
Article 21
21.
Professors, Teachers and Research Scholars.
1. A professor, teacher or research scholar who is or was a resident of the Contracting State immediately before visiting
the other Contracting State for the purpose of teaching or engaging in research, or both, at a university, college or other
similar approved institution in that other Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that other State on any
remuneration for such teaching or research for a period not exceeding two years from the date of his first arrival in that
other State.
2. This Article shall apply to income from research if such research is undertaken by the individual in the public interest
and not primarily for the benefit of some private person or persons.
3. For the purposes of this Article, an individual shall be deemed to be a resident of a Contracting State if he is resident
in that State in the fiscal year in which he visits the other Contracting State or in the immediately preceding fiscal year.
Article 22
22.
Students.
1. A student who is or was a resident of one of the Contracting States immediately before visiting the other Contracting
State and who is present in that other Contracting State solely for the purpose of his education or training, shall besides
grants and scholarships be exempt from tax in that other State on:
(a)
payments made to him by persons residing outside that other State for the purposes of his maintenance, education or
training; and
(b)
remuneration which he derives from an employment, which he exercises during his full time education or training in the
other Contracting State.
2. The benefits of this Article shall extend only for such period of time as may be reasonable or customarily required to
complete the education or training undertaken, but in no event shall any individual have the benefits of this Article, for
more than six consecutive years from the date of his first arrival for the purpose of his education or training in that other
State.
Article 23
23.
Other Income.
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this
Agreement shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in
Page 12/18
----- PAGE 13 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in
the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the
income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of
Article 7 or Article 15, as the case may be, shall apply.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, items of income of a resident of a Contracting State not dealt
with in the foregoing articles of this Agreement and arising in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other
State.
Article 24
24.
Methods for Elimination of Double Taxation.
1. The laws in force in either of the Contracting States will continue to govern the taxation of income in the respective
Contracting States except where provisions to the contrary are made in this Agreement.
2. Double taxation shall be eliminated in India as follows:
(a)
Where a resident of India derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, may be taxed in
Kenya, India shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident, an amount equal to the tax paid in
Kenya. Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that portion of the tax as computed before the deduction is given,
which is attributable, as the case may be, to the income which may be taxed in Kenya.
(b)
Where in accordance with any provision of the Agreement income derived by a resident of India is exempt from tax in
India, India may nevertheless, in calculating the amount of tax on the remaining income of such resident, take into
account the exempted income.
3. Double taxation shall be eliminated in Kenya as follows:
(a)
Where a resident of Kenya derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, may be taxed in
India, Kenya shall allow as a credit against the tax on the income of that resident, an amount equal to the tax paid in
India.
Such credit shall not, however, exceed that portion of the tax as computed before the credit is given, which is
attributable, as the case may be, to the income which may be taxed in India.
(b)
Where in accordance with any provision of the Agreement, income derived by a resident of Kenya is exempt from tax in
Kenya, Kenya may nevertheless, in calculating the amount of tax on the remaining income of such resident, take into
account the exempted income.
Article 25
25.
Non-Discrimination.
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any
requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to
which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may be
subjected. This provision shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not residents of
one or both of the Contracting States.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favorably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State
carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to residents
of the other Contracting State any personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for taxation purposes on account of civil
status or family responsibilities which it grants to its own residents. This provision shall not be construed as preventing a
Contracting State from charging the profits of a permanent establishment which a company of the other Contracting
State has in the first mentioned State at a rate of tax which is higher than that imposed on the profits of a similar
company of the first mentioned Contracting State, nor as being in conflict with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 7.
3. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 7 of Article 11, or paragraph 6 of Article 12, apply,
Page 13/18
----- PAGE 14 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
interest, royalties and other disbursements paid by an enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of the other
Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible under the
same conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State. Similarly, any debts of an enterprise
of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable
capital of such enterprise, be deductible under the same conditions as if they had been contracted to a resident of the
first-mentioned State.
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by
one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any taxation
or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
5. The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2, apply to taxes of every kind and
description.
Article 26
26.
Mutual Agreement Procedure.
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in
taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the
domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a
resident or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 25, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national.
The case must be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in
accordance with the provisions of the Agreement.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive
at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracting
State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Agreement. Any agreement reached
shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties
or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Agreement. They may also consult together for the
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Agreement.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of
reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs. When it seems advisable in order to reach agreement
to have an oral exchange of opinions, such exchange may take place through a Commission consisting of
representatives of the competent authorities of the Contracting States.
Article 27
27.
Exchange of Information.
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information (including documents or certified
copies of the documents) as is necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Agreement or to the administration or
enforcement of the domestic laws concerning taxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of the Contracting
States, or of their political subdivisions or local authorities insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the
Agreement. The exchange of information is not restricted by Articles 1 and 2.
2. Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as
information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities
(including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or
prosecution in respect of, the determination of appeals in relation to the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the oversight
of the above. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the
information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, information received by
contracting states may be used for other purposes when such information may be used for such other purposes under
the laws of both states and the competent authority of the supplying state authorizes such use.
3. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:
(a)
to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other
Page 14/18
----- PAGE 15 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
Contracting State;
(b)
to supply information (including documents or certified copies of the documents) which is not obtainable under the laws
or in the normal course of the administration of that or of the other Contracting State;
(c)
to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade
process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (order public).
4. If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance with this Article, the other Contracting State shall use
its information gathering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that other State may not need such
information for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to the limitations of
paragraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply
information solely because it has no domestic interest in such information.
5. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply
information solely because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution, nominee or person acting in an
agency or a fiduciary capacity or because it relates to ownership interests in a person.
Article 28
28.
Assistance in the Collection of Taxes.
1. The Contracting States shall lend assistance to each other in the collection of revenue claims. This assistance is not
restricted by Articles 1 and 2. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may by mutual agreement settle the
mode of application of this Article.
2. The term "revenue claim" as used in this Article means an amount owed in respect of taxes of every kind and
description imposed on behalf of the Contracting States, or of their political subdivisions or local authorities, insofar as
the taxation thereunder is not contrary to this Agreement or any other instrument to which the Contracting States are
parties, as well as interest, administrative penalties and costs of collection or conservancy related to such amount.
3. When a revenue claim of a Contracting State is enforceable under the laws of that State and is owed by a person
who, at that time, cannot, under the laws of that State, prevent its collection, that revenue claim shall, at the request of
the competent authority of that State, be accepted for purposes of collection by the competent authority of the other
Contracting State. That revenue claim shall be collected by that other State in accordance with the provisions of its laws
applicable to the enforcement and collection of its own taxes as if the revenue claim were a revenue claim of that other
State.
4. When a revenue claim of a Contracting State is a claim in respect of which that State may, under its law, take
measures of conservancy with a view to ensure its collection, that revenue claim shall, at the request of the competent
authority of that State, be accepted for purposes of taking measures of conservancy by the competent authority of the
other Contracting State. That other State shall take measures of conservancy in respect of that revenue claim in
accordance with the provisions of its laws as if the revenue claim were a revenue claim of that other State even if, at the
time when such measures are applied, the revenue claim is not enforceable in the first-mentioned State or is owed by a
person who has a right to prevent its collection.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4, a revenue claim accepted by a Contracting State for purposes
of paragraph 3 or 4 shall not, in that State, be subject to the time limits or accorded any priority applicable to a revenue
claim under the laws of that State by reason of its nature as such. In addition, a revenue claim accepted by a
Contracting State for the purposes of paragraph 3 or 4 shall not, in that State, have any priority applicable to that
revenue claim under the laws of the other Contracting State.
6. Proceedings with respect to the existence, validity or the amount of a revenue claim of a Contracting State shall only
be brought before the courts or administrative bodies of that State. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as creating
or providing any right to such proceedings before any court or administrative body of the other Contracting State.
7. Where, at any time after a request has been made by a Contracting State under paragraph 3 or 4 and before the
other Contracting State has collected and remitted the relevant revenue claim to the first-mentioned State, the relevant
revenue claim ceases to be
(a)
in the case of a request under paragraph 3, a revenue claim of the first-mentioned State that is enforceable under the
Page 15/18
----- PAGE 16 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
laws of that State and is owed by a person who, at that time, cannot, under the laws of that State, prevent its collection,
or
(b)
in the case of a request under paragraph 4, a revenue claim of the first-mentioned State in respect of which that State
may, under its laws, take measures of conservancy with a view to ensure its collection, the competent authority of the
first-mentioned State shall promptly notify the competent authority of the other State of that fact and, at the option of the
other State, the first-mentioned State shall either suspend or withdraw its request.
8. In no case shall the provisions of this Article be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:
(a)
to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other
Contracting State;
(b)
to carry out measures which would be contrary to public policy (ordre public);
(c)
to provide assistance if the other Contracting State has not pursued all reasonable measures of collection or
conservancy, as the case may be, available under its laws or administrative practice;
(d)
to provide assistance in those cases where the administrative burden for that State is clearly disproportionate to the
benefit to be derived by the other Contracting State.
Article 29
29.
Limitation of Benefits.
1. The provisions of this Agreement shall in no case prevent a Contracting State from the application of the provisions of
its domestic law and measures concerning tax avoidance or evasion, whether or not described as such.
2. A resident of a Contracting State shall not be entitled to the benefits of this Agreement if its affairs were arranged in
such a manner as if it was the main purpose or one of the main purposes to take the benefits of this Agreement.
3. Any person including legal entities not having bonafide business activities shall not be entitled to the benefits of this
Agreement.
Article 30
30.
Members of Diplomatic Missions and Consular Posts.
Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts under
the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 31
31.
Entry into Force.
1. The Contracting States shall notify each other in writing, through diplomatic channels, of the completion of the
procedures required by the respective laws for the entry into force of this Agreement.
2. This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the later of the notifications referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Article.
3. The provisions of this Agreement shall have effect:
(a)
In India, in respect of income derived in any fiscal year beginning on or after the first day of April next following the
calendar year in which the Agreement enters into force; and
(b)
In Kenya, in respect of:
(i)
taxes withheld at source on amounts paid or credited to non residents on or after first January, in the calendar year
following the year in which all the required formalities are completed;
(ii)
other taxes on income arising for the year of income commencing on or after the 1st January in the calendar year in
Page 16/18
----- PAGE 17 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
which all the required formalities are completed.
4. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Kenya for
the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income signed at Nairobi on
the 12th day of April, 1985 shall cease to have effect when the provisions of this Agreement become effective in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3
Article 32
32.
Termination.
This Agreement shall remain in force indefinitely until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State may
terminate the Agreement, through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination at least six months before the end
of any calendar year beginning after the expiration of five years from the date of entry into force of the Agreement. In
such event, the Agreement shall cease to have effect:
(a)
In India, in respect of income derived in any fiscal year on or after the first day of April next following the calendar year in
which the notice is given;
(b)
in Kenya:
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at the source on amounts paid or credited to non-residents on or after the 1st day of January
in the calendar year next following that in which the notice is given;
(ii)
in respect of other taxes on income arising for the year of income next following that in which the notice of termination is
given, and subsequent years.
In Witness Whereof the undersigned duly authorized thereto, have signed this Agreement.
Done in duplicate at Nairobi on this 11th day of July, 2016, each in the English and Hindi languages, both texts being
equally authentic. In case of divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
For the Government of the Republic of India
For
the government of Republic of Kenya
sd/-
sd/-
(Suchitra Durai)
(Henry
Rotich)
H.E
High Commissioner of
Cabinet
Secretary,
The
Republic of India
National
Treasury
For
The Republic of India
For
The Republic of Kenya
Protocol
At the moment of signing the Agreement this day concluded between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of Kenya for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with
respect to Taxes on Income, the undersigned have agreed upon the following provisions which shall be an integral part
of the Agreement:
Page 17/18
----- PAGE 18 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
1. For the purposes of computing the time limit in paragraph 3 (a) of Article 5, it is understood that the six months period
begins as of the date on which the construction activity itself begins; it does not take into account the time spent solely
on preparatory activities.
2. It is understood that if the domestic law of a Contracting State is more beneficial to a resident of the other Contracting
State than the provisions of this Agreement, then the provisions of the domestic law of the first-mentioned State shall
apply to the extent they are more beneficial to such a resident.
In Witness Whereof, the undersigned, being duly authorized by their respective Governments, have signed this Protocol.
Done in duplicate at Nairobi on this 11th day of July 2016 each, in the Hindi and English Languages, both texts being
equally authentic. In case of divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
For the Government of the Republic of India
For
the government of Republic of Kenya
sd/-
sd/-
(Suchitra Durai)
(Henry
Rotich)
H.E
High Commissioner of
Cabinet
Secretary,
The
Republic of India
National
Treasury
For
The Republic of India
For
The Republic of Kenya
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 18/18