
----- PAGE 1 -----
University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures f...
University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status
upon Colleges and Measures for Maintenance of Standards in
Autonomous Colleges) Regulations, 2018
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/79782747/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures for Maintenance of
Standards in Autonomous Colleges) Regulations, 2018
UNION OF INDIA
India
University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures for Maintenance of
Standards in Autonomous Colleges) Regulations, 2018
Rule
UNIVERSITY-GRANTS-COMMISSION-CONFERMENT-OF-AUTONOMOUS-STATUS-UPON-COLLEGES-AND-MEAS
URES-FOR-MAINTENANCE-OF-STANDARDS-IN-AUTONOMOUS-COLLEGES-REGULATIONS-2018 of 2018
Published on 12 February 2018
Commenced on 12 February 2018
[This is the version of this document from 12 February 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures for Maintenance of
Standards in Autonomous Colleges) Regulations, 2018
Published vide Notification No. F. No. 1-1/2012(AC), dated 12.2.2018
Page 1/11
----- PAGE 2 -----
University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures f...
F. No. 1-1/2012(AC). - The following is published for general information:-
Preamble. - Whereas the University Grants Commission (UGC) is mandated to coordinate and determine the standards
of higher education in universities;
And whereas college autonomy is instrumental for promoting broad based quality education and excellence;
Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (j) of Section 12 read with clauses (f) and (g) of
sub-section (1) of Section 26 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956, the University Grants Commission hereby
makes the following Regulations:-
1.
Short title, application and commencement.
- 1.1 These Regulations shall be called the University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon
Colleges and Measures for Maintenance of Standards in Autonomous Colleges) Regulations, 2018.
1.2
These Regulations shall apply to all Colleges/Institutions which are affiliated to, or are constituent colleges of
Universities in the country seeking the conferment of Autonomous College status.
1.3
These Regulations shall come into force from the date of their notification in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires-
2.1
"Academic Council" means the Academic Council of the Autonomous College
2.2
"Act" means the University Grants Commission Act, 1956
2.3
"Board of Studies" means the Board of Studies of a Department of the Autonomous College
2.4
"College" means any institution, whether known as such or by any other name, which provides for undergraduate and/or
postgraduate and/or Ph.D. programmes for obtaining any qualification from a university and which, in accordance with
the rules and regulations of such university, is recognized as competent to provide for such programmes/courses of
study and present students undergoing such courses of study for the examination for the award of such qualification
2.5
"Commission" means the University Grants Commission (UGC)
2.6
"Finance Committee" means the Finance Committee of the Autonomous College
2.7
"Governing Body" means the Governing Body of the Autonomous College, which is different from the Trust Board or the
Board of Management or the Executive Committee or the Management Committee
2.8
"Notification" means a notification issued by the affiliating University declaring a college as an autonomous one after the
conferment of autonomous status by the UGC
2.9
"Parent University" means the University to which the college concerned is affiliated, or of which the college concerned
is a constituent
2.10
"Statutory body" means a body constituted under any law for the time being in force for determining and maintaining
prescribed standards of quality in the relevant areas of higher education
3.
Role/terms and Conditions of an Autonomous College.
- 3.1 Review existing courses/programmes and, restructure, redesign and prescribe its own courses/programmes of
study and syllabi
3.2
Page 2/11
----- PAGE 3 -----
University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures f...
To formulate new courses/programmes within the nomenclature specified by UGC as per the Specification of Degrees
2014 and amended from time to time
3.3
Evolve methods of assessment of students performance, conduct of examinations and notification of results
3.4
To announce results, issue mark sheets, migration and other certificates; however, the degree shall be awarded by the
University with the name of the college on the degree certificate
3.5
Autonomous colleges need not pay affiliation fee to the parent university every year. One time fee can be paid at the
time of conferment of autonomous status. Such fees can be decided by the Executive council of the parent university
3.6
Prescribe rules for admission in consonance with the reservation policy of the state government/national policy
3.7
May fix fees of the courses at their own level
3.8
Constitute their own Governing Body, Academic Council, Board of Studies and Finance Committee
3.9
They shall have complete administrative autonomy and have the privilege of appointing their own Administrative staff
and teaching faculty including Principal. However, the staff will be appointed as per the UGC (Minimum Qualifications for
Appointment of Teachers and other Academic Staff in Universities and Colleges and Measures for the Maintenance of
Standards in Higher Education) Regulations 2010 as amended from time to time
3.10
The autonomous colleges shall continue to receive funds as being done before the grant of autonomous status, if any
3.11
Autonomy granted to the college is at the institutional level and is not partial, and shall cover the programmes at all
levels such as U.G., P.G. and Ph.D offered by the college. The courses introduced by the college after the conferment of
autonomous status shall automatically come under the purview of autonomy
3.12
The students enrolled at the time of granting autonomy to the College shall also be covered under autonomy
3.13
Autonomous status shall be granted initially for a period of ten years; further extension shall be for five years at a time
except those covered under clause 6.5
4.
Role of the Parent University.
- 4.1 To forward the application of the college for autonomous status/provide nominee on the Expert Committee/various
Statutory Bodies and issue notification within 30 days for a college to function as an autonomous entity once
autonomous status is conferred on the college
4.2
If the University does not forward the proposal/provide nominee within 30 days, it shall be presumed that the University
has no objection to the processing of the proposal by the UGC for conferment of autonomous status
4.3
The college on attaining autonomous status will continue to be affiliated to the affiliating University but will enjoy the
privileges of autonomy
5.
Role of the State Government.
- 5.1 To provide nominee on the Expert Committee/various Statutory Bodies within 30 days
5.2
The State Govt. will continue to provide the same funds to Government/Aided colleges as they had been providing
before the conferment of autonomous status
5.3
To ensure that all sanctioned faculty positions are filled on regular and ongoing basis and that a minimum of 85% posts
Page 3/11
----- PAGE 4 -----
University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures f...
remain filled at all time
6.
Eligibility.
- 6.1 Colleges (of any discipline) whether aided, partially aided and unaided/self financing are eligible provided they are
under Section 2(f) of the UGC Act
6.2
The college should have at least 10 years of existence
6.3
The colleges must be accredited by either NAAC with minimum 'A' Grade or by NBA for at least three programme(s) with
a minimum score of 675 individually or a corresponding accreditation Grade/score from a UGC empanelled accreditation
agency. However, if the number of programme(s) being run by the Institution is less than three, then each of the
programmes should secure 675 or more marks. Accreditation status must be valid at the time of application.
Provided further, the existing autonomous colleges will be required to comply with this eligibility condition within a
maximum period of five years from the date of notification of these Regulations.
The constituent colleges shall also undergo separate accreditation by NAAC/NBA/UGC empanelled accreditation
agency to be considered eligible.
6.4
(i)
Colleges accredited with a score of 3.0 and above, up to 3.25 on a 4 point scale of NAAC/corresponding NBA score /
corresponding accreditation score from a UGC empanelled accreditation agency at the time of application shall be
considered for grant of autonomous status with an on-site visit of the duly constituted Expert Committee.
(ii)
Colleges which have a NAAC score of 3.26 and above, up to 3.50 or a corresponding NBA score or a corresponding
accreditation Grade/score from a UGC empanelled accreditation agency for one complete cycle and also accredited
accordingly in the second cycle, shall be considered for grant of autonomous status without onsite visit by the Expert
Committee.
(iii)
Colleges with 3.51 and above in a 4 point scale of NAAC or a minimum of three programmes have been accredited by
NBA with a minimum score of 750 individually or a corresponding accreditation Grade/score from a UGC empanelled
accreditation agency at the time of application shall be considered for grant of autonomous status without onsite visit by
the Expert Committee.
However, the colleges are required to adhere to University Grants Commission's Regulations like (a) curbing the
menace of ragging in Higher Education Institutions Regulations 2012; (b) UGC (Promotion of Equity in Higher
Educational Institutions) Regulations 2012; (c) UGC (Grievance Redressal) Regulations 2012, etc. in letter and spirit.
The application of colleges covered under 6.4 (ii) and (iii) above shall be considered as the report of the Expert
Committee for consideration of the Commission and its approval thereof.
6.5
If an autonomous college has obtained the score of 3.51 and above on a 4-Point scale from NAAC or a minimum of
three programmes have been accredited by NBA with a minimum score of 750 individually or a corresponding
accreditation Grade/score from a UGC empanelled accreditation agency, the college shall be granted extension of
autonomous status for further ten years without on-site visit.
(Colleges which apply for reaccreditation within the stipulated six months before the end of the cycle of accreditation
period as mentioned in the Accreditation Certificate issued by National Assessment and Accreditation Council/NBA/UGC
empanelled accreditation agency, the gap period between two consecutive accreditations shall be condoned. In case of
other institutions which have not applied as per the guidelines mentioned above, the maximum period for condonation
would be one year between the two accreditation cycles)
7.
Conferment/extension of Autonomous Status.
- 7.1 A College intending to become autonomous shall make an application in the format specified by the Commission
any time during the year
7.2
Page 4/11
----- PAGE 5 -----
University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures f...
The college shall forward an advance copy of the proposal to University Grants Commission indicating the date of
receipt of the proposal by the parent university for the record of the UGC
7.3
The College shall submit the proposal to the Parent/Affiliating University which may forward the same to UGC within 30
days of the receipt of proposal. In case the proposal is rejected by the University, the decision shall be communicated to
the college and University Grants Commission through a "Speaking Order"
7.4
If the University and State Govt. fail to provide the nominees for the UGC Expert Committee, the UGC may proceed with
the on-spot visit and take decision on the proposal of the College
7.5
If the College is found eligible as per the guidelines, the Commission shall examine the proposal for
conferment/extension of autonomous status with an onsite visit by an Expert Committee constituted by the Chairman of
the Commission consisting of three expert members (preferably at the level of Professor/Principal of an autonomous
college) out of which one shall be the Chairperson, nominees from the Parent/Affiliating University and the State
Government. A UGC official may be nominated to coordinate the visit.
7.6
The decision for conferment /extension of autonomous status shall be taken by the Standing Committee (comprising of
three Commission members) on autonomous colleges after due consideration of the recommendations of the Expert
Committee. The approval letters may be issued on the basis of the decision of the standing committee. The decisions
may be ratified by the Commission subsequently
7.7
If the proposal of a College for the conferment of autonomous status is rejected for any reason whatsoever, the college
shall be eligible to reapply, but not before one year from the date of rejection of its earlier proposal
7.8
The autonomous College shall apply in the prescribed format to University Grants Commission for extension of
autonomous status six months prior to expiry of the autonomy cycle
7.9
In case of expiry of accreditation cycle, the College seeking extension of autonomous status must submit a proof of
having applied for accreditation by NAAC/NBA to be eligible for extension
7.10
Till the extension of autonomous status is awarded by the UGC, the College shall continue to avail the autonomous
status. The UGC shall also consider the interim period while granting extension of autonomous status to the College
7.11
If an Autonomous College wishes to surrender the autonomous status, it shall follow due process of forwarding the
resolution by the Governing Body through the University concerned to UGC for consideration. However, such withdrawal
shall take effect only after the last batch of students then enrolled under autonomy passes out
8.
Criteria for Granting Autonomy to Colleges.
- 8.1 Academic reputation and previous performance in university examinations and its academic/co-curricular/
extension activities in the past
8.2
Academic/extension / research achievements of the faculty
8.3
Quality and merit in the selection of students and teachers, subject to statutory requirements in this regard
8.4
Adequacy of infrastructure in terms of class rooms, library books and e-resources, laboratories and equipments, sports
facilities, facilities for recreation activities, residential accommodation for faculty and students, transport facilities etc.
8.5
Quality of institutional management
8.6
Financial strength of the institution
Page 5/11
----- PAGE 6 -----
University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures f...
8.7
Responsiveness of administrative structure
8.8
Motivation and involvement of faculty in the promotion of innovative reforms
9.
Monitoring of Autonomous Colleges.
- 9.1 IQAC cell shall be established in the college for regular monitoring of the college under intimation to UGC. The Cell
shall have an external Peer Team comprising of academicians of repute and will send report to UGC regarding the
performance of the College. The report shall also be put on public domain on the website of the College. The external
peer review shall be conducted atleast once in a year.
9.2
On receipt of adverse report by the external peer team of IQAC or in case of complaint, UGC has the power to constitute
its own Expert Committee for careful scrutiny of the report and may revoke the autonomous status of the college after
giving due opportunity to the management by way of notification and by passing a speaking order.
9.3
The autonomous college shall, without fail, upload on its website information regarding the courses offered by it, the fees
for the courses, the details of the faculty alongwith qualification and unique ID, the admission procedure, the details of
relevant infrastructures, research activities of the college along with the details of Ph.D. students enrolled, if any, with
the date of enrolment, topics and supervisor.
9.4
The college shall also put on its website the creation of various Committees/Cells as mandated in the various UGC
Regulations notified from time to time. The college shall conduct the meetings of the statutory bodies regularly and
upload the minutes of the meetings on the college website.
9.5
The college shall upload on its website all the information about the college in the prescribed format and the same shall
be sent to UGC while applying for fresh/extension of autonomous status. The college shall also submit progress report
and utilization certificate annually as per the prescribed formats.
9.6
All the Regulations notified by the UGC shall be followed in letter and spirit by all the Autonomous Colleges and an
undertaking to this effect shall be uploaded on the College website.
9.7
The number of contractual faculty in an autonomous college should not be more than 10% of the total number of
sanctioned faculty positions in the college.
10.
Matters Regarding Starting of New Courses.
- 10.1 An autonomous college is free to start diploma (undergraduate and postgraduate) or certificate courses without
prior approval of the University. However, approval of the concerned statutory bodies of the college may be obtained,
wherever required. Diplomas and certificates shall be issued under the seal of the college. The University should,
however, be informed about such introduction of new courses.
10.2
An autonomous college is free to start a new degree or postgraduate course/Ph.D. with the approval of the Academic
Council of the college and concerned Statutory Council(s), wherever required, provided the nomenclature of the degree
is in consonance with UGC Notification on Specification of Degrees, 2014 as amended from time to time. Such courses
shall fulfill the minimum standards prescribed by the university/UGC in terms of number of hours, curricular content and
standards, and the university shall be duly informed of such courses.
10.3
An autonomous college may rename an existing course as per the UGC Notification on Specification of Degrees, 2014
as amended from time to time after restructuring/ redesigning it with the approval of the college Academic Council as per
UGC norms. The university should be duly informed of such proceedings.
11.
Examination Cell & System.
Page 6/11
----- PAGE 7 -----
University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures f...
- 11.1 Autonomous College shall have an Examination Cell headed by Controller of Examinations. The Principal of the
college shall be the Chief Controller, Examinations.
11.2
The Controller of Examinations shall be assisted by the Deputy Controller of Examinations along with other office
support.
12.
Financial Assistance.
- 12.1 The Commission shall provide financial assistance to autonomous colleges as per the extant provisions of the
scheme guidelines (prescribed separately).However, self-financing colleges shall not be provided autonomy grant. In
matters related to utilization of autonomy grant and maintaining the accounts, the college shall remain guided by the
scheme guidelines.
13.
Governance of an Autonomous College.
- 13.1 The autonomous college shall have the following statutory bodies to ensure proper management of academic,
financial and general administrative affairs:
(a)
Governing Body
(b)
Academic Council
(c)
Board of Studies
(d)
Finance Committee
(The Governing Body is different from Trust Board/Board of Management/Executive Committee/Management
Committee).
13.2
The College shall, in addition, have other non statutory committees such as the Planning and Evaluation Committee,
Grievance Redressal Committee, Examination Committee, Admission Committee, Library Committee, Student Welfare
Committee, Internal Complaints Committee, Extra-Curricular Activities Committee and Academic Audit Committee.
13.3
Governing Body:
A. Constitution of Governing Body of Private /Self Financing College/Constituent College run by Trust/Society
Number
Category
Nature
5 Members
Management
Trust or management as per the constitution or
byelaws, with the Chairman or President/ Director as the
chairperson
2 Members
Teacher of the College
Nominated by the Principal based on seniority by
rotation
1 Member
Educationist or industrialist
Nominated by the management
1 Member
UGC Nominee
Nominated by the UGC
1 Member
Page 7/11
----- PAGE 8 -----
University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures f...
State Government nominee
Academician not below the rank of professor or
State Government official of Directorate of Higher Education/
State Council of Higher Education
1 Member
University Nominee
Nominated by the University
1 Member
Principal of College
Ex-officio
B. Constitution of Governing Body of Government Colleges
Number
Category
Nature
3 Members one of them to be Chairperson
Educationist, Industrialist, Professional
Nominated by the State Government, person of proven academic interest with at least PG level qualification
2 Members
Teacher of the College
Nominated by the Principal on seniority by
rotation
1 Member
Educationist or industrialist
Nominated by the Principal for two years
1 Member
UGC Nominee
Nominated by UGC
1 Member
State Government nominee
Nominated by the State Government
1 Member
University Professor
Nominated by the University
1 Member
Principal of College
Ex-officio
C. Constitution of Governing Body of Constituent Colleges run by University
Number
Category
Nature
3 Members one of them to be Chairperson
Educational, Industrialist, Professional
Nominated by the University, person of proven academic interest with at least PG level qualification
2 Members
Teacher of the College
Nominated by the Principal on seniority by
rotation
1 Member
State Government nominee
Nominated by the State Government
1 Member
Page 8/11
----- PAGE 9 -----
University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures f...
University Professor
Nominated by the University
1 Member
UGC Nominee
Nominated by UGC
1 Member
Principal of College
Ex-Officio
Term: The Governing Body shall be reconstituted every three years except in the case of UGC nominee who shall have
a term of five years.
Meetings: Meetings of the Governing Body shall be held at least twice a year.
Functions of the Governing Body: Subject to the existing provision in the bye-laws of respective college and rules laid
down by the state government/parent university, the Governing Body shall:
? Guide the college while fulfilling the objectives for which the college has been granted autonomous status.
? Institute scholarships, fellowships, studentships, medals, prizes and certificates on the recommendations of the
Academic Council
? Approve new programmes of study leading to degrees and/or diplomas.
? All recruitments of Teaching Faculty/Principal shall be made by the Governing Body/state government as applicable in
accordance with the policies laid down by the UGC and State Government from time to time.
? To approve annual budget of the college before submitting the same at the UGC.
? Perform such other functions and institute committees, as may be necessary and deemed fit for the proper
development of the college
13.4
Academic Council:
Compositon of Academic Council:
1. The Principal (Chairman)
2. All the Heads of Departments in the college
3. Four teachers of the college representing different categories of teaching staff by rotation on the basis of seniority of
service in the college.
4. Not less than four experts/academicians from outside the college representing such areas as Industry, Commerce,
Law, Education, Medicine, Engineering, Sciences etc., to be nominated by the Governing Body.
5. Three nominees of the university not less than Professors.
6. A faculty member nominated by the Principal (Member Secretary).
Term: The term of the nominated members shall be three years.
Meetings: Academic Council shall meet at least twice a year.
Functions of the Academic Council: The Academic Council shall have powers to:
(a)
Scrutinize and approve the proposals with or without modification of the Boards of Studies with regard to courses of
study, academic regulations, curricula, syllabi and modifications thereof, instructional and evaluation arrangements,
methods, procedures relevant thereto etc., provided that where the Academic Council differs on any proposal, it shall
have the right to return the matter for reconsideration to the Board of Studies concerned or reject it, after giving reasons
to do so.
(b)
Make regulations regarding the admission of students to different programmes of study in the college keeping in view
the policy of the Government.
(c)
Make regulations for sports, extra-curricular activities, and proper maintenance and functioning of the playgrounds and
hostels.
(d)
Recommend to the Governing Body proposals for institution of new programmes of study.
(e)
Page 9/11
----- PAGE 10 -----
University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures f...
Recommend to the Governing Body institution of scholarships, studentships, fellowships, prizes and medals, and to
frame regulations for the award of the same.
(f)
Advise the Governing Body on suggestions(s) pertaining to academic affairs made by it.
(g)
Perform such other functions as may be assigned by the Governing Body.
13.5
Board of Studies:
Composition of Board of Studies:
1. Head of the Department concerned (Chairman).
2. The entire faculty of each specialization.
3. Two subject experts from outside the Parent University to be nominated by the Academic Council.
4. One expert to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor from a panel of six recommended by the college principal.
5. One representative from industry/corporate sector/allied area relating to placement.
6. One postgraduate meritorious alumnus to be nominated by the principal. The Chairman, Board of Studies, may with
the approval of the principal of the college, co-opt:
(a)
Experts from outside the college whenever special courses of studies are to be formulated.
(b)
Other members of staff of the same faculty.
Term: The term of the nominated members shall be three years.
Meetings: The Board of Studies shall meet at least twice a year.
Functions: The Board of Studies of a Department in the college shall:
(a)
Prepare syllabi for various courses keeping in view the objectives of the college, interest of the stakeholders and
national requirement for consideration and approval of the Academic Council;
(b)
Suggest methodologies for innovative teaching and evaluation techniques;
(c)
Suggest panel of names to the Academic Council for appointment of examiners; and
(d)
Coordinate research, teaching, extension and other academic activities in the department/college.
13.6
Finance Committee:
Composition of Finance Committee:
(a)
The Principal (Chairman).
(b)
One person to be nominated by the Governing Body of the college for a period of two years.
(c)
Finance Officer of the affiliating University
(d)
One senior-most teacher of the college to be nominated in rotation by the principal for two years.
Term: Term of the Finance Committee shall be three years.
Meetings: The Finance Committee shall meet at least twice a year
Functions of the Finance Committee: The Finance Committee shall act as an advisory body to the Governing Body, to
consider:
(a)
Budget estimates relating to the grant received/receivable from UGC, and income from fees, etc. collected for the
activities to undertake the scheme of autonomy; and
(b)
Page 10/11
----- PAGE 11 -----
University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures f...
Audited accounts for the above.
14.
Consequences of Voilation of Regulations.
- 14.1 All UGC directives shall be strictly followed, failing which UGC may take appropriate actions, as it deems fit,
against the defaulting Autonomous College.
15.
Removal of Difficulties.
- 15.1 University Grants Commission reserves the right to remove difficulty/difficulties in the course of implementation of
these Regulations in consultation with the Government of India/Ministry of Human Resource Development.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 11/11