
----- PAGE 1 -----
National Institute of Fashion Technology Ordinances, 2017
National Institute of Fashion Technology Ordinances, 2017
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/91751942/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
National Institute of Fashion Technology Ordinances, 2017
UNION OF INDIA
India
National Institute of Fashion Technology Ordinances, 2017
Rule NATIONAL-INSTITUTE-OF-FASHION-TECHNOLOGY-ORDINANCES-2017 of 2017
Published on 27 February 2018
Commenced on 27 February 2018
[This is the version of this document from 27 February 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
National Institute of Fashion Technology Ordinances, 2017
Published vide Notification No. F. No. 1205(1)/NIFT/Estt./HO/Ordinances/2017, dated 27.2.2018
F. No. 1205(1)/NIFT/Estt./HO/Ordinances/2017. - In pursuance of sub-section (1) of section 27 of the National Institute
of Fashion Technology Act, 2006 (
No. 28 of 2006
) and in supersession of the National Institute of Fashion Technology Academic Programmes Ordinances, 2012, except
as respect things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Senate hereby makes the following
Ordinances, namely :-
Chapter 1
Preliminary
1.
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
National Institute of Fashion Technology Ordinances, 2017
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These Ordinances may be called the National Institute of Fashion Technology Ordinances, 2017.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Ordinances, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(i)
"academic" means the activities concerned with teaching, learning, training, evaluation or examination, and research;
(ii)
"academic calendar" means the calendar for academic activities in the academic year to be followed by all departments
across campuses of the Institute;
(iii)
"academic session" means the period of one semester consisting of predetermined number of weeks of academic
activity;
(iv)
"academic year" means a period of one year from July to June;
(v)
"applicant" means an individual who applies for admission to any academic programme of the Institute;
(vi)
"certificate" means a non-diploma or non-degree programme for duration of up to one year offered by the Institute as
approved by the concerned competent authority of the Institute;
(vii)
"competent authority" means the Director General as the Principal Executive Officer of the Institute, unless otherwise
provided in the Act, the Statutes or the Ordinances;
(viii)
"Controller of Examinations" means the Controller of Examinations in the head office of the Institute;
(ix)
"convocation" means a convocation of the Institute for conferring degrees on completion of doctoral, postgraduate or
undergraduate and such other programme as may be approved by the Senate;
(x)
"course" means a complete body of prescribed studies for a full time or part time academic programme leading to the
award of a degree, diploma or a certificate;
(xi)
"curriculum" means a prescribed set of subjects with details of topics to be covered in each subject, evaluation
parameters, credits, hours and other academic activities for an individual course;
(xii)
"degree" means the undergraduate, postgraduate, doctoral and such other degree of the Institute as may be approved
by the Senate;
(xiii)
"diploma" means a non-degree course of duration of one to two years offered by the Institute as approved by the
Senate;
(xiv)
"examination" or "evaluation" means the procedure used to evaluate the academic performance of a student as
prescribed by the Senate from time to time;
(xv)
"faculty member" means an educator who engages in academic delivery in the Institute;
(xvi)
"grade" means a letter or numerical grade indicating the performance of a student in a subject or activity pertaining to a
course;
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
National Institute of Fashion Technology Ordinances, 2017
(xvii)
"jury" means a panel of faculty members or external experts for evaluation of academic performance of students;
(xviii)
"programme" means an identified academic discipline under which courses are offered;
(xix)
"twinning programme" means the student exchange programme with an external institution for a prescribed period of
time.
Chapter 2
The courses of study for all degrees, diplomas and certificates of the Institute
3.
Degree Programmes.
- The Institute shall offer undergraduate, post-graduate, doctoral, and post-doctoral programmes for awarding degrees,
as decided by the Institute and approved by the Senate.
4.
Bachelor Programmes.
(1)
The duration of Bachelor Programme shall be of four academic years comprising of two academic sessions each.
(2)
The Institute shall offer courses under Bachelor of Design (BDes) and Bachelor of Fashion Technology (B F Tech) and
any other course as decided by the Senate.
5.
Masters Programmes.
(1)
The duration of Masters Programme shall be of two academic years comprising of two academic sessions each.
(2)
The Institute shall offer courses under Master of Design (MDes), Master of Fashion Technology (MFTech) and Master of
Fashion Management (MFM) and any other course as decided by the Senate.
6.
Doctor of Philosophy Programmes.
(1)
Doctor of Philosophy Programme shall be offered in the areas of Design, Management and Technology as applied with
reference to textile, fashion, lifestyle, apparel, craft and any other related field.
(2)
The duration of the Doctor of Philosophy Programme in full-time or part-time mode shall be such as may be decided by
the Senate.
7.
Post Doctoral Programmes.
(1)
Post Doctoral Programmes shall be offered in the areas of Design, Management and Technology as applied with
reference to textile, fashion, lifestyle, apparel, craft and any other related field.
(2)
The duration of the Post doctoral Programme shall be as decided by the Senate.
8.
Diploma Programmes.
(1)
The Institute may offer Diploma Programmes to address local (industry or craft cluster) needs, as approved by the
Senate from time to time.
9.
Certificate Programmes.
(1)
The Institute may offer Certificate Programmes to address local (industry or craft cluster) needs, as approved by the
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
National Institute of Fashion Technology Ordinances, 2017
concerned competent authority from time to time.
(2)
The Institute shall have the power to introduce, modify or discontinue courses or programmes from time to time as
approved by the concerned competent authority.
Chapter 3
Admission of the students to the Institute
10.
Admission Procedure.
(1)
The admission procedure shall be made in accordance with the admission calendar as approved by the Senate.
(2)
The admission to undergraduate and postgraduate programmes of the Institute shall be made in accordance with the
eligibility criteria as fixed by the Senate from time to time.
(3)
The reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and other Backward Classes categories shall
be in accordance with the guidelines of the Government of India issued in this regard from time to time.
(4)
The reservation of seats for the Persons with Disability (PWD) category shall be in the reserved and general categories
in accordance with the guidelines of the Government of India issued in this regard from time to time.
(5)
Applicants seeking admission under the reserved categories shall be required to fulfill the eligibility conditions for
admission to the Programme of study specified for reserved categories.
(6)
If sufficient number of applicants are not available in the PWD category, vacant seats so arising shall be merged with
their respective parent reserved and general categories.
(7)
Category once filled up in the application form shall not be changed at any stage.
(8)
Candidates applying under reserved category shall produce the relevant certificate from the appropriate authority of the
respective States or the Union territories concerned.
(9)
Seats shall be available on supernumerary basis for the Non-Resident Indians or foreign nationals, subject to the limits
specified by the Board.
(10)
State domicile quota or seats shall be available on supernumerary basis as approved by the Board from time to time.
(11)
Tests shall be conducted for admission to the under graduate and post graduate programmes and the formats for
entrance tests shall be approved by the Senate: provided that in the case of Non-Resident Indians or foreign nationals,
admissions shall be based on accepted internationally certified tests.
(12)
The medium of instruction or examination shall be English.
(13)
Counseling for admission shall be held at all campuses of the Institute under overall monitoring of the Admission
Department of the Institute as per the process approved by the Senate.
(14)
Allotment of seats for all campuses or courses shall be strictly according to the merit and preference of the candidate.
(15)
Admission to the PhD and Post doctoral programmes shall be made in accordance with the eligibility criteria and
procedure as laid down by the Senate.
(16)
Admission to the Diploma programme shall be carried out by campuses as per the criteria laid down by the Senate from
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
National Institute of Fashion Technology Ordinances, 2017
time to time.
(17)
The Director General of the Institute may cancel the admission of any student on grounds of indiscipline, false
certification, criminal misconduct or suppression of relevant information with no claim whatsoever of the candidate
thereafter on any course or campus of the Institute and all fees paid shall be forfeited except refundable security or
deposit.
Chapter 4
Conditions for award of fellowships, scholarships, medals and prizes
11.
Conditions for award of fellowships, scholarships, medals and prizes.
(1)
The Institute shall institute awards of fellowship, scholarship, medals and prizes based on the conditions approved by
the Board from time to time.
(2)
The number of scholarships for under graduate and post graduate programmes shall be instituted on the basis of the
approval of the Board keeping merit and means as conditions for award of the same.
(3)
Fellowships shall be provided to regular faculty members and staff pursuing doctoral and post doctoral studies and to
scholars pursuing full-time PhD and post doctoral studies in the Institute on the basis of approval by the Board.
(4)
Medals and prizes shall be awarded for excellence in academic and co curricular activities to students of the Degree
programmes and to the faculty members of the Institute on the basis of criteria approved by the Board.
Chapter 5
Examinations of Institute and award of degrees, diplomas and certificates;
12.
Examinations.
(1)
Examinations of the Institute shall be open to regular and eligible students who have undergone a regular programme of
study in the Institute for a period specified for that programme of study as per the curriculum and Academic Calendar
after fulfilling the minimum attendance and after successful completion of the course requirements.
(2)
The plan of examinations shall be as approved by the Senate and the selection of paper setters, evaluators and jury
members shall be made in accordance with the procedure as approved by the Senate from time to time.
(3)
The Controller of Examinations shall notify the schedule of examination and conduct the examination as approved by
the Senate from time to time.
(4)
The Controller of Examinations shall make all necessary arrangements for the smooth conduct of examinations, timely
evaluation and announcement of results with the approval of the competent authority.
(5)
The result of the examinations including the grades achieved by the students shall be declared by the Controller of
Examinations on the approval of the competent authority.
(6)
Degrees for the under graduate, post graduate, doctoral and any such other degree as may be approved by the Senate
shall be awarded at the Convocation of the Institute.
13.
Fees.
(1)
The fees for bachelors, masters, doctoral, and post doctoral degree, diploma and certificate programme shall be
specified in the prospectus or the brochure and placed on the website of the Institute.
(2)
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
National Institute of Fashion Technology Ordinances, 2017
The fee and refund policy for each academic year shall be as approved by Senate from time to time.
Chapter 6
Miscellaneous
14.
Maintenance of discipline within Institute.
(1)
Every student of the Institute shall maintain proper discipline and decorum of the Institute.
(2)
The conduct rules for the Institute shall be laid down by the Senate.
(3)
Students shall give an undertaking at the time of joining the Institute as well as at the beginning of each academic year
to abide by the conduct rules of the Institute.
(4)
Any student found indulging in any activities violating the conduct rules of the Institute shall be liable to disciplinary
action.
(5)
The Institute shall constitute disciplinary committees to review the violations by students and recommend disciplinary
action in cases of proven violations in accordance with the conduct rules.
(6)
Students shall have the right to appeal against the decision of the disciplinary committee to the concerned competent
authority as per the conduct rules.
(7)
Each campus and head office shall have definite channels for redressal of grievances of students as approved by the
Senate.
15.
Conditions of residence of students of Institute and levying of fees for residence in the halls and hostels and other
charges.
(1)
The Senate of the Institute shall specify the conditions of residence including levy of fees for its students at campuses.
(2)
The Director supported by any other Committee or Officer as decided from time to time shall be responsible for the
maintenance of discipline in hostel in accordance with the hostel guidelines approved by the Board.
16.
International and domestic linkages.
(1)
The Institute shall maintain linkages at the national and international level with private and public institutes and
organisations with similar orientation and academic interest in the form of student or faculty exchange, training,
research, twinning programmes and projects.
(2)
The policy framework regarding the linkages at national and international levels shall be specified by the Board from
time to time.
17.
Approval of Ordinance by the Chairperson in certain cases.
(1)
The Chairperson of the Senate or the Chairperson of the Board may, on behalf of the Senate or the Board, as the case
may be, approve an Ordinance, which in his opinion is necessary or expedient for smooth academic functioning;
Provided that all such Ordinances shall be brought before the Senate or the Board, as the case may be, in its ensuing
meeting for its approval or ratification.
(2)
An approval or ratification by the Senate or the Board, as the case may be, relating to the Ordinance shall operate from
the date of approval by the Chairperson of the Senate or the Board, as the case may be.
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
National Institute of Fashion Technology Ordinances, 2017
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7