
----- PAGE 1 -----
Fugitive Economic Offenders (Application for Declaration of Fugitive Economic Offender) Ru...
Fugitive Economic Offenders (Application for Declaration of Fugitive
Economic Offender) Rules, 2018
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/194383111/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Fugitive Economic Offenders (Application for Declaration of Fugitive Economic Offender) Rules, 2018
UNION OF INDIA
India
Fugitive Economic Offenders (Application for Declaration of Fugitive Economic Offender) Rules, 2018
Rule
FUGITIVE-ECONOMIC-OFFENDERS-APPLICATION-FOR-DECLARATION-OF-FUGITIVE-ECONOMIC-OFFENDER-R
ULES-2018 of 2018
Published on 24 April 2018
Commenced on 24 April 2018
[This is the version of this document from 24 April 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Fugitive Economic Offenders (Application for Declaration of Fugitive Economic Offender) Rules, 2018
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 393(E), dated 24.4.2018
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Economic Affairs)
G.S.R. 393(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 23 of the Fugitive
Economic Offenders Ordinance, 2018 (1 of 2018), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely: -
1.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Fugitive Economic Offenders (Application for Declaration of Fugitive Economic Offender) Ru...
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These Rules may be called the Fugitive Economic Offenders (Application for Declaration of Fugitive Economic Offender)
Rules, 2018.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"authorised officer" means any officer not below the rank of Deputy Director authorised by the Director for the purposes
of these rules;
(b)
"Ordinance" means the Fugitive Economic Offenders Ordinance, 2018 (1 of 2018).
(2)
All other words and expressions used and not defined in these rules but defined in the Ordinance shall have the
meaning respectively assigned to them in the Ordinance.
3.
Manner of forwarding an application.
(1)
The Director or the authorised officer, as the case may be, shall prepare an index and material containing,-
(i)
a copy of a warrant of arrest in relation to prosecution of a Scheduled Offence against the individual believed to be a
fugitive economic offender issued by any Court in India;
(ii)
a statement of reasons to believe that an individual is a fugitive economic offender;
(iii)
a statement on any information available as to the whereabouts of the individual believed to be a fugitive economic
offender;
(iv)
any proof of effort undertaken to bring the individual believed to be a fugitive economic offender back to India;
(v)
a list of properties or value of such properties believed to be the proceeds of crime, including any such property outside
India for which confiscation is sought;
(vi)
a list of properties or benami property owned by the individual believed to be a fugitive economic offender in India or
abroad for which confiscation is sought;
(vii)
a copy of a confiscation order issued by the Adjudicating Authority under the Prohibition of Benami Property
Transactions Act, 1988, if any;
(viii)
a list of persons who may have an interest in any of the properties listed under clauses (v) and (vi).
(2)
The index and material prepared under sub-rule (1) shall be signed on each page and forwarded to the Special Court in
a sealed envelope, indicating a reference number and date of despatch.
(3)
The Director or the authorised officer, as the case may be, shall maintain registers and other records such as
acknowledgement slip register, dak register for the purposes of this rule and shall ensure that necessary entries are
made in the register immediately as soon as a copy of the order along with the material are forwarded to the Special
Court.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Fugitive Economic Offenders (Application for Declaration of Fugitive Economic Offender) Ru...
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3