
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Act, (Amendment) 2018
The Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Act, (Amendment) 2018
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/4793988/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
2
]
Union of India - Act
The Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Act, (Amendment) 2018
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Act, (Amendment) 2018
Act 33 of 2018
Published in Gazette of India on 29 August 2018
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 29 August 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
An Act to amend the Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows:
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Union Territory Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Act, 2018.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
2.
In section 7 of the Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), for
sub-section (4), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Act, (Amendment) 2018
"(4) The Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, by notification, specify a class of registered persons
who shall, in respect of supply of specified categories of goods or services or both received from an unregistered
supplier, pay the tax on reverse charge basis as the recipient of such supply of goods or services or both, and all the
provisions of this Act shall apply to such recipient as if he is the person liable for paying the tax in relation to such supply
of goods or services or both.".
3.
In section 9 of the principal Act, in clause (b), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:
"Provided that the input tax credit on account of Union territory tax shall be utilised towards payment of integrated tax
only where the balance of the input tax credit on account of central tax is not available for payment of integrated tax.".
4.
After section 9 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be inserted, namely:
"9A. Notwithstanding anything contained in section 9, the input tax credit on account of Union territory tax shall be
utilised towards payment of integrated tax or Union territory tax, as the case may be, only after the input tax credit
available on account of integrated tax has first been utilised towards such payment.
9B.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter and subject to the provisions of clause (c) of section 9, the
Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, prescribe the order and manner of utilisation of the input tax
credit on account of integrated tax, Central tax, State tax or Union territory tax, as the case may be, towards payment of
any such tax.".
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2