
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/190349957/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
Rule THE-DEDICATED-FREIGHT-CORRIDOR-RAILWAY-GENERAL-RULES-2018 of 2018
Published on 10 August 2018
Commenced on 10 August 2018
[This is the version of this document from 10 August 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 765(E), dated 10th August, 2018
Last Updated 8th November, 2019
Ministry of Railways
(Railway Board)
G.S.R. 765(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 198 of the Railways Act, 1989 (
24 of 1989
), the Central Government hereby make the following general rules for Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway in India
administered by the government and for the time being use for the carriage of goods.
Chapter I
Preliminary
Page 1/124
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018.
(2)
They shall come into force of the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise, requires.-
(1)
"Act" means the Railways Act, 1989 (
24 of 1989
);
(2)
"adequate distance" means the distance sufficient to ensure safety;
(3)
"approach lighting" means an arrangement in which the lighting of signals is controlled automatically by the approach of
a train;
(4)
"approved means of communication" means any communication equipment or system which is capable of audio or text
transmission between controller and stations and train crew and is approved under special instructions;
(5)
"approved special instructions" means special instructions approved by the Commissioner of Railway Safety;
(6)
"aspect of a signal" means the appearance (colour or light) of a signal as seen by the Loco Pilot of an approaching train;
(7)
"authorised officer" means the Director, Operations and Business Development, Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway;
(8)
"authority to proceed" means the authority given to the Loco Pilot of a train, under the system of working, to enter the
block section with his train;
(9)
"axle counter" means an electrical device which, when provided at two given points on the track, proves by counting
axles in and counting axles out, whether the section of the track between the said two points is clear or occupied;
(10)
"bad weather impairing visibility" means adverse weather condition whereby normal visibility is reduced to less than 180
meters warranting special measures or extra care for working of trains;
(11)
"block back" means to dispatch a message from a block station intimating to the block station immediately in rear on a
double line, or to the adjacent block station on either side on a single line, to advise that the block section is obstructed
or is to be obstructed;
(12)
"block forward" means to dispatch a message from a block station intimating to the block station immediately in advance
on a double line that the block section in advance is obstructed or is to be obstructed;
(13)
"block overlap" means the adequate distance of not less than one hundred eighty meters beyond the first stop signal of
the block station in advance which is required to be kept clear when granting line clear to the block station in rear;
(14)
"block proving by axle counter" means to prove complete arrival of train by counting the number of axles in the
composition of a train at the entry point and then comparing it with the numbers of axles in the same train at the exit
point of a block section;
(15)
Page 2/124
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
"block section" means that portion of the running line between two block stations on to which no running train may enter
until authorised to do so under the system of working. In case of absolute block system of working the authority to enter
a block section is given only after line clear has been received from the block station at the other end of the block
section. In case of automatic block system of working, the authority is automatically given after the line is clear upto an
adequate distance beyond the next automatic signal;
(16)
"block station" means a station at which the loco pilot must obtain an authority to proceed under the system of working
before entering into the next block section with his train. Block stations are classified differently based on minimum
equipment of signals under different system of working;
(17)
"caution notice" means a notice attached to or placed in the danger zone of live equipment in electrified lines calling
attention to the danger of touching or interfering with such equipment and bearing the words `caution-live equipment';
(18)
"caution order" means an order given to loco pilot of a train, whenever , in consequence of line being under repair or for
any other reason special precautions are necessary.
(19)
"centralised traffic control" means a system by which the working of trains over a route to which the system applies, is
governed by signals remotely controlled from a designated place;
(20)
"centralised traffic control operator" means the competent railway servant on duty who may for the time being be
responsible for the working of trains on centralised traffic control area;
(21)
"clear standing length" means distance between foot of the signal to the fouling mark in the rear of the same line in case
of main line and directional loop lines at station yards. In case of common loop at stations, clear standing length shall be
the distance between the two starter signals of the opposite direction on the same line".
(22)
"commissioner of railway safety" means a commissioner of railway safety appointed to exercise designated functions
under the act, and includes the chief commissioner of railway safety;
(23)
"competent railway servant" means a railway servant duly qualified to undertake and perform the duties entrusted to him
under these rules;
(24)
"connections" when used with reference to a running line, means the points, crossings and other appliances for
connecting such lines with other lines or to cross it;
(25)
"controller" means a railway servant on duty who, for the time being is responsible for regulating the working of traffic on
a section of a railway provided with communication equipment between the control, stations and train crew;
(26)
"danger notice" means a notice attached to dead electric equipment and its switches or cut off fuses to warn that the
equipment should not be made live so long men are working and bearing the words `danger - men working';
(27)
"danger zone" means the zone lying within two meters of any live equipment in the twenty five kilo volt alternating
current traction system where there is danger to life or injury from shock, burn, fire or explosion, attendant upon
transmission, transformation, conversion, distribution or use of electrical energy, and in which no work is permitted when
the equipment is live;
(28)
"day" means from sunrise to sunset;
(29)
"direction of traffic" means-
(a)
on a double line and multiple line, the direction for which the line is signalled;
Page 3/124
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(b)
on a single line and twin single line, the direction for the time being established, under the system of working, to allow
trains to move in that direction;
(30)
"Director, Operations and Business Development" means a person who (the head of traffic department of Dedicated
Freight Corridor Railway) is the responsible for transportation of freight trains appointed as such by a special order of the
railway board;
(31)
"distributed powering" means an arrangement to synchronise powering of two or more locomotives distributed along the
length of the train which in the rear are remote controlled from the leading locomotive through radio transmission;
(32)
"electrified line" means track provided with overhead equipment;
(33)
"electrical way and works" means the traction installations including overhead equipment and other connected works
provided on the electrified sections of the railway;
(34)
"railway emergency call" is the highest priority group call in global system for mobile communication (railway) based
mobile train radio communication system which can be initiated by a mobile radio or controller's or
man-machine-interface user in case of any railway operational emergency and is routed to pre-defined users i.e. loco
pilots, station masters, controllers & other railway personnel related to operations, located within a predefined
geographical area;
(35)
"end of train telemetry" means end of train telemetry, constituting a rear-end electronic device of approved design
mounted on the rear coupler of the rear most vehicle of a train, and communication through radio signal with compatible
device on locomotive for brake application , monitoring continuity, last vehicle check and other functions. the rear end
electronic device also has a flashing red light to work as tail lamp, and an amber flashing light which can be switched
'on' and 'off' by the loco pilot or is automatically switched 'on' in case of parting of train";
(36)
"facing and trailing points" - points are facing or trailing in accordance with the direction of a train or vehicle moving over
them. points are said to be facing points when by their operation a train approaching them can be directly diverted from
the line upon which it is running to another line;
(37)
"feeding post" means an electric supply control post, where the incoming feeder lines from grid sub-station are
terminated;
(38)
"fixed signal" means a colour light signal, for use by day and night, provided at a fixed location indicating a condition
affecting the movement of trains;
(39)
"fog safe device" - is a device meant to pre-warn the loco pilot of an approaching train, the locality of a signal. It is
installed in the locomotive cab for use during bad weather impairing visibility;
(40)
"fouling mark" indicates location beyond which infringement of standard moving dimensions occurs, where two lines
cross or join one another;
(41)
"gateman" means a competent railway servant posted at a level crossing for working the gates;
(42)
"goods train" means a train (other than a material train) intended solely or mainly for the carriage of animals or goods;
(43)
"guard" means the railway servant or any other railway servant who may for the time being be performing the duties of a
guard under the loco pilot;
(44)
Page 4/124
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
"inspector of electric way and works" (senior executive electrical or executive electrical) means a railway servant who is,
for the time being, responsible for construction or maintenance of electric way and works, provided in a section and at
stations or other works connected with overhead equipment, and includes any other person who may for the time being
be performing the duties of inspector of electric way and works;
(45)
"inspector of permanent way or works" (senior executive civil or executive civil) means a railway servant who is, for the
time being responsible for construction or maintenance of permanent way, points, gates, bridges provided in a section
and at station or other works connected therewith, and includes any other person who may for the time being be
performing the duties of permanent way inspector;
(46)
"interlocking" means an arrangement of signals, points and other appliances operated from a panel or video display unit
at a station or a centralised location so interconnected by mechanical or electrical or electronic means so that their
operation must take place in a proper sequence to ensure safety. Interlocking ensures that the signal for the line it
protects cannot be taken off unless the route is set, facing points are locked and if line is track circuited it is also clear of
obstruction;
(47)
"intermediate block post" means an unmanned class 'c' station on a double line, remotely controlled from the block
station in rear;
(48)
"intermediate block signalling" means an arrangement of signalling on double line in which a long block section is split
into two portions, each constituting a separate block section by providing an intermediate block post;
(49)
"Indian railway junction stations" means a station worked by Indian Railways having connection with dedicated freight
corridor railway lines;
(50)
"isolation" means an arrangement, secured by the setting of points or other means approved under special instructions,
to protect the line so isolated from the danger of obstruction from other connected line or lines;
(51)
"interrupter, isolator switches" - means switches provided for shutting 'off 'or switching 'on' power supply to overhead
equipment in electrified line;
(52)
"last stop signal" means the stop signal of a station controlling the entry of trains into the next block section;
(53)
"last vehicle check device" means a device which automatically checks the complete arrival of the train at a station;
(54)
"level crossing" means the intersection of road with railway track at the same level;
(55)
"level crossing gate" means any form of movable barrier, including a chain or metallic wire rope or other device capable
of being closed and locked across the road for blocking the path of road vehicles at the level crossing; it does not
include a wicket gate or a turnstile which is for the use of pedestrians;
(56)
"line clear" means the permission from a block station to a block station in rear for a train to leave the latter and
approach the former, or the permission obtained by a block station from a block station in advance for a train to leave
the former and proceed towards the latter;
(57)
"lineman" means a railway servant authorised to inspect and work on the electric overhead lines and switches in relation
therewith and includes such other person as is for the time being responsible for the duties of a lineman;
(58)
"loco pilot" means locomotive driver or any other competent railway servant for the time being in charge of driving a train
or a self-propelled vehicle;
(59)
Page 5/124
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
"main line" means the line ordinarily used for running trains through and between stations;
(60)
"material train" means a departmental train intended solely or mainly for carriage of railway material when picked up or
put down or for execution of works, either between stations or within station limits;
(61)
"mobile train radio" means any digital wireless based secured means of communication equipment between train crew
or control or stations. this digital wireless communication system will provide " duplex point to point voice call", simplex
"voice group call" and "simplex emergency calls ";
(62)
"multiple-aspect colour light signalling" means a signalling arrangement in which signals display at any one time any one
of the three or four or more aspects and in which the aspect of every signal is pre-warned by the aspect of the previous
signal or signals;
(63)
"multiple unit train" or " long haul train" means a train consisting of two or more single unit trains coupled together and
operated as one train;
(64)
"neutral section" means a short section of insulated and dead overhead equipment on electrified line which separates
the areas fed by adjacent sub-stations or feeding post;
(65)
"night" means from sunset to sunrise;
(66)
"obstruction" and its similar expression includes a train, vehicle or obstacle on or fouling a line, or any condition which
may be potentially dangerous to running of trains;
(67)
"on board safety device" means a device which ensures automatic application of brakes on a train as and when- (a) a
train is on a collision course, or (b) a stop signal is passed at "on", or (c) train speed exceeds the prescribed limit, or (d)
loco pilot is not found attentive; some of these devices are anti-collision device, train protection & warning system,
vigilance control device etc.;
(68)
"over head equipment" means the electrical conductors over the tracks together with their associated fittings, insulators
and other attachments, by means of which they are suspended and secured in position for the purpose of electric
traction;
(69)
"pantograph" means a collapsible device mounted on and insulated from the roof of an electric locomotive or motor
coach and provided with means of collecting current from the overhead equipment;
(70)
"point and trap indicators" are not signals but are appliances fitted to and working with points to indicate by day or by
night the position in which the points are set;
(71)
"power block" means blocking of a section of line to electric traffic only;
(72)
"private number booklet" means a booklet containing a series of private numbers used in train operation by the railway
servant on duty. the booklet must be kept in the personal custody of the users and it will be the responsibility of the
custodian that no one but himself or herself shall have access to it;
(73)
"rail-cum-road vehicle" is a specially designed vehicle, capable of plying both on road as also on rails and is used for
inspection and maintenance work. The rail-cum-road vehicle will normally run on road and would run on rails only on the
section where some work is required to be done. it is treated as a 'train' when running on rails;
(74)
"railway" means railways as defined under clause (31) of section 2 of the Railways Act, 1989 (
24 of 1989
Page 6/124
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
) and includes government and non-government railways;
(75)
"railway administration", in relation to, -
(a)
a government railway, means the General Manager of a Zonal Railway;
(b)
a non-government railway, means the person who is the owner or lessee of the railway or the person working the
railway under an agreement; and in case of dedicated freight corridor railway, means "board of directors" of dedicated
freight corridor railway,
(c)
for dedicated freight corridor railway, means " authorised officer " of dedicated freight corridor railway;
(76)
"running line" means the line governed by one or more signals and includes connections, if any, used by a train when
entering or leaving a station or when passing through a station or between stations;
(77)
"railway servant" means staff of the government railways, dedicated freight corridor railway, and any other
non-government railways; on whom any definite responsibility is entrusted by these rules;
(78)
"reversing handle" means a handle which controls the forward and reverse running of the traction motors and is fitted in
such a manner that it can only be removed when the master controller is locked `off';
(79)
"running train" means a train which has started under an authority to proceed from a station or yard and has not
completed its journey;
(80)
"secured means of communication" means an approved means of communication where identification of the caller and
the called is distinctly established and each conversation is either followed by exchange of private number or recorded
to establish authorisation, authentication and non repudiation of action taken between the two;
(81)
"shunting" means the movement of the vehicle or vehicles with or without a locomotive or of any locomotive or any other
self-propelled vehicle, for the purpose of attaching, detaching or transfer or for any other purpose;
(82)
"shunting key" means key which when taken out from a block instrument constitutes authority for performing shunting in
the block section which the loco pilot keeps in his possession. until returned the block instrument provided for taking or
granting line clear remains locked and cannot be operated;
(83)
"signal inspector" (senior executive signal or executive signal) means a railway servant who is, for the time being,
responsible for design, construction or upkeep of signalling equipment, or other works connected therewith, over a given
station, and includes any other person who may for the time being be performing the duties of signal inspector;
(84)
"signal overlap" means the adequate distance not less than one hundred twenty meters beyond the next stop signal
which is required to be kept clear in order to take `off' a stop signal;
(85)
"signalling equipment" at a station shall mean to include fixed signals, block instruments, interlocking, track circuits, axle
counters, connected gears, cables and relays, junction boxes, data logger, panel instruments, point machines, gate
panel and interlocking gears including boom and its interlocking with gate signals and any other related equipment or
connection or software used for interlocking or any warning board or marker used for signalling purposes in these rules,
and such other item as may be prescribed by the special instructions;
(86)
"special instruction" means instruction issued from time to time by the authorised officer in respect to particular case or
special circumstances;
(87)
Page 7/124
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
"station" means any place on a line of railway at which traffic is dealt with or at which an authority to proceed is given
under the system of working;
(88)
"station limits" means the portion of a railway which is under the control of a station master and is situated between the
outermost signals of the station or as may be specified under special instructions;
(89)
"station master" means a person on duty who is for the time being responsible for the working of traffic within station
limits, and includes any person who is for the time being in independent charge of the working of any signals and
responsible for working of trains under the system of working in force;
(90)
"station section" means that section of station limit, at a class `B' station provided with multiple aspect colour light
signals, which is included, -
(a)
on a double line, -
(i)
between block section limit board and the last stop signal for each direction, or
(ii)
between outermost facing point and the last stop signal for each direction, if there are no block section limit boards; or
(b)
on a single line, -
(i)
between the advanced starters, or
(ii)
between outer most facing points, if there are no advanced starters;
(91)
"subsidiary rule" means special instruction issued by authorised officer which are subservient to the general rule to
which it relates and shall not be at variance with any general rules;
(92)
"supervisor or official in-charge" means the railway servant who may, in addition to his duties, be responsible to ensure
that the railway servant working under him as notified by railway administration perform their prescribed duties and the
term shall include traffic inspector, signal inspector, inspector of electrical ways and works, and inspector of permanent
way and works;
(93)
"system of working" means the system adopted for the time being for the working of trains on any portion of railway;
(94)
"terminal station" means station or yard or part of the yard, specially declared so by the authorised officer, where
normally no train runs through and trains originate or terminate or continue its onward journey after change of crew or
locomotive or issue of caution order and such station or yard or part of the yard can be alternatively provided with stop
boards instead of stop signals at a place where trains normally come to a stop. Signal overlap is not required at such
station or yard;
(95)
"track circuit" means an electrical circuit provided to detect the presence of vehicle on a portion of track, the rails of the
track forming part of the circuit;
(96)
"tower wagon" means a self-propelled vehicle which is used for the maintenance and repairs of overhead equipment in
electrified line;
(97)
"traction power controller" means a competent railway servant who may for the time being be responsible for the control
of power supply on the traction distribution system;
(98)
"traction power distribution system" refers to system for distributing electrical energy for traction purposes;
Page 8/124
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(99)
"traffic block" means blocking of a particular portion of line against movement of all traffic except movement of trains or
vehicles required for carrying out the work for which block is being operated;
(100)
"train" means a locomotive with or without vehicles attached, or any self-propelled vehicle with or without a trailer or
vehicles attached, which cannot be readily lifted off the track;
(101)
"train examiner" means a railway servant duly qualified to examine trains and certify their fitness for safe running and
includes any other railway servant who may for the time being be performing the duties of a train examiner;
(102)
"unit train" is a train which can be accommodated in standard clear standing length of Indian Railways.
Chapter II
Rules Applying to Railway Servants Generally
3.
Supply of copies of rules.
- The dedicated freight corridor railway administration shall supply,
(a)
a copy of these rules, -
(i)
to all operations control centre and stations of dedicated freight corridor railway,
(ii)
to all Indian Railway junction stations and stations controlling level crossings common to dedicated freight corridor
railway lines,
(iii)
to such Indian Railway Zonal, divisional and area control offices that are connected with working of trains on dedicated
freight corridor railway lines,
(iv)
to each locomotive running shed connected with working of trains on dedicated freight corridor railway lines, and
(v)
to such other offices as it may prescribe under special instructions;
(b)
to each railway servant on whom any definite responsibility is placed by the said rules, a copy of these rules, or of such
portion thereof as relates to his duties; and
(c)
to any railway servant a copy of these rules or translation of the said rules or of such portion, thereof as relates to his
duties, as may be prescribed under special instructions provided further that in case of any discrepancies the english
version of the same shall prevail.
4.
Upkeep of the copy of rules.
- Every railway servant who has been supplied with a copy of these rules, shall, -
(a)
have his copy readily available when on duty;
(b)
keep it posted with all amendments;
(c)
produce the same on demand for inspection by any of his superiors within such time specified as under special
instructions;
(d)
obtain a new copy from his superior in case it is lost or defaced; and
(e)
ensure that staff working under him are supplied with all amendments and that they also comply with the provisions of
Page 9/124
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
the amended rule.
5.
Knowledge of rules.
- every railway servant shall, -
(a)
be conversant with the latest rules relating to his duties whether supplied or not with a copy or translation of rules
relating to his duties and the dedicated freight corridor railway administration shall ensure that he does so;
(b)
pass the prescribed examination, if any;
(c)
satisfy himself that the staff working under him have complied with the provisions mentioned under clauses (a) and (b);
and
(d)
if necessary, explain to the staff working under him, the rules so far as they apply to them.
6.
Assistance in observance of rules.
- Every railway servant shall render all possible assistance in carrying out these rules and report promptly any violation
or breach thereof, which may come to his notice, to his superior officer and other authority concerned.
7.
Prevention of trespass, damage or loss.
(1)
every railway servant is responsible for the security and protection of the property of the dedicated freight corridor
railway administration under his charge;
(2)
every railway servant shall endeavour to prevent, -
(a)
trespass on railway premises,
(b)
theft, damage or loss of railway property,
(c)
injury to himself and others, and
(d)
fire in railway premises.
8.
Obedience to rules and orders.
- Every railway servant shall, -
(1)
promptly observe and obey, -
(a)
all rules and special instructions,
(b)
all lawful orders given by his superiors; and
(2)
update his knowledge of rules, special instructions and other instruction.
9.
Attendance for duty.
- Every railway servant shall be in attendance for duty at such times and places for such periods as may be fixed in this
behalf by the railway administration and shall also attend at any other time and place at which his services may be
required.
10.
Absence from duty.
Page 10/124
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(1)
no railway servant shall, without the permission of his superior, fail to report for duty, or absent himself while on duty or
alter his appointed hours of attendance or exchange duty with any other railway servant or leave his charge of duty
unless properly relieved.
(2)
if any railway servant while on duty desires to absent himself from duty, he shall immediately report the matter to his
supervisor or in charge and shall not leave his duty until a competent railway servant has been placed in charge thereof.
(3)
if any railway servant is unable to attend his appointed roaster duty, he shall inform his supervisor or in charge well in
advance so that a competent staff can be arranged to work in his place.
11.
Taking alcoholic drink, sedative, narcotic, stimulant drug or such preparation.
(1)
while on duty, no railway servant shall, whether he is directly connected with the working of trains or not, be in a state of
intoxication or in a state in which his capacity to perform his duty is impaired, by reason of his having taken or used any
alcoholic drink, sedative, narcotic, or stimulant drug, or preparation.
(2)
no railway servant, shall take or use any alcoholic drink, sedative, narcotic or stimulant drug or preparation within eight
hours before commencement of his duty or such other time as prescribed under special instructions, or take or use any
such drink, drug or preparation when on duty.
(3)
railway servant found under the influence of alcohol or in a state of intoxication shall not be put on duty.
(4)
monitoring mechanism for implementation of sub-rule (1), (2) and (3) shall be set up at appropriate location by the
dedicated freight corridor railway administration in accordance with special instructions.
(5)
no railway servant shall object to a prescribed test when conducted on him to assess the state of intoxication before
taking him on duty.
12.
Conduct of railway servant.
- A railway servant shall,
(a)
wear the badge and uniform, as prescribed, and be neat and tidy in his appearance and not sleep while on duty,
(b)
be prompt, alert, civil and courteous,
(c)
not solicit or accept illegal gratification,
(d)
give all reasonable assistance and be careful to give correct and relevant information to the public, and
(e)
give his name and designation without hesitation when asked.
13.
Duty for securing safety.
(1)
Every railway servant shall, -
(a)
see that every exertion is made for ensuring the safety of the public,
(b)
promptly report any occurrence affecting or likely to affect the safe or proper working of the Railway which may come to
his notice, and
(c)
Page 11/124
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
render on demand all possible assistance in the case of an accident, disaster or obstruction, and
(d)
Observe all the safe practices and precautions prescribed for his assigned duty, and never resort to methods
endangering safety.
(2)
every railway servant who observes,-
(a)
that any signal is defective,
(b)
any obstruction, failure or threatened failure of any part of the permanent way or works, or electrical way or works,
(c)
anything wrong with a train, like hot box or axle, under gear hanging or a loose vehicle, or
(d)
any unusual circumstance or situation including forecast or warning of inclement weather, storm etc., which is likely to
interfere with the safe running of the train, or the safety of the public, shall take immediate steps, such as the
circumstances of the case may demand, to prevent accident, and inform the nearest Station Master or control office by
quickest possible means. The station master and/or the controller on receipt of such information shall take measures as
are feasible including putting the signal at 'ON', shutting down of overhead equipment, warning the loco pilot on
approved means of communication, initiating 'railway emergency call' where mobile train radio communication system is
provided , or showing hand signals to stop the train;
Provided that in case of a train having parted, he shall not show a stop hand Signal but shall endeavour to attract the
attention of the loco pilot by calling on approved means of communication, shouting, gesticulating or other means.
(3)
Precautions to be taken for working of trains during storm and strong wind - in case of warning message forecasting
cyclone, storm or strong wind, the station master in consultation with the section controller or loco pilot of the train,
detain the train and also not give line clear to a train coming to his station until storm abates and he considers
movement of trains safe;
Further, should a train be caught while on run between stations, if the loco pilot is of the opinion that it is likely to
endanger the safety of his train, he shall immediately control the speed and stop at the first convenient place, taking
care, as for as possible, to avoid stoppage of the train at places like sharp curves, high embankment and bridges
(including approaches thereof). He shall restart his train only after the storm abates and it is considered safe to proceed
movement of trains.
Chapter III
Signals
A - General Provisions
14.
Prescribed signals to be used.
- The signals prescribed in these rules shall be used for controlling the movement of trains in all cases in which
exceptions are not allowed by approved special instructions.
15.
Kinds of signals.
- The signals to be used for controlling the movement of trains shall be,-
(a)
fixed signals;
(b)
hand signals;
(c)
detonating signals;
(d)
on Board signals; and
(e)
Page 12/124
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
cab signalling.
16.
Placing of signals.
(1)
(a)
fixed signals shall be clearly visible to the loco pilots of trains approaching them and shall be placed immediately to the
left of or above the line to which they refer unless otherwise authorised under special instructions;
(b)
unless otherwise permitted by special instructions, where two or more lines converge, signals shall be placed on
separate posts or a gantry;
(c)
where signals are placed on a gantry, these shall be ,-
(i)
so grouped that respective signals are easily distinguishable for each running line and are placed over the running line
to which they refer, and
(ii)
where placed on separate posts, so arranged that the extreme left hand signal refers to extreme left hand line and the
second from the left refers to the next line from the left and so on.
(2)
Hand signals shall be so displayed as to point it towards the loco pilot of the approaching train.
(3)
On board, signals shall be displayed in the console in front of the loco pilot's seat in the driving cab of the locomotive.
B - Description of fixed Colour light Signals
17.
Fixed signals to be used.
(1)
All stations shall be equipped with multiple aspect colour light signals; four aspect fixed colour light signals in case of
Absolute block system of working and three or four aspect fixed colour light signals in case of automatic block system of
working.
(2)
The aspects of a colour light and position light signal both by day and by night shall be the same and shall be displayed
by fixed light or lights.
(3)
The aspect and indication of a fixed colour light stop signal in three and four aspect signalling territory are shown below-
C - Kind of fixed signals in absolute block system of working
18.
Description of permissive distant signal and its indications.
(1)
A colour light distant signal is intended to warn a loco pilot, the aspect of an approaching stop signal to be provided at an
adequate distance in rear of the stop signal.
(2)
A colour light distant signal shall be provided with a marker consisting of white enamelled disc with letter `P' in black on
signal post below the signal.
(3)
The aspects and indication of a colour light distant signal is as shown below -
(4)
where necessary, more than one distant signal may be provided, and in such a case, the outermost signal shall be
called the distant signal and the other called the inner distant signal, with the distant signal capable of displaying
`Attention' or `Proceed' aspect only, and,-
(a)
the inner distant signal shall be located at an adequate distance of not less than one thousand meters in the rear of the
Page 13/124
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
stop signal the aspect of which it warns, and the distant signal at an adequate distance of not less than two thousand
meters from the first stop signal in the direction of approaching train;
(b)
warning Board to indicate to the loco pilot that he is approaching the outermost signal need not be provided where more
than one distant signals are provided;
(c)
the aspects of the distant and inner distant signals are as indicated below:-
Distant
Inner Distant
Home
Starter
Advanced Starter
1. To stop at Home
Double Yellow
Yellow
Red
--
--
2. To stop at loop Line starter
Double Yellow
Double Yellow
Yellow with route indicator
Red
--
3. To pass through via loop line
Double Yellow
Double Yellow
Yellow with route indicator
Yellow
Green
4. To stop at main line starter
Green
Double Yellow
Yellow
Red
--
5. To run through main line
Green
Green
Green
Green
Green
(d)
the distant signal post shall have alternate yellow and black bands painted on it. In case of more than one distant signal,
the post of inner distant signal shall be painted white.
(5)
(a)
under approved special instructions a colour light distant signal may be combined with the last stop signal of the station
in the rear or with a stop signal protecting a level crossing; and
(b)
when a colour light distant signal is thus combined, the arrangement shall be such that the signal shall not display a less
Page 14/124
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
restrictive aspect than the "stop" aspect till line clear is being obtained from the station ahead in former case and until
the level crossing gate has been closed and locked for the passage of the train in the later case.
19.
Kinds of fixed stop signals for approaching trains.
(1)
The stop signals which control the movement of trains approaching a station is called a home signal.
(2)
(a)
the home signal is the first stop signal of a station and shall be located at an adequate distance of not less than one
hundred eighty meters outside all the connections on the line to which it refers; and
(b)
where necessary, more than one home signal can be provided at a station and in that case, the outer most home signal
shall be called home signal and subsequent signals shall be called second home, third home and so on.
(3)
Whenever there is a need to indicate to the loco pilot which one of the two or more diverging routes is set for him, a
route indicator as described in sub-rule (5) below shall be provided on the post of the home signal, which shall work in
conjunction with the signal to show the route only when the signal is taken 'OFF', giving no light when there is no
diversion as below-
Main signal Yellow or double Yellow or green
with no light in route indicator.
Main signal Yellow with route indicator lit.
Indicates? ?NO DIVERSION?
Indicates? DIVERSION- towards the line for
which it is lit
(4)
For the purpose of diversion, the signal displaying single yellow aspect with a minimum of three lights out of the five
lights of the route indicator lit shall be taken as a signal correctly taken off. If less than three lights are lit, the signal shall
be treated as defective.
(5)
The route indicator can either be a direction type indicator having five lamp unit arm or an electrically lit box to display
the line number to which the train is being diverted.
20.
Kinds of fixed stop signals for departing trains.
(1)
The stop signal which control the movement of trains leaving a station are of two kinds, namely-
(i)
starter; and
(ii)
advanced starter.
(2)
When a train leaving a station is guided by only one starting signal, as in case of a station having either only one
departure line or having a common starter for two or more departure lines, it is the last stop signal of the station and is
called the starter.
(3)
When a train leaving a station is guided by more than one starting signal, as in case of a station having two or more
departure lines each provided with their own starter signal, the outermost starting signal is the last stop signal of the
station and is called the advanced starter.
(4)
The starter, where only one such signal is provided, or the advanced starter shall be fixed at an adequate distance of not
less than one hundred twenty meters outside all connections to which it refers and defining beginning of the block
section, beyond which no train shall pass, without authority to proceed required under the system of working.
Page 15/124
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(5)
The starter which refers to only a specific line shall be placed so as to protect the first facing points or fouling mark of the
connections to another running line.
(6)
(a)
When in addition to advanced starter and the first starting signal referring to a line, additional starting signals are
provided due to divergence of running lines before entry into a block section, the first starting signal shall be called
starter signal and the subsequent signal shall be called first intermediate starter signal, second intermediate starter
signal and so on.
(b)
In case of stations having extended loops provided with more than one starting signal, one after another, the last starting
signal shall be called the starter signal and the preceding starting signal shall be called the rear starter; and in case
more than one rear starters are provided, the starting signal immediately preceding the starter signal shall be called the
first rear starter signal, and the signal preceding thereafter, the second rear starter and so on.
(7)
Whenever there is a need to indicate to the loco pilot which one of the two or more diverging routes is set for him, a
route indicator, as described in sub-rule (3), (4) and (5) of the rule 19, shall be provided on the post of the starter or
intermediate starter signal.
(8)
"Every starter signal or intermediate starter signal, protecting a line used for berthing of trains, shall have a board fixed
on the signal post indicating clear standing length in meters written in white against a blue background. Where the clear
standing length cannot be indicated on the signal post, a separate indicator board shall be provided.
21.
Intermediate block stop signal.
- Intermediate block stop signal is the home signal provided at an intermediate block post.
22.
Combining of signals.
- Last stop signal of a station can be combined, if required due to inadequate length of block section, with the first stop
signal of a station in advance, or with a stop signal protecting a level crossing ahead under special instructions and in
such cases, arrangement shall be so made so as to ensure that the combined signal cannot be taken `OFF' unless the
conditions for taking `OFF' of each of the respective signals of the constituents of that combined signals are fulfilled and
if it is protecting a level crossing gate, then the level crossing gate has been closed and locked for the passage of train.
D - Kind of fixed signals in automatic block territory
23.
Type of fixed stop signals in automatic block territories.
- In automatic block territory, stop signals shall be of the following types.-
(i)
an automatic stop signal which is not dependent upon manual operation but is controlled automatically by the passage
of a train into, through and out of the automatic block signalling section;
(ii)
a semi-automatic stop signal which is capable of being operated either as an automatic stop signal or as a manual stop
signal, as required;
(a)
when a semi-automatic stop signal works as an automatic stop signal, it assumes 'ON' and 'OFF' aspects automatically
according to the condition of the automatic block signalling sections ahead;
(b)
when a semi-automatic stop signal works as a manual stop signal, it assumes 'ON' aspect automatically on the
occupation of the automatic block signalling section ahead but assumes `OFF' aspect when operated manually,
provided the relevant automatic block signalling section ahead are clear;
(c)
when a semi-automatic stop signal works as an automatic stop signal, the 'A' marker provided under the signal is
Page 16/124
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
illuminated and when the 'A' marker is extinguished, the signal shall be deemed to work as a manual stop signal;
(iii)
A modified semi-automatic stop signal by converting one of the either automatic or semiautomatic stop signal in mid
section under special instructions; when the 'A' marker is extinguished, it works as a modified semi-automatic stop signal
and assumes 'off' aspect automatically or is taken 'OFF' in accordance with sub-rule (2) of the rule 105 in case of double
line and sub-rule (2) of the rule 107 in case of single line. When 'A' marker is lit it work as any other automatic stop
signal;
(iv)
a manual stop signal operated manually and which cannot work as an automatic or a semiautomatic stop signal.
24.
Kind of fixed stop signals for approaching trains.
- The stop signal which control the movement of trains approaching a station in a double line automatic block territory
shall also be either manually operated or a semi-automatic home signal as in rule 19, and other provision of the said rule
remaining same and equally applicable, except that it shall be placed outside all connections at an adequate distance of
not less than one hundred twenty meters;
In case of single line such approach stop signals shall always be manually operated stop signal for each direction, and it
shall be located outside all connections at an adequate distance of not less than one hundred eighty meters;
25.
Kind of fixed stop signals for departing trains.
- The stop signal which controls the movement of trains leaving the station shall also be of two kinds, namely starter and
advanced starter as in rule 20, and other provisions of the said rule remaining same and equally applicable,-
(a)
in case of single line such departure stop signal shall be manually operated stop direction; and signal for each
(b)
in case of double line such departure stop signal shall either be a manually operated or semi-automatic stop signal.
26.
Semi-automatic home and starter, intermediate starter stop signals on double line.
(1)
At a station on double line, the home, main line starter and main line intermediate starter, if any, and advanced starter
where provided, all of them, shall either be manually operated or semiautomatic stop signal.
(2)
At a station on double line, irrespective of the home, main line starter, main line intermediate starter, if any, and
advanced starter where provided, being either manually operated or semi-automatic stop signals, loop lines starter and
intermediate starters, if any, shall be manually operated stop signals.
(3)
Procedure and precautions to be taken before switching between semi.-automatic to automatic stop signal and
vice-versa shall be prescribed in station working rule.
27.
Illustrative diagram.
- The aspects, indication and location of colour light, three and four aspects signals in automatic block territory as shown
below:-
(a)
automatic change of sequence of aspects behind the train in three-aspect signalling territory
(b)
automatic change of sequence of aspects behind the train in four-aspect signalling territory
E- Other fixed signals and Markers
28.
Calling-on signal.
(1)
A calling-on signal is a subsidiary signal which has no independent aspect in the `ON' position and shall be a miniature
yellow light provided with a `C' marker.
Page 17/124
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(2)
A calling-on signal, where provided, shall be fixed below a stop signal governing the approach of a train. Under special
instructions, a Calling-on signal may be provided below any other stop signal except the last stop signal.
(3)
A calling-on signal shall be used when the signal below which it is provided is defective or to receive a train on an
obstructed line since the main signal cannot be taken 'OFF'.
(4)
A calling-on signal shall show no light in the `ON' position.
(5)
A calling-on signal shall except when permitted otherwise under special instructions detect all the points falling in the
route which the main signal above it detects excluding those points which fall within the signal overlap.
(6)
A calling-on signal, when taken 'OFF', calls on the loco pilot of a train to draw ahead with caution, after the train has
been brought to a stop even though the stop signal above it is at 'ON' and indicates to the loco pilot that he should be
prepared to stop short of any obstruction.
(7)
The aspects and indications of calling-on signals are as shown below.-
29.
Fixed signals at level crossings.
(1)
Every gate which closes across the road at a level crossing shall be interlocked and except when interlocked with station
signals, be provided a fixed stop signal at an adequate distance of not less than one hundred eighty meters from the
edge of the level crossing showing 'STOP' aspects in both Up and Down directions when the level crossing gates are
open for the passage of road traffic.
(2)
In addition, either a warning board of approved design as per sub-rule (3) of rule 60 at an adequate distance of two
thousand meters, and a permissive distant at an adequate distance of not less than one thousand meters showing
caution aspect when the level crossing gate is open, shall be provided in rear of the stop signal and the stop and the
permissive distant signal where provided shall attain proceed aspect only when the level crossing gate is closed against
the road traffic.
(3)
In an automatic block signalling territory these three or four aspect colour light gate signals shall be made a part of the
automatic block signalling in addition to their interlocking with the level crossing gate as above.
(4)
In absolute block signalling territory, a `G' marker shall be provided on a level crossing gate stop signal except under the
following circumstances, namely,-
(a)
when there is a bridge between the level crossing gate stop signal and the gate;
(b)
when level crossing gate stop signal is protecting points;
(c)
where level crossing gate stop signal is controlling the movement of trains into rail-cum-road bridge; and
(d)
Where otherwise prohibited under special instructions.
(5)
In automatic block signalling territory,- (a) in case of an automatic level crossing gate stop signal, in addition to the "G"
Marker, an "A" Marker shall be provided which shall be lit only when gates are closed and locked against the road traffic;
(b)
in case of a semi-automatic level crossing gate stop signal, which protects points where exist in addition to the level
crossing gate, it shall have "A" Marker which is to be lit when the gates are closed and locked against the road traffic,
and points are correctly set and locked for the route; In addition the "G" Marker shall be replaced by "AG" Marker which
Page 18/124
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
shall be lit only when the gates are either open to road traffic or have failed but points where exist are correctly set and
locked for the route; Neither of the markers shall be lit when points where exists are not correctly set and locked for the
route or have failed; and
(c)
in case of a modified semi-automatic level crossing gate stop signal when not working in automatic mode both 'A' and
'AG' markers shall not be lit.
30.
Shunt signals.
(1)
A shunt signal is a subsidiary signal to control shunting movement only and shall be a position light signal.
(2)
A shunt signal may be placed on a post by itself or below a stop signal other than the first and last stop signal of a
station.
(3)
More than one shunt signal may be placed on the same post and when so placed the top most shunt signal shall apply
to the extreme left hand line and the second shunt signal from the top shall apply to the next line from the left, and so on.
(4)
When a shunt signal is placed below a stop signal, it shall show no light in the `ON' position.
(5)
The shunt signals shall detect points upto next shunt signal or stop signal whichever is closest but will have no signal
overlap.
(6)
When a shunt signal is taken 'off', it authorises the loco pilot to draw ahead with caution for shunting purposes although
stop signal, if any, above it is at 'ON' position.
(7)
In case shunt signals are not provided, hand signals shall be used for shunting after ensuring setting of points and
locking of facing points.
(8)
The aspects and indications of position light type shunt signal are shown below,-
(9)
Defective shunt signal- The loco pilot shall not pass shunt signal that refers to him at 'ON' or defective during shunting
unless he has received a shunting order from the station master on duty with remarks that shunt signal cannot be taken
'off' or is defective.
31.
Co-acting signals.
(1)
Co-acting signals are duplicate signals fixed below the main signal on the same post, where in consequence of height of
the signal post or there being an over bridge or other obstacle, the main light is not in view of the loco pilot during the
whole time while approaching it till he passes it.
(2)
Co-acting signal shall be fitted at such height that either the main light, or the co-acting light, is always visible.
32.
Repeating signals.
(1)
A signal placed in rear of a fixed signal for the purpose of repeating to the loco pilot of an approaching train the aspects
of the fixed signal in advance is called a repeating signal and it is provided when a fixed signal is not visible to the loco
pilot from the minimum sighting distance continuously due to curvature or any other cause while he is approaching it.
(2)
A repeating signal shall be a colour light signal provided with an 'R' marker.
(3)
More than one repeating signal may be provided for one signal, when so warranted by local conditions.
Page 19/124
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(4)
The aspects and indications of repeating signal in multiple aspect colour light signalling are shown below,-
(5)
A colour light repeating signal shall show no light in track circuited territory in the event of the track between the
repeating signal and the signal the aspect of which it repeats is obstructed.
33.
Distinguishing markers and signs for signals.
(1)
Where necessary, signals shall be distinguished by prescribed markers and such markers shall be fixed on the signal
post below the signals as under,-
(a) Letter 'A' shall br lit omly when the gates
are closed and blocked against road traffic and points protected
by the Gate signal, if, any, are correctly set and locked for the
route.
(c) Marker lights shall not be lit when the
points protected by the Gate signal , if any, are not correctly
set and locked for the route or when points have become
defective.
(b) Letter 'AG' shall be lit only when the gates
are either open to road traffic or the gate or Gate signal have
become defective but points protected by the Gate signal, if any,
are correctly set and locked for the route.
(d) Marker lights 'A' and 'AG' shall also not be
lit when a modified semi automatic signal is not working in
automatic mode.
(2)
Other distinguished markers and signs may be used with the approval of the Railway Board.
34.
Signals out of use.
(1)
When a fixed signal is not in use it shall be distinguished by two crossed bars, each bar being not less than one metre
long and ten centimeters wide, as illustrated below,-
(2)
Signals not in use shall not be lit.
35.
Placing of more than one signal on the same post.
- Not more than one signal referring to the trains moving in the same direction, whether on the same line or on separate
lines, shall be placed on the same post except as prescribed in the rule for calling-on, shunt, co-acting signals.
36.
Electric repeater.
- The light of any fixed signal which cannot be seen from the place from which the signal is worked shall be repeated to
the place from where it is worked by means of an efficient electric repeater. If the repeater is not showing any light, the
concerned signal shall be treated as defective.
37.
Point Indicator.
(1)
Point Indicators shall be provided on non-interlocked facing point.
(2)
When the points are set for the straight line, the point indicator shall display a white target by day and a white light by
night in each direction.
(3)
Page 20/124
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
When the points are set for the diverging line, the point indicator shall display no target by day and a green light by night
in each direction.
F - Hand Signals
38.
Exhibition of Hand signals.
(1)
All hand signals shall be exhibited by day by showing a flag or hand(s) and by night by showing a light as prescribed in
these rules.
(2)
During day, a red or green flag shall normally be used as hand signals and the hands shall be used in emergencies only
when flags are not available.
(3)
During night and bad weather impairing visibility, a hand signal shall normally be given by showing a red or green light.
When the red light is not available a white light waved violently in horizontal direction shall be used.
(4)
Red or green light referred to in sub-rule (3) of the rule 38 shall be flashing type.
(5)
The size of hand signal flags (green and red) shall be in accordance with special instructions.
(6)
Red flag shall normally be kept in the active hand and green flag in the other hand.
39.
Display of Hand signals.
(1)
Display of STOP, PROCEED and PROCEED with CAUTION hand signals shall be as shown below,-
(2)
Display of hand signal for shunting shall be as shown below:-
40.
Banner Flag.
- A banner flag is a temporary stop signal, consisting of a red cloth or any other material approved under the special
instructions supported on posts and stretched across the line to which it refers.
41.
Knowledge and possession of Hand signals.
(1)
Every railway servant connected with the movement of trains, shunting operations, maintenance of installation of works
of any nature affecting safety of trains shall have ,-
(a)
a correct knowledge regarding display of hand signals; and
(b)
the requisite hand signals with him while on duty and keep them in good working order and ready for immediate use.
(2)
Every railway servant shall see that the staff under him concerned with use of hand signals are adequately supplied with
all necessary equipment for hand signalling and have a correct knowledge of their use.
(3)
A red flag and a green flag by day and a lamp which is capable of showing red, green and white lights by night shall
constitute the requisite equipment for hand signalling. In addition the concerned staff shall also carry amber flasher light
in accordance with special instructions.
(4)
Every station master shall see that his station is adequately supplied with all necessary equipment for hand signalling.
G - Amber Flasher Light
42.
Description of Amber Flasher Light.
Page 21/124
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
- An amber flasher is a flashing light of approved design used independently or in conjunction with 'Railway Emergency
Call' where mobile train radio communication system is provided to attract the attention of the locomotive crew, warning
him of a possible danger or obstruction ahead. The yellowish-orange flashing light, fanning out of an amber flasher, is of
such intensity (candela) so as to be visible to the loco pilots of trains running on adjacent line or lines in a double or
multiple line section, from a distance of not less than one thousand four hundred meters both during day and night in
clear weather.
43.
Amber flasher to refer to all the running lines.
- On double or Multiple line sections, no matter from which line or location amber flasher is shown, it shall refer to all the
lines. The loco pilot of an approaching train on sighting a flashing amber light in front shall immediately stop his train and
act in accordance with sub-rule (2) of the rule 187.
44.
Provisioning of Amber flasher light.
- All locomotives as in rule 161, and sense and brake unit of end of train telemetry as in rule 160, shall have an amber
flasher light which can be switched on by the loco pilot during emergency in accordance with these rules. In addition, all
patrol men and such other railway servants, as may be authorised by special instructions, shall carry a portable amber
flasher light of approved design which can be easily placed by the side of the track, either fastened to a stand or to an
overhead equipment mast, or magnetically clung to the rail without hindering movement of wheels over it.
45.
Knowledge and possession of Amber flasher light.
(1)
Every railway servant, on whom the duty of protecting train lies, shall keep requisite number of portable amber flasher
light in his possession.
(2)
Every railway servant concerned with the use of amber flasher light signal shall have correct knowledge of their use and
see that railway servant in his charge also have the correct knowledge of the same.
(3)
Railway Administration shall be responsible for supply, battery renewal, and safe custody of such flasher lights, and for
ensuring that their use has been properly understood.
H - On Board Signals
46.
On board signals.
- On board signals are those signals where the signal aspects and other relevant information are conveyed to the loco
pilot in the locomotive either through audio or video or visual means or pre-formatted text messaging over a secured
communication network as approved under special instructions.
47.
Description of "Emergency Alert "Alarm.
- "Railway Emergency Call" is the highest priority group call in global system for mobile communication (railway) based
mobile train radio communication system which can be initiated by a mobile radio or controller's or man-machine
interface user in case of any railway operational emergency and is routed to pre-defined users i.e. loco pilots, station
masters, controller and other railway personnel related to operations, located within a pre-defined geographical area.
48.
Provisioning of "Emergency Alert" alarm.
(1)
All locomotives working a train in sections provided with mobile train radio communication system, shall be equipped
with mobile radio(cab radio or operational radio or shunting radio) for initiating and receiving " railway emergency call" as
in the rule 159; All station masters and controllers shall also be provided with this facility.
(2)
"Railway emergency call" by station master.- Whenever there is need to issue emergent warning to the loco pilot of the
trains approaching a station arising out of a reported danger or obstruction, besides taking other measures like shutting
off of overhead equipment to stop trains if the situation so warrants, the station master shall initiate "railway emergency
Page 22/124
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
call" where mobile train radio communication system is provided to caution all the loco pilot of the approaching trains.
49.
"Knowledge of "Railway Emergency Call".
- Every railway servant concerned with the use of "railway emergency call" over mobile train radio shall have correct
knowledge of its use.
I - Detonating Signal
50.
Description of detonators.
(1)
Detonators or fog signals are appliances which are fixed on the rail and when a locomotive or a vehicle passes over
them, they explode with a loud report so as to attract the attention of the locomotive crew.
(2)
These are used when the line ahead is intended to be protected on account of any unusual incidence or accident and
when either a competent railway servant is not in a position to initiate ' railway emergency call' on mobile radio and
display amber flasher light or they are not provided.
(3)
These are also used when the visibility of signal is impaired so as to indicate to the loco pilot of an approaching train, the
locality of a signal when any other "fog safe device " is not provided;
51.
Method of using detonators.
(1)
A detonator when required to be used shall be placed on the centre of the head of the rail with the label or brand of the
detonator facing upwards and shall be fixed to the rail by bending the clasps attached with the detonators, round the
upper flange of the rail.
(2)
The Railway servant placing detonators on the line shall see that they are, when necessary, replaced immediately after
a train has passed over them.
52.
Placing of detonators.
(1)
In case of obstruction,- (a) whenever in consequence of an obstruction of a line, it becomes necessary for a railway
servant to stop approaching trains, he shall proceed plainly showing his stop hand signal to a point six hundred meters
from the obstruction and place on the line one detonator and then proceed to a point one thousand two hundred meters
from the obstruction and place on the line three detonators, about ten meters apart, at such place;
Provided if he sees an approaching train before he is able to protect as above he shall try to apprise the loco pilots of
approaching trains about possible infringement of adjacent lines through approved means of communication , if
available, and immediately place one detonator as far away from the disabled train or obstruction. If he has already
placed one detonator at six hundred meters and not in a position to reach the distance of one thousand two hundred
meters, he shall again place one detonator as far away as possible.
Provided further that in case of multiple lines he shall call for assistance, if not already available, through the approved
means of communication to depute competent person, if not already available, to place detonators on the line as above,
making a beginning from the direction from which the train is most likely to come first.
(b)
if the said railway servant is recalled, before the obstruction is removed, he shall leave down three detonators, on his
way back, pick up the intermediate detonator.
(2)
In case of thick foggy and tempestuous weather impairing visibility.- whenever it is necessary to indicate to the loco pilot
of an approaching train the locality of a signal,
(a)
two detonators shall be placed on the line, by a railway servant appointed by station master in this behalf, about ten
meters apart, and at least two hundred seventy meters outside the first stop signal;
Page 23/124
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(b)
the station working rules shall prescribe the visibility test object from a distance of not less than one hundred eighty
meters and can be a post erected for the purpose and lighted at night or light of a fixed colour light signal.
Note: also see rule 220
53.
Replacement of detonator after exploding.
- Every railway servant placing detonator on line shall see that they are, when necessary , replaced after a train has
passed over them.
54.
Knowledge and possession of detonators.
(1)
(a)
All station masters, loco pilot, maintenance staff on whom this duty is laid by the railway administration, shall keep a
stock of detonators; and
(b)
supply, renewal, periodical testing, safe custody or storage, destruction of expired detonators, and that their use is
properly understood shall be in accordance with special instructions.
(2)
every railway servant concerned with the use of detonators shall have correct knowledge of their use and keep them
ready for immediate use.
(3)
every supervisor shall see that the railway servants in his charge concerned with the use of detonators have a correct
knowledge of their use.
(4)
the destruction of time barred detonators shall be arranged in accordance with special instruction in presence of a
responsible official ensuring safety.
Chapter IV
Stations and their Signalling Equipments
A. - Classification of Stations and their Equipment of Signals
55.
Classification of stations.
(1)
For the purpose of these rules, stations are classified into two categories i.e. block stations and non-block stations.
(2)
Block stations are those at which the loco pilot must obtain an authority to proceed under the system of working to enter
the block section with his train.
(3)
Block stations provided with manually operated multiple aspects colour light signalling under the absolute block system
of working consists of three classes,-
(a)
class 'B' stations - where line clear may be given for a train even before the line has been cleared for the reception of the
train within the station section;
(b)
class 'C' stations .- where line clear may not be given for a train, unless the whole of the last preceding train has passed
completely at least four hundred meters beyond home signals and is continuing its journey. An intermediate block post is
a class 'C' station. There is no station yard at such stations; an
(c)
`Special' class stations are stations which do not fall under the category of class `B' and `C' above and are worked under
special instructions.
(4)
Block stations under the automatic block system of working are all called 'special' class stations.
Page 24/124
----- PAGE 25 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
56.
Minimum equipment of Fixed signals at block Stations.
(1)
Minimum equipment of fixed signals at block stations under the absolute block system of working provided with manually
operated multi aspect colour light signalling for each direction shall be as follows.-
(a)
at 'B' class stations .... a distant, a home, and a starter;
(b)
at 'C' class stations ...... a distant and a home; and
(c)
at special class stations .... a home and a starter.
(2)
Minimum equipment of fixed signals at block stations equipped with multiple aspect colour light under the automatic
block system of working shall be,-
(a)
in case of single line .......... a manually operated home and a starter; and
(b)
in case of double line ....... a manually operated or semi-automatic home and a starter.
Note - All stop signals at all stations in automatic signalling territory should be semiautomatic.
57.
Additional fixed signal at station generally.
- In addition to the minimum equipment prescribed in the rule 56 as above, such other fixed signal shall be provided at
every station as may be necessary for safe working of trains and other operational requirement.
58.
Provision of an Advanced Starter, Block Section Limit Board, and Free Zone Limit Board.
(1)
on single line class 'B' stations worked on absolute block system and equipped with manually operated multiple aspects
signalling if obstructing of the line outside the outermost facing point in the direction of an approaching train is required
for shunting purposes and is otherwise not prohibited by special instructions, an advanced starter shall be placed, at
such distance away from the outer most facing point as may be required,
Provided the distance between the advanced starter and opposing first Stop signal (home) is not less than one hundred
eighty meters,
Provided further that the distance between the outermost facing point and the advanced starter shall not be less than
one hundred twenty meters; the location of such shunting limit board or advanced starter shall mark the limit of the block
section.
(2)
(a)
on a double line class 'B' station worked on absolute block system equipped with multiple aspect colour light signalling
and where either there are no points or the outer most points at the approaching end are trailing, a block section limit
board shall be provided to mark the limit of station section. A block section limit board may also be provided where
outermost point is a facing point, to facilitate creation of space for free zone or shunting.
It shall be placed at a distance of not less than one hundred eighty meters between the first stop (home) signal and the
block section limit board in the direction of approach shall not be less than block overlap in advance of the home signal.
(b)
on double line special class stations worked on automatic block system equipped with semi-automatic Home Stop
signal, except when there are no points, a block section limit board shall be provided to meet similar requirements after
switching over to manual mode and keeping it at 'ON'. In that case, distance between the home signal and the block
section limit board in the direction of approach shall not be less than one hundred twenty meters.
(c)
the block section limit board shall be provided at such distance away from the outer most point as may be required and
must always protect the fouling mark of the outer most point.
Page 25/124
----- PAGE 26 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(3)
On double line class 'B' station worked on absolute block system of working and equipped with manually operated
multiple aspects signalling if obstructing of the line outside the outermost point in the direction of departing train is
required for shunting purposes and is otherwise not prohibited by special instructions, an advanced starter shall be
provided and placed at such shunting distance away from the outer most point as may be required.
Provided the distance between the outermost point and the Advance Starter shall not be less than one hundred twenty
meters. The location of advanced starter shall mark the beginning of block section.
(4)
On class 'B' stations worked on absolute block system and equipped with manually operated multiple aspects signalling
if there is a requirement to segregate limits of the block section and the station section in order to create a free zone
between them to accommodate a level crossing gate, free zone limit board may be provided between outermost facing
point and advanced starter on single line, or outermost point and block section limit board on double line. In such a case
the distance between free zone limit board and the outer most point shall not be less than the signal overlap of starter
signal one hundred twenty meters.
(5)
Description of block section limit board or free zone limit board,- Either of the block section limit board and free zone limit
board shall be a rectangular board painted yellow having black strips at the border and diagonals bearing words 'block
section limit' or 'free zone limit' at the bottom on the side which faces the station as the case may be, and fitted with a
lamp showing a white light in both directions to mark its position by night.
(6)
On double line special class station worked on automatic block system of working equipped with multiple aspects
signalling if obstructing of the line outside the outermost point in the direction of departing train is required for shunting
purposes and is otherwise not prohibited by special instructions, or a modified semi-automatic Stop signal in midsection
is to be provided, a semi-automatic advanced Starter shall be provided. It shall be placed at such distance away from
the outer most point as may be required, provided the distance between the outermost point and the advanced Starter
shall not be less than one hundred twenty meters.
Provided obstruction outside the outermost point shall however be permitted only after the home signal and all other
signals has been reverted to manual mode and kept at 'ON'.
59.
Obligation to provide fixed signals at stations.
- Fixed signals prescribed in this sub-chapter shall be provided at every block station.
60.
Commissioning of fixed signals.
(1)
Fixed signals shall not be brought into use until they have been inspected in the manner prescribed under special
instructions and duly sanctioned by the competent authority appointed in this behalf by the railway administration.
(2)
After a new signal has been brought into use or shifted, caution order shall be issued for a period of seven days for
drawing the attention of the loco pilots.
(3)
A warning board shall be provided at a distance of one thousand four hundred meters in rear of the first stop signal. The
warning board is an indication to the loco pilot when he is approaching the first stop signal of a station. It shall have a
circle between two horizontal or parallel lines and painted yellow on a black board of distinctive design.
Provided that warning board need not, be provided where the first stop signal is preceded by more than one distant
signals.
B - Care of signalling equipment
61.
Condition of signalling equipment.
- Each signal inspector shall be responsible for the condition of signalling equipment under his charge.
62.
Maintenance of signalling equipment.
Page 26/124
----- PAGE 27 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
- Each signal inspector shall see that the signalling equipment under his charge are efficiently maintained; and whenever
the information about the occurrence of defect in signal or interlocking is received by him, or the defect is noticed suo
moto, he shall ,-
(a)
immediately inform the station master on duty and take immediate steps to rectify at the earliest so that signalling and
interlocking failure do not last for too long;
(b)
promptly report to the engineer-in-charge all defects or failures of signalling equipment, or any abnormal condition,
which is likely to result in unsafe running of trains due to failure of signalling and interlocking, and at the same time take
such action as may be necessary to prevent such eventuality to take place;
(c)
be responsible for keeping authorised spares in proper order, so as to be in state of readiness at all the time to fix
problems leading to failure of signalling and interlocking; and
(d)
ensure testing, overhauling or maintenance of signalling equipment at such interval and manner as is laid down by
instructions issued by the competent authority appointed in this behalf by Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
administration, and submit report to their controlling officials.
63.
Inspection of signalling works.
- Every signalling equipment, communication equipment and any other equipment affecting the movement of trains shall
be inspected by a railway servant appointed in this behalf at such interval and manner as is prescribed by the competent
authority appointed in this behalf by Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway administration.
64.
Interference with signalling equipment and points and crossings.
(1)
No railway servant shall interfere with any signalling equipment, including points and crossings for the purpose of
effecting testing or overhauling or maintenance or repairs or for any other purpose without the prior permission of the
signal inspector, or any competent railway servant appointed in this behalf by Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
administration; and the railway servant who gives such permission shall himself be present to superintend such work.
(2)
No work requiring interference with signalling equipment or points and crossings shall be commenced without the prior
permission of station master on duty. When it is considered necessary to disconnect any of the signalling equipment, the
signal inspector or a railway servant of signal department authorised to do so, shall advise station master on duty in
writing through a disconnection memo in form 1 prepared in two foils and commence work only after it has been
acknowledged and permitted by station master on duty on the record copy.
(3)
The disconnection memo shall clearly bring out the details of the signalling equipment to be disconnected and for which
kind of train movement interlocking cover shall not be available, as also for which kind of train movement interlocking
cover shall still be available, if any.
(4)
Having acknowledged the dis-connection memo it shall be duty of the station master to undertake train operation for
those portions where interlocking cover is not available only in the manner as is permitted under these rules during
failures, unusual occurrences, accidents as per Chapter IX.
(5)
After the work has been completed, the signal inspector or a railway servant of signal department authorised to do so
shall ensure, after testing, that the disconnected signalling equipment reconnected are in proper working order and only
thereafter, shall advise station master on duty through a second written memo prepared in two foils giving reference of
the disconnection memo previously issued.
(6)
Station master on duty after satisfying that the reconnected signalling equipment are in working order, shall
acknowledge on the record foil of the reconnection memo. The station master on duty shall make a note of these
Page 27/124
----- PAGE 28 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
transactions in the station diary and preserve his copy of the disconnection and reconnection memo by pasting on the
opposite pages of the register kept for this purpose.
(7)
Works which do not involve any disconnection shall be determined under special instructions.
65.
Opening of relay rooms or centralised electronic interlocking room of stations.
- Whenever any relay rooms or centralised electronic interlocking room is required to be opened for maintenance or
attending failure, the following procedure should be observed, namely,-
(a)
two locks shall be provided on the main door leading to the relay room or centralised electronic interlocking room of
stations including at stations where maintenance staff of signal department are available round the clock and station
master shall issue the permission in Form 1;
(b)
key of one of the locks shall be kept in the custody of station master on duty and key of the other with the maintenance
staff of signal department and whenever required, the key in the custody of the station master on duty shall be given to
the maintenance staff of signal department;
(c)
the transaction of the key shall be properly recorded in the relay rooms or centralised electronic interlocking room
register maintained at the station and duly signed by the station master and the maintenance staff of signal department
and the key of each location shall be kept separately with proper liable for identification;
(d)
before parting the keys of relay rooms or centralised electronic interlocking room, the entry in this regard shall be made
by station master in the train signal register or relay rooms or centralised electronic interlocking room register;
(e)
the maintenance staff of signal department while carrying out maintenance work or inspection, relay rooms or
centralised electronic interlocking room shall be personally responsible to ensure that no unsafe practice are adopted;
(f)
when the key of relay rooms or centralised electronic interlocking room is handed over to the maintenance staff of signal
department on duty at the time of any failure or maintenance of signal and telecommunication gears, the station master
on duty shall despatch and receive the train in accordance with rule prescribed for reception and despatch of trains at
the time of failure of signal or points; and
(g)
if a train movement is covered by authority to pass signal in 'On' or defective position', it shall be completed as per the
procedure even if the work is completed and keys are handed over and thereafter, the normal working shall be
reintroduced for subsequent train movements.
C - Working of Signals and Points
66.
Fixed signals generally.
(1)
Every Fixed signal shall be so constructed that, in case of failure of any part of its connections, it shall remain at its most
restrictive aspect.
(2)
(a)
a signal which has been taken 'OFF' for the passage of a train shall not be placed at 'ON' until the whole of the train for
which it has been taken `OFF' has passed it, except in case of emergency, or, where arrangement is provided to restore
the signal 'automatically', in which case the control operating the signal shall not be restored to its normal position till the
whole of the train has passed it;
(b)
when in an emergency, if a signal has to be put back to "ON" before passage of full train, no points or locks shall be
moved until train has come to a stop, and station master has, except where route alteration is pre-empted by signal
interlocking, confirmed it from the loco pilot through the approved means of communication;
Page 28/124
----- PAGE 29 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(c)
whenever it is intended to put back departure signal of a departing train to "ON" due to change in planning, before the
signals are taken "ON", the station master shall first advise the loco pilot on approved means of communication not to
start his train. Thereafter the starter and advanced starter shall be put back to "ON', and except where route alteration is
pre-empted by signal interlocking, points shall be changed only after a gap of two minutes; and
(d)
whenever the loco pilot observe change in departure signal before or just about passing over it, he shall stop his train
and proceed further only on instructions of station master on duty received on approved means of communication.
(3)
(a)
no fixed signal within station limits shall be taken 'OFF' without the permission of the station master on duty and in the
case of a signal outside the station limits without the permission of such railway servant as may for the time being be in
independent charge of the working of such signal; and
(b)
under no circumstances, a signal shall be taken `OFF' by resorting to methods other than those prescribed by instruction
issued in the matter.
67.
Normal aspect of signals.
(1)
Unless otherwise authorised by the Railway Board, fixed signals, except automatic signals, shall always show their most
restrictive aspect in their normal position.
(2)
The normal aspect of an automatic stop signal is 'Proceed' and where the signal ahead is manually operated, the aspect
normally displayed is 'Caution' or `Attention'.
68.
Points affecting movement of train.
(1)
The station master shall not or give permission to take signals 'OFF' for a train until,-
(a)
all facing points over which the train will pass are correctly set and locked;
(b)
all trailing points over which the train will pass are correctly set; and
(c)
the line over which the train is to pass is clear and free from obstructions.
(2)
When a running line is blocked by a stabled load, wagon, vehicle or by a train which is to cross or give precedence to
another train or immediately on arrival of a train at the station the points in rear on double line section and at either end
on single line section should be immediately set against the blocked line except when shunting or any other movement
is required to be done immediately in that direction on the line.
(3)
When all lines are occupied at a station and line clear is to be given, the station master on duty shall ensure that points
are set for the loop line.
(4)
When a line is occupied at a station by a stabled load or otherwise obstructed, the station master on duty shall ensure
that requisite collars are put on the switches or buttons to prevent operation of points and to serve as a visual reminder
of the obstruction on line.
69.
Normal position of points and locking of facing points.
(1)
All points shall normally be set for the straight except when otherwise authorised by these rules or by special
instructions.
Page 29/124
----- PAGE 30 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(2)
Facing points, when neither interlocked nor key locked, shall be locked for the passage of a train either by a clamp and
padlock or cotter bolt.
(3)
Points leading from running lines to non-interlocked lines or yard shall be set and locked to ensure isolation of running
lines and non-interlocked lines or yard. Similarly points isolating traffic yard from non-traffic yard like loco shed, sick lines
shall also be set and kept locked to ensure isolation of traffic yard and non-traffic yard.
70.
Conditions for taking 'OFF' Home signals.
(1)
when a train is approaching a home signal otherwise than a terminal station, the signal may be taken 'OFF' without the
train been brought to stand outside if,-
(a)
when the line is clear and free of any obstruction for an adequate distance of not less than one hundred twenty meters
beyond the starter signal; or from the place at which the train is required to come to stand; and
(b)
all relevant points over which the train shall pass are correctly set and facing points locked including points in overlap.
(2)
when a train has first been brought to stand outside the home signal, the signal may be taken 'OFF' if ,-
(a)
the line is clear and free of any obstruction upto the starter signal or upto the place at which the train is required to come
to stand; and
(b)
all relevant points over which the train shall pass are correctly set and facing points locked.
(3)
Under special instructions the adequate distance of one hundred twenty meters also called signal overlap mentioned in
sub-rule (1) and (2) of the rule 70 can be dispensed with at terminal stations after imposing permanent speed restriction
of twenty kilometers per hour on trains while entering the station yard or at station where complete track circuiting exists
and in addition more than one home signal is provided or in sections equipped with four aspect signalling which helps
loco pilot control the speed of his train much in advance.
Provided further that -
where a sand hump of approved design, or a dead end of approved design has been provided for the line on which a
train is to be received, they shall be deemed to be adequate substitute for the signal overlap, and
(4)
The home signal shall not been taken 'OFF' for shunting purposes.
71.
Conditions for taking 'OFF' Starter or Intermediate Starter signal.
(1)
At station where advanced starters are provided, the starter or an intermediate starter signal for despatching a train shall
be taken `OFF' ,-
(a)
only after taking `OFF' the last stop signal; and
(b)
all points over which the train shall pass are correctly set and facing points locked.
(2)
at stations where complete track circuiting exists and advanced starters is provided, starters may be taken 'OFF' for
shunting purposes or for pulling the train upto advanced starter, except where this practice interferes with the
interlocking.
72.
Conditions for taking 'OFF' last Stop signal or Intermediate block Stop signal at stations worked on absolute block
system and equipped with manually operated Multiple Aspect Colour Light signalling.
Page 30/124
----- PAGE 31 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(1)
The last stop signal or intermediate block stop signal shall not be taken 'OFF' for a train unless line clear has been
obtained from the block station in advance.
(2)
The last stop signal of a block station in rear of an intermediate block post, shall be taken `OFF' only after the track
circuit or axle counter or any other approved device beginning from this signal and extending upto the block overlap of
not less than four hundred meters beyond the intermediate block signalling home signal or the axle counting units or any
other such device indicates clear.
73.
Conditions for taking 'OFF' level crossing gate Stop signal.
- Level crossing gate stop signal shall not be taken `OFF' until the concerned level crossings is free from obstruction and
the gates of such level crossing or crossings are closed and locked against road traffic, where a level crossing gate stop
signal is interlocked with station signals it shall be worked in accordance with station working rule.
74.
Conditions for taking 'OFF' Calling-on signal.
(1)
The calling-on signal shall except when permitted otherwise under special instructions detect all the points falling in the
route which the main signal above it detects excluding those points which fall within the signal overlap.
(2)
The calling-on signal shall be taken `OFF' only after the train has come to a stop, at the stop signal below which the
calling-on signal is provided.
75.
Use of fixed signals for shunting.
(1)
The home, routing home and the last stop signal of a station shall not be taken 'OFF' for shunting purposes.
(2)
At stations where advanced starters are provided, starters, or routing starter signals or intermediate starter signals may
be taken 'OFF' for shunting purposes subject to clause (2) of the rule 71.
76.
Taking 'OFF' signals for more than one train at a time.
(1)
Signals can be taken 'OFF' for simultaneous reception or dispatch of trains from same or different directions where
layout of the yard and the interlocking is such that the path of an individual train is isolated from the path of other train.
(2)
In case the path of trains are not isolated as in sub-rule (1) of the rule 76, signals shall be taken 'OFF' for only one train
at a time. The signals for the next train shall be taken 'OFF' only after ensuring that the previous train has either come to
a stop at the station and is standing clear of fouling marks of the line on which the next train is to be received or
dispatched from, or has left the station.
(3)
Detailed instructions for simultaneous reception and dispatch at a station shall be incorporated in station working rule.
77.
Trap Points or derailing switches and Trap Indicators.
(1)
The trap points or derailing switches are single switched rail points provided on a line to isolate it from another lines. The
switch is so designed that a vehicle passing over it shall derail if it is in open position. The station master shall take steps
that the points of all traps or derailing switches, and other points are set against the line which they are intended to
isolate, except when it is necessary that they should be open for the purpose of isolation.
(2)
All trap points or derailing switches on running lines shall be proved and inter locked with signals.
(3)
(a)
Page 31/124
----- PAGE 32 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
non interlocked trap points or derailing switches shall be provided with a trap indicator displaying a red target by day and
a red light by night in each direction when open; and
(b)
when the trap points or derailing switches are closed, the trap indicator shall display no target by day and green light by
night in each direction.
78.
Railway servant operating points and signals not to leave.
- The railway servant concerned with the operation of points and signals shall not, while on duty, leave the place of
operation of points and signals which are under his charge un-attended.
If he has to leave his station office or cabin for a short duration for any unavoidable or compelling reason, he shall lock
the instrument of granting or obtaining line clear, signalling equipment and unless a railway servant is present, lock his
office also. If the duration of absence is likely to be significant, he shall also inform the controller.
Chapter V
General
A. Systems of Working. - All trains working between stations shall be worked on one of the following systems, namely:-
(1)
Absolute Block System;
(2)
Automatic Block System.
B. Applicability of General Rules referring to the working of signals and trains. - All rules referring to the working of
signals and trains shall apply to the systems of working detailed in these rules, except where otherwise provided.
The Absolute Block System
A - Essentials
79.
Essential of the Absolute Block System.
- Where trains are worked on the Absolute Block
System only one train at a time shall be allowed to occupy the block section between the adjoining two block stations,
and to ensure that;
(a)
No train shall be allowed to leave a block station unless Line Clear has been received from the block station in advance,
and
(b)
On double lines, such Line Clear shall not be given unless the line is clear of trains running in the same direction not
only up to the first Stop signal at the block station granting Line Clear but also for an adequate distance of not less than
one hundred eighty meters beyond it;
(c)
On single line, such Line Clear shall not be given unless the line is clear of trains running in the same direction, not only
up to the first Stop signal at the block station granting Line Clear but also for an adequate distance of not less than one
hundred eighty meters beyond it, and is also clear of trains running in the direction towards the block station to which
such line clear is given.
B - Conditions for granting Line Clear and obstruction at class 'B' Station on double line
80.
Conditions for granting line clear at class' B' station on Double Line.
(1)
At a class 'B' station on double line the line shall not be considered clear and Line Clear shall not be given unless-
(a)
the whole of the last preceding train has arrived complete,
(b)
all the necessary reception signals have been put back to `ON' behind the said train, and
(c)
the line is clear upto the outermost facing point or the block section limit board (if any).
Page 32/124
----- PAGE 33 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
81.
Obstruction in station section at a class 'B' station on Double line.
(1)
when line clear has been granted to a train and when -
(a)
approach signals have not been taken 'OFF', no obstruction shall be permitted outside the outermost points or BSLB but
Shunting within station section may go on continuously provided the necessary signals are kept at 'ON' and shunting is
permitted under special instruction which takes into consideration the speed, weight, and brake power of the trains, the
gradients, the position of the first Stop signal and the distance from which that signal can be seen by the Loco pilot of an
approaching train.
(b)
approach signals have been taken `OFF' for incoming train, shunting movement shall only be permitted on lines which
are isolated from the path of incoming train under the supervision of competent railway servant
(2)
When line clear has not been granted to a train.- Shunting within station section may go on continuously provided the
necessary signals are kept at 'ON' .
82.
Obstruction in block section at a class 'B' station on Double line.
(1)
When line clear has been given, no obstruction shall be permitted in the block section in rear.
(2)
When line clear has not been given shunting or obstruction for any other purpose shall not be permitted in the block
section in rear unless it is clear and is blocked back.
(3)
Shunting or obstruction for any other purpose shall not be permitted in the block section in advance unless it is clear and
is blocked forward. Provided that when the block section in advance is occupied by a train travelling away from the
station, shunting or obstruction may be permitted behind the train under special instructions taking into consideration the
speed, weight and brake power of trains and gradient on the section, and as soon as intimation has been received that
the train has arrived at the block station in advance, the line shall be blocked forward if it is still obstructed.
C - Conditions for granting line clear and obstruction at class 'B' Station on Single line
83.
Conditions for granting line clear at class' B' stations on single line.
- The line shall not be considered clear and line clear shall not be given unless-
(a)
the whole of the last preceding train has arrived complete.
(b)
all the necessary reception signals have been put back to `ON' behind the said train, and
(c)
the line is clear upto the advanced starter of the opposite direction, or upto the outermost facing point if there is no
advanced starter.
84.
Obstruction in station section at a class 'B' station on single line.
(1)
When line clear has been granted to a train and when-
(a)
signals have not been taken 'OFF' no obstruction shall be permitted outside of the outer most facing point, at the end of
the station nearest to the expected train but shunting within station section may go on continuously provided the
necessary signals are kept at 'ON' , advanced starter or shunting limit board has been provided and shunting is
permitted under special instruction which takes into consideration the speed, weight, and brake power of the trains, the
gradients, the position of the first Stop signal and the distance from which that signal can be seen by the Loco pilot of an
approaching train.
Page 33/124
----- PAGE 34 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(b)
when approach signals have been taken 'OFF' for an incoming trains, obstruction or shunting shall be permitted on the
line which is isolated and no shunting shall be carried out over or near the points which may cause infringement to the
incoming train during the course of shunting, it shall, however, be permitted up to the short of points, on which train
movement is to take place provided the shunting movement over the point is protected by a Stop signal or by a Shunt
signal, such shunting shall be performed under the supervision of the authorised competent Railway servant.
(2)
When line clear has not been granted to a train.- Shunting within station section may go on continuously provided the
necessary signals are kept at 'ON'.
85.
Obstruction in block section at a class 'B' station on single line.
(1)
Shunting or obstruction for any other purpose shall not be permitted outside the first Stop signal in the block section in
rear unless it is clear and blocked back.
(2)
Provided that shunting or obstruction behind a train travelling away from the station may be permitted under special
instructions taking into consideration the speed, weight and brake power of trains and gradient on the section, and as
soon as intimation has been received that the train has arrived at the next block station, the line shall be blocked back if
it is still obstructed.
D - Obstruction upto first Stop signal in the face on an approaching train at 'B' class stations on both single and double
lines-
86.
Obstruction outside the station section upto the first Stop signal in case of single and double line.
- In case of emergency or accident, obstruction may be permitted on the line outside the station section and upto the first
Stop signal in the face of an approaching train beyond the station section only after the train has arrived and stopped at
the Home signal. The Station Master on duty will personally confirm with the train crew on approved means of
communication that the train has come to a stop at the signal before permitting any such obstruction.
E- Conditions for granting line clear at a class 'C' station on single and double line-
87.
At a class 'C' station on single line or double line the line shall not be considered clear and line clear shall not be given,
unless.
(a)
the whole of the last preceding train has passed complete at least 400 meters beyond the Home signal and is continuing
its journey; and
(b)
all signals taken 'OFF' for the preceding train have been put back to `ON' behind the said train;
Provided that on a single line the line is also clear of trains running in the opposite direction towards the station from the
block station at the other end.
F - Conditions for granting Line Clear and shunting or obstruction at a Special Class station on a single line or double
line or multiple line or twin single line-
88.
Conditions for granting Line Clear and shunting or obstruction at a Special Class station shall be prescribed in the
Station Working Rule of the concerned station keeping in mind local conditions, layout, and conditions for granting Line
Clear and shunting or obstruction as specified for 'B' and 'C' class stations in these rules.
89.
Rules applicable to twin single line.
- In addition to rules applicable for `B', `C' or special class stations as prescribed for single line sections in these rules,
the following additional features shall be provided on the sections where twin single line working is adopted -
(a)
the station yard situated at both ends and enroute shall be provided with complete track circuiting;
(b)
Page 34/124
----- PAGE 35 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
separate single line block instrument shall be provided for each line at block stations and interlocked with their
respective Advanced Starters.
(c)
the last intermediate starter or starter where no intermediate starter is provided, shall be so interlocked with Advanced
Starters that the respective starter or Intermediate Starter signal, as the case may be, can be taken off only after taking
off Advanced Starter.
G -Block Working
90.
Means of granting or obtaining Line Clear.
(1)
The running of every train shall, in its progress from one block station to another, be regulated by means of any one of
or a combination of the following-
(a)
electrical block instruments,
(b)
track circuits,
(c)
axle counters, or
(d)
means of communication as in sub-rule (2) below.
(2)
Means of communication for granting line clear between a block station to another shall be any one or a combination of
the following, in that order-
(a)
telephones attached to block instruments,
(b)
station to station fixed telephones.
(c)
fixed land line telephone,
(d)
control telephone,
(e)
any other secured means of communication approved in accordance with special instructions,
(3)
(a)
electrical block instruments, track circuit or axle counter where provided shall be used in preference to other means of
communication for granting line clear;
(b)
Whenever the need for using any one of the means of communication arises it shall be used in order of preference as
specified in sub-rule-2 above and Station Master on duty before obtaining or granting line clear shall establish the
identity of the Station Master on duty at other end, in accordance with special instructions;
(c)
Provided further that if only the telephone of block instrument has become defective but not the instrument itself, the
Station Master on duty on both ends of the block section shall continue to obtain or grant line clear through the block
instrument and shall communicate with each other using any of means of communication in that order. The condition
under which the block instrument is treated as failed are described in rule 217;
91.
Provision of instruments.
(1)
An electrical block instrument for granting or obtaining Line Clear and at least one of the means of communication shall
be provided at every station for obtaining or granting Line Clear.
Page 35/124
----- PAGE 36 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(2)
(a)
electrical block Instruments for granting or obtaining Line Clear provided at any station shall be of a type approved by
the Commissioner of Railway Safety and shall not be brought into use in the first instance unless they have been passed
by him.
(b)
the official incharge of maintenance of block instrument shall not, without the approval of the said authority, permit the
substitution for the instruments and installation brought into use in the first instance or any other instruments or
installation which do or does not satisfy the conditions prescribed in clause 2(a).
92.
Consent required before interfering with block working equipment.
- No railway servant shall interfere with the block working equipment, or their fittings for the purpose of effecting repairs,
or for any other purpose, except with the previous consent of the Station Master and in accordance with rule 64.
93.
Certificate of competency.
(1)
No person shall operate block instrument, panel or Route Relay Interlocking or Solid State Interlocking or similar such
device until he has passed the prescribed test for their operation and unless he holds a certificate of competency for the
same granted by an authority appointed in this behalf by Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway administration.
(2)
The certificate of competency referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be valid for a period of three years or such longer period as
may be laid down by special instructions.
94.
Bell coding for signalling of trains between stations.
(1)
For the signalling of train operation, the prescribed code of bell signals, as detailed below, shall be used and exhibited in
each block station near the place of operation of the block working equipment.
Sr. No.
Indication
How to acknowledge the signal
Number of beats
How signalled
1
Call attention or attend telephone
0
One
0
2
Is Line Clear or enquiry about Line Clear
00
Two
00
3
Train entering block section
000
Three
000
4
(a)Train out of block section
00000
Four
Page 36/124
----- PAGE 37 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
0000
(b) Obstruction removed
5
(a) Cancel last signal
00000
Five
00000
6
Emergency danger signal. Attend block telephone
immediately.
000000
Six
000000
7
Testing
0000000000
Ten
0000000000
Note: (a) '0' Indicates a Stroke or a beat of bell.
(b)
Each signal shall be given slowly and distinctly.
(2)
Provided further that exchange of bell codes under item 3 and 4 are not required between stations provided with block
proving axle counter or track circuit having complete track circuiting of station yard excluding non-running lines on either
end.
(3)
Unless otherwise specified, it shall be mandatory to use the authorised code of bell signals along with attached
telephone when operating block instrument.
95.
Acknowledgement of signals.
(1)
Each signal received shall be acknowledged by sending its authorised code
(2)
No signal shall be acknowledged unless clearly understood.
(3)
A signal shall not be deemed to be completed until it is acknowledged.
(4)
If the station to which signal is sent does not reply, the signal shall be repeated at intervals of not less than twenty
seconds until reply is received.
(5)
In case of emergency danger signal is being received it must be immediately reacted upon by the Station Master on
duty.
96.
Train Signal Register (TSR).
(1)
A computerised Train Signal Register failing which a paper register shall be kept by the Station Master or under his
orders.
(2)
All signals received or sent on electrical block instrument and the timing of receipt and dispatch shall be entered there in,
immediately after acknowledgement by the person operating the block instrument.
(3)
Page 37/124
----- PAGE 38 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
The timings entered in the register shall be actual timings except that any fraction of a minute shall be counted as one.
(4)
In case of paper register all entries shall be made in ink.
(5)
No erasure shall be made in the register, but if any entry is found incorrect, a separate entry line in the computerised
version shall only be permitted; in case of paper register a line should be drawn through it, so that it may be read at any
time and the correct entry should be made above it.
(6)
The person who keeps the register for the time being shall be responsible for all entries made therein and for correctly
filling in each column thereof.
(7)
(a)
when the Station Master or the railway servant incharge of cabin changes duty, a line shall be drawn across the page
preferably in red colour in computerised version or otherwise in red ink, and the Station Master or the railway servant
incharge of cabin going off duty, shall enter the date and time of going off duty and sign his name in full with designation
above this entry or line.
(b)
the Station Master or the railway servant incharge of cabin coming on duty shall enter the date and time of his taking
over charge and sign his name in full with designation below the last entry or line.
(8)
In case of an accident involving collision, derailments, breach of block rule, the Station Master in charge of the station
shall immediately take personal custody of the Train Signal Register, and thereafter, a fresh Train Signal Register shall
be used in lieu of the one seized. Computerised version also shall be provided for the same.
(9)
The register after it is completed shall be preserved at stations for such period as may be prescribed by the Dedicated
Freight Corridor Railway administration. Provided that the Train Signal Register pertaining to any accident shall not be
destroyed till completion of enquiry or court case unless time barred.
(10)
A computerised version of Train Signal Register which ensures sanctity of the entries made disallowing over writing of
data once entered on par with the provisions of this rule shall replace the manual register in accordance with special
instructions. Further, such of the messages, train signals and other events as can be captured automatically and need
not be entered in the computerised Train Signal Register shall be prescribed, if any, by the special instructions.
97.
Authority to proceed.
(1)
The Loco pilot shall not take his train from a block station to the next block station unless he has been given an authority
to proceed,-
(a)
on double line, by the taking 'OFF' of the last Stop signal, and on single line either-
(i)
by a token for the block section, extracted from the electric block instrument, or
(ii)
by taking 'OFF' of the last Stop signal where either token less electric block instrument or axle counters or continuous
track circuits are provided;
(b)
by a line clear ticket-
(i)
conveyed or transmitted on secured means of communication in accordance with special instructions.
(ii)
delivered by hand after it is signed and stamped by Station Master on duty.
(2)
Page 38/124
----- PAGE 39 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(a)
The line clear ticket (Form No. 2) whether conveyed or transmitted as text or delivered by hand shall, except under
special instructions, be prepared in the form 2 separately for Up and Down directions-
(b)
Each such ticket shall further bear a serial number which shall be recorded in the train signal register, the numbers for
the Down direction being clearly distinguished from those for the Up direction for each of the section in accordance with
the special instructions.
(c)
Each such ticket shall be printed on white paper with blue font. To distinguish paper line clear ticket for up and down
directions, water mark arrow pointing "UP" and "DOWN" shall be printed on the ticket.
98.
The Loco pilot to examine authority to proceed.
(1)
The Loco pilot shall ensure that the authority to proceed given to him is the proper authority under the system of working
and refers to the block section he is about to enter, and if the said authority is a line clear ticket that it is in proper form,
complete and, duly signed in full and in ink.
(2)
If the conditions given in sub-rule (1) are not complied with, the Loco pilot shall not take his train past or start from the
station until the mistake or omission is rectified.
99.
Responsibility of Station Master as to authority to proceed.
(1)
An authority to proceed shall not be given to the Loco pilot until line clear has been obtained from the station in advance
following the procedure prescribed for the purpose, so far as it is applicable in the particular case.
(2)
An authority to proceed shall not be given to the Loco pilot except by the Station Master or by railway servant appointed
in this behalf by special instructions.
(3)
The Station Master shall see that the authority to proceed given to the Loco pilot is accurate, and that when it is a line
clear ticket conveyed or transmitted on secured means of communication, it is complete and correctly repeated by the
Loco pilot. Provided further that when the line clear ticket is delivered in writing it is complete, signed in full and in ink.
(4)
The Station Master shall see that line clear ticket is not given to the Loco pilot in advance. The line clear ticket should be
given to the Loco pilot of a train only after the conditions for dispatching that train are fulfilled.
(5)
When there are more than one locomotive on the train the line clear ticket shall be given to the Loco pilot of the leading
locomotive.
(6)
Before introducing working of trains on line clear ticket Station Master at either end shall, after ensuring that the last train
in the established direction in the double line and in both directions in single line has completed its journey, exchange
private numbers and make an entry in the Train Signal Register.
(7)
Cancellation of line clear Message.-whenever a line clear message has been exchanged for a train but it is to be
detained, the message shall be first cancelled before obtaining line clear for despatching any other train under exchange
of private number and entry made in the Train Signal Register. On a single line, no train shall be allowed to leave in the
opposite direction until the cancellation message has been received.
100.
Conditions for closing of the block section and complete arrival of trains.
(1)
When the block section has been cleared either by complete arrival of the train or by the removal of the cause of
blocking, the block section shall be closed by the block station in advance by giving the prescribed bell code signal.
Page 39/124
----- PAGE 40 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(2)
Before such signal is given, the Station Master on duty shall satisfy himself -
(a)
that the Train has arrived complete or the cause of blocking the section has been removed, and
(b)
that the condition under which the line clear can be given are complied with.
(3)
in case of sections provided with Block Proving Axle Counters or, continuous track circuiting between block stations, and
complete track circuiting of all the running lines of the receiving station, and if there is clear indication of clearance of
block and complete arrival of train, it shall be taken as assurance for complete arrival of the train by the Station Master
on duty. Further, in such a case if the train was booked to run through and passes without tail lamp or such other
approved device, the Station Master on duty shall advise the Station Master of station in advance to take remedial action
to rectify the same but need not withhold closing of block section.
(4)
When Block Proving Axle Counters or continuous track circuiting or both of them have failed, clearance of block shall be
ensured by,-
(a)
in case of a run through train by verifying the presence of a tail lamp or tail board or such other approved device by
Station Master himself or a railway servant appointed in this behalf.
Provided that If the train passes from such a station without a tail lamp or tail board or such other approved device, the
Station Master on duty shall advise the station in advance to stop the train and take remedial action and withhold closing
of block section in rear until complete arrival of train is confirmed by the Station Master of station in advance.
(b)
In case of stopping train worked with end of train telemetry, by taking assurance from the Loco pilot on the secured
means of communication that he has arrived complete and is standing clear of fouling mark as per Clear Standing
Length written on the clear standing length board else, by physical verification of last vehicle by Station Master himself
or a railway servant appointed in this behalf.
101.
Closing of intermediate block post.
- If the electrical block instruments provided at the stations on either side of an intermediate block post or the track
circuiting provided beyond the last Stop signal, or the axle counters provided at either end of block station, fail, the
intermediate block Stop signal shall be treated as defective and the intermediate block post shall be deemed to be
closed and the section between the stations on either side of the intermediate block post shall be treated as one block
section.
I-General Provisions
102.
Block back or Block forward.
- Whenever it is necessary to provide block protection in the interest of safety of trains and men, block back or block
forward shall be done strictly in accordance with procedure prescribed by special instructions.
103.
Authority for shunting or obstruction in block section.
(1)
While permitting shunting or obstruction in block section, the section shall be either blocked back in single line and
blocked back or blocked forward in double line section.
(2)
the Loco pilot shall be given an authority (Form 3) authorising him to perform shunting in block section or obstruct the
block section, and thereafter either come back or go to the station ahead. The authority shall either be -
(a)
conveyed or transmitted on secured means of communication by Station Master on duty in accordance with special
instructions, or
(b)
Page 40/124
----- PAGE 41 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
delivered in writing in form 3 duly signed and stamped by Station Master on duty.
(3)
The authority as mentioned in sub-rule (2), when applicable, shall also authorise the Loco pilot to pass departure signals
if any, at danger.
(4)
The Station Master shall see that the authority for shunting or obstruction in block section given to the Loco pilot is
complete and accurate, signed in full and in ink, and that when it is conveyed or transmitted on secured means of
communication, it is completely and correctly repeated by the Loco pilot.
(5)
After completion of shunting and removal of obstruction, the Loco pilot shall advise clearance of block section to the
Station Master on duty by - (a) returning the written authority given earlier to him duly signed in full and in ink, and
stating that the shunting or obstruction is withdrawn from the block section, or
(b)
conveying or transmitting on secured means of communication in accordance with special instructions. The Loco pilot
shall see that the advice for clearance of block when it is conveyed or transmitted on secured means of communication,
it is completely and correctly repeated by the Station Master on duty.
Provided that when obstruction was permitted in writing the corresponding advice of removal may be conveyed to the
Station Master on duty on secured means of communication and follow it by returning the written authority as in sub-rule
(5) (a) above.
(6)
Only after confirmation is received that the block section is clear, Station Master on duty shall grant Line Clear to any
other train.
(7)
When shunting or obstruction in the block section is permitted, suitable entries in this regard shall be made in the Train
Signal Register by the Station Master on duty.
104.
Typical though not exhaustive illustrative diagrams.
(1)
Class `B' and `C' stations on single line and double line are illustrated in the following diagrams, which are not to scale.
(2)
These diagrams are only indicative and not exhaustive.
(3)
Station layout shall vary depending on local conditions but shall have to conform to the provision of these rules.
(4)
Stations on double or multiple line sections shall have emergency cross-over between Up and Down main line
alternatively in facing or trailing direction.
Chapter VI
The Automatic Block System
A - Rules applicable to Double Line
105.
Essentials of the Automatic Block System on double line.
(1)
Where trains on a double line are worked on the Automatic Block System ,-
(a)
the line shall be provided with continuous track circuiting, axle counters or any other similar device approved by the
competent authority appointed by Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway in this behalf;
(b)
the line between two adjacent block stations may, when required, be divided into a series of automatic block signalling
sections, each of which is the portion of the running line between two consecutive Stop signals, and the entry into each
of which is governed by a Stop signal; and
(c)
Page 41/124
----- PAGE 42 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
the track circuits or axle counters or any other similar approved device shall so control the Stop signal governing the
entry into an automatic block signalling section that, -
(i)
the signal shall not assume an 'OFF' aspect unless the line is clear not only up to the next Stop signal in advance but
also for an adequate distance of not less than one hundred twenty meters; and
(ii)
the signal is automatically placed to 'ON' as soon as it is passed by the train.
(2)
(a)
under special instructions, one of the automatic or semi-automatic Stop signal between two stations in each direction
may be made to work as modified semiautomatic signal;
(b)
the mid-section modified semi-automatic Stop signal so provided shall be interlocked with the Home signal of the station
ahead and the advance starter of station in rear through track circuits or axle counters or both and shall be controlled by
the Station Master of the station ahead, and the relevant indications whether the signal is in normal automatic mode or
modified semi-automatic mode shall be available to the Station Masters at both ends;
(c)
advanced starter signal of the station in rear shall be interlocked with the midsection modified semi-automatic signal in
such a way that when working with 'A' marker extinguished, the advanced starter shall assume 'OFF' aspect
automatically or taken 'off' only when the line is clear upto a distance of not less than one hundred twenty meters
beyond the mid-section modified semi-automatic Stop signal;
Similarly the mid-section modified semi-automatic Stop signal when working with 'A' marker extinguished shall assume
'OFF' aspect automatically or be taken 'off' only when the line is clear upto an adequate distance of not less than one
hundred twenty meters beyond the Home signal of station ahead.
Provided further that the mid-section modified semi-automatic Stop signal in 'OFF' condition shall depict the aspect
green or double yellow based on the aspect and number of automatic signal (including any other signal) between this
signal and the Home signal of the receiving station.
(d)
(i)
during abnormal conditions like fog, bad weather impairing visibility, the midsection modified semi-automatic Stop signal
may be worked by extinguishing 'A' marker which shall also ensure that the 'A' marker of the advanced starter signal on
the station in rear and home signal of station in advance shall also be extinguished;
(ii)
when the modified system is to be introduced, the Station Master of the train despatching station shall talk to the Station
Master of the receiving station giving his private number; concurrently the Station Master of the receiving station shall
operate the corresponding switch or button and exchange his private number with the Station Master of the despatching
station;
By this action of both the Station Masters, the "A" Marker of advanced starter of the dispatching station, the mid-section
modified semi-automatic Stop signal and Home signal of receiving station, all shall be extinguished for that direction.
The train working shall start under the new modified system in the direction for which the switch or button was operated.
The relevant indications provided on the panels of both the stations shall change to depict that the signal is now working
in modified semi-automatic mode. Similar action shall then be followed for the other direction;
(iii)
at the time of introducing the modified automatic signalling system of working, the Station Master controlling the
mid-section modified semiautomatic Stop signal should, as far as possible, take care that the aspect of this signal is 'ON'
to avoid sudden braking by the Loco pilot of an approaching train, if any. In addition, the Home signal of the controlling
station, be put in manual mode before introducing the changeover;
(iv)
after the introduction of modified system, the advanced starter shall not assume 'off' aspect unless the last train between
the advanced starter and the modified semi-automatic Stop signal, which had already gone past the advanced starter
prior to switching over, has cleared the line upto one hundred twenty meters beyond the modified semi-automatic signal
Page 42/124
----- PAGE 43 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
in mid-section; and
Similarly, the modified semi-automatic signal, shall not assume 'off' aspect unless the last train between the modified
semi-automatic Stop signal in mid-section and the Home signal, which had already gone past the modified
semi-automatic Stop signal prior to switching over, has cleared the line upto one meters beyond the Home signal.
Further, the interlocking will be such that the process of taking 'off' advanced starter signal and mid-section modified
semi-automatic Stop signal need not be repeated for every train and between the two block stations, not more than two
trains, one on either side of the modified Stop signal will be ensured by the signalling system between two section at any
given direction at any given point of time.
(v)
also during the time modified system is enforced, the Home signal of the receiving station shall continue to work in
manual mode only;
(e)
during normal condition, mid-section modified semi-automatic Stop signal shall work as normal automatic Stop signal
with "A" marker lit;
(f)
it may so happen that a Loco pilot encounters a situation when the 'A' Marker gets extinguished and the aspect of the
modified semi-automatic signal turns on while he is approaching on account of change over. In such a situation, the
Loco pilot shall stop his train short of and proceed only in accordance with clause (k) below;
(g)
the change over from normal automatic signalling to modified automatic signalling shall take place at a prefixed
nominated time as notified by the authorised officer;
(h)
change over from modified automatic signalling to normal automatic signalling shall also take place at a prefixed
nominated time as notified by the authorised officer;
(i)
the normal system shall be reintroduced by operating the switch or button provided for the purpose under exchange of
private number which will re-store the 'A' Marker on mid-section modified semi-automatic Stop signal to lit condition. The
condition of 'A' Marker of Home and Advanced Starter signal shall continue to be determined by the controlling Station
Master based on the local conditions;
(j)
even with the change in the signalling arrangement other automatic signal in the section shall work normally and Loco
pilot shall follow the existing rules while passing these; and,
(k)
the Loco pilot on finding a modified semi-automatic Stop signal in mid-section with 'A' marker extinguished in 'ON'
condition, he shall not take his train beyond the said signal unless he receives an authority conveyed or transmitted on
secured means of communication by Station Master on duty of the station ahead in accordance with special instructions,
or
In case, he is unable to contact the Station Master of block station in advance, he shall pass the signal at 'ON' after
waiting for five minutes at the signal, proceed cautiously and be prepared to stop short of any obstruction, at a speed not
exceeding ten kilometre per hour upto the next automatic signal and act as per aspect of that signal.
Provided further that where position of the trains in front can be verified through Train Monitoring System, the Controller
can also authorise the Loco pilot to proceed upto the Home signal.
(3)
in case of double line the last Stop signal shall not be taken `OFF' for a train unless the line is clear upto an adequate
distance of one hundred twenty meters beyond the next Automatic Stop signal, or when the next Stop signal is a manual
or semi-automatic Stop signal for an adequate distance of not less than one hundred eighty meters beyond it.
106.
Equipment of fixed signals on double line in Automatic Block territory.
(1)
the equipment of signals at a station in each direction, shall be a Home and a Starter.
(2)
Page 43/124
----- PAGE 44 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
The equipment of signals in the block section between two block stations may when required have one or more
automatic or semi-automatic Stop signals; out of which one may be a modified semi-automatic Stop signal;
(3)
In addition, such other fixed signals and boards as may be necessary for the safe working of trains may be provided.
(4)
Where under special instructions, when one of the automatic or semi-automatic Stop signal in mid-section between two
block stations has been modified to work as modified semi-automatic Stop signal, it shall be provided and worked in
accordance with clause (2) of the rule 105.
B - Rules applicable to Single Line
107.
Essentials of the Automatic Block System on single line.
(1)
where trains on a single line are worked on the Automatic Block System,-
(a)
the line shall be provided with continuous track circuiting, axle counters or any other similar approved device;
(b)
the direction of the traffic shall be established only after Line Clear has been obtained and the controlling lever or switch
or button operated to the required position;
(c)
a train shall be started from one block station to the other block station in advance only after the direction of traffic has
been established;
(d)
line clear shall not be given by a block station unless the line is clear not only upto the first Stop signal but also for an
adequate distance of one hundred eighty meters beyond it;
(e)
the line between two adjacent block stations may, where required, be divided into two or more automatic block signalling
sections by provision of Stop signals;
(f)
after the direction of traffic has been established, movement of trains into, through and out of each automatic block
signalling section shall be controlled by the concerned Automatic Stop signal and the said Automatic Stop signal shall
not assume `OFF' aspect unless the line is clear upto next automatic Stop signal.
Provided further that where the next Stop signal is a manual Stop signal, the line is clear for an adequate distance not
less than one hundred eighty meters beyond it; and
(g)
all Stop signals against the direction of traffic shall be at 'ON'.
(2)
Where under special instructions, when one of the automatic or semi-automatic Stop signal in mid-section between two
block stations has been modified to work as modified semi-automatic Stop signal, it shall be worked in accordance with
rule clause (2) of the rule 105 , except that adequate distances referred to therein shall be not less than one hundred
eighty meters.
108.
Equipment of fixed signals at stations on single line in Automatic Block territory.
(1)
The minimum equipment of signals at a station for each direction, shall be a manually operated Home, a manually
operated starter signal for each running line, and a manually operated advanced starter where more than one running
line exists.
(2)
The equipment of signals in the block section between two block stations for each direction shall be, an automatic Stop
signal in rear of Home signal of the station and when required, one or more automatic Stop or semi-automatic Stop
signals; out of which one may be a modified semi-automatic Stop signal; Under special instructions the Automatic Stop
signal may be dispensed with if the distance between last Stop and first Stop signals is less than one thousand meters.
Page 44/124
----- PAGE 45 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(3)
In addition, such other fixed signals and boards as may be necessary for the safe working of trains may be provided.
(4)
Where under special instructions, when one of the automatic or semi-automatic Stop signal in mid-section between two
block stations has been modified to work as modified semi-automatic Stop signal, it shall be provided and worked in
accordance with sub-rule (2) of the rule 105, except that adequate distance referred to in sub-clause (c) of sub-rule (2)
of the rule 105 shall be one hundred eighty meters instead of one hundred twenty meters given therein.
109.
Conditions for taking `OFF' manual Stop signal or semi-automatic Stop signal.
(1)
Home signal - when a train is approaching a home signal, otherwise than at a terminal station, the signal shall not be
taken 'OFF' unless the line is clear not only upto the starter but also for an adequate distance not less than one hundred
twenty meters beyond it.
(2)
Last Stop signal - in case of single line, the last Stop signal shall not be taken `OFF' for a train unless the direction of
traffic has been established and the line is clear upto the next Automatic Stop signal, or when the next Stop signal is a
manual or working as manual Stop signal for an adequate distance of not less than one hundred eighty meters beyond
it,
(3)
The adequate distance referred to in sub-rules (1) of the rule 109 may be reduced at terminal stations subject to speed
restrictions as prescribed by special instructions.
110.
Railway servant in charge of working trains on single line.
(1)
Except where centralised traffic control is in operation, the Station Master on duty shall be responsible for the working of
trains at and between stations.
(2)
On a section where centralised traffic control is in operation, the centralised traffic control Operator shall be responsible
for the working of trains on the entire section except as provided for in sub-rule (3) of the rule 110 below.
(3)
On a section where centralised traffic control is in operation, the working of trains at a station or part of a station may be
taken over by or handed over to the Station Master on duty during emergency or as prescribed under special
instructions; when such emergency control is transferred, the Station Master on duty shall be the railway servant in
charge of working trains at the station or part of the station and the station shall be worked in accordance with sub-rule
(1) of the rule 110.
C-Rules applicable to multiple lines and twin single line
111.
Rules applicable to multiple lines and twin single lines.
- Rules applicable for double line or single line shall be applicable to multiple and twin single lines depending upon the
number of lines and shall be specified in the station working rule; such sections shall be specified in the working time
table in force.
D-Rules applicable to double or multiple or single and twin single line
112.
Train to run through in automatic mode via the main line.
- Running through of trains via the main line may be permitted when the semi-automatic main line home, starter and
Advanced starter are worked in automatic mode with 'A' marker lit and the process of taking 'off' Home, Starter, and
Advanced Starter Stop signal need not be repeated for every train; provided other conditions for them to attain "OFF"
aspect are fulfilled and subject to rules for obstruction prescribed by these rules.
113.
Duties of Loco pilot when an Automatic Stop signal is to be pass at `ON.
(1)
Page 45/124
----- PAGE 46 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
When a Loco pilot finds an Automatic Stop signal with an `A' marker at `ON', he shall bring his train to a stop in the rear
of the signal;
(2)
If after stopping and waiting for one minute, if the signal continues to remain at 'ON', he shall proceed ahead, as far as
the line is clear, towards the next automatic Stop signal in advance exercising great caution so as to stop short of any
obstruction.
(3)
Where owing to the curvature of the line, fog, rain or dust storm, locomotive working the train pushing it, or other causes,
the line ahead cannot be seen clearly, the Loco pilot shall proceed at a very slow speed, which shall under no
circumstances exceed ten kilometer per hour.
(4)
The Loco pilot shall continue to look out for any possible obstruction short of the next Stop signal and even if it is 'OFF'
act upon its indication only after he has reached it.
114.
Reporting of an Automatic Stop signal when showing no light or is repeatedly changing its aspects from green or yellow
to red or vice-versa or is flickering.
(1)
When the Loco pilot passes an Automatic Stop signal at `ON' he shall inform the fact to the Station Master of the next
station through approved means of communication. In case, he had been authorised by the Station Master on duty of
the station ahead or the Controller in terms of sub-rule (k) of the rule 105 to pass the defective signal, he need not report
again. In addition the Loco pilot shall make entries in Signal Failure Register at the time of signing off.
(2)
On receipt of information of a defective Automatic Stop signal, the Station Master on duty or the controller who had
authorised the Loco pilot to pass a defective signal shall record the defect in the Signal Failure Register and advise the
Signal Inspector concerned to rectify the defect.
115.
Working of trains on centralised traffic control territory on double or single or twin single line.
- On a section where centralised traffic control is in operation, the working of trains shall be governed by the special
instructions.
116.
Protection of a train stopped in an Automatic block signalling section.
- When a train is stopped in automatic block signalling section and if for some reason the train is unable to proceed on
account of accident, failure or obstruction, the Loco pilot shall protect his train and when required the adjacent lines in
accordance with rule 223.
117.
Working of trains in established direction during prolonged failure of automatic signalling between adjacent block
stations.
(1)
When a failure of Automatic signalling between two adjacent stations is likely to last for some time or cause serious
delay, trains shall be worked, in accordance with rule 218.
(2)
Before suspending the automatic system of working the Station Master at either end shall confirm that the last train in
the section has cleared and arrived complete at other end and the section is clear of any other obstruction and make an
entry to this effect in the Train Signal Register.
(3)
None of the manual or semi-automatic departure signal shall be taken 'OFF' instead authority to pass them at 'ON', and
a separate authority to pass intermediate automatic signals at `ON' shall be given to Loco pilot.
(4)
At the next station, the train shall be received on proper signals if they are working or else, the Loco pilot shall bring his
train to a stand outside the first Stop signal and sound one long whistle or advise the Station Master on duty through
approved means of communication. The Loco pilot shall proceed past the first Stop signal which cannot be taken 'off'
Page 46/124
----- PAGE 47 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
only when authorised in accordance with rule 211.
(5)
As soon as signals are put right, normal working of trains on Automatic Block System may be resumed, after exchanging
messages with Private Numbers by the on duty Station Masters concerned, assuring that the section is clear and make
an entry to this effect in the Train Signal Register.
(6)
All movement of trains and authorities issued shall be recorded in Train Signal Register.
118.
Working of trains in wrong direction or Temporary Single line working.
(1)
In automatic signalling territory, the trains shall run in the established direction only. The movement of trains against the
established direction of the traffic is not permitted. However in case of temporary if it becomes unavoidable to introduce
single line working to move trains against the established direction the trains shall be worked, from station to station over
the section in accordance with rule 218.
(2)
Before commencing movement in wrong direction the Station Master at either end shall confirm that the last train in the
section has cleared and arrived complete at other end and the section is clear of any other obstruction and entries made
in Train Signal Register.
(3)
At the next station, the Loco pilot shall bring his train to a stand outside the first point and sound one long whistle or
advise the Station Master on duty through approved means of communication. The Station Master after satisfying
himself that all is safe shall arrange to pilot the train to its berthing place.
(4)
When the normal working in the established direction is to be resumed, the Station Master at both ends shall first ensure
that last of the train sent in wrong direction has arrived complete at next station, assuring that the section is clear under
exchange of private number and entries made in Train Signal Register.
(5)
All movement of trains and authorities issued shall be recorded in Train Signal Register.
119.
Shunting or obstruction.
(1)
Obstruction or shunting in station section upto the outer most facing points or Block section limit board in the direction of
an approaching train and upto the Advanced starter in the direction of departing train shall be permitted freely, unless
forbidden by special instruction, at stations where Home, Starter and advanced starter signal are either manual or
semi-automatic Stop signals; and when are kept at 'ON'.
(2)
No obstruction or shunting shall be permitted, in the face of an approaching train up to Home signal , unless it has been
verified by Station Master through approved means communication that a train has come to stop at the Home signal
kept at 'ON'.
(3)
When the first Stop signal is taken 'OFF' for reception of a train , shunting or obstruction shall be permitted only on lines
which are either isolated or the points and crossings over which the train has to pass are protected by Stop signals or
shunt signals.
(4)
No obstruction or shunting shall be allowed beyond the station section towards the block section in rear, unless the
entire block section is first cleared of all trains and a message is exchanged between the block stations in rear to this
effect to block back under exchange of private number.
(5)
Obstruction or shunting may be allowed beyond the Advanced starter towards the block section in advance behind a
train and the section need not be blocked provided movement of trains beyond respective Starter signals is restricted by
switching to manual mode unless already a manual Stop signal and keeping them at 'ON'. The entry of trains into the
Page 47/124
----- PAGE 48 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
section shall remain restricted until the obstruction has been removed and in case the obstruction is caused by a repair
or maintenance vehicle, it has either returned back or is ordered to move ahead after completion of the work and its
Incharge confirming to the Station Master that the line is safe for working of trains through secured means of
communication to be followed by a written advice.
120.
Despatching of relief engine or accident relief train in automatic signalling territory in the wrong direction during
obstruction.
(1)
When a relief engine or relief train is required to be dispatched in the wrong direction in an occupied section, it shall be
treated as movement on an obstructed line and done in accordance with rule 229.
(2)
Before the relief engine is sent, the Loco pilot of the incapacitated train shall be advised by the Station Master of the
station from where the relief locomotive is being sent to remain stationary until told to proceed.
121.
Pushing back of trains in automatic signalling territory during obstruction.
(1)
In case of an emergency such as accident, obstruction or any other failure the trains cannot proceed to station in
advance and are required to be pushed back in an automatic signalling territory, if no other train has entered the block
section, the Station Master of the block station in rear may authorise the Loco pilot to reverse his train in accordance
with the rule 158.
(2)
In case when multiple trains are to be backed, the Station Master shall first advise Loco pilots of all the trains stopped
behind, and then either a locomotive, if available, or the locomotive of a train which is yet to enter the block section shall
be sent light as relief locomotive to pull the rear most train in accordance with rule 229.
When the relief locomotive has been attached to the rear most train, the locomotive of the train being pulled shall be
detached and authorised to proceed ahead to pull the next train in front and so on. In case no relief locomotive can be
sent, the Loco pilot of the rear most train shall be first authorised to push back his train in accordance with rule the 158,
and then if need be its locomotive shall be used to start the relay procedure to pull other trains. Where feasible, two or
more trains can be coupled to minimise the number of instances of reverse movement.
(3)
The Loco pilot of each subsequent train shall ensure that their trains are reversed in accordance with the rule 158 and a
distance of at least about two hundred meters clear of other train is kept.
(4)
The movement of train under these rules shall be coordinated by the Controller. The Station Master and the Loco pilot of
trains for the purpose of this rule work under order of the Controller.
122.
Procedure to pass Semi-Automatic Stop signal at 'ON'.
(1)
When a Semi-Automatic Stop signal is worked as an Automatic Stop signal, the provision prescribed under rule 113
shall apply.
(2)
When a Semi-Automatic Stop signal is working as a manual Stop signal and it becomes defective, it may be passed
according to the procedures prescribed under rule 211 and 212 as the case may be.
(3)
When a Loco pilot is authorised to pass a Semi-Automatic Stop signal working in manual mode at 'ON' by taking 'OFF'
the Calling-on signal fixed below it, the Station Master on duty and the Loco pilot shall follow additional precautions
prescribed in 136.
Provided further that in case of modified semi-automatic Stop signal with 'A' marker extinguished, the Loco pilot shall
follow sub clause (k) of sub-rule (2) of the rule 105.
123.
Passing a level crossing gate Stop signal having 'A' marker at 'ON' in automatic signalling territory.
Page 48/124
----- PAGE 49 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
- If the Loco pilot finds a Level crossing Gate Stop signal at 'ON' in an Automatic signalling territory, -
(1)
He shall comply with the provisions of rule 113, if the 'A' marker is illuminated; or
(2)
If the 'A' marker light is extinguished, he shall,- (a) sound the prescribed code of whistle to warn the Gateman and bring
his train to a stop in rear of the signal; and
(b)
if after waiting for one minute or for such lesser time as prescribed under special instructions, if the signal is not taken
'OFF', he shall draw his train ahead cautiously upto the level crossing; and
(c)
after ascertaining that the gate is closed against the road traffic and on getting hand signals from the Gateman, and in
his absence from the Assistant Loco pilot, the Loco pilot shall sound the prescribed code of whistle and cautiously
proceed upto the next Stop signal complying with the provisions of rule 113.
124.
Passing a Semi-Automatic level crossing gate Stop signal having 'A' as well as 'AG' marker at `ON' in Automatic
Signalling territory.
(1)
The Semi-Automatic level crossing Gate stop signal shall be provided with illuminated `A' and `AG' markers.
(2)
When a loco pilot finds a semi-automatic level crossing gate signal at `ON' with illuminated `A' marker, he shall comply
with the provisions contained in rule 113.
(3)
When `AG' marker light is illuminated he shall comply with the provisions of sub-rule (2) of rule 123.
(4)
When both `A' and `AG' markers lights are extinguished, the loco pilot shall comply with the provisions of rule 211.
D. Block Working
125.
Line clear.
- The running of every train shall, in its progress from one block station to another, shall be regulated automatically by
means of Track circuits or Axle counters and Automatic Stop signals described in rule 105 and 107 and there is no need
to take Line Clear under normal conditions.
However, Line Clear shall have to be taken through one of the approved means of communication given in sub-rule (2)
of rule 90 for establishing direction in single line, before dispatching a train from a station during suspension of automatic
signalling or temporary single line working, or in any other situation that may be prescribed by special instruction;
Message shall also be exchanged for shunting or obstruction in the block section.
126.
Transmission of signals.
- Although taking permission to approach or Line Clear under normal condition is not required in automatic block
signalling territory, the timings of departure of every train to the station in advance and arrival of a train to the station in
rear, and every other signal when it is required to be exchanged for working of automatic block, and as the occasion
may require under these rules, shall be transmitted on the approved means of communication.
127.
Train signal register.
- The Train signal register referred to in rule 96, shall be maintained at block stations under the Automatic Block
Signalling system of working. Every signal received or sent shall be entered in the Train Signal Register immediately
after acknowledgement.
128.
Train management system.
- On sections provided with Train Management System which is capable of displaying exact location of every train,
location and aspect of every signal, and Loco pilot of every train is connected with the Control on secured means of
communication, such of the duties of Station Master as can be performed centrally by the Controller, shall be governed
Page 49/124
----- PAGE 50 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
by special instructions.
129.
Provision of communication instruments.
- An approved means of communication along with its back up of type as in sub-rule (2) of the rule 90 except clause (a)
thereof shall be provided at every station.
130.
Certificate of competency.
(1)
No person shall operate communication instrument, panel or Route relay interlocking or Solid state interlocking or similar
such device until he has passed a test in the operation of the same and unless he holds a certificate of competency
granted by an authority appointed in this behalf by Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway administration.
(2)
The certificate of competency referred to in sub-rule- (1) of rule 130 shall only be valid for a period of three years or such
longer period as may be laid down by special instructions.
131.
Block back or Block forward.
(1)
Whenever it is necessary to provide block protection prescribed by these rules or is dictated by itself in the interest of
safety of trains and men, Station Master on duty shall block back or block forward the block section under exchange of
private number message after confirming from the Station Master at other end that the block section is clear of all trains
after tallying the train number of the last train.
(2)
All dispatch signals have been put back to 'ON'.
(3)
An entry to this effect shall also be made in the Train signal register.
(4)
In addition to switching 'ON' of the buzzer alarm where provided, prescribed collars shall be put on the buttons operating
the dispatch signals.
132.
Authority for shunting or obstruction in block section.
- While permitting shunting or obstruction in block section, the Loco pilot shall be given an authority for shunting in
accordance with rule 103.
Chapter VII
Control and Working of Stations
133.
Responsibility of the Station Master for working.
(1)
The Station Master besides being personally responsible for duties assigned to him under these rules or by any special
instruction shall also be responsible, in his supervisory capacity, for, -
(a)
efficient discharge of the duties devolving upon the railway servants employed, either permanently or temporarily, under
his orders at the station or within the station limits;
(b)
maintaining discipline at his station and shall promptly report all cases of neglect of duty to his superiors without delay;
and
(c)
ensure that he and the railway servants appointed at his station undergo training as prescribed and are in possession of
competency certificate required to perform their duties.
(2)
A railway servant employed under his orders shall be subject to his authority and direction in the working of the station.
(3)
Page 50/124
----- PAGE 51 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
The Station Master shall also see and responsible for,-
(a)
supply of copy of authorised translation of general rules to every railway servant subordinate to him who should be
supplied with a copy in terms of sub-rule (c) of the rule 3;
(b)
supply of subsidiary rules and station working rules applicable to the station and its distribution to the concerned cabins,
level crossings;
(c)
distribution or exhibition of working time table in force together with all correction slips, and appendices, if any, other
instructions and notices having references to the working of the lines;
(d)
preparation and maintenance of books and returns and its regular submission by the staff concerned;
(e)
preservation of records of documents and returns upto the period prescribed by special instructions;
(f)
keeping adequate supply of authorised printed forms;
(g)
all messages despatched in connection with the working of trains, written authority to proceed, shall be prepared in
prescribed forms and in ink, signed and stamped by the railway servant authorised to despatch or issue the same, such
message or written authority to proceed shall not be prepared and signed in advance.
(4)
The Station Master incharge of the station shall inspect his station periodically so as to cover all aspects of station
working during a month and inspection shall include aspects of train working, safety and other amenities and facilities if
any. The inspection shall be carried out keeping in mind that the working of the station is carried out strictly in
accordance with the rules and regulation in force and the competency certificate of staff wherever relevant are valid.
(5)
The Station Master shall check that all equipments provided to him or made available in his office for facilitating train
working and safety and which are relied upon by these rules are in proper working order, and they are kept neat and
clean, and shall immediately report all defects there into the proper authority.
134.
Responsibility of Station Master regarding points, signals and other equipmen.
- The Station Master shall ensure.-(1) (a) that he is thoroughly acquainted with the duties of railway servants employed
for train working in regard to operation of block instruments, panels, points, signals, other signalling equipment or
systems, and traction installation, at his station and shall satisfy himself that they perform their duties correctly;
(b)
that he maintains an effective supervision over such railway servants (where provided) and frequently supervises and
inspect their working; and
(c)
that they have undergone the requisite training, possess the requisite competency certificate and are allowed to work
independently only after signing on the assurance register after picking up or absence lasting more than thirty
consecutive days or more that they have understood their duties, working rules, including station working rules.
(2)
That points, signals, level crossing gates other signalling equipments or systems, and traction installation within the
station limit and that the whole machinery of his station are in proper working order and are being regularly maintained
by the concerned railway servant. He shall immediately report all defects therein to the railway servant responsible for
maintenance, control and concerned officials.
(3)
That no railway servant other than the Station Master or a competent railway servant appointed in this behalf shall ask
for or give line clear, or authority to proceed.
(4)
That the prescribed equipments are kept neat and clean and readily available at the station and maintained in good
Page 51/124
----- PAGE 52 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
working order.
135.
Access to and operation of equipment.
- Only authorised railway servant and no other shall be permitted to have access to or operate signals, points, electrical
block instruments or any other device or instrument, or communication equipments or overhead equipment fittings or
any other appliances connected with working of the train, and railway generally.
136.
Reception of train on an obstructed line.
(1)
(a)
reception of a train at a station shall normally be done on a signalled line which is clear of any obstruction;
(b)
in case of emergency when a train is to be received on an obstructed line the Station Master on duty shall, -
(i)
ensure that the signals controlling the reception of the train are kept at `ON'; and
(ii)
ensure that all the points over which the train has to pass are correctly set and the facing points locked.
(2)
After the train has been brought to a halt at the relevant Stop signal, it may be received on the obstructed line by,-
(a)
authorising the Loco pilot to pass the Stop signal at 'ON' by taking 'off' the calling on signal, where provided; or
(b)
authorising the Loco pilot to pass the Stop signal at 'ON' in written authority in Form 5.
(3)
The Loco pilot shall enter the obstructed line at speed not exceeding fifteen kilometre per hour and keep his train well
under control so as to be able to stop short of any obstruction or on being shown a hand danger signal.
(4)
A Stop hand signal shall be exhibited by a competent railway servant assigned by Station Master at a distance of about
forty five meters from the point of obstruction to indicate to the Loco pilot as to where the train shall necessarily be
brought to a stand, and hand piloted beyond that point if so intended.
137.
Reception of a train on a non-signalled line.
(1)
In case in an emergency or under special instruction if a train is to be received to a non-signalled line, the Station Master
shall, -
(a)
ensure that the train is first brought to a stand at the first Stop signal ;
(b)
ensure that the line on which it is intended to receive the train is clear upto the place at which the train is required to
come to a stand;
(c)
ensure that all the points over which the train has to pass are correctly set and the facing points locked; and
(d)
authorise the Loco pilot to pass the Stop signal at 'ON in written authority in Form 6, and also advise the Loco pilot, that
his train is being received on a non-signalled line;
(e)
ensure that, in case Stop boards are not provided on the non-signalled line on which the train is to be received, a
competent railway servant is deputed to show hand signals from the first facing point taking off on to the non-signalled
line in order to ensure that the rear of the train stands clear of the fouling mark.
(2)
The Loco pilot, while entering a non-signalled line, shall proceed cautiously at a speed not exceeding fifteen kilometre
Page 52/124
----- PAGE 53 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
per hour and be prepared to stop short of any obstruction and stop his train short of Stop Board of the line on which his
train is being received, or before the fouling mark, if no Stop board is provided and exchange signals with the railway
servant deputed behind in accordance with clause (e) of sub-clause (1) of the rule 137.
(3)
Placing of Stop Boards on non-signalled lines,- (a) Stop Board bearing legend `STOP' written in white on a red
background shall be provided on all non-running lines or lines of a non-interlocked yards such that it is placed clear of
the Fouling Mark. Further, the Clear Standing Length in meters shall be written at the bottom of the board below the
legend `STOP';
(b)
Loco pilot of a train on being received on a non-signalled line shall stop short of the Stop board and shall not proceed
beyond unless authorised in the manner prescribed in these rules.
138.
Departure of a train from a non-signalled line or a line provided with a common departure signal.
(1)
(a)
Departure of a train shall normally be done from a signalled line having a starter signal;
(b)
In case it is needed to depart a train from a non-signalled line or a line provided with a common last Stop signal, the
Loco pilot shall be given an authority to start either on a secured message or in written authority in Form 7, in addition to
the authority to proceed under the system of working.
(2)
The permission to start and to proceed referred to in clause (b) of sub-rule (1) of the rule 138 shall not be given unless
all the points for the departure of the train have been correctly set and the facing points locked.
139.
Control of shunting of trains and vehicles.
(1)
Shunting of trains or vehicles shall be supervised by Station Master or yard Master on duty, and carried out only on such
lines, at such times, and in a manner, that it does not involve any danger.
(2)
Shunting operations shall be controlled by either fixed shunt signals, or hand signals or verbal instructions given on the
approved means of communication.
(3)
Whenever coupling or uncoupling of vehicles or locomotives is involved, or where it becomes essential to use hand
signals to guide Loco pilot the shunting operation shall be controlled either by appointed shunting staff where available
or by the Assistant Loco pilot of the train to guide the Loco pilot.
(4)
The Loco pilot shall not, however, depend entirely on signals verbal direction and shall always be vigilant and cautious.
(5)
The speed during shunting operations shall not exceed fifteen kilometer per hour unless otherwise authorised by special
instructions.
(6)
Permission before entering on or crossing a running line, - No Loco pilot shall take his locomotive on or across any
running line until he has satisfied himself that all the correct signals have been taken `OFF' and Hand signals are being
shown wherever prescribed.
140.
Shunting near level crossing.
- The railway servant in charge of shunting near or across a level crossing, before giving permission to the Loco pilot to
move his train across it, shall ensure that the level crossing gates have been closed and locked against road traffic.
141.
Shunting on gradients.
(1)
Page 53/124
----- PAGE 54 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
When shunting is being performed on a gradient the railway servant in charge of the shunting shall ensure that sufficient
number of brakes are used to secure vehicles detached from the train as provided for in rule 147 and that all
precautions.
(2)
Shunting on a gradient as mentioned in sub-rule (1) above at a station may be prohibited or restricted in the station
working rules if necessary in view of local conditions.
142.
Loose shunting.
(1)
The vehicles stencilled or labelled `Not to be loose shunted', or such other vehicles or any vehicle when loaded with
certain commodities specified under special instructions shall not be loose shunted or hump-shunted nor shall other
vehicles be loose shunted against them. The list of such vehicles and commodities shall be specified from time to time
under special instructions.
(2)
No vehicle may be loose shunted unless it is provided with an efficient hand brake or is attached to a vehicle fitted with
an efficient brake, and until a competent railway servant is available to apply brakes when necessary and to avoid
dashing with force against other vehicles.
(3)
Loose shunting shall not be permitted on running lines or on a line which leads to a running line.
(4)
Loose shunting of vehicles shall not be permitted on lines if the gradient is one in four hundred or steeper, and during
bad weather impairing visibility.
143.
Fly shunting of vehicles.
- Fly shunting to send loosely shunted vehicle or group of vehicles, one after another, to place them on different lines by
reversing the points after passage of the leading vehicle or group of vehicles for next vehicle or group of vehicles to get
diverted on other line shall be permitted at a station only if specifically allowed under special instructions, and where
permitted it shall not commence unless the person responsible for shunting has taken adequate measures and
precautions so as to avoid vehicles dashing with force against each other un-necessarily, and ensures that shunting
does not cause vehicles to escape resulting in infringement to other movement which is likely to take place or is taking
place, or endangering of life or property in any manner.
144.
Train operation and shunting at stations under centralised traffic Control.
(1)
No train operation and shunting shall be performed at a station under centralised traffic control without the permission of
the centralised traffic control Operator or when centralised traffic control is not in operation, without the permission of the
Station Master.
(2)
For the purpose of train operation and shunting, the centralised traffic control Operator may, when required, hand over
the local control of working of traffic at a station or part of a station to the Station Master who shall thereafter be
responsible for the train operation and shunting at the station of that part on the station for which the local control has
been made over to him in the manner prescribed under special instructions.
145.
No obstruction on a running line without the permission of Station Master on duty.
(1)
Under no circumstances and in what so ever manner, no railway servant shall cause fouling or obstruction of a running
line without obtaining the prior permission of the Station Master on duty or of other railway servant nominated in this
behalf under special instructions, who shall see that all necessary steps are taken for the protection of traffic while such
operation is being carried out and the necessary signals are kept at `ON' until the obstruction is removed.
(2)
When it be necessary to detach a vehicle from a train and leave it standing on the running line Station Master on duty
Page 54/124
----- PAGE 55 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
shall secure the vehicle as prescribed under rule 147 and take such additional precautions as may have been
prescribed in Station Working Rules; he shall also place or use stop callers on relevant buttons of point and signals that
leads to the obstructed line and advise the control to make arrangement to expeditious removal of the vehicle
obstructing the running line. He shall also switch on the intermittent buzzer wherever provided on the panel to remind
him of the obstruction. The controller shall ensure that no running line at any station under his jurisdiction remain
obstructed for a long time for want of loco or other aids and assistances which the Station Master has asked for.
(3)
A sand hump or snag dead end shall not be obstructed for any purpose and when it has become obstructed, it shall
cease to be a substitute for the adequate distance for the purpose of taking `OFF' signals.
146.
Drawing of a train to an advanced position.
(1)
A train waiting for an authority to proceed under absolute block system of working shall not be allowed to draw out up to
an Advanced Starter for despatch, except where track circuit, axle counter or a similar such device has been provided
between the Starter and Advanced Starter to indicate the presence of a train in advanced position.
(2)
The provision of sub-rule (1) shall not apply in case of shunting of a train within the station section itself.
147.
Securing of vehicles at stations.
(1)
The Station Masters shall ensure that each vehicle standing at their stations are so placed and secured that they do not
and cannot obstruct other lines in the manner specified below,-
(a)
vehicles shall be coupled together and hand brakes applied; or
(b)
if brakes cannot be tightened, the vehicles shall be secured with safety chains fastened to the rail and padlocked and
the sprags or wooden wedges or skids shall also be used to prevent rolling down of vehicles.
(2)
As far as possible, such vehicles shall be stabled on lines that are isolated from the running lines.
(3)
Whenever one or more vehicles are detached from a train,- (a) before the locomotive of the train is detached to shunt
the vehicle, the competent railway servant provided for shunting, or in his absence the Assistant Loco pilot of the
locomotive shall ensure that brakes of the portion of the train being left behind is adequately secured against any
movement which may obstruct the adjacent line;
(b)
before uncoupling the vehicles being stabled it shall be ensured that they have been secured as in sub-rule (1) of the
rule 147;
(c)
when detached vehicles are kept on a running line, the Station Master shall further ensure that the points leading to the
line are set and locked against the line and stop callers are used to prevent operation of buttons associated with points
and signals that lead to the obstructed line.
(4)
In case of stabling of full load,-
(a)
a minimum of six wagons at each end, in a load of upto sixty vehicles, shall be secured by either applying hand brakes
by assistant Loco pilot or secured with at least two safety chains one at either end fastened to the rail and padlocked by
the Station Master. Further at least four sprags or wooden wedges be used, two each below the outermost pair of
wheels. In case the load exceeds sixty vehicles it shall be treated as two separate loads;
(b)
the vehicles of stabled load shall be coupled together. In case, the stabled load has to be split for any reason and also in
case of a long haul train each split part shall be treated as a separate load for the purpose of securing;
Page 55/124
----- PAGE 56 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(c)
when stabled on a running line, action as in sub-rule (2) (c) shall also be taken and remarks made in train signal register
in red ink to the effect that is blocked.
(d)
a full train shall not be stabled on a running line having gradient more than one in four hundred; and
(e)
in case of stabling of train with locomotive attached or stabling of light engine before shutting down the locomotive, the
Loco pilot shall additionally ensure that every given brake, including hand brake and parking brake have been applied,
and locomotive secured with wooden wedges.
(5)
In case a train is stalled in block section besides protecting the train in terms of rules 223, the vehicles shall also be
secured when either the locomotive is to be detached or being shut down or a portion of the train is left behind or the
continuity of brake has been affected due to accident.
148.
Leaving vehicle in siding outside station limit.
- No railway servant shall leave any vehicle in a siding outside station limit, unless the vehicle is clear off all running lines
and unless protection through assured isolation is provided by the interlocking.
149.
Station working rules.
- In addition to the General Rules and Subsidiary rules, each station shall be provided with Station working rules
applicable to that station issued under special instructions. It shall give complete description of train operation in normal
as well as in abnormal condition as per the lay out and signalling equipment of the station. The Station working rules
must invariably be updated immediately in case of any changes in the lay out or signalling equipment or introduction of
any innovation or device to facilitate train operation or to ensure safety. Each page of the Station working rules must be
numbered along with Station code. Each page should be initialled and last page signed in full by designated Operating
and Signalling officials, affixing their designation, appointed in this behalf by the authorised officer of dedicated freight
corridor railway.
Chapter VIII
Working of Trains Generally
150.
Standard time.
(1)
The working of trains between stations shall be regulated by the Indian standard time.
(2)
Every work place and railway servant on whom any responsibility is given under these rules, shall ensure that clocks
and watches are always kept synchronized with the Indian standard time.
151.
Time of attendance for train crew.
- Every member of the train crew shall be in attendance for duty at such place and at such time as may be prescribed by
special instructions.
152.
Direction of running.
(1)
On a double line, every train shall run on the left hand line unless otherwise prescribed by special instructions.
(2)
If there are two or more parallel lines, the direction in which trains are to be run on each line shall be prescribed by
special instructions.
153.
Supply of working time table and Schedule of Standard Dimensions.
(1)
A copy of the working time table in force shall be supplied to each station, every member of train crew, inspector of
Page 56/124
----- PAGE 57 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
electrical way or works, inspector of permanent way or works, and any other railway servant requiring the use of the
working time table during the course of his duties.
(2)
A copy of the schedule of standard dimensions for the time being in force shall be supplied to each inspector of electrical
way or works, inspector of permanent way or works, signal Inspector, and train examiner.
B - Speed of Trains
154.
Limits of speed generally.
(1)
(a)
every train shall run on each section of the railway within the limits of speed sanctioned for that section by special
instructions;
(b)
the maximum speed sanctioned, permanent speed restrictions, booked speed of scheduled freight trains, and maximum
permissible speeds of rolling stock in use over a section shall be shown in the working time table; and
(c)
all locos work on dedicated freight corridor network will have working speedometer. The loco pilot shall observe the
sanctioned sectional speed and the maximum permissible speed of his train whichever is lesser, when all speedometers
in the driving cab become defective en-route, the loco pilot shall estimate the speed of his train with the help of his
watch, kilometre posts and inter-station running time given in the working time table. The loco pilot should not exceed
ninety per cent of maximum permissible speed in case speedometer is defective.
(2)
The Loco pilot shall never exceed the maximum permissible speed, regulate and control the speed of his train according
to the working time table so as to avoid excessive speed or loss of time, and observe all permanent, and temporary
speed restrictions.
(3)
When a train is to be stopped or speed restricted due to line being under repair or because of obstruction, action by
Loco pilot and the railway servant responsible for protecting obstruction or undertaking repairs shall be taken as
specified in rule 242.
155.
Caution Order.
(1)
Whenever, in consequence of the line being under repair or for any other reason, or special precautions are necessary
on a portion of a line, a caution order in Form 8 detailing the kilometers between which such precautions are necessary,
the reason for taking such precautions, and the speed at which a train shall travel, shall be handed over to the Loco pilot
at the stopping station immediately short of the place where such precautions are necessary, or at such other stations
and in such manner, as prescribed under special instructions.
(2)
The provisions of sub-rule (1) of the rule 155 does not apply in the case of long continued repairs when fixed signals are
provided at an adequate distance short of such place and have been notified to the running staff concerned, or included
in the working time table as permanent speed restrictions.
(3)
Method of notifying imposition and cancellation of Caution Order.-(a) When a competent railway servant finds it
necessary to impose special precautions as in sub-rule(1) of the rule 155, he shall, unless he is the Station Master
himself, advise in writing through numbered message to the Station Master on duty of the block station controlling entry
into the concerned block section, detailing therein the kilometers between which such precautions are necessary, the
reason for taking such precautions, the speed at which a train shall travel and any other information required as
necessary;
Provided that the provision of written advice for imposing special precautions during emergency can be dispensed with if
means of secured communication are provided between the Station Master and the said railway servant in accordance
with special instructions, and written advice may follow.
Page 57/124
----- PAGE 58 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(b)
When a competent railway servant finds it necessary to cancel special precautions imposed earlier he shall advise in
writing through a numbered message to the Station Master on duty of the block station controlling entry into the
concerned block section, referring to his earlier message.
Provided that for early resumption of normal working, the written advice for cancellation of special precautions may
follow and advice given on means of secured communication in accordance with special instructions.
(4)
Duty of Station Master for imposition of Caution Order,-
(a)
on receipt of information for imposition of special precautions, the Station Master on duty receiving such information
shall immediately inform the Station Master on duty at the other end of the affected block section, and both of them shall
stop the very next train to issue caution order. They shall continue to issue caution order to all subsequent trains until
confirmed by the Controller that caution order to the Loco pilots of the trains thereafter have been issued by the notice
station; and
(b)
after informing the Station Master of the block station at other end, the StationMaster on duty receiving such information
shall also inform the Station Master on duty of the notice station on approved means of communication and to the
Controller or the centralised traffic control Operator under exchange of Private Number.
(5)
Duty of Station Master for cancellation of Caution Order, - The Station Master on duty on receiving advice for
cancellation of special precaution, shall advise this fact to all those functionaries who had been earlier advised in terms
of sub-rule (4) of the rule 155 above, and after issue of advice regarding cancellation of caution order, the Station Master
shall discontinue the issuing of the Caution order.
(6)
Duty of the Station Master of notice station regarding issue of Caution Order, - On receipt of advice for issue of Caution
Order, the Station Master of the notice station shall acknowledge the same and not allow any train which has to pass
through the affected block section, to leave his station, from that point onwards, unless he has issued a Caution Order.
He shall also give particulars of the first train to which the Caution Order has been issued to the Station Master on duty
of the station in rear of site of restriction. In case of there being no caution, the notice station shall still issue a caution
order depicting `NIL `in Form 9.
(7)
Duty of the Station Master of the station from where a train is to start regarding issue of Caution Order, - In case of a
train originating from a station which is not a notice station, the Station Master shall consult the Controller or the
centralised traffic control Operator or the Station Master of the notice station in rear and issue Caution Order upto the
notice station in advance. In case of single line the details of special precautions to be imposed can be had from the
notice station in advance also.
(8)
Change of train crew en route,- In case of change of train crew en-route, the Loco pilot taking over charge shall take
over all Caution Orders relating to his train to acquaint himself of the conditions of the line giving due acknowledgement
to the Loco pilot who is being relieved.
(9)
Description and Preparation of Caution Order, - (a) the caution order referred to in sub-rule (1) of the rule 155 shall be
prepared on white paper in blue or black ink or typed or made out on computers with the words "CAUTION ORDER"
written on top of the form in bold letters of appropriate font size to draw attention distinctly and signed in full with station
stamp;
(b)
all forms should be serially numbered, machine printed or assigned by computer;
(c)
caution Order shall be prepared in two foils-one each for the Loco pilot and station record;
(d)
entries shall not be made on the back of the caution order, if more than one Caution Order form or page is used, pages
Page 58/124
----- PAGE 59 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
shall be serially numbered;
(e)
it shall specify the kilometerage and the station at which or stations between which caution is required to be observed,
the reason thereof and the speed at which the train will travel on the restricted zone. Full station name and its code shall
be used instead of code alone;
(f)
wherever speed restrictions are required to be observed at two or more locations, the kilometrage of all such locations
shall be indicated in geographical order in relation to the direction of movement, and serially numbered;
(g)
in case of any error in printing or overwriting, a fresh one shall be prepared.
(10)
Delivery of caution order, - (a) the caution order shall be delivered to the loco pilot of the train by the station master on
duty through a competent railway servant deputed by him and the signatures of loco pilot shall be obtained on each
page the record foil in token of their having received a legible copy of the caution order;
Provided, in case where details of the caution order can be displayed as text in front of the Loco pilot in his driving cab,
and updated through electronic media from a centralised office, the responsibility of the Station Master as stipulated in
this rule shall lie with the designated official on duty in the centralised office.
Provided further that such a system shall not only facilitate delivery of caution order but also capture acknowledgement
by the Loco pilot at the time of taking over the charge and subsequently at the time of each updation;
(b)
except in case of distributed power formation where all the locomotives are driven from one single cab of the leading
locomotive, where there are more than one working locomotive manned by different Loco pilot, the Caution Order shall
be given to each of them and their signatures shall be obtained.
(11)
Record of Caution Orders, - (a) at all stations where Caution Orders are issued, the station master shall keep an up to
date record of all the speed restrictions imposed with the dates of their enforcement and cancellation, authority, nature,
in the caution order register and on every Monday he will bring forward in geographical order in relation to the direction
of movement, the caution order presently applicable; and
(b)
similar records shall be kept at other places namely control offices, crew booking offices, also where information in this
regard is received.
(12)
Preservation of Caution Orders, - Record foils of the caution order shall be preserved for a period as prescribed under
special instructions.
156.
The Limits of speed over facing points.
(1)
The speed of trains over non- interlocked facing points, turn-out and cross-overs shall not exceed fifteen kilometers per
hour.
(2)
The speed over interlocked turn-outs and cross overs shall not exceed fifty kilometers per hour unless a higher limit is
prescribed for special type of cross over and turn-outs in accordance with special instructions.
(3)
A train may run over interlocked facing points on a straight road at such speeds as may be permitted by standard of
interlocking.
157.
Limits of speed while running through stations.
(1)
No train shall run through via the main line in an interlocked station at a speed exceeding fifty kilometers per hour ,
unless the line is isolated from other lines by setting of points or other approved means, and inter-locking is such as to
maintain this condition during the passage of the train.
Page 59/124
----- PAGE 60 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(2)
In every case in which trains are permitted to run through, on a non- isolated line, all shunting on adjoining line shall be
stopped. Further no vehicle un-attached to a loco motive are which is not properly secure in accordance with the rule
147 shall be kept standing on a connected line which is not isolated from the line on which the train is run through.
158.
Locomotive pushing.
(1)
No locomotive or self-propelled vehicle shall push any train outside station limit except with special instructions and at a
speed not exceeding twenty five kilometers per hour.
Provided that this sub-rule shall not be applied to a train, the leading vehicle of which is equipped with driving apparatus
and which may be operated under special instructions.
Provided further that this sub-rule shall not apply to a locomotive assisting in the rear of a train, which may be permitted
under special instructions to run without being coupled.
Provided also that no train which is not equipped with continuous brake shall be pushed outside station limit except in
case of emergency.
Provided further that a 'patrol 'or 'search light' special with one or more vehicles in the front, may be permitted to run at a
maximum speed of forty kilometre per hour.
(2)
When the movement of train with engine pushing is undertaken either during night or in thick, foggy or tempestuous
weather impairing visibility, the leading vehicle shall be equipped with the prescribed light and marker lights.
(3)
When locomotive is pushing the load and is the rear most, it shall carry a tail lamp or tail board or its equivalent.
(4)
If for some reason a train is required to be pushed back to return to the station in the rear under its own power,-
(i)
the pilot will first seek the permission from the Station Master on the approved means of communication, and the Station
Master shall permit reversal only after ensuring that there is no obstruction behind the affected train in the block section;
(ii)
the loco pilot shall reverse his train at a speed not exceeding twenty five kilometre per hour in clear visibility and as far
as possible, stop at a place where the last vehicle, is approximately around the location of the first Stop signal of the
opposite direction in double line or first Stop signal of the same direction in single line in case of absolute block system,
or the first semi-automatic or manual signal either of the opposite directions or of the same direction in case of automatic
block section. Further, the train shall be piloted into the station guided by the hand signal shown by the authorised staff;
(iii)
station master shall arrange to hand signal the train from the location it has stopped as given in clause (ii) above;
(iv)
(a)
as far as possible, the Loco pilot shall be regularly guided by the person deputed to hand signal through the approved
means of communication, the position of the rear most vehicle and condition of level crossing or any other obstruction
behind, if any; and
(b)
in case of poor visibility conditions the Assistant Loco pilot shall hand pilot the train on foot up to the point at which the
station staff has been deputed as in clause (iii) at a speed not exceeding eight kilometre per hour.
(v)
The Loco pilot shall make frequent use of locomotive whistle as a warning to the road traffic while approaching and
passing across the level crossing. Assistant Loco pilot shall keep a sharp look-out in the rear and take measures to stop
the train, if circumstances so warrant. Approved means of communication shall be used by the Loco pilot and the station
master to keep informing each other the location of the train.
C - Equipment of Trains and Train Crew
159.
"Railway Emergency Alert" Alarm.
Page 60/124
----- PAGE 61 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
- No train shall be worked without having Mobile Radio of mobile train radio communication system either installed in
loco cab or available with loco pilot for initiating and receiving Railway Emergency Call, except in case of any
emergency in accordance with special instructions.
160.
End of Train telemetry.
(1)
No train shall be worked without a communication display unit in the driving cab of the locomotive and a sense and
brake unit of end of train telemetry system mounted on the rear coupler of the rear most vehicle, except in case of
emergency in accordance with special instructions.
(2)
In order to indicate to the staff that the train is complete, the last vehicle, shall be distinguished by the red retro-reflective
painted sense and brake unit in the rear having a flashing red lamp which is lit both by day and night.
(3)
In order to warn loco pilots of trains approaching from rear on the same or adjoining lines, the sense and brake unit shall
also carry an amber flasher light which can be switched 'ON' or 'OFF' by the Loco pilot. Further the amber flasher light
shall be of such design that it is automatically switched 'ON' in case of parting of train.
Provided further that the provision of this rule shall not apply to rail cars, or light single or coupled locomotive.
161.
Head light, marker lights, flasher lights and speedometer.
(1)
A train shall not work at night or in bad weather conditions impairing visibility or in long tunnels, unless the locomotive
carries in the front an electric head light of an approved design, two electric white marker lights, one flasher light on top
in the front; and two red marker lights in the rear for use during light running.
(2)
A locomotive employed exclusively on shunting at stations and yards shall, at night or in bad weather conditions
impairing visibility, display such head lights as are prescribed by the special instructions and exhibit two red marker
lights in front and in rear.
(3)
The electric head light shall be fitted with a switch to dim the light and shall be dimmed, -
(a)
When the train remains stationary at a station;
(b)
when the train is approaching another train which is running in opposite direction on double or multiple track; and
(c)
On such other occasions as may be prescribed by special instructions.
(4)
In case the electric head light fails enroute or a train has to be worked without headlight in an emergency, the locomotive
shall display two electric white marker lights referred to in sub- rule (1) of the rule 161 pointing in the direction of
movement and the train shall run at a speed not exceeding fifty kilometre per hour or severest speed restriction imposed
in the section whichever is less to reach the location where the problem can either be rectified or a relief locomotive is
provided.
(5)
Locomotive shall not be turned out from the shed if head Light, marker lights and flasher lights are in defective condition.
In case of flasher light is found defective enroute the loco pilot shall inform the controller to make arrangement for
rectification or arrange a relief locomotive.
In the mean time before reaching the location where the problem can be rectified in case the train is stopped on account
of accident or any other cause besides showing danger signals towards the direction from which the train shall be
approaching, he shall instead repeatedly switch `on' or switch `off', the head light of his locomotive till his train meets first
train from opposite direction and also make use of the approved means of communications to warn the Loco pilot of any
approaching train.
(6)
Page 61/124
----- PAGE 62 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
Locomotive shall not be turned out from the shed if speedometer or recorder are in defective condition. In case of
speedometer or recorder becoming defective during run, the Loco pilot should estimate the speed of his train either from
the number of posts passed in an interval in electrified territory or otherwise so as not to exceed the ninety per cent of
the maximum permissible speed of that section or the train whichever is less.
162.
Tail board or tail lamp.
(1)
In order to indicate to the staff that a train is complete, the last vehicle, shall be distinguished by affixing to the rear of it,-
(a)
a red retro-reflective painted sense and brake unit to the rear of it having a flashing red lamp which is lit both by day and
night as given in sub-rule (2) of rule 160; or
(b)
(i)
by day, a tail board of approved design or a red painted tail lamp of approved design which may be unlit; or
(ii)
by night, as well as in thick, foggy or tempestuous weather impairing visibility during day, a flashing red tail lamp of
approved design;
(c)
Such other device as may be prescribed by special instructions.
(2)
Working of trains with a red flag as a last vehicle indicator- except in case of front portion of a parted train, no train shall
be worked in the block section without the tail board or tail lamp as prescribed under these rules. In emergencies only,
and under special instructions in each case, a red flag may be used in lieu of a tail board or unlit tail lamp.
(3)
In case of a locomotive or coupled locomotives running light, they shall have a red flag by day and marker lights lit as
red (after covering it with red slides) by night to indicate the last vehicle.
163.
Equipment of Loco pilot or Assistant Loco Pilot.
(1)
Equipment of Loco pilot- Each Loco pilot shall have with him, while on duty with his train, the following equipment, -
(a)
a copy of these rules or such portions thereof as have been supplied to him under rule 3
(b)
a copy of the working time tables and all correction slips and appendices, if any, in force on that section over which the
train is to run;
(c)
torch cum-tri-colour hand signal lamp (steady white, flashing red and green);
(d)
two red flags and one green flag mounted on stick;
(e)
unless forming part of the locomotive equipment, mobile radio of mobile train radio communication system ;
(f)
a portable amber flasher light;
(g)
unless forming part of the locomotive equipment, hand set of secured means of communication network;
(h)
one pair of spectacles as spare and one watch;
(i)
where required blank forms of "line clear ticket" and "passing of signal at danger" for receiving authority on Secured
Means of Communication.
(j)
Page 62/124
----- PAGE 63 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
such other articles as may be prescribed by Railway Administration in this behalf.
(2)
If any Loco pilot is not in possession of any article mentioned in sub-rule (1) of rule 163, he shall report the fact to his
superior who shall make good the deficiency.
(3)
Equipments of Assistant Loco pilot - Each Assistant Loco pilot shall have with him, while on duty with his train, the
following equipments, -
(a)
a copy of these rules or such portions thereof as have been supplied to him under rule 3
(b)
a copy of the working time tables and all correction slips and appendices, if any, in force on that section over which the
train is to run;
(c)
torch cum-Tri-colour Hand signal Lamp (steady white, flashing red and green);
(d)
two red flags and one green flag mounted on stick;
(e)
unless forming part of the locomotive equipment, hand set of Secured Means of Communication network;
(f)
one pair of spectacles as spare and one watch;
(g)
such other articles as may be prescribed by Railway Administration in this behalf.
(4)
If any Assistant Loco pilot is not in possession of any article mentioned in sub-rule (3), he shall report the fact to his
superior who shall make good the deficiency.
164.
Locomotive Equipment.
- Each Locomotive shall carry - (1) a Cab Radio of mobile train radio communication system
Note: Where Cab Radio of mobile train radio communication system is not provided as part of locomotive equipment, an
operational radio of mobile train radio communication system shall be provided to the loco pilot.
(2)
Fire extinguisher, skids of approved design and such other accessories as may be prescribed by special instructions.
(3)
On board safety device as may be prescribed for the section, unless exempted under special instructions.
165.
Manning of locomotive in motion .
(1)
No locomotive shall be allowed to be in motion on any running line, unless both Loco pilot as also the Assistant Loco
pilot are upon it, except when otherwise provided by special instructions.
(2)
Subject to the provision of sub-rule (3) of the rule 165, in no circumstances shall a person other than the Loco pilot or a
railway servant duly qualified in all respects, drive a locomotive on any running line.
(3)
If any of the Loco pilot or assistant Loco pilot becomes incapacitated, the Controller and the Station Master of station in
advance shall be informed on the approved means of communication for arranging relief and the train shall be worked
by the Loco pilot or duly qualified assistant Loco pilot cautiously upto the next station.
(4)
On receipt of information of incapability of either of the train crews to proceed, the relief crew and the medical aid as
needed shall be arranged by Controller from the nearest station.
166.
Driving a train.
Page 63/124
----- PAGE 64 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(1)
The loco pilot and assistant loco pilot shall acquaint themselves with the system of working, location of signals and other
local conditions affecting the running of trains on a section or sections of the railway over which he is to work and if he is
not so acquainted with any portion of the railway over which he is to work, obtain the services of a qualified railway
servant who is conversant with it to assist him.
(2)
(a)
train shall be invariably driven from the front compartment of the leading locomotive;
(b)
in case of the driving apparatus of the front compartment becomes defective the train can be driven from the rear
compartment at a restricted speed in accordance with special instructions and a competent railway servant shall travel in
the front compartment showing hand signals prescribed under these rules.
(3)
(a)
no railway servant shall be allowed to drive a train on any part of the running line or work as Loco pilot unless he is duly
qualified to drive and holds a valid certificate of competency issued by the competent authority;
(b)
the responsibility which shall be accountable for strict implementation of this rule shall be prescribed by the concerned
railway administration.
167.
Riding on locomotive.
(a)
no railway servant other than loco crew shall be authorised to ride on the locomotive except those who are permitted
under special instructions.
(b)
no unauthorised person shall manipulate any apparatus unless authorised under special instructions.
168.
Working of trains in absence of end of train telemetry.
- When it becomes unavoidably necessary to work a train without end of train telemetry it shall be done under special
instructions.
169.
Working of trains in absence of Amber flasher light in the rear of a train.
- When it becomes unavoidably necessary to work a train without a provision of showing amber flasher light in rear it
shall be done under special instructions.
Position of Brake van on train,-When a train is being worked with Cab Radio or operational radio but without end of train
telemetry, and one brake van shall be attached to the rear of the train for a guard to travel and perform brake van
functions, provided that reserved carriages or other vehicles may be placed in rear of such brake van.
170.
Working of trains in absence of Cab Radio or Operational radio of mobile train radio communication system.
- When it becomes unavoidably necessary to work a train without `Cab Radio or Operational radio of mobile train radio
communication system' it shall be done under special instructions.
Competent railway servant to travel in brake van to work as guard,-
(1)
Except when trains are worked with both Cab Radio and Operational radio of mobile train radio communication system
and end of train telemetry system, or when either of them is not provided or in emergency, every running train shall be
provided with a competent railway servant to work as guard.
(2)
The guard of a running train shall travel in the brake-van or hand braked vehicle except,-
(a)
in an emergency; or
(b)
Page 64/124
----- PAGE 65 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
as permitted under these rules.
(3)
When a train is worked without a Guard, such of his duties as can be performed by the Loco pilot shall devolve on him
as may be specified by special instructions.
(4)
Equipment of Guard,- (a) when trains are worked with a guard travelling in the brake-van, in addition to the equipment
listed in rule 163, he shall also carry,-
(i)
a red tail board;
(ii)
a red tail lamp,;
(iii)
detachable air pressure gauge with adapters;
(iv)
an amber flasher light when cab radio or operational radio of mobile train radio communication system is available but
not end of train telemetry;
(v)
sufficient supply of Detonators when `Cab Radio or operational radio of mobile train radio communication system' is not
available; and
(vi)
such other articles as may be prescribed by Railway Administration in this behalf.
(b)
if guard is not in possession of any article mentioned in sub-rule (1) of the rule 170, he shall report the fact to his
superior who shall make good the deficiency.
(5)
The competent railway servant who have correct knowledge of detonators and their use shall only be assigned to work
as Guard and he shall keep them ready for immediate use.
171.
Couplings.
- No vehicle that is not fitted with a coupling or couplings of approved pattern shall be attached to any train.
D - Vehicles and Cranes
172.
Cranes.
(1)
Attaching of travelling cranes to trains,-
(a)
no travelling crane shall be attached to a train until it has been certified by a duly authorised railway servant that it is in
proper running order, and with a dummy truck for the jib, if necessary; and should preferably be marshalled next to
Locomotive,
(b)
the speed of the crane shall be restricted either to sectional speed or maximum permissible speed of that crane
whichever is less subject to all permanent and temporary restrictions imposed.
(2)
Working of crane on electric traction, - No crane shall be worked on line having electric traction or adjacent to it unless
such overhead equipment is made dead and earthed by the overhead equipment staff and all movements of the crane
jib shall be carefully controlled so as not to foul the traction overhead equipment overhead equipment; and other
precautions taken in accordance with rule 265.
(3)
Crane working shall not be commenced or carried out without the prior permission of the station master on duty and
unless line or lines that will be obstructed are blocked.
(a)
Page 65/124
----- PAGE 66 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
the crane supervisor shall notify the Station Master on duty in writing the nature of the work, the line that will be occupied
by the crane and other line or lines that will be obstructed during the period of operation, if any, and time required for the
work;
(b)
in case of working of crane in station section the lines for which block is taken, shall be treated as deemed `obstructions'
for the purpose of taking 'OFF' signals or train working or shunting. The affected line shall be protected by setting the
points against such line and Stop plugs placed over the relevant point switches or buttons. Buzzer where provided shall
also be switched 'on';
(c)
in case of working of crane in Block Section,-
(i)
the crane shall be despatched from the station in rear only after blocking back or blocking forward the block section
along with necessary authority for shunting or obstruction as in rule 103 and the requisite caution order is given;
(ii)
if the work necessitates stopping of trains on any of the adjacent line including Indian Railway line , block for the same
shall be asked for by the Supervisor and the affected section shall also be blocked back or blocked forward by the
Station Master including Indian Railway station master despatching the crane;
(iii)
if the work involves infringement of adjoining line only during operation of the crane when the jib is raised and trains can
be passed by stopping operation of the crane, the Supervisor shall arrange to show signals in accordance with rule 242
and Loco pilot of trains proceeding into the section shall be issued caution order by station master at either end of the
section;
(d)
when a crane is working, the Supervisor in charge shall see that the adjacent lines for which block has not been taken is
not infringed at any cost; and
(e)
after the crane work is over, the crane supervisor shall issue a memo to the station master on duty including Indian
Railway station master to the effect that the work is over and other lines blocked or fouled are clear of obstructions and
are safe for the passage of trains.
Provided further that written memo may follow the advice given on secured voice communication where provided for
early commencement of train operation on line other than the one occupied by the crane.
(f)
normal train working shall be resumed on receipt of this assurance from the supervisor of the crane;
(g)
station master on duty shall record such of the events in red ink in the train signal register; and
(h)
Railway servant holding a competency certificate issued by the competent authority appointed by Railway administration
shall only operate or supervise crane operations.
173.
Loading of vehicles.
(1)
No wagon shall be so loaded as to exceed the maximum gross load on the axle fixed for the route on which it has to
travel across the Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway or Indian Railway lines. In case of route is having varying axle load
limits for different sections, least of the permissible axle load shall be chosen or train booked and dispatched via dearer
route having uniform axle load limit.
Maximum gross load on the axle for sections of Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway lines shall be fixed by Director,
operation and business development and that for the Indian Railway lines shall be fixed under section 72 of the Indian
Railway Act 1989, or such varied carrying capacity, as may have been prescribed under sub-section (4) of the said
section.
(2)
Except under special instructions, no wagon shall be so loaded as to exceed the maximum moving dimension
Page 66/124
----- PAGE 67 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
prescribed for the route on which it has to travel across Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway or Indian Railway lines. In
case route is having varying maximum moving dimension limits for different sections least of the permissible maximum
moving dimension shall be chosen.
Limits of maximum moving dimension for normal movement as also rules for over dimensional consignments for the
sections of Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway lines shall be fixed by Director, operation and business development and
that for the Indian Railway lines shall be fixed by Railway Board.
(3)
When the length of consignment projects to an unsafe extent beyond the end of wagon on which it is loaded, an
additional wagon shall be attached to act as a dummy.
174.
Marshalling order and attachment of damaged or defective vehicles.
(1)
The station master or yard master where provided shall ensure, that the marshalling of vehicles in the formation of the
train conforms to the special instructions prescribed for the purpose.
(2)
No derailed vehicle after re-railment or a hot axle vehicle shall be attached unless it has been certified fit to run by a
competent train examiner.
Provided that in case of a hot axle detected between stations, the loco pilot, if he considers it safe to do so, may take
such vehicle to the next station at a slow speed where such train shall be preferably received on the main line, otherwise
stopped at the first stop signal before receiving it on loop line and the vehicle shall be examined and certified before
proceeding ahead.
(3)
If station master on duty has reason to apprehend danger from the condition of any vehicle on a train before it can be
inspected by a train examiner, the loco pilot shall be consulted, and if he so requires, the vehicle shall be detached from
the train.
(4)
Attaching of vehicles outside end of train telemetry,-
(a)
any number of vehicles fitted with pressure brake in good working order may be permitted to be attached on the train
provided the sense and brake unit of the end of train telemetry is shifted and installed on the rear coupler of the
rear-most vehicle;
(b)
In case of clearance of a damaged vehicle, not having air pressure brake in working order, or where sense and brake
unit cannot be installed on the rear coupler of the rear-most vehicle, only in emergency to clear an occupied running
lines, not more than one such vehicle shall be permitted, and that also upto a short distance. In such cases the train
shall be treated as running without tail lamp and all measures prescribed in these rules for working of such trains shall
be followed.
The controller shall advise all the stations enroute to verify the fouling mark clearance through physical verification
whenever required, and complete arrival on the basis of last vehicle number.
Provided that running of a train specially for the purpose of clearing the section of such damaged vehicle not having air
pressure in working order shall be done as per special instructions; and
(c)
Attaching of vehicles when the train is worked without end of train telemetry shall be governed by special instruction.
E- Precautions before Starting train
175.
Loco pilot to examine notices before starting.
- Every loco pilot before starting with a train shall examine the notices issued for his guidance and ascertain there from
whether there is anything requiring his special attention on that section of the railway over which he has to work.
176.
Examination of train before starting.
(1)
Page 67/124
----- PAGE 68 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
No train shall be despatched from a station unless it has a valid brake power certificate to the effect that the train is fit to
proceed and has the prescribed brake power, issued by a train examiner except in the circumstances and manner
prescribed under sub-rule (2) below.
(2)
When newly formed train is to be despatched from a non-train examination station, or the brake power certificate is no
more valid in terms of special instructions issued to this effect, the loco pilot of the train may start his train after he is
satisfied of continuity and availability of adequate air pressure in the train brake system upto the last vehicle.
Provided further that such a train shall be worked only up to the next train examination station in the direction of
movement and train given examination before proceeding ahead.
(3)
The loco pilot, shall carefully examine the load of any open wagon and over dimensional consignments which may be
attached to the train and if any such load has shifted or requires adjustment, he shall have it secured or the wagon
detached from the train.
177.
Duties of Loco pilot before commencement of journey.
- The loco pilot shall, before the commencement of the journey and after performing any shunting en-route, ensure that,-
(a) his locomotive is in proper working order;
(b)
a valid brake power certificate of the train is available with him and the train is provided with the prescribed brake power
and where end of train telemetry is provided, its console is showing continuity in the train brake system till the last
vehicle and the pressure is adequate;
(c)
the end of train telemetry system, if installed, is configured correctly and fully functional;
(d)
the head light, flasher light and marker lights as prescribed in sub-rule (1) of rule 161 are in good order, and these are
kept burning brightly, when required;
(e)
in case of a distributed power formation, the control and power apparatus, and brakes of the complete train are in proper
working order;
(f)
the train carries a last vehicle check device as per rule 162;
(g)
that he has received the train consist and other prescribed documents; and length of train endorsed on train consist has
been correctly indicated;
(h)
cab radio or operational radio of mobile train radio communication system ' is provided to him;
(i)
approved or secured voice communication phone alongwith the contact numbers of the station and the controller falling
enroute are available;
(j)
all working on board safety device are switched on;
(k)
the applicable caution order has been received at the originating or notice station; and
(l)
generally, as far as he can ascertain, the train is in a state of efficiency for travelling.
178.
Examination of single and multiple units including formation of distributed powering of trains by Loco pilot.
- When coupling single or multiple units together, the loco pilot shall be responsible for observing that all electrical or
pneumatic couplings are properly connected, and after all couplings have been connected, the loco pilot while taking
over the complete train shall satisfy himself that the control and power apparatus and brakes of the complete train are in
proper working order.
Page 68/124
----- PAGE 69 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
179.
Railway servant when assigned to travel with the train under exceptional circumstances.
- Railway servant, if any, assigned to travel with the train shall,- (1) obey all the lawful order of  his loco pilot in all
particulars and assist him discharge his duties prescribed under these rules besides,
(2)
undertaking such additional duties as are assigned to him specifically.
180.
Starting of trains.
(1)
A loco pilot shall not start his train from a station without the prescribed authority to proceed. Before starting the train, he
shall satisfy himself that,-
(a)
all correct fixed signals and where necessary, hand signals are given;
(b)
the line before him is clear of visible obstruction; and
(c)
generally, as far as he can ascertain, all is right for the train to proceed.
(2)
The station master shall not give authority to proceed to the loco pilot until he is satisfied that all is right for the train to
proceed.
181.
Loco pilot to be in-charge of train.
- After the locomotive has been attached to a train, and during the journey, the loco pilot shall be in charge of the train in
all matters affecting stopping or movement of the train for traffic purpose.
182.
Subordination of Loco pilot in station limits.
- When a train is within station limits, the loco pilot shall be under the orders of the station master on duty.
183.
Assistant Loco pilots to obey Loco pilots.
- The assistant loco pilot shall obey all the lawful order of his loco pilot in all particulars and assist him discharge his
duties prescribed under these rules.
184.
Loco pilot to obey certain order.
- After a locomotive has been attached to a train and during the journey, the loco pilot shall obey all orders given to him
by the station master on duty or any railway servant acting under special instructions, so far as they do not infringe the
safe and proper working of his locomotive.
F- Duties of Staff Working Trains during journey
185.
Loco pilot and Assistant Loco pilot to keep a good look-out.
- Every loco pilot shall keep a good look-out while the train is in motion, and every assistant loco pilot shall also do so
when he is not necessarily otherwise engaged.
186.
Loco pilot and Assistant Loco pilot to look back.
- Whenever and wherever possible, the loco pilot and the assistant loco pilot shall look back frequently during the
journey to see whether the train is following in a safe and proper manner and in case any danger signal is being
exhibited by any railway servant.
187.
Duties of locomotive crew in respect of signals.
(1)
Though the prime responsibility in respect of observing and compliance of signals remains with the loco pilot, the loco
pilot and assistant loco pilot shall identify each signal, engineering indicator, neutral zone indicator, for lowering
Page 69/124
----- PAGE 70 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
pantograph, whistle board as soon as it becomes visible and shall call out their aspects to each other. Provided that,-
(a)
a loco pilot shall pay immediate attention to and obey every signal whether the cause of the signal being shown is
known to him or not;
(b)
he shall not, however, trust entirely to signals but always be vigilant and cautious.
(2)
The loco pilot, on receiving "railway emergency call" shall immediately stop his train and be guided by signals that he
may receive or if no hand signals or amber flasher signals are at once visible to him,-
(a)
if it is day and he has clear view of line ahead, proceed very cautiously at such speed as will enable him to stop short of
any obstruction;
(b)
if it is day and the view of the line is not clear due to curvature etc., or if the visibility is impaired for bad weather, or
during night, proceed very cautiously on hand signals given by assistant loco pilot who shall walk ahead of the train for
this purpose; and
(c)
after proceeding fifteen hundred meters from the location where "railway emergency call" was first heard if he does not
sight any amber flashing light, or no hand signals are received, or "railway emergency call" is switched off, he may then
resume authorised speed after confirming from the station master of the station ahead that all is well as far as his line is
concerned.
(3)
If in consequence of fog or storm or any other reason, the view of the signals is obstructed, the loco pilot shall take every
possible precaution, so as to have the train well under control.
(4)
When two or more engines are attached to a train, the loco pilot of the leading locomotive shall be responsible for the
observance of and compliance with the signals and the loco pilot of other locomotive shall watch for and take signals
from the loco pilot of the leading locomotive except in case of distributed power formation where the train is driven
through a single controlling apparatus in the front locomotive.
(5)
(a)
if the loco pilot notices that his locomotive explodes a detonator he shall immediately bring his train to a stop, be guided
by the signal that he may receive or if no hand signal or other signal are at once visible to him he shall follow the
procedure as given in clause (d) to (f) of this sub-rule (5) of the rule 187;
(b)
in thick, foggy or tempestuous weather impairing visibility if his locomotive explodes two detonators place about ten
meters apart he shall control his train immediately and shall follow the aspect of the fix signal ahead within a distance of
two hundred seventy meters;
(c)
if his locomotive explodes three detonators about ten meters apart, he shall control his train and move cautiously to stop
short of any obstruction and be guided by the signal that he may receive or if no hand signal or other signal are at once
visible to him he shall follow the procedure as given in clause (d) to (f) of this sub-rule (5) of the rule 187;
(d)
if it is day and he has clear view of line ahead, proceed very cautiously at such speed as will enable him to stop short of
any obstruction;
(e)
if it is day and the view of the line is not clear, or if the visibility is impaired on any reason, proceed very cautiously on
hand signals given by assistant loco pilot who shall walk ahead of the train for this purpose; and
(f)
after proceeding fifteen hundred meters from the place where the explosion occurred, if he does not explode any more
detonator or sees no other signal, he may then resume authorised speed, The loco pilot shall report the incident to the
Page 70/124
----- PAGE 71 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
controller or the next station.
188.
Exchange of 'all right signal' between Loco pilot and Station Master on duty or station staff while a train passes through
a station.
(1)
Where the secured means of communication between loco pilot and the station master, and video monitoring of passing
trains is provided in station master office, the loco pilot of a train while running through a station and station master on
duty shall call out to each other that all is right for the train to proceed. The sequence and the manner of calling out shall
be in accordance with special instructions. If all is not right, the station master shall advise the loco pilot on same means
of communication to stop the train.
(2)
Where video monitoring of passing train is not provided, the loco pilot, shall, while running through a station, look out for
and acknowledge the 'all right' signals with the station master or such other staff at the station, as may be specified by
special instructions, shall give if the train is to proceed in a safe and proper manner. If not, the station master or the
other station staff shall immediately inform on secured means of communication and exhibit a stop hand signal on
receipt of which, the loco pilot shall take the immediate steps to stop the train.
(3)
Action to be taken by station master on duty in case the loco pilot fails to whistle or loco pilot fails to exchange "all-right"
signal,-
(a)
the station master on duty shall immediately ascertain the cause of not exchanging all right signal from the loco pilot
through secured means of communication, in case he is unable to contact the loco pilot, he will advise the Station in
advance and to the controller;
(b)
the station master on duty in advance on receiving such advice shall take steps, as far as possible, to receive such train
on main line and also set the route onwards, stop all other movement via or near the line on which it is being received
but reception signal shall not be taken 'OFF' until the cause of not exchanging all right signal from the Loco pilot through
approved secured means of communication have been ascertained and in case he is not able to contact the loco pilot,
the train shall be declared a runaway train and action taken as advised by the controller.
(4)
(a)
If station master on duty fails to exchange "all-right" signal the loco pilot shall advise the controller on secured means of
communication or to the next station;
(b)
on receiving such information the controller shall call the station master on duty of station where all right signal were not
exchanged to verify his availability. If the station master on duty does not respond all train movement shall be stopped
and emergency procedures shall be invoked as prescribed in these rule.
(5)
The all right signal can be exchanged either by loco pilot or assistant loco pilot of a train depending on from which side
the ground staff is exhibiting the signal.
(6)
While running through a portion of Indian Railway station falling by the side of Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
alignment the loco pilot and the assistant loco pilot shall exercise great vigil and whistle to warn against unauthorised
crossing of the track.
189.
Loco pilot to keep a good look out.
- When train is being worked with end of train telemetry, during the journey including before starting at stations or
en-route, the loco pilot shall (1) Keep a good look-out and satisfy himself from time to time that the end of train telemetry
on his train is in position and that the train is complete in every respect.
(2)
When passing by manned level crossing gate or railway staff working on track, loco pilot or assistant loco pilot look back
Page 71/124
----- PAGE 72 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
to see if any signal is being given by them, to indicate that something is wrong with the train.
190.
Trains held up at first Stop signal.
(1)
In case the train is held up outside first Stop signal without any apparent reason for more than five minutes, the loco pilot
shall sound the prescribed whistle intermittently. If the signals are still not taken "OFF" he shall call the station master on
approved means of communication. If the station master does not respond, he shall depute the assistant loco pilot
(except in case of trains worked with single loco pilot) to proceed to the station to warn the station master.
(2)
If the station master on duty on becoming aware of the waiting train shall take action as is appropriate for reception of
train or ask the loco pilot to wait. In case of failure of the signal, he shall authorise the loco pilot to pass the stop signal at
danger by one of the permitted means in accordance with the rule 211 provided all other conditions of reception of the
train are fulfilled.
191.
Loco pilot not to detach locomotive from train.
- Loco pilot shall not detach his locomotive from a running train unless permitted by station master of station in advance
and as provided for in these rules.
192.
Sounding of locomotive whistle.
(1)
Except under special instructions, the loco pilot shall always sound the whistle of the locomotive according to the
prescribed code of whistle or the following circumstances, namely,-
(a)
before putting a locomotive in motion;
(b)
when entering a tunnel;
(c)
when approaching a manned or unmanned level crossing; and
(d)
at such other times and places as may be prescribed by special instructions.
(2)
locomotive whistle code shall be as under,-
The signals below by `0' stand for a short whistle and `-' for a long whistle,-
S.No.
Whistle Code
Indication
1
____ (long)
(a) Before starting,-
I. indication to loco
pilot of assisting or banking locomotive and acknowledgement by
the loco pilot of assisting or banking locomotive to leading
locomotive that the loco pilot of leading locomotive is ready to
start;
II. indication to
loco pilot of assisting or banking locomotive and acknowledgement
by the loco pilot of assisting or banking locomotive to leading
locomotive that the loco pilot of leading locomotive is ready to
start;
III. locomotive ready
to leave or go to loco yard;
Page 72/124
----- PAGE 73 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
IV. pressure
recreated on ghat section, remove sprags and also release brakes;
and
V. before starting a train from station or
mid-section.
(b) On run,-
(i) indication to
loco pilot of assisting or banking locomotive and acknowledgement
by the loco pilot of assisting or banking locomotive to leading
locomotive that the loco pilot of leading locomotive is that
assistance is not required;
(ii) passing stop
signal at `ON' on proper authority;
(iii) passing an
automatic stop signal;
(iv) passing an
intermediate block signal at `ON' when the loco pilot is unable
to contact the station in rear; and
(v) lower or raise pantograph to be acknowledged
by loco pilot of assisting locomotive.
2
____________ (Continuous long)
(a) Before starting,-
(i) recall railway servant protecting train in
rear;
(ii) material train ready to leave; and
(iii) main line cleared after backing into
siding.
(b) On run,-
(i) approaching level crossing or tunnel or area
of restricted visibility or curves or cutting or site of
accident;
(ii) running through a station;
(iii) approaching a stop signal at `ON';
(iv) detained at a stop signal;
(v) in consequence of bad weather impairing
visibility or any other reason the view of signals is obstructed;
(vi) apprehension of danger;
(vii) danger signal to the loco pilot of an
approaching train whose path is fouled or obstructed for any
reason;
(viii) while working on a single line section
when single line working is introduced on a double line section;
and
(ix) moving in wrong direction on a double line
or against the signalled direction in the automatic block
signalling territory or against the established direction in the
automatic block signalling territory on single line.
3
O O_____ (Two short one long)
insufficient air pressure in locomotive,-
Page 73/124
----- PAGE 74 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
4
OOO (Three short)
(a) train is out of control, guard to assist, if
present; and
(b) train cannot proceed ahead on account of
accident or failure or obstruction or any other exceptional
cause.
5
__ O __(One long, one short one long)
(a) train entered block section with wrong
`authority to proceed;
(b) train parting;
(c) train arriving incomplete;
(d) fouling mark not cleared; and
(e) signal defective.
G - Duties of Staff on Arrival
193.
Shutting off power.
- In stopping a train, the loco pilot shall determine where to shut off power by paying particular attention to the gradient,
the state of the weather, the condition of the rails, the brake power and the length and weight of the train.
194.
Loco pilot to stop close to the Starter signal or the stop Board.
(1)
The loco pilot of a train shall stop his train as close to the starter signal or the stop board referring to that line, as is
possible.
(2)
The loco pilot shall satisfy himself as to the complete arrival of train from the presence of transmitting sense and brake
unit of end of train telemetry system through the indication provided on the end of train telemetry console. In case his
train has not arrived complete he shall at once inform the station master on duty.
(3)
The clearance of fouling mark in front and rear shall be verified by station master from the indication on the panel with
the help of axle counter or track circuiting.
(4)
In case of failure of axle counters or track circuit;
(a)
the clearance of fouling mark in front shall be verified and confirmed to station master by loco pilot when asked for on
secured voice communication;
(b)
the complete arrival of train shall be verified and confirmed to the station master when asked for on secured means of
communication by the loco pilot when end of train telemetry is functional. In case end of train telemetry is not functioning
the station master shall verify presence of last vehicle physically; and
(c)
the clearance of fouling mark in rear shall be verified and confirmed by loco pilot when asked for by the station master
by comparing the length of his train recorded on the consist with the clear standing length written below the starter signal
or on the stop board when end of train telemetry is functional. In case end of train telemetry is not functioning the station
master shall verify clearance of fouling mark in rear physically.
(5)
A clear standing length Board indicates the length of a line written in white over a red back ground shall be fixed below
the Starter on its post bearing legend "clear standing length ........meters" or the length written on bottom of the stop
board.
195.
Page 74/124
----- PAGE 75 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
Detaching locomotive.
- Wherever a train has been brought to a stand, and it is necessary for the locomotive, with or without vehicle, to be
detached from the rest of the train, the loco pilot shall, before the locomotive is uncoupled, satisfy himself that the hand
brakes of the load have been put on securely and take such other measures as may be prescribed by special
instructions.
196.
Loco pilot not to leave train till handed over.
- The loco pilot on completion of his journey shall report himself to the station master on duty, and shall not leave the
station until he has made over his reports, all journals and documents kept up by him in connection with the running of
his train and correctly made over to a railway servant nominated for this purpose or to a relieving loco pilot.
197.
Loco pilot not to leave locomotive when on duty.
- No loco pilot shall leave his working locomotive or his self-propelled vehicle when on duty, whether at a station or on a
running line, except in case of absolute necessity and after a competent railway servant has been placed incharge of the
locomotive. In case a self-propelled vehicle manned by a single pilot only, a pilot may leave it when necessary,-
Provided that he has locked the cabs and has put the vehicle in low gear with the ignition switch in the off position and
screwed down and locked the hand brakes.
198.
Reporting of defects in signals.
(1)
All instances of poor or obstructed visibility along with their cause if noticeable shall be reported by the loco pilot to the
station master on duty of the next station on the approved means of communication.
(2)
When such report is made by a loco pilot, the station master shall take immediate steps to get it rectified.
H - Working of Material Trains, Track Maintenance Machine, Tower Wagon or Car and Rail-cum-Road Vehicle
199.
Working of a material or departmental train to carry out some work in between two block stations or within station limit.
(1)
Material or departmental train shall not carry out any work without the prior permission of station master on duty and
unless the line or lines that will be obstructed are blocked.
(a)
the supervisor in-charge of the material or departmental train shall notify the station master on duty in writing the nature
of the work, the line that will be occupied by the said train and line or lines likely to be infringed other than the one
occupied by the train, if any, during the period of operation, and time required for the work;
(b)
in case of working of material or departmental train in station section, the lines for which block is taken, shall be treated
as deemed `obstructions' for the purpose of taking 'off' signals or train working or shunting. The affected line shall be
protected by setting the points against such line and stop plugs placed over the relevant point switches or buttons.
Buzzer where provided shall also be switched 'on',
(c)
in case of working of material or departmental train in block section,-
(i)
the train shall be dispatched from the station after blocking back or blocking forward the block section along with
necessary authority for shunting or obstruction as in the rule 103 and requisite caution order is given;
(ii)
If the work necessitates stopping of trains on any of the adjacent line, block for the same shall be asked for by the
supervisor and the affected section shall also be blocked back or blocked forward by the station master despatching the
train;
(iii)
If the nature of work is such that train movement need not be stopped on the adjoining line but infringement is
apprehended during loading or unloading of material, the supervisor shall arrange to show signals in accordance with
Page 75/124
----- PAGE 76 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
the rule 242 and loco pilot of trains proceeding into the section shall be issued caution order by station master at either
end of the section.
(d)
when neither the block has been taken nor signal to warn the loco pilots as in sub-clause (iii) of clause (c) of this
sub-rule (1) of the rule 199 have been ensured on the adjoining line, the supervisor in charge shall see that during
loading or unloading adjacent line are kept clear.
(e)
after the loading or unloading is completed, the supervisor in charge shall issue a memo to the station master on duty to
the effect that the work is over and other lines blocked or fouled are clear of obstructions and are safe for the passage of
trains.
Provided further that written memo may follow the advice given on secured voice communication where provided for
early commencement of train operation on line under the system of working.
(2)
The supervisor-in-charge shall ensure, as far as possible, that the time for which the block has been asked for is not
exceeded,
(3)
When the train is ready to return,- (a) The supervisor-in-charge before leaving the site shall take permission of the
station master of station in advance or in rear where the train is to arrive as per authority through the approved means of
communication;
(b)
on getting the information from the supervisor in-charge of the material train, the station master on duty shall arrange for
reception of the train;
(c)
the supervisor on arrival of the train at the station shall confirm to the station master in writing against the relevant entry
in train signal register that the section has been cleared of the obstruction after completion of work and the whole of the
train has arrived;
(d)
normal working of trains on the lines for which block was taken, shall commence only after obtaining assurance from the
supervisor as in clause (c) of sub-rule (3) of the rule199;
(e)
in case axle counter fails due to counting mismatch during working of material or departmental train; track maintenance
machines, tower wagon, rail cum road vehicle, resetting of axle counter can be done by station master as per laid-down
procedure; and
(f)
in case axle counter fails due to damage of axle counter equipment, cable etc. especially during working of material
train, track maintenance machines, resetting of axle counter will not restore normal functioning of axle counter. In such
cases, signal maintenance staff will have to attend and rectify the damaged equipment, cable etc. before normal
functioning of axle counters is restored.
(4)
When the locomotive is pushing the material or departmental train the supervisor incharge or a competent railway
servant deputed by him shall exhibit hand signals to the loco pilot continuously from the leading vehicle fitted with air
brake valve or hand brake, the speed of train shall be restricted to twenty five kilometre per hour, and when such a
leading vehicle is not available the speed shall be further restricted to ten kilometre per hour and loco pilot shall be hand
signalled.
Provided further that in case only one or two vehicles are in front of the locomotive as in case of patrol special a
maximum speed of forty kilometre per hour may be permitted during run.
(5)
The working instruction to ensure safety of men and material as also to avoid escaping of vehicle from the work site for
different grades, curvatures, type of vehicles and machines shall be prescribed under special instructions.
(6)
Track laying machines propelled by a locomotive shall be worked in accordance with this rule.
Page 76/124
----- PAGE 77 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
200.
Working of Track Maintenance Machine.
(1)
Track maintenance machine shall run in the charge of a competent railway servant called incharge appointed in this
behalf by the Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway administration who shall be personally responsible for all safety aspect
regarding its movement and shall be responsible for taking the block, clearing the block etc.
(2)
Track maintenance machine shall be driven by a qualified person called the track maintenance machine operator who
should possess a valid competency certificate to drive the vehicles on rails issued by the competent authority appointed
in this behalf by the Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway administration.
(3)
The details of training and its schedule, as also the tests prescribed for possessing competency certificate and its
validity, shall be in accordance with the special instructions.
(4)
Track maintenance machines shall be treated as trains when moving under their own power between block stations to
block station. Relevant provisions for working, failure or accident to a train, action to be taken during break-down, etc. as
provided for in these rules shall also apply in case of track maintenance machine. For the purpose of through movement
maximum of five machines can be permitted to run in a convoy, if they cannot be coupled for some reason. In that case,-
(a)
the first machine will move on a proper authority and the others on the authority of the machine following issued to each
of the operators;
(b)
as a token of acknowledgement of moving in convoy, the machine operator will endorse on the permit that they are
aware of number of machines in front and rear, as the case may be;
(c)
caution order will be given to all the five operators in which number of machines following shall also be mentioned;
(d)
machine operator will ensure that a minimum distance of one hundred twenty meters is kept between the successive
machines;
(e)
gateman at level crossings will be specifically advised as to the number of machines in the convoy so as not to open the
gate till whole of the convoy has passed;
(f)
when moving in convoy, the speed shall be restricted to forty kilometre per hour; and
(g)
the permit shall be deposited with the station master at the station in advance who shall close the line only when last of
the permit has been received.
(5)
The track machine shall not carry out any work without the prior permission of station master on duty and unless the line
or lines that will be obstructed are blocked,-(a) the supervisor in-charge of the track machine shall notify the station
master on duty in writing the line that will be occupied by the said machine and line or lines likely to be infringed other
than the one occupied by the machine, if any, during the period of operation, and time required for the work; Relevant
provisions contained in Chapter-X shall also apply;
(b)
in case of working of track machine in station section the lines for which block is taken, shall be treated as deemed
`obstructions' for the purpose of taking 'OFF' signals or train working or shunting. The affected line shall be protected by
setting the points against such line and stop plugs placed over the relevant point switches or buttons. Buzzer where
provided shall also be switched 'on';
(c)
In case of working of track machine in block section,-
(i)
Page 77/124
----- PAGE 78 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
the machine shall be dispatched from the station after blocking back or blocking forward the block section along with
necessary authority for shunting or obstruction as in the rule 103 and the requisite caution order is given;
(ii)
if the work necessitates stopping of trains on any of the adjacent line, block for the same shall be asked for by the
supervisor and the affected section shall also be blocked back or blocked forward by the station master despatching the
train;
(iii)
if the nature of work is such that train movement need not be stopped on the adjoining line but infringement is
apprehended during operation of the machine, the supervisor shall arrange to show signals in accordance with the rule
242 and loco pilot of trains proceeding into the section shall be issued caution order by station master at either end of
the section.
(d)
when neither the block has been taken nor signal to warn the loco pilots as in sub-clause (iii) of clause (c) of sub-rule (5)
of the rule 200 have been ensured on the adjoining line, the supervisor in charge shall see that during operation of the
machine adjacent lines are kept clear.
(e)
after the work is completed, the supervisor incharge shall issue a memo to the station master on duty to the effect that
the work is over and other lines blocked and/or fouled are clear of obstructions and are safe for the passage of trains.
Provided further that written memo may follow the advice given on secured voice communication where provided for
early commencement of train operation on line under the system of working.
(6)
The supervisor-in-charge shall ensure, as far as possible, that the time for which the block has been asked for is not
exceeded.
(7)
When the machine is ready to return, - (a) the supervisor-in-charge before leaving the site shall take permission of the
station master of station in advance or in rear where the machine is to arrive as per authority through the approved
means of communication;
(b)
on getting the information from the Supervisor in-charge of the machine, the station master on duty shall arrange for
reception of the machine;
(c)
the Supervisor on arrival of the train at the station shall confirm to the station master in writing against the relevant
entries in train signal register that the section has been cleared of the obstruction after completion of work and all the
machine or machines have arrived; and
(d)
normal working of trains on the line for which block was taken, shall commence only after obtaining assurance from the
Supervisor as in clause (c) of this sub-rule (7) of the rule 200.
(8)
The working instruction to ensure safety of men and material as also to avoid escaping of vehicle from the work site for
different grades, curvatures, type of vehicles and machines shall be prescribed under special instructions.
201.
Working of Tower Wagon or Cars.
(1)
Tower wagon shall run in the charge of a competent railway servant called incharge appointed in this behalf by the
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway administration who shall be personally responsible for all safety aspect regarding its
movement and shall be responsible for taking the block, clearing the block etc.
(2)
Tower wagon shall be driven by a qualified person called the tower wagon operator who should possess a valid
competency certificate to drive the vehicles on rails issued by the competent authority appointed in this behalf by the
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway administration.
(3)
Page 78/124
----- PAGE 79 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
The details of training and its schedule, as also the tests prescribed for possessing competency certificate and its
validity, shall be in accordance with the special instructions.
(4)
Tower wagon shall be treated as a train when moving from one block station to another block station. Relevant
provisions for working, failure or accident to a train, action to be taken during break-down, etc. as provided for in these
rules shall also apply in case of tower wagons.
(5)
The tower wagon shall not carry out any work without the prior permission of station master on duty and unless the line
or lines that will be obstructed are blocked,-(a) the supervisor in-charge of the tower wagon shall notify the station
master on duty in writing the line that will be occupied by the said tower wagon and line or lines likely to be infringed
other than the one occupied by the tower wagon, if any, during the period of operation, and time required for the work;
relevant provisions contained in Chapter-X shall also apply;
(b)
in case of working of tower wagon in station section the lines for which block is taken, shall be treated as deemed
`obstructions' for the purpose of taking 'off' signals or train working or shunting. The affected line shall be protected by
setting the points against such line and Stop plugs placed over the relevant point switches or buttons. Buzzer where
provided shall also be switched;
(c)
in case of working of tower wagon in block section,-
(i)
The tower wagon shall be despatched from the station in rear only after blocking back or blocking forward the block
section along with necessary authority for shunting or obstruction as in rule 103 and the requisite caution order is given;
(ii)
if the work necessitates stopping of trains on any of the adjacent line, block for the same shall be asked for by the
supervisor and the affected section shall also be blocked back or blocked forward by the station master despatching the
train; and
(iii)
if the nature of work is such that train movement need not be stopped on the adjoining line but infringement is
apprehended during operation of the machine, the supervisor shall arrange to show signals in accordance with the rule
242 and loco pilot of trains proceeding into the section shall be issued caution order by station master at either end of
the section.
(d)
when neither the block has been taken nor signal to warn the loco pilots as in sub-clause (iii) of clause (c ) of the
sub-rule (5) of the rule 201 have been ensured on the adjoining line, the supervisor in charge shall see that during
working adjacent lines are kept clear.
(e)
after the work is completed, the supervisor in charge shall issue a memo to the station master on duty to the effect that
the work is over and other lines blocked or fouled are clear of obstructions and are safe for the passage of trains.
Provided further that written memo may follow the advice given on secured voice communication where provided for
early commencement of train operation on line under the system of working.
(6)
The supervisor-in-charge shall ensure, as far as possible, that the time for which the block has been asked for is not
exceeded.
(7)
When the tower wagon is ready to return,-
(a)
the supervisor-in-charge before leaving the site shall take permission of the station master of station in advance or in
rear where the tower wagon is to arrive as per authority through the approved means of communication;
(b)
on getting the information from the supervisor in-charge of the tower wagon, the station master on duty shall arrange for
reception of the tower wagon;
Page 79/124
----- PAGE 80 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(c)
the supervisor on arrival of the tower wagon at the station shall confirm to the station master in writing against the
relevant entries in train signal register that the section has been cleared of the obstruction after completion of work and
the tower wagon or wagons have arrived; and
(d)
normal working of trains on the line for which block was taken, shall commence only after obtaining assurance from the
supervisor as in clause (c) of the sub-rule (7) of the rule 201.
(8)
The working instruction to ensure safety of men and material shall be prescribed under special instructions.
202.
Working of multiple material or departmental trains and or other maintenance vehicles or machines.
(1)
More than one material or departmental train or track maintenance machine or tower wagon may be allowed to work in
the same block section in the shadow of block taken by one of them or during corridor block.
(2)
Such maintenance vehicle or train shall be despatched matching with the sequence of location at which they have to
work and in accordance with the following,-
(a)
such vehicle or train may be despatched into the blocked section either as one train to be separated at the site or singly
one after another by issuing a shunting order 103 to the operators or loco pilot of first vehicle or train, and written
authority to proceed without line clear 'authority to proceed without line clear' to the operators or loco pilots of
subsequent vehicle or trains;
(b)
the 'authority to proceed without line clear' given to the operator or loco pilot shall be the authority, to proceed up to the
assigned location. The kilometers up to which he must proceed into the obstructed block section, shall be recorded on
this authority; and
(c)
the 'authority to proceed without line clear' may confirm whether the vehicle or train is to return after completion of the
work or proceed ahead to the next block station or wait at the place of assigned location for clearance of line by the
vehicle or train in the rear or front as may be applicable. The 'authority to proceed without line clear' shall also mention, if
any, vehicle or train has gone ahead or shall be following it.
(3)
While proceeding into the obstructed section, the speed of the vehicles or train shall be restricted to twenty five kilometre
per hour in clear visibility over the straight, otherwise to ten kilometre per hour when approaching or passing any portion
of the line when the view ahead is not clear, or obstructed, or during bad weather impairing visibility. A caution order to
this effect shall be issued to the loco pilot of the relief train.
(4)
Where more than one such vehicle or train is required to be sent, successive vehicles or trains shall maintain a minimum
distance of one hundred twenty metre from each other. The operator or loco pilot of each of them shall protect his
vehicle or train in the rear in case his vehicle or train is stopped in between before reaching their assigned location.
(5)
The incharge of individual vehicles shall be responsible for protection of their vehicles in front and rear by showing hand
danger signals and maintaining a safe distance from each other in accordance with special instructions.
203.
Workers on material or departmental train, track maintenance machine, tower wagon, and Rail-cum-road vehicle.
- The official incharge of a material or departmental train, track maintenance machine, tower wagon, or rail-cum-road
vehicle shall before giving the signal to loco pilot or operator to start, see that all the workers are on board and warn
them to sit down.
204.
Protection of material or departmental train, track maintenance machine, tower wagon, and Rail-cum-road vehicle, when
stabled.
Page 80/124
----- PAGE 81 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(1)
A material or departmental train, track maintenance machine, tower wagon, rail-cum-road vehicle shall not be stabled on
a running line at a station, except in unavoidable circumstances.
(2)
When a material or departmental train is stabled at a station, it shall be protected and the station master on duty shall
ensure that,-
(a)
the vehicles of the material or departmental train have been properly secured and are not fouling any points or
crossings;
(b)
all necessary points have been set against the line on which the material or departmental train, track maintenance
machine, tower wagon, or rail-cum-road vehicle is stabled and such points have been secured with clamps or cotter
bolts and are locked; and
(c)
the keys of such locks are kept in his personal custody until the material or departmental train, track maintenance
machine, tower wagon, or rail-cum-road vehicle is ready to leave the siding or line.
(3)
The official incharge of the material or departmental train, track maintenance machine, tower wagon, or rail-cum-road
vehicle shall not relinquish the charge until he has satisfied himself that the train has been protected as prescribed in
these rules.
I - Private Locomotives and Vehicles
205.
Private locomotives and vehicles.
- Locomotive or other vehicle, which are the property of a private owner, shall be allowed to enter upon the Dedicated
Freight Corridor Railway, in accordance with special instructions.
J - Trains carrying over dimensional consignment
206.
Carrying of over dimensional consignments.
- Subject to these rules special instructions for working of trains carrying over dimensional consignment on electrified
and non-electrified sections shall be notified separately by the authorised officer.
Chapter IX
Failures, Unusual Occurrences and Accidents
A - Defective or damaged points
207.
Defective or damaged points.
(1)
Points shall be treated as defective when either they fail to respond correctly to the operation of the device which
controls their operation from normal to reverse or vice-versa, or to the operation of the device for locking the point in
either position, or when electrical indication regarding setting and locking fails to appear, or when any component or part
of the point layout is damaged or missing.
(2)
Whenever points, crossings or guard rails are defective or damaged, the railway servant in charge of operation of points
shall protect them and immediately arrange to report the circumstances to the Station Master on duty.
(3)
The Station Master on duty, on becoming aware of such defective or damaged points, shall,-
(a)
immediately arrange to have the defect rectified by the railway servant responsible for their maintenance;
(b)
arrange to ensure the safe passage of trains over such points;
(c)
keep the signals at 'ON' until the defect is rectified;
Page 81/124
----- PAGE 82 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
Provided that after protection and placing of signal to 'ON'' the Station Master on duty shall inspect them personally or
get them inspected through competent railway servant of operating department as specified in station working rule, and,-
(i)
if the defect is caused by an obstruction between the switch and stock rails, the obstruction shall be removed and the
point shall be tested again to see whether it functions satisfactorily or otherwise; or
(ii)
if the defect is due to other causes the Station Master on duty shall decide whether the points can be set correctly and
clamped in one position or the other and would then be safe for the movement of trains he may authorise train
movement treating it as non-interlocked point, at a restricted speed of fifteen kilometre per hour.
(d)
signals controlling the movement of trains over points which are clamped and padlocked shall be treated as defective
and trains shall be worked as prescribed under these rules.
B - Defective Signals
208.
Signal Defects.
- (1) Signal shall be treated as defective when-, (a) if there is no fixed signal or it is not erected properly at a place where
a fixed signal is ordinarily shown; or
(b)
if the light of a signal is not burning; or
(c)
if a white light is shown in place of a colour light; or
(d)
if the aspect of a signal is flickering, misleading or imperfectly shown; and
(e)
if more than one aspect is displayed.
(2)
On encountering a defective signal, the Loco pilot shall act as if the signal was showing its most restrictive aspect.
(3)
at stations equipped with a colour light signal provided with a 'P' marker, the Loco pilot shall bring his train to a stand if it
does not show any light or shows an imperfect aspect and having satisfied himself that the signal is provided with 'P'
marker, shall proceed preparing to stop at the next Stop signal and shall be guided further by its aspect.
(4)
A five lamp direction type route indicator shall be treated as defective if less than three lamps are lit.
209.
Duties of Station Master generally when a Stop signal is defective.
(1)
As soon as a Station Master on duty becomes aware that a signal has become defective, he-
(i)
shall take action in accordance with rule 211 and 212 as may be required for working of trains past the defective signal;
and
(ii)
shall report the occurrence to the railway official responsible for maintenance of the signals, and also to the Controller,
besides making an entry in the signal failure register.
(2)
When the information of any defect in signal is received which does not pertain to his station he shall immediately inform
the Station Master concerned and the controller of the facts.
(3)
(a)
at stations where indication of point for its setting and locking is verified on Station Master's panel independent of signals
coming 'off' or not, the reception or despatch of trains on defective signal shall be arranged without clamping of facing
points thus verified,
Page 82/124
----- PAGE 83 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(b)
in case indication as given in sub clause (a) of sub-rule 3 of rule 209 above is not provided on Station Master panel, the
facing and trailing points shall have to be clamped and padlocked before reception or despatch of trains is arranged on
defective signal,
(c)
if the repeating signal is defective in `ON' position, the Loco pilot of a train on being informed on secured voice
communication by the Station Master on duty shall proceed with Caution upto the place from where the signal to which it
refers is clearly visible and thereafter shall act as per indication given by that signal.
210.
Duties of Loco pilot and Station Master when Distant signals is defective.
(1)
When a Distant signal is out of order it is expected to fail in 'ON' position or its light is extinguished. In both cases, the
Loco pilot is to observe the most restrictive aspect of the signal and regulate speed of his train accordingly.
(2)
The Station Master on duty shall immediately advise the official responsible to rectify the defect to avoid detention to
trains.
211.
Duties of Station Master and Loco pilot when an approach Stop signal is defective.
(1)
(a)
on approaching a defective approach Stop signal namely Home, Intermediate or routing Home(s), the Loco pilot shall
first stop his train at the foot of the defective signal and proceed only after receiving an authority as in sub-rule (3) of the
rule 211 below.
(b)
the Loco pilot shall proceed cautiously at speed not exceeding fifteen kilometer per hour, exercising vigil up to the next
Stop signal and thereafter follow the aspect of that signal.
(2)
The Station Master on duty, before granting authority to pass the defective approach Stop signal at 'ON', shall first
ensure that conditions for taking 'OFF' the said signal have been fulfilled. Provided further that when the notice of
defective signal has been given to the Loco pilot at a station in rear he shall also arrange to showing of proceed hand
signals after the route has been set.
(3)
The Loco pilot shall not pass a home or a routing home signal when it is at 'ON' or defective, unless, -
(a)
he has, at a previous station, received authority in Form10 in writing specifying that the signal is out of order and unless
he also receives a proceed hand signal from a railway servant in uniform shown at the foot of such signal; or
(b)
after coming to stand, he is either authorised by taking 'OFF' a Calling-on signal where provided; or authority in Form11
is conveyed or transmitted on secured means of communication by Station Master on duty in accordance with special
instructions;
or
given a written authority in Form11, delivered at the foot of the defective approach Stop signal through a competent
railway servant.
212.
Duties of Station Master and Loco pilot when a departure Stop signal is defective.
(1)
The Loco pilot of a train shall not pass a departure Stop signal that refers to him, when it is at 'ON' or defective, unless
his train has been brought to a stop at the station, where the defective signal is situated and he is authorised to do,-
(a)
by taking 'OFF' the calling-on signal where provided under special instructions, below the departure Stop signal other
than the last Stop signal, or
Page 83/124
----- PAGE 84 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(b)
authority is conveyed or transmitted on secured means of communication by Station Master on duty in accordance with
special instructions, or
(c)
given a written authority in Form12 delivered through a competent railway servant.
(2)
The Station Master on duty, before granting authority to pass the defective departure Stop signal at 'ON' in the manner
given in sub-rule (1) of the rule 212, shall first ensure that conditions for taking 'OFF' the said signal have been fulfilled.
(3)
in case of departure signals protecting points Station Master shall also arrange to show hand signals to the departing
train at the foot of such signal.
213.
Intimation to officials when defects remedied.
- As soon as a defective signal has been put into working order, the Station Master on duty shall intimate the fact to the
officials who were advised of the defect.
214.
Duties of Loco pilot in respect of a Calling-on signal.
- The Loco pilot of a train shall be guided always by the indication of the Stop signal below which the Calling-on signal is
fixed. If this Stop signal is at `ON', he shall bring his train to a stop. If he finds that the Calling-on signal is taken 'OFF',
he shall after bringing his train to stop, draw ahead with caution and be prepared to stop short of any obstruction.
215.
Passing of Intermediate Block Stop signal at 'ON'.
(1)
When a Loco pilot finds an Intermediate Block Stop signal at 'ON', he shall stop his train in rear of the signal and contact
the Station Master on duty of the block section in rear on telephone provided on the signal post or either of approved or
secured means of communications, and take his permission before passing beyond it.
(2)
The Station Master shall authorise the Loco pilot to pass the Intermediate Block Stop signal at 'ON' only after taking line
clear from the block station in advance.
(3)
If the Loco pilot is unable to contact the Station Master on duty of the block section in rear, he shall after waiting for five
minutes at the signals shall pass the Intermediate Block Stop signal at `ON' and proceed cautiously into the block
section ahead and be prepared to stop short of any obstruction, at a speed not exceeding fifteen kilo meter per hour, if
he has a good view of the line ahead, otherwise at a speed not exceeding eight kilo meter per hour and report the failure
to the Station Master on duty at the block station ahead.
(4)
The Station Master of the block station controlling the Intermediate Block Stop signal on becoming aware that such a
signal is defective shall, before despatching a train, after ensuring that there is no train upto the next block station, may
treat the entire section upto the next block station immediately ahead of the Intermediate Block Stop signal as one block
section and issue authority to the Loco pilot to pass both Advanced Starter signal and Intermediate Block Stop signal at
`ON', after taking line clear under condition of failure of block instrument in terms of rule 217.
216.
Passing of a Level Crossing gate Stop signal at 'ON'.
(1)
When a Loco pilot finds a gate Stop signal at `ON', he shall stop in rear of the signal and sound the prescribed code of
whistle,
(2)
(a)
if the level crossing gate stop signal is provided with a `G' marker, the Loco pilot, or marker "AG" is lit in automatic
signalling territory, if the signal is not taken 'OFF' within 1 minute, he may draw his train ahead cautiously and stop short
of the level crossing.
Page 84/124
----- PAGE 85 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(b)
he shall then be hand signalled past the gate by the gateman, if there is one, or in absence of a gateman by assistant
Loco pilot after ascertaining that the gate is closed against the road traffic.
(3)
If the Loco pilot finds, after stopping at the signal that there is no `G' marker, nor `AG' marker is lit in automatic signalling
territory, he shall treat the gate signal as any approach Stop signal and proceed further only in accordance with rule-211.
C- Failure of instruments or other equipments for obtaining or granting Line Clear and other signalling equipments
217.
Failure of Block instrument.
(1)
Whenever the Station Master on duty is unable to obtain or grant line clear, or take it to train on line position, or close
the section through the instrument on account of failure of block instrument or Block Proving through Axle Counter or
any other reason, the instrument shall be treated as failed. In such a case, line clear shall be obtained through other
permitted means of Communication in accordance with the rule 90.
(2)
If the failure of line clear instrument has taken place after departure of a train such that Station Master on duty is unable
to take it to train on line position, or close the section through the instrument, the Station Master after confirming
complete arrival of last train under exchange of private number with the Station Master of block station in advance shall
normalise the instrument by resetting axle counters and take line clear for the subsequent train.
(3)
When line clear is taken by means other than block instrument, an entry to this effect shall be made in Train Signal
register, and the private number exchange by Station Master on duty of station in advance shall be mentioned in the line
clear ticket granted to the Loco pilot.
(4)
The line clear ticket shall always be prepared by Station Master on paper in accordance with sub- rule (2) of the rule 97
irrespective of the manner of its delivery to the Loco pilot as mentioned in clause (b) of sub- rule (1) of the rule 97.
(5)
The Station Master on duty shall switch on the buzzer where provided to remind him of the abnormal condition,
otherwise shall place a placard bearing words 'Block instrument failed'.
D - Temporary single line working on a double line section
218.
Temporary single line working of trains on a double line section worked.
(1)
Whenever an accident to train or track or any other obstruction prevents the use of one of the lines on a double line
section temporarily, after ascertaining and, if need be, after verifying through visual inspection by a competent railway
servant that the line is clear from all obstruction, the traffic, in consultation with Controller, may be worked on clear line
as single line working under absolute block system on authority of written line clear ticket in form 2, or with personal
permission of Director, Operation and Business Development, trains may follow each other even before the previous
train has cleared the Block section on written authority in form 15, and in such a case,-
(a)
all signals irrespective of system of working, block instruments in case of absolute block system of working shall be
suspended even for movement in the established direction. Likewise, semi automatic signals shall be put back to 'ON'
aspect in manual mode.
(b)
(i)
as a reminder of suspension of signals at either ends of the section where single line working is introduced and at all the
intermediate stations signal buttons shall be covered with stop plugs, as also,
(ii)
as a reminder of suspension of block instruments, in case of Absolute Block System of working, the block instruments at
either ends of the section where single line working is introduced and at all the intermediate stations shall be kept in train
on line position and locked with keys kept in safe custody in Station through out the period of abnormal working; and-
Page 85/124
----- PAGE 86 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(iii)
Buzzer alarm, if provided shall also be switched on as a reminder of abnormal working.
(c)
if there is an Intermediate Block Stop signal in case of Absolute Block System of working between the any two stations,
the same shall be closed.
(2)
The Station Master on duty proposing single line working and the Station Master on duty at the other end of the affected
section shall exchange messages in form 13 containing the following information under exchange of Private Numbers
namely-
(a)
cause of introduction of single line working;
(b)
the line by which the single line working is proposed;
(c)
place of obstruction on the line which is obstructed;
(d)
names of intermediate stations, if any, which shall be out of use;
(e)
the number and the timings of the last train, which arrived or left the block station issuing the message; and
(f)
whether he proposes to run trains one by one as in absolute block system on authority to proceed in terms of form 2, or
trains shall be following each other even though the earlier train has not cleared the entire Block section in terms of form
15 for which permission of Director, operation and business development has been obtained.
(3)
(a)
before introduction of temporary single line, it shall be ensured by the Station Masters at either end that the entire
stretch between which temporary signal line is proposed to be introduced is clear of all trains and that points and
crossings at all the intermediate stations have been set and locked for main line.
(b)
It shall be the duty of the Station Masters of intermediate stations not to change the settings of the points and crossings
once so advised, during the entire duration of the temporary single line working.
(4)
All trains shall be stopped before allowing them to proceed beyond the station at which temporary single line has been
introduced and the Loco pilot of each train shall be handed over a written `Line clear ticket for Temporary Single Line
Working on Double Line Section', form 14 or form 15 as the case may be, duly signed and stamped indicating the
following, -
(a)
the authority to proceed upto the last station mentioning the names of the intermediate stations;
(b)
the line on which the train is to run from what station to what station;
(c)
the maximum speed which is to be observed all throughout while running in block section. Provided that when trains are
to follow each other their speed shall be restricted to maximum of twenty five kilo meter per hour in clear visibility
otherwise to ten kilo meter per hour;
(d)
whether a train (where applicable shall be following behind the said train) quoting the authority number of permission
granted by the Director, operation and business development as conveyed by the controller and time of departure of the
last train sent into the section; and
(e)
the line clear ticket in form 14 for temporary single line working on double line is given only after ensuring the route is
properly set and locked for movement of the train.
Page 86/124
----- PAGE 87 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(5)
Additional precautions to be taken in case trains are to run following each other. - (a) no train shall be allowed to run
unless provided with Amber Flasher light in the rear which should be kept at 'ON' during the entire run, and a train shall
not follow another from a station unless there has elapsed, since the departure of the previous train, an interval of not
less than fifteen minutes, or such shorter interval as may be fixed by special instruction;
(b)
the Loco pilot shall not start his train unless such interval has elapsed after the departure of the last train mentioned on
authority form 15;
(c)
all the trains following the first train shall be timed to run at the same speed and such speed shall not exceed twenty five
kilo meter per hour except under special instruction;
(d)
the actual time of the departure of each train shall at once be intimated to the block section station in advance and the
actual time of arrival of each train shall at once be intimated to the block station in rear;
(e)
the number of following train running at the same time between the two block station shall not be more than one for each
five kilometers of station interval; and unless permitted by special instruction, shall never exceed four, whatever may be
the length of the station interval;
(f)
no obstruction shall be permitted out-side the outermost facing point in the face of an approaching train;
(g)
when a train is stopped out-side the first Stop signal or the last Stop signal of the opposite direction or between stations
for any reason and the detention exceed or is likely to exceed five minutes, it shall be protected in accordance with the
provision of rule 223;
(h)
once the direction of movement has been established it shall not be changed unless the last train has reached the
station in advance, and the earlier message is first cancelled under exchange of private number as in sub-rule (11) of
the rule 218 below. Thereafter, for running trains in the other direction, a fresh message shall be exchanged in the
manner prescribed under sub-rule (2) of the rule 218 above.
(6)
(a)
in case of movement in the established direction, the Loco pilot shall also be given authority to pass the last Stop signal
and all the governing signals falling enroute in `ON' position and in case the last Stop signal is protecting any points, in
addition to the written authority, he shall also be shown Hand signals at the foot of this signal;
and
(b)
in case of movement against the established direction, the Loco pilot shall also be given authority to start from a
non-signalled line in accordance with rule 138 and piloted out of the station.
(7)
Unless, all the gateman on the way have been informed of introduction of single line working on double line specifying
the road on which the train shall work on the approved means of voice communication, the Loco pilot of the first train
proceeding against the established direction shall be given caution order to stop and inform accordingly.
(8)
Appropriate caution orders shall be issued to the Loco pilot of all trains.
(9)
On approaching the next station via the wrong line, the Loco pilot shall bring his train to a stop opposite the first Stop
signal of right line or last Stop signal of the line on which he is running, whichever comes first.
(10)
The Station Master on duty of the station in advance shall authorise on form 16 to the Loco pilot to proceed beyond the
said Stop signal only after ensuring that all the facing points have been correctly set and locked as the case may be and
trailing points are correctly set over which the trains shall pass;
Page 87/124
----- PAGE 88 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
Provided that if the train is running on right line, the approach first Stop signal of the station in advance may be taken
'off' Provided further, that when trains are being worked in this manner, no advance authority for reception of train at the
station in advance shall be communicated to the Loco pilot from the station in rear.
(11)
Resumption of normal working. - (a) if there is a flow of trains for the established direction, i.e. signalled direction, for a
substantial period or when obstructed line is available the temporary single line working can be cancelled and trains in
established direction worked as per normal train working;
(b)
signalled movement shall not be undertaken till advice of introduction of single line on double line is withdrawn and until
the last train has arrived at the Block station in advance and the line is clear between the two stations. The Station
Master intending to initiate the signalled movement shall first consult the Controller to decide the last of the train after
complete arrival of which at the either end, normal working shall be resumed;
(c)
a message in form 17 shall be exchanged between the Station Master on duty at either end and Station Master of all the
intermediate stations on the approved means of communication withdrawing the temporary single line of working after
passage of the last train as decided;
(d)
only after the specified train has passed their station, all the signal button plugs shall be removed and where applicable
block instrument shall be unlocked; and
(e)
unless already informed on the approved means of voice communication, the Loco pilot of first train shall be given a
Caution Order to stop and inform all Gatemen on the way about the resumption of normal working.
E - Working of Trains during bad weather impairing visibility
219.
Duties of Station Master in bad weather impairing visibility.
(1)
In sections where Fog Safe device system is yet to be implemented, and when during bad weather impairing visibility it
becomes necessary to indicate to the Loco pilot of an approaching train the locality of a signal action to be taken by the
Station Master on duty shall be in accordance with the special instructions.
(2)
Retro reflective signages and strips type on the signal posts shall be additionally provided especially in region prone to
poor visibility during foggy weather in winter to assist Loco pilot navigate his train.
(3)
To assist the Station Master arrive at conclusion in this matter a visibility test object would be defined in station working
rule not less than one hundred eighty meters away from where it is sighted, which can be a starter or intermediate
starter signal of direction towards the approaching trains.
(4)
In case of automatic block signalling territory, provided with a modified semi automatic Stop signal in mid section, and
when it has been decided to run trains with 'A' marker extinguished as provided for in sub- rule (2) of rule 105 and sub-
rule (2) of the rule 107, the caution order issued to the Loco pilot shall specifically mention the exact location of the
modified semi automatic signal in mid section, giving its distinguishing number, and that no fog signalling arrangement
are being provided ahead of the same.
Provided, however, that when trains are being worked in this manner fog signalling of home signal shall be done as per
sub-rule (1) of rule 219.
220.
Working of trains without Fog Safe Device.
- Additional duties of Railway servants in territories where Fog Safe Device has not been provided shall be in
accordance with the special instructions.
221.
Duties of Loco pilot in case of bad weather impairing visibility.
- The Loco pilot shall take action in regard to speed of the train during bad weather impairing visibility as under, namely:-
Page 88/124
----- PAGE 89 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(1)
During bad weather impairing visibility when the Loco pilot in his judgment feels that visibility is restricted due to bad
weather impairing the visibility, he shall run at a speed at which he can control his train to stop short of any obstruction.
(2)
He shall switch on Fog safe device.
(3)
The maximum speed which shall be permitted during foggy weather in automatic territory shall not exceed sixty kilo
meter per hour on passing an automatic stop signal at Green, thirty kilo meter per hour in passing at double yellow, and
such cautious speed on passing at single yellow so as to stop short of any obstruction; The maximum speed in Absolute
Block System of working or where a modified semi-automatic Stop signal between two adjoining block stations is being
used with 'A' marker extinguished in automatic block system of working, shall not exceed seventy kilo meter per hour.
(4)
The Loco pilots shall whistle frequently to warn the gateman and road users of an approaching train at level crossings.
F-Train Stopping, Delayed, Unable to proceed and Incapacitated in Block section etc.
222.
Working in case of accident or obstruction and reporting of unsafe movement.
(1)
(a)
when report of any accident or obstruction or unsafe movement of train is received or noticed by any railway servant, he
shall immediately advise Station Master of the nearest station,
(b)
on receipt of information of any accident or obstruction or unsafe movement either by himself or when advised by any
other railway servant or person, Station Master shall see that all necessary precautions are taken by the most
expeditious means possible, for the protection of traffic and take such action as is specially provided for in these rules or
under special instructions.
(2)
If the accident happens to a train, the Loco pilot shall immediately advise the Station Master at either end on the
approved means of communication and the controller stating as far as possible the nature of obstruction or unsafe
condition, cause of accident if known, and the type of assistance required.
(3)
If an accident happens to a train, the Station Master on duty shall immediately advise the control and shall arrange for all
necessary assistance sent to the train which can be made available locally and take such action as is specially provided
in this rules or under special instructions.
(4)
On receipt of information regarding any accident or obstruction or reporting of unsafe movement, the controller shall
immediately send such assistance as necessary for protection and subsequent restoration of traffic.
(5)
The Station Master shall, as soon as practicable, report each accident in accordance with special instructions.
223.
Protection of trains stopped between stations.
(1)
When a Loco pilot finds that his train cannot proceed after stopping between stations on account of accident, failure
(other than Loco failure), obstruction or other exceptional cause, unless it is obvious that none of the adjacent line or
lines is obstructed, he shall immediately initiate 'Railway Emergency Call' where mobile train radio communication
system is provided and switch `ON' the amber flasher lights provided in the locomotive in the front and sense and brake
unit of end of train telemetry. The Loco pilot shall then, when on other than single line section or on a section of double
or multiple lines when temporarily worked as a single line, and unless it is obvious that the adjacent line is not
obstructed, take following action in front and rear of the train-
(A)
on a double line section where trains on the adjacent line run in the opposite direction,-
(i)
Page 89/124
----- PAGE 90 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
if it is obvious that the adjacent line is obstructed the Loco pilot shall depute his Assistant Pilot to get down and show
flashing red danger signal to any train approaching from the front; and
(ii)
if in doubt whether the adjacent line is obstructed or not,-
(a)
The Loco pilot shall himself show flashing red danger signal to any train approaching from the front and the Assistant
Loco pilot shall proceed towards the last vehicle watching the train carefully,
(b)
if the Assistant Loco Pilot finds that adjacent line is obstructed he shall return to assist Loco pilot,
(c)
in case he finds that the adjacent line is not obstructed he shall inform the Loco pilot on approved means of
communication to switch 'Off' amber flasher lights, and return to assist the Loco pilot, except where it is desired to stop
an approaching train to obtain assistance.
(B)
On Twin single line section where trains on the adjacent line run in both directions, -
If it is obvious that the adjacent line is obstructed or if in doubt whether the adjacent line is obstructed or not, -
(a)
the Loco pilot shall himself show flashing red danger signal to any train approaching from the front;
(b)
the Assistant Loco Pilot shall proceed towards the last vehicle, watching the train carefully, and showing flashing red
danger signal and position himself well past the last vehicle, close to the obstructed line, and continue to show flashing
red signal towards any train approaching from the rear;
(c)
if the Assistant Loco pilot finds that the adjacent line is not obstructed he shall inform the Loco pilot on approved means
of communication and return to assist the Loco pilot.
(C)
On a multiple line section with uni-directional traffic on the nominated lines, -
(i)
If it is obvious that an adjacent line on which trains normally run in opposite direction is obstructed or if in doubt whether
any of such adjacent line is obstructed or not, the Loco pilot shall himself show flashing red danger signal to any train
approaching from the front; and
(ii)
If it is obvious that an adjacent line on which trains normally run in the direction of the affected train is obstructed or
when it is not known whether any of such adjacent line is obstructed or not, -
(a)
the Assistant Loco Pilot shall proceed towards the last vehicle showing flashing red danger signal, watching the affected
train carefully, and position himself well past the last vehicle, in vicinity of obstructed line, and continue to show flashing
red signal towards any train approaching from the rear;
(b)
in case the Assistant Loco pilot finds that none of the adjacent line is obstructed he shall return to assist the Loco pilot
after informing the Loco pilot on approved means of communication except where it is desired to stop an approaching
train to obtain assistance.
(D)
On a multiple line section where trains run in both directions. - If it is obvious that the adjacent line or lines are
obstructed or if in doubt whether the adjacent line or lines are obstructed or not,-
(a)
the Loco pilot shall himself show flashing red danger signal to train approaching from the front.
(b)
the Assistant Pilot shall proceed towards the last vehicle, watching the train carefully, and showing flashing red danger
signal and position himself well past the last vehicle, in close vicinity of the obstructed line, and continue to show
flashing red signal towards any train approaching from the rear and convey the details of line or lines that are obstructed
Page 90/124
----- PAGE 91 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
to the Loco pilot.
(c)
in case the Assistant Loco pilot finds that none of the adjacent line or lines are obstructed he shall inform the Loco pilot
on approved means of communication and return to assist the Loco pilot, except where it is desired to stop an
approaching train to obtain assistance.
(E)
When report of obstruction is received by the Station Master or the Controller, he shall immediately advise Station
Master at other end, and Station Masters of foreign railway lines controlling the territory where the obstruction has taken
place for taking action to protect traffic on their lines. A similar action shall be taken when details of the accident are
updated as in clause sub-rule (F) of the rule 223 below.
(F)
As soon as the line or lines that are actually obstructed are known, the Loco pilot shall update the earlier information to
the Station Master of nearest station, for taking action to protect traffic only on obstructed lines allowing traffic to resume
on clear lines, and convey other details of accident including assistance required to the Station Master of the nearest
station or the control as in sub-rule (2) of the rule 222.
(2)
Action to locate and remove the cause of stoppage or rectify any defect either in the locomotive or in vehicle or to
remove any other obstruction which might have caused the stoppage shall be taken, if practicable, only after having
assured that the obstruction on line or lines has been protected properly in accordance with the procedure laid down
above.
(3)
When either the mobile train radio communication system is not available or it is yet to be integrated with a similar facility
on foreign railway, protection of train stopped between stations, on sections where lines of different railway run in
parallel, shall be undertaken in accordance with special instructions.
224.
Trains unusually delayed in a block section.
(1)
In case a train is unusually delayed beyond twenty minutes of the normal running time or earlier if the circumstances so
require, the Station Master on duty at the station in advance shall immediately contact Loco pilot on the approved voice
communication to ascertain the reason for the delay and to satisfy that all is well with the train or if any precaution are to
be taken for running subsequent train on the same or adjacent line and measures are required to be taken for rescue
and relief of the affected train or obstruction, if any.
(2)
In case the Loco pilot does not respond, bring it to the notice of the Station Master of the station in rear and to the
controller to this fact. Thereafter on double or multiple lines, the Station Master at either end of the block section shall
immediately stop all trains proceeding in the block section on adjacent line or lines in either direction and warn the Loco
pilots of such trains by issue of suitable caution orders, with instruction to ascertain the whereabouts and the condition of
the delayed train and inform.
In case of single line, the Station Master at either or both ends shall despatch a railway servant by the fastest mode
available to ascertain the whereabouts and the condition of the delayed train.
225.
Train not to move after assistance has been asked for in case of accident or break down.
- After the advice of the train that it is unable to proceed and assistance has been asked for, the Loco pilot shall not
move from its present location, even if he is subsequently able to move, until either the assistance has arrived or is
permitted by the Station Master of the station from where the assistance has been asked for through approved means of
communication.
226.
Train in a block section without authority to proceed.
(1)
When a Loco pilot becomes aware in a block section that he does not have an authority to proceed or a proper authority
to proceed, he shall immediately stop the train and report the occurrence to the nearest block station by most
Page 91/124
----- PAGE 92 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
expeditious means. He shall thereafter move only in accordance with the instructions given to him by the Station Master
of station in advance to whom the occurrence was reported.
(2)
When controller or a Station staff becomes aware that the train does not have an authority to proceed or a proper
authority to proceed, they shall immediately act to stop the train and on electrified territory, the Station Master shall have
the authority or responsibility to advise traction power controller directly without delay for switching off over head
equipment power to stop the train.
(3)
The train shall be treated as an obstruction in the block section and protected as such, in accordance with procedure
prescribed in rule 223.
(4)
The Station Master of the station in rear shall inform the Station Master on duty at the other end of the obstructed block
section, and,-
(a)
if there is no other train in the block section the train may be allowed to proceed to the next station authorising the Loco
pilot on approved means of communication; and
(b)
in case a wrong train has entered the block section on Line Clear obtained for a different train standing at a station, the
train for which the line clear had been obtained shall not be allowed to depart.
227.
Train Parting.
(1)
If any portion of a train, while in motion, becomes detached, the Loco pilot shall,-
(a)
the Loco pilot shall use his judgment to keep the front portion in motion, if possible, until the rear portion has been
brought to a stand so as to avoid the chance of a collision between the two portions;
(b)
in case of derailment protect adjacent line, as in rule 223;
(c)
apprise the control and the Station Master in rear through approved means of communications;
(d)
in case there is banking or assisting locomotive behind, the Loco pilot shall sound the prescribed code of whistle to
inform the Loco pilot of a banking or assisting locomotive, and
(e)
in automatic signal territory the Station Master/Controller shall alert the Loco Pilot immediately following the affected
trains.
(2)
The Loco pilot of a banking or assisting locomotive, if any, shall, -
(a)
do all that they can do to prevent collision to the front portion and bring the rear portion to a stand; and
(b)
attract the attention of the Loco pilot in the front portion by sounding prescribed code of whistle or through approved
means of communication;
(3)
(a)
when both portions of a parted train are brought to stand within the sight of each other and it is possible and safe to
couple them, the train shall be coupled with due caution under Hand signals from the Assistant Loco pilot after securing
few of the vehicles of stationary rear portion in the manner prescribed under these rules; and
(b)
if the two portions cannot be coupled, the Loco pilot and the Assistant Loco pilot shall take action as per the provisions
prescribed under rules 228.
Page 92/124
----- PAGE 93 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(4)
If the Loco pilot of the parted train has already reached the block station in advance before he could bring the front
portion to a stop, he shall additionally warn the Station Master, on duty by sounding prescribed code of whistle and
through approved means of communication, not to close the block section in absolute block system of working.
(5)
When a portion of train is left on the line in the block section, except a locomotive to bring back the portion left behind,
no other train shall be allowed to enter the section on same line until the remaining portion of the train has been brought
to the station and the block section has been cleared.
(6)
When the Loco pilot is sent back to bring the portions left behind, he shall be given an `authority to proceed without line
clear'(Form 18) in addition to the expired Line Clear ticket which is already in his possession.
(7)
When the train has parted and the Loco pilot has no control or is in doubt as to the exhibition of the Amber flasher light
in the rear, and also the location of the rear portion which may or may not be causing infringement to the adjoining track
besides taking action in accordance with rule 223 above to protect train he shall initiate "Railway Emergency Call" where
mobile train radio communication system is provided to warn Loco pilots of other approaching trains.
228.
Working of train in two or more portions due to loco unable to haul the load or for any other reason.
(1)
In consequence of the inability of the locomotive to take the whole train forward or due to an accident or any other
reason, when a train stops in the block section and is unable to proceed further, the Loco pilot shall apprise the
controller and the Station Master in advance on the approved means of communication.
(2)
If the locomotive is capable of proceeding either with or without vehicles, and the Controller so decides as to clear the
front portion leaving behind the rear portion in block section, before uncoupling, the Assistant Loco pilot shall apply hand
brakes of at least one third of total vehicles on a train or at least of twelve vehicles whichever is higher to prevent the
portion left behind from rolling, and note down the last vehicle number of the portion coupled with the locomotive.
(3)
When action as provided for in sub-rule (2), has been completed the station master of station in advance shall permit on
approved means of communication, authorising the Loco pilot to uncouple and proceed to the next station.
(4)
The Loco pilot shall not leave with or without vehicles until exact location of both the ends of the portion being left behind
has been clearly noted and advised to the Controller and a red flag or lamp is shown on the front and the rear vehicle of
the portion being left behind.
(5)
When front portion is being taken forward no tail lamp or tail board or any other last vehicle check device shall be used.
(6)
The Assistant Loco pilot shall stay behind to ensure that vehicles under his charge are kept undisturbed and shall place
himself forty five meters ahead of the obstruction towards the direction of approach of the relief locomotive as decided
by the Controller.
(7)
The Loco pilot on reaching the station in advance shall not clear the block section unless Station Master or any cabin
falling enroute have been again warned by him that the section behind should not be closed as it is obstructed on
approved means of communication as also by sounding the requisite whistle code.
(8)
If Intermediate Block Stop signal is ahead the Loco pilot shall stop his train at the signal and inform the Station Master of
the station in rear by telephone available on the signal post or through approved means of communication before
proceeding further so that subsequent trains are not permitted to enter the block section.
(9)
On reaching of front portion at the block station in advance, the Station Master shall not close the block section. The
complete arrival of the front portion of the load shall be verified on the last vehicle number basis before sending back
Page 93/124
----- PAGE 94 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
any relief engine on the same line.
(10)
The Controller shall in the meanwhile decide to clear the portion left behind either by sending a separate relief
locomotive from the station in rear or by bringing the locomotive back on the same line.
(11)
When the Loco pilot is to bring his locomotive, with or without vehicles, back on the same line or from the station in rear,
he shall be given written authority to proceed without line clear 'authority to proceed without line clear' against the
established direction of movement on the line blocked by the portion of the train left behind. In addition, the caution order
restricting the speed to twenty five kilo meter per hour in clear weather and ten kilo meter per hour during bad weather
impairing visibility with instructions to stop at least forty five meters short of the obstruction indicated by the kilometreage
reported earlier and thereafter to be hand signalled by the Assistant Loco pilot at the site of obstruction.
(12)
(a)
when the Loco pilot is to bring his locomotive, with or without vehicles, back on the same line, in addition to the
provisions of sub-rule (11) of the rule 228, on multiple line section, the Loco pilot shall also have a written authority from
the station master who shall ensure that no train is diverted on to or cross the same line or that portion of track over
which the said Loco pilot would be returning;
(b)
the Station Master before giving such an authority shall obtain necessary assurance as prescribed by special instruction
from the Station Masters having diversion facility and also inform the Controller of the circumstances;
(c)
on a double or multiple line sections, the Loco pilot may, under instructions from the Station Master on duty, take the
locomotive back on the proper line, according to the system of working, until he can cross on to the line on which he has
left the rest of his train and may then proceed by that line and after attaching the locomotive, shall work the train to the
station to which he is directed.
(13)
When moving under written instructions against the direction of traffic on a double line or against the established
direction of traffic on a single line, the Loco pilot shall proceed cautiously and make frequent use of the prescribed code
of whistle.
(14)
When the portion left behind is cleared by a locomotive sent from the station in rear to pull it back, the Loco pilot on
return shall stop opposite the first Stop signal when approaching from the established direction or at the last Stop signal
of the opposite direction whichever comes first and thereafter received in accordance with rule 218.
(15)
In automatic block signalling territory procedure as applicable in rule 120 and 121 as the case may be, shall be followed
for sending a relief engine to pull or push the portion of the train left behind.
229.
Working of relief locomotive or relief trains (Accident Relief Train/Accident Relief Medical Van) on blocked line.
(1)
(a)
In case of an accident resulting in complete blocking of running lines, if it is considered necessary to run train or trains to
the site of the accident for relief or other purposes, such trains may be despatched into the obstructed section by issuing
a written authority to proceed without line clear 'Authority to Proceed Without Line Clear' to the Loco pilots of such trains
on the prescribed form;
(b)
where more than one such train is required to be sent, Loco pilot of each of them shall depute one of the available
railway servant to station himself forty five meters behind each of them to show hand danger signal to the next relief
train. The Station Master on duty shall dispatch next relief train only after receipt of such confirmation;
(c)
further, before issuing such an `Authority' to any train , the Station Master on duty shall obtain permission to the effect
from the Controller regarding marshalling of train to be despatched. The Controller in turn shall first confirm the
Page 94/124
----- PAGE 95 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
marshalling required by the officer-in-charge at the site of accident.
(2)
(a)
the authority to proceed without line clear given to the Loco pilot shall be the authority, to proceed up to the point of
obstruction and return back up to the first Stop signal of the station;
(b)
The kilometers up to which the Loco pilot shall proceed into the obstructed block section, shall be recorded on this
authority.
(3)
The authority to proceed without line clear may confirm whether the train is to return after completion of the work or wait
at the place of obstruction till the line behind is cleared on return of the train in rear. The Loco pilot of the second and
subsequent train shall also be given an authority to proceed without line clear with a similar endorsement made on the
form, and that another train has gone ahead or shall be following into the obstructed section.
(4)
While proceeding into the obstructed section, the speed of the train in the last five kilometers of stretch immediately
preceding the obstruction shall be restricted to twenty five kilo meter per hour in clear visibility over the straight,
otherwise to ten kilo meter per hour when approaching or passing any portion of the line when the view ahead is not
clear, or obstructed, or during bad weather impairing visibility. A Caution Order to this effect shall be issued to the Loco
pilot of the relief train.
(5)
When more than one relief trains are being sent, following each other before the first one has reached the site, the
speed of successive trains shall be restricted as in sub-rule (4) of the 229 right from the despatching station, and the
Loco pilot of each of them shall protect his train by deputing a railway servant to show hand danger signal forty five
meters away in the rear in case their train is stopped in between before reaching the place of obstruction.
G - Report of conditions likely to affect running of trains
230.
Report of conditions likely to affect running of trains to Controller or Centralized Traffic Control Operator.
(1)
Loco pilots and Station Masters shall advise the Controller or the Centralized Traffic Control Operator of any known
condition, or unusual circumstances which is likely to affect the safe and proper working of trains.
(2)
In the event of Loco pilot experiences any condition in and around either on the adjacent track or the track over which
his train has passed in case of automatic block system of working, which is considered by them to be detrimental to safe
running of train, the train shall be stopped in the block section and affected line shall be protected in accordance with
rule 223.
Provided further that in case of absolute block system of working and when adjacent lines are not involved, the train
need not be stopped in the block section. In this case the train shall be stopped at the next block section without clearing
the block section and Station Master informed not to permit any train in the affected block section.
Provided also that the Loco pilot when sees any obstruction or danger on adjoining track shall stop short of obstruction if
possible, even though his train is not affected, and protect the line in accordance with rule 223 and shall not proceed
further till permitted by Station Master of nearest station or the controller which shall be given after either the entry of
trains on the affected lines have been stopped or obstruction has been protected by alternative means provided for as in
rule 242 or caution order has been implemented for every successive train or the section is blocked, as the case may
be.
Provided that in case he has already crossed the obstructed area on the adjacent line before stopping, he shall convey
the location of obstruction in rear to Controller on secured means of Communication who in turn shall inform the Loco
pilots of the approaching trains.
(3)
The Controller or the Centralized Traffic Control Operator, on becoming aware of such defect or failure shall convey the
same to the railway servant responsible for the maintenance of such asset and other concerned railway officials.
(4)
Page 95/124
----- PAGE 96 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
The concerned maintenance official under whose domain the reported apprehension or occurrence falls, on receipt of
advice from Station Master, shall at once arrange to inspect the affected portion of the block section.
H- Vehicles escaping from station
231.
Vehicles escaping from station.
(1)
If any vehicle escapes from a station, the Station Master on duty shall take immediate steps to warn the station at the
other end of the block section, gateman, Controller and railway servants concerned, as far as practicable, to prevent an
accident.
(2)
The Station Master on duty shall, -
(a)
advise the station in the direction in which the vehicle has escaped by sending the emergency danger signal on the
block instrument, where provided, otherwise advise him on approved means of communication;
(b)
initiate `Railway Emergency Call' if provided to alert Loco pilot of the trains in close proximately and concurrently put
back all signals to `ON' condition.
(c)
not permit further train movement in either direction of the affected section until it has been ascertained that the line is
clear of obstruction;
(3)
The Station Master on duty who has received the signal shall promptly, -
(a)
place all signals at `ON' to stop any train proceeding in the direction from which the vehicle has escaped, until it has
been ascertained that the line is clear;
(b)
admit the train in front of the run away vehicle if any, before taking steps to stop or divert the runaway vehicle;
(c)
(i)
arrange to derail the running vehicle by turning it into a derailing or dead end portion of the isolation provided or into a
derailing siding, if available.
Provided further, that if the block section ahead is clear and the line is not on a falling gradient, the vehicle may be
allowed to run through upto the next station; or
(ii)
repeat the emergency danger signal to the next station in the direction in which the vehicle is escaping if he is unable to
stop the runaway vehicle at his station.
I- Fire
232.
Fire.
(1)
A railway servant noticing a fire shall take all possible steps to save life and property, to prevent it from spreading and to
extinguish it.
(2)
In the case of fire is on or adjacent to any electrical equipment, the railway servant shall, if he is competent in handling
electrical equipment and specially trained for the purpose, have the affected part immediately isolated from its source of
supply of electrical energy.
(3)
Operation of specialised Fire extinguishers equipment and handling of fire of specific nature like electrical chemical etc.
shall be dealt with in accordance with the special instructions.
(4)
The occurrence of a fire shall in every case, be reported to the nearest Station Master by the expeditious means and the
Page 96/124
----- PAGE 97 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
Station Master shall take such action as may be prescribed by special instructions.
Chapter X
Electrical and Permanent Ways and Works
A - Railway servants employed on Way or Works
233.
Inspector of Electrical and Permanent Ways and Works.
(1)
There shall be an authorised railway servant one each for Electrical and Permanent Way and Works responsible for
Way and Works under his charge and to perform the roll of Inspector of Way or Works prescribed hereunder.
(2)
In these rules, wherever the expression 'Inspector of Way or Works' is used, it would construe to mean both Inspector of
Electrical Way or Works and Inspector Permanent Way or Works unless the context is otherwise, or it is specifically
mentioned to the contrary. Likewise, unless the context is to the contrary, the expression 'Way or Works' shall construe
to mean both 'Electrical and Permanent Way or Works'. Further the expression 'Supervisor incharge" shall mean to be
referring to the respective Inspector of Way or Works.
234.
Condition of way and works.
- Each inspector of Way and Works incharge of a length of line shall be responsible for the condition of the Way and
works under his charge.
235.
Maintenance of line.
- Each inspector of Way and Works shall ,- (a) See that the length of line or works in his charge are efficiently
maintained, ensuring their testing, and overhauling or maintenance at such interval and manner as is laid down by
special instructions and submit report to their controlling officials;
(b)
promptly report to the engineer-in-charge all accidents, or defects in the way or works, any abnormal condition, or
incidence or apprehension of sabotage, which is likely to interfere with the safe running of trains, and at the same time
take such action as may be necessary to prevent accidents;
(c)
be responsible for the proper and efficient maintenance of all breakdown equipment, so as to be in state of readiness at
all the time.
236.
Keeping of material.
- Each inspector of Way and Works shall see to the security of all rails, sleepers, traction installation equipment,
insulators, and other connected material in his charge, and ensure that such of the said articles as are not actually in
use are properly stacked clear of the line so as not to interfere with the safe running of trains.
237.
Inspection of way and works.
(1)
Every portion of the overhead equipment, and connected works, Permanent way, bridges and connected works
including, points and crossings, tunnels, and any other equipment or works affecting the safety and working of trains
shall be inspected by the railway servant appointed in this behalf at such interval and in such manner as is prescribed by
special instructions.
(2)
If any condition which is likely to affect the safety of train is noticed, the official inspecting the line shall take immediate
action to protect the trains as laid down under these rules, and thereafter take necessary action to rectify the defect.
238.
Patrolling of lines.
(1)
In addition to the inspection referred to in rule 237, whenever any portion of a railway is likely to be endangered by
abnormal conditions such as heavy rains, breaches, floods, storms, cold or hot weather and civil disturbances, the line
Page 97/124
----- PAGE 98 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
shall be patrolled regularly during the period of vulnerability in such a manner and at such interval as is prescribed by
special instructions.
(2)
Whenever a railway servant deputed to patrol the line notices any condition likely to affect the safety of a train or
otherwise apprehends danger, he shall initiate `Railway Emergency Call' where mobile train radio communication
system is provided and place an amber flasher signal in a prominent position to warn the loco pilots of approaching
trains. In case trains are expected to approach from two different directions, two of such flasher signals shall be fixed
showing towards both of the directions. In case, he does not have 'Cab Radio or operational radio of mobile train radio
communication system; he shall immediately inform the Station Master of the nearest station on any other approved
means of communication to initiate Railway Emergency Call where mobile train radio communication system is provided
. After securing the obstruction, he shall place himself to show danger hand signal to any approaching train. Ground
equipment to trigger on board safety device, where implemented, shall also be fixed by such railway servant;
When either the `mobile train radio communication' system is not available or it is yet to be integrated with a similar
facility on foreign railway, protection of obstruction on sections where lines of different railway run in parallel, shall be
undertaken in accordance with Special Instructions.
239.
Work involving danger to trains or traffic.
- No work, which will involve danger to trains or to traffic, shall be commenced or carried out without the prior permission
of the inspector of Way and Works, or some competent railway servant appointed in this behalf by Dedicated Freight
Corridor Railway administration; and the railway servant who gives such permission shall himself be present to
superintend such work, and shall see that the provisions of rule 241, and rule 242 are observed;
Provided that, in case of emergency, when the requirements of safety warrant, the commencement of any such work
before the said railway servant can arrive, the work may commence at once and the person authorised to undertake that
work under special instructions shall himself ensure that the provisions contained in 241 and 242 are observed.
Provided further that in case of work involving overhead equipment or other electrical equipment,-
(a)
the inspector of works before giving permission to commence the work shall inform the traction power controller and who
in turn will arrange to isolate and make dead the portions of electrical equipment concerned and issue a permit-to-work
thereon under rule 264;
(b)
in case of an emergency the traction power controller shall switch `off' the power first and then advise the station master
on duty and Controller of the power block imposed and reasons for doing so;
(c)
after completion of the work Inspector-incharge of work shall confirm to the Station Master on duty and traction power
controller for the restoration of electrical tension in overhead equipment. After their mutual confirmation on the approved
secured means of communication, if available otherwise by exchanging written messages in terms of rule 172 the
overhead equipment shall be restored to work; and
(d)
The Station Master on duty when power block alone is given shall ensure that no electric rolling stock is permitted into or
over sections of track for which work permit is issued and overhead lines are dead, and points and crossings are
protected by means of stop callers in accordance with special instructions.
Provided further that Loco pilot of diesel train are given requisite caution order to observe such precautions at the work
site as is needed and the Inspector-incharge of the work shall also show signals at work site as provided in rule 241.
240.
Work during night and bad weather impairing visibility.
(1)
During night and bad weather impairing visibility, unless traffic block has been taken, no rail or overhead equipment shall
be displaced and no other work which is likely to cause obstruction to the passage of trains shall be performed except in
cases of emergency.
(2)
When such work has to be undertaken in an emergency, the site of work shall be protected in accordance with the
Page 98/124
----- PAGE 99 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
provisions prescribed in rules 241 and 242. However, in place of banner flag, a red light shall be displayed.
241.
Precautions before commencing operations, which would obstruct the line.
(1)
No railway servant employed on the overhead equipment, permanent way or works shall change or turn any component
of overhead equipment or a rail, disconnect points or signals or commence any other operation which would obstruct the
line without permission of the Station Master on duty obtained either in writing or on secured means of communication,
and until Stop signals have been exhibited and line has been either blocked or protected as in rule 242.
And if within station limits all the necessary signals have been placed at 'ON'; Provided that exhibition of Stop signals
may be dispensed with if such operations are performed or carried out after the line has been isolated by setting the
relevant points against it and stop plugs put on the concerned switches and buttons so that signals cannot be taken
'OFF' for that line.
(2)
No work involving removal of any rail from the track shall be under taken without traffic block, except as provided in
sub-rule (3).
(3)
In emergent cases, official incharge undertaking such operations before commencement of work shall first bring the train
to stop and advise the Loco pilot of the train about the need to stop the train through a written memo and simultaneously
arrange to inform the Station Master on duty for the need to block the track and obtain confirmation of the same in
writing or on secured means of communication.
(4)
The traffic block in mid-section may be permitted behind a train which is yet to clear the block section and in such a
case,-
(a)
the official in charge of the work shall personally ensure that the commencement of work takes place only after the
permitted block time or when the last train advised to him has gone past the work site, whichever is later;
(b)
the Station Master granting block shall ensure that no movement is undertaken after the committed block time or the
departure of the last train thus advised, whichever is earlier.
(5)
On completion of the repairs, the inspector of concerned Way and Works individually, or the competent railway servant
appointed in this behalf by Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway administration, shall issue a fit certificate to the Station
Master on duty prescribing speed limit, if any, to be observed by the trains over the site of obstruction. On receipt of fit
advice, the Station Master shall resume the working of trains in accordance with the fitness advised.
242.
Showing of signals to stop a train in case of obstruction or when the line is under repair but movement of trains on that
portion of the track need not be suspended.
(1)
Whenever the nature of the work of maintenance or the line is otherwise obstructed such that movement of train on a
portion of track need not be suspended and train can pass over it with restrictions, the Loco pilot of the approaching train
shall be warned in the following manner,- -
(a)
the Loco pilot shall be advised by the Station Master on duty at station in rear or by Station Master of notice station
through a Caution Order the location, nature of work or obstruction, and whether he is to either stop dead and then
proceed at a given restricted speed, or proceed at a given restricted speed without stopping at the site; and
(b)
the official incharge of the work shall ensure showing of signals to warn the Loco pilot of an approaching train as
described in sub- rule (2) of the rule 242 below.
(2)
A caution indicator board, stop indicator board or speed indicator board, and a termination board of approved design
and which are lit by night, shall be shown as prescribed in clause (a) and (b) in the direction from where the trains have
Page 99/124
----- PAGE 100 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
to approach in case of double line, and in each direction in case of single line.
All indicators shall be placed on the left hand side visible to the Loco Pilot.
(a)
when the trains have to stop dead short of obstruction and only then proceed cautiously, - a Stop Indicator shall be
exhibited at a distance of thirty meters from the place of obstruction and a Caution Indicator shall be placed at a distance
of twelve hundred meters from the place of the obstruction. In addition, Termination Indicator shall be provided at the
place where a Loco pilot may resume the authorised speed. A railway servant shall be deputed at the Stop indicator
board to obtain the signature of the Loco pilot;
(b)
when the train is not required to stop short of obstruction but proceed at restricted speed,- a speed Indicator shall be
exhibited at a distance of thirty meters from the place of obstruction and a Caution Indicator shall be placed at a distance
of eight hundred meters from the place of the obstruction. In addition, Termination Indicators shall be provided at the
place where a Loco pilot may resume the authorised speed; and
(c)
In case of multiple stop dead or speed restrictions over a continues stretch of line, - only one caution indicator from
twelve hundred meters from the first obstruction and one termination indicator after the last obstruction shall be
provided. Further, multiple Stop Indicator or Speed Indicators shall be placed in a manner so as to ensure that none of
the restrictions imposed on any portions of the affected track is compromised towards the unsafe side.
(3)
In case the place of obstruction is within station limits. - (a) the provision of sub-rule (2) of the rule 241 may be
dispensed with, if the affected line is isolated by setting and securing of points or by securing at 'ON' the necessary
manually controlled Stop signal or signals; and
(b)
approach signals shall not be taken 'OFF' for a train unless the train has been brought to a stop at the first Stop signal,
except in cases where the Loco pilot has been issued with a Caution Order at a station in rear, informing him of the
obstruction and the details thereof; and
(c)
upon entering the affected line the Loco pilot shall be hand signalled from a distance of not less than thirty meters from
the place of obstruction.
Provided further that in case the Loco pilot have been pre-warned of the details of the obstruction and if the restriction is
not stop dead before proceeding, the competent railway servant deputed to hand signalled the Loco pilot shall first
exhibit a Stop signal and advise the speed at which the Loco pilot shall take his train across the obstruction.
(4)
if the place of work is situated in the automatic signalling territory, and if the distance between the place of obstruction
and the automatic signal controlling the entry of the train into the signalling section concerned is less than twelve
hundred meters and provided the automatic signal has been secured at 'ON' the caution indicator referred in clause (a)
of sub-rule (2) may be dispensed with.
(5)
The shapes and sizes of the indicators are as given below:-
Retro reflective type indicator shall be provided, the shapes and sizes of the indicator are as given below:
(6)
Showing of signals as prescribed in this rule shall also be applicable for protecting individual line or lines individually
where trains are not to proceed after stopping.
(7)
In addition to the above, where train protection and warning systems are implemented, temporary ground equipment
shall also be installed.
(8)
Responsibility of Loco pilot,- (a) the Loco pilot of a train on approaching stop hand signal or stop Indicator, shall stop in
rear to sign and affix train number date and time on the restriction book presented to him by the engineering flagman;
(b)
The loco pilot after affixing his signatures shall re-start on being shown a proceed with caution hand signal by the
Page 100/124
----- PAGE 101 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
flagman at a speed not exceeding eight kilometre per hour till the train has cleared the restricted length, as per
termination board or on being shown a proceed hand signal from behind, before resuming normal speed.
243.
Assistance in protection of trains etc.
- Every railway servant employed on Way or Works shall, on the requisition of the Loco pilot, render assistance for the
protection of the train.
244.
Knowledge of signals and equipment of track inspecting and maintenance staff.
- Each Inspector of Way or Works shall see,-
(a)
that every overhead equipment and track inspecting or maintenance staff employed under him has a correct knowledge
of the use of hand signals and such other signals as provided to him;
(b)
That every track inspecting and maintenance staff is supplied with tools and implements, hand signals and other
equipment as is prescribed by special instructions and are relevant for performing the task assigned to the them.
245.
Inspection of signals, tools and implements.
(1)
Each Inspector of Way and Works shall inspect signals, tools and implements supplied to overhead equipment and track
inspecting and maintenance staff under clause (b) of the rule 244 periodically in accordance with special instructions
and ascertain whether the above signals, tools and implements and other related equipment are complete and in good
order.
(2)
In case any deficiency is noticed he shall see that any defective or missing articles are replaced immediately.
246.
Responsibility of Inspector of Way and Works as to safety of line.
- Each Inspector of way or Works shall,-
(a)
see that his length of line is kept safe for the passage of trains; and
(b)
when repairing, lifting or lowering the overhead equipment or the line or when performing any other operation which
shall make it necessary for a train to proceed cautiously, himself be present at the spot and be responsible that the
action prescribed in 242 is taken.
247.
Ballasting and Working near a line.
(1)
No railway servant employed on the way or works shall carry on any blasting operations on or near the railway except as
permitted by special instructions.
(2)
Whenever any work is to be undertaken near a line requiring movement of men, vehicles or any equipment, the work
shall not commence until the safety distance from the track has been clearly demarcated in the manner prescribed
under special instructions.
248.
Putting in or removing points or crossings.
- Except in cases of emergency, no railway servant shall put in or remove any points or crossings amounting to change
in the yard layout than as permitted by special instruction and work shall be done only under traffic block.
249.
Duties of electric and permanent ways and works inspectorial or maintenance staff when apprehending danger.
- If any electric and permanent way and works inspectorial or maintenance staff considers that the line is likely to be
rendered unsafe, or that any train is likely to be endangered in consequence of any defect in the Way or Works or of
abnormal rain or floods or any other occurrence, he shall take immediate steps for securing the stability of the line and
Page 101/124
----- PAGE 102 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
the safety of trains, by using the prescribed signals for trains to proceed with caution or to stop, as necessity may
require; and shall as soon as possible report the circumstances to the nearest Station Master and to the Inspector of
Way or Works.
B - The Working of Trollies, Motor Trollies and Lorries
250.
Distinction between Trolley and Lorry.
(1)
A vehicle, not more than five feet high from rail level and which can be lifted bodily off the track by four railway servants
or less shall be deemed to be a trolley and any similar but heavier vehicle shall be deemed to be a lorry.
Note: A ladder on wheels of height more than five feet shall be deemed to be a lorry. Similarly a rail dolly when loaded
with rails being heavy shall be treated as a lorry even though the height is less than five feet.
(2)
Any trolley which ,-
(a)
Is propelled by pushing or paddling, is a push trolley, and when it is self-propelled, by means of a motor, is a motor
trolley; and
(b)
The design of the trollies should be such that when on the move at least one person faces the rear so as to warn the
person leading or driving in the front of any approaching train from behind.
(3)
A trolley shall not, except in cases of emergency, be used for the carriage of permanent way or other heavy material and
when a trolley is so loaded, it shall be deemed, for the purposes of these rules, to be a lorry.
251.
Equipment of Trolley including Motor Trolley or Lorry.
- Each trolley or lorry shall have the following equipment, namely:-
(1)
two hand signal lamps or tricolour torches;
(2)
two red and two green Hand signal flags;
(3)
a chain and a padlock;
(4)
a copy of the updated working time table pertaining to the section in force;
(5)
a motor horn and a search light (for motor trolley only);
(6)
two banner flags and two additional red lamps;
(7)
such other articles as may be prescribed by the railway administration in this behalf.
Note: The official in charge of the trolley, lorry or motor trolley shall also be in possession of a watch in addition to the
prescribed equipment.
252.
Red flag or light to be shown on a Trolley, Motor Trolley or Lorry.
- Every lorry or trolley when on the line shall show a conspicuously visible red flag by day and a red lamp by night,
during thick foggy or tempestuous weather impairing visibility or in a tunnel in the direction from which a train may come
in case of double line.
Provided further, when within station limits, and in single line the lights displayed at night shall be red in both directions.
253.
Efficient brakes.
- No lorry or trolley shall be placed on the line unless it is fitted with efficient brakes.
254.
Page 102/124
----- PAGE 103 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
Competent railway servant to be in-charge of lorry or trolley when on the line.
(1)
No lorry or trolley shall be placed on the line except by a qualified person appointed in this behalf by special instructions,
and is in possession of a valid competency certificate issued by the competent authority mentioned therein.
(2)
Such competent person shall accompany the lorry or trolley, and shall be responsible for its proper protection and its
being used in accordance with the special instructions.
255.
Attachment of lorry or trolley to train prohibited.
- No lorry, trolley or motor trolley shall be attached to a train.
256.
Time of running.
- Except in emergency, a lorry shall ordinarily be run only by day and when the weather is sufficiently clear for a signal to
be distinctly seen from adequate distance which can never be less than twelve hundred meters, or under block
protection irrespective of day or night.
257.
Working of motor trolley.
(a)
a motor trolley shall ordinarily be run either on line clear as a signalled movement as in case of a train or under block
protection or during corridor maintenance block;
(b)
A motor trolley can be permitted to follow a train on motor trolley permit in Form 19 cautiously maintaining a safe
distance at least four hundred meters and be prepared to stop short of a stopping train;
Provided the block section will be closed only after arrival of the trolley or trollies either at the origin or next station or
lifted off the track in mid-section as confirmed by trolley in charge on secured voice communication.
(c)
the trolley following a train shall be handed over the trolley permit which should be deposited with the Station Master of
block station in advance or in the rear depending upon where its journey is ended; and
(d)
more than one motor trolley can follow a train or each other. When more than one motor trollies are running together in
the same direction, sufficient distance of more than one hundred meters shall be kept between them, and when they are
following a train the trolley permit in Form19 shall be carried by the rear most motor trolley.
258.
Working and protection of Trolley other than Motor Trolley.
- A push or padelled trolley may be put on line with the permission of Station Master on duty and without blocking the
line unless forbidden under special instruction. The qualified person in charge of the trolley shall,-
(i)
ensure that sufficient margin is available between trains and for that he has ascertained the whereabouts of all
approaching trains;
(ii)
ensure that the visibility is clear so that trolley can be easily lifted off the track on sighting a train, or when clear view is
not obtainable for an adequate distance due to geography and curvature of the track in the section, even if the weather
clear, or visibility is impaired due to tempestuous weather take precautions for protection of his trolley, in both directions
on single line and in the direction from which trains may approach on a double line in accordance with sub-rule (2) of the
rule 259 below.
259.
Protection of lorry on the line.
(1)
A lorry whether loaded or empty shall be placed on the line under block protection, or in case of an emergency, when
placed in the face of an approaching train only after confirmation by the Loco pilot through secured means of
communication that his train has stopped as instructed. When it is required to be placed behind a train, the Loco pilot of
Page 103/124
----- PAGE 104 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
the last train shall be informed and the section shall be blocked forward after the last train has arrived at the station
ahead. The Station master shall not permit backing of the train in case a lorry has been placed behind it in Form20.
(2)
In case a rail dolly after unloading of rails is taken off the rails, the official incharge of the lorry shall inform the Station
Master on duty confirming removal of obstruction as in rule 241 for normal movement of trains to resume.
260.
Trollies including motor trollies or Lorries, when out of use.
- Trollies including motor trollies or Lorries, tower wagon, rail-cum road maintenance vehicle when not in use, shall be
placed clear of the line and the wheels thereof be secured with a chain and padlock.
261.
Corridor Block and working under shadow block.
- The department of Electrical Way and Works, Permanent Way and Works, Signalling and other train working related
maintenance services shall schedule their maintenance work during corridor block.
C- Additional Rules for Electrified Sections
262.
Reporting of defects in Electric Way and Works.
(1)
When during the course of train run if,-
(a)
any transient tripping of overhead equipment is experienced by the Loco pilot, he shall resume normal traction but keep
a sharp look out including the adjacent line or lines for any abnormality or obstruction; and
(b)
if no tension continues, the Loco pilot shall reduce speed of his train and be prepared to stop his train short of the
damaged portion or, lower the pantograph to coast through it, as may be warranted in his judgement, depending upon
physical obstruction, and inform the Station Master of the nearest station and traction power controller by the first
available means.
(2)
Whenever any defect, damage or interference in overhead equipment is noticed by any Railway servant, he shall take
action immediately to protect trains running on that line and/or at adjacent line and inform the Station Master on duty of
the nearest station or traction power controller by first available means.
263.
Warning to staff and public.
(1)
In case breakage of an overhead line is noticed by any railway employee he shall make his best efforts to warn others
including persons from public to keep away and avoid coming into contact with the line, and inform the Station Master on
duty on either side or traction power controller by first available means immediate action for making the line dead.
(2)
All electrical equipment shall be regarded as being live at all times and consequently dangerous to human life save and
except in cases, where the electrical equipment has been specially made dead, in accordance with special instructions.
Caution notice shall be prominently fixed near all vulnerable places to warn staff and public to exercise due caution.
(3)
No person, staff or outsider shall climb on the top of the locomotives or on the roof any vehicle when those vehicles are
located beneath overhead equipment except when the overhead equipment is dead and earthed in accordance with
instructions issued by the officer authorised by the Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway Administration.
264.
Permit-to-work on electrical equipment.
(1)
If work is to be carried out adjacent to the electrical equipment or any other part thereof by other than the competent
railway servant, such work shall be done only when and for such time as the person in-charge of the work has obtained
a written permit-to-work, duly signed and given by the railway servant authorised for the purpose by special instructions.
He, in turn, shall issue the same only with the knowledge of the traction power controller.
Page 104/124
----- PAGE 105 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(2)
If the work is to be carried out by the competent railway servant the permit-to-work shall be obtained by him from traction
power controller.
(3)
Procedure for obtaining permit-to-work in the danger zone of traction, electrical equipment or overhead equipment shall
be in accordance with the special instructions complying with the provisions prescribed in these rules.
(4)
Each permit-to-work shall be numbered and entered in the log book of the traction power controller, together with the
particulars and time when the equipment is made dead and re-energised.
265.
Procedure for making the overhead equipment dead.
(1)
Switches and other electrical installations shall be accessed only by the person authorised to do so. Procedure to be
followed for making them dead shall be in accordance with special instructions.
(2)
The Station Master on duty, or the railway servant authorised to switch off the overhead equipment to make it dead shall
be fully aware of the location and conversant with operation of isolator switches provided for the purpose.
(3)
Keys of the chambers or enclosures of live equipment shall be so kept as to be accessible to the authorised railway
servant or Station Master for switching off the equipment in emergency.
266.
Protection of staff at work site.
(1)
Appropriate callers and caution notices shall be prominently fixed on and near interrupter or Isolator switches both in the
field as also in the remote control room when opened during maintenance.
(2)
Work in the danger zone of overhead equipment. - Before any work is undertaken on a section of overhead equipment,
which is normally alive, or on any part of the structure within danger zone, the overhead equipment shall be made dead
and earthed in accordance with special instructions.
(3)
Every staff responsible for maintenance and repair of electrical ways and works shall additionally abide such other
precautions and safety measures as prescribed by special instructions for any specific work involving different types of
structures and equipments.
267.
Alterations to track.
- Before any alteration to alignment or level of electrified tracks is commenced, due notice shall be given to those
responsible for the overhead equipment so that overhead equipment can be adjusted to confirm to the new conditions.
268.
Tripping of circuit breakers of locomotives at neutral sections.
(a)
unless otherwise authorised by special instructions, the Loco pilot of the locomotive shall coast through the neutral
section, duly switching off power and lowering of pantograph; and
(b)
necessary indication boards, to indicate that a neutral section is being approached and the location from where the
pantograph should be lowered respectively at distances in accordance with special instructions, shall be provided to
guide the Loco pilot.
269.
Rules regarding shutdown of overhead equipment.
(1)
Except in case of emergency to preempt an accident, or damage to overhead equipment, shutting down of overhead
equipment shall be done ordinarily during Corridor Maintenance Block with the permission of the Controller.
Page 105/124
----- PAGE 106 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(2)
In case of fault in overhead equipment, traction power controller shall isolate faulty section ) and in consultation with
Controller may allow limited re-energisation of some portion to rescue a stranded train at such restricted speed as
prescribed under instructions issued by the officer authorised by the Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway administration
and provided the action does not damage the overhead equipment.
(3)
Except in case of emergency the traction power controller and the Controller shall plan the regulation of train and only
after the last affected train has reached the station, where it is either to wait or terminate, orders for shutting shall be
given.
(4)
It shall be responsibility of traction power controller to issue work permit only after he has confirmed that no electric train
is in the block section.
(5)
Switched on only after confirming from the official incharge of the work that all men have been removed from the danger
zone and work is completed.
(6)
(a)
as soon as traction power controller comes to know about unsafe condition of a train working on electrified section, he
shall immediately switch 'off' the OHE supply of both the lines of relevant sub-sector. traction power controller shall then
advise in writing, the section controller of the section in which overhead Equipment has been switched 'off';
(b)
on occurrence of any such incidence section controller or traction power controller from Dedicated Freight Corridor
Corporation shall immediately intimate concerned section controller of Indian Railway as well;
(c)
on receipt of advice from the traction power controller, the Section Controller shall under exchange of private number,
advise the Station Masters of all stations, who are concerned with working of trains in the affected section to treat the
dead section as if the same is under emergency power block and to ensure that no train is allowed to enter into the
section.
270.
Additional rules for electrified sections.
- Special instruction for working of trains on electrified section shall be notified by the authorised officer.
Chapter XI
Level Crossing
271.
There shall be no level crossing gate on Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway lines unless specifically notified by
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway administration. The working of notified level crossing gates shall be in accordance
with the special instructions.
272.
Controlling Railway of Level Crossing Gates.
(1)
In case of Level Crossing Gate which is common to Indian Railway and Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway lines, it shall
be controlled by Indian Railway.
(2)
In case of Level Crossing Gates which is not common to Indian Railway and Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway lines, it
shall be controlled by Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway.
273.
Interlocking of Level Crossing Gates, approach train warning and track locking.
(1)
(a)
each Level Crossing Gates shall be provided with electrically operated lifting barriers interlocked with Gate signals
provided on each line. The gates should normally be closed to road traffic;
Page 106/124
----- PAGE 107 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(b)
the gate signals shall remain 'ON' and attain "OFF' aspect only when the gate is closed and is so detected by
interlocking;
(c)
each gate shall have road signals as well as hooter alarm to warn road users of closing of the gate;
(d)
the road signal shall show a steady yellow when barrier is lifted and steady red when closed towards the road users.
(2)
(a)
there shall be an indication panel in the gate hut to display 'ON' and 'OFF' aspects of Gate signals and the occupation or
clearance of the approach warning track circuits of each track up to the point of train approach warning;
(b)
a separate panel for the operation of booms through push buttons shall be provided for raising or lowering of booms as
also for stopping it mid-way during operations; and
(c)
separate Telephone shall be provided between Gateman and station master of block stations on either side; wherever
the Level Crossing Gate is common to Indian Railway and Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway lines, separate
telephones shall be provided between Gateman and station masters on either side of both Dedicated Freight Corridor
Railway and Indian Railway stations.
(3)
[ Each level crossing gate shall be provided with approach warning and approach track locking systems. As soon as the
train reaches a pre-determined point on any of the lines an alarm in accordance with special instructions will sound in
order to assist Gateman regulate road traffic and observe passing train. Further, as soon as the train reaches a
predetermined point, if the boom is already closed, track locking of boom shall prevent opening of the gate until whole of
the train has passed beyond the level crossing gate and subsequently, the gate signal shall assume 'OFF' aspect]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 822(E), dated 6.11.2019 (w.e.f. 10.8.2018).]
.
274.
Knowledge of signals and Gate operation.
- No person shall be deputed to work at level crossing gate unless he has full knowledge of signal and panels provided
for operation of the gate and carries a valid certificate of competency issued by the competent authority appointed in this
behalf by the controlling Railway administration.
275.
Road traffic.
(1)
Subject to such special instructions in that behalf as are issued under sub-clause (2) of the rule 275, the normal position
of Gate at Level crossings shall be "closed to road traffic" on both sides of the Railway and shall only be opened when it
is necessary and safe to open them for the passage of road traffic when no train is approaching.
(2)
Railway administration controlling the level crossing gate may from time to time issue special instructions for any
particular level crossing gate to be kept normally "open to road traffic". In such a case, on sounding of buzzer the
Gateman shall immediately take action to close the gate against road traffic for passage of a train or trains or for the
purpose of any other railway operation; Provided that whenever the normal position of level crossing gate is "open to
road traffic", the Gateman, at all times be prepared, to show a stop hand signal to any approaching train.
(3)
If for any reason, the Gate at the level crossing cannot be closed, action shall be taken in accordance with rule 277.
(4)
Detailed working instructions for operation of Gate panels shall be prescribed in the Station Working Rule of controlling
station of Indian Railway and a copy of the same shall be kept in gate hut.
276.
Supply and care of equipment.
Page 107/124
----- PAGE 108 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(1)
Based on number of lines and directions of movement permitted on each, the requirement of Hand signal lamps, flags
(Red and Green), banner flags and such other articles as may be needed by the Gateman for efficient and safe working
of trains, shall be prescribed in the Station Working Rule of controlling station of Indian Railway;
(2)
Every gate man shall, - (a) be supplied with the equipment prescribed as per sub-rule (1) of the rule 276 above and such
other articles as may be additionally prescribed by controlling Railway administration; and
(b)
keep such signals, flasher lights and other equipment in proper order and ready for use.
(3)
Controlling supervisor of a level crossing gate shall ensure that all the prescribed equipment are available and
maintained at the Gates under his charge, as per the norms prescribed by special instructions.
277.
Failure of locking arrangements at level crossing gates.
(1)
Arrangement of fixing of safety chain and hand operated sliding boom shall be provided for use in case of failure of
electrically operated lifting barriers.
(2)
Indication for hand operated boom shall be provided on the gate panel and detected by the signals to show 'yellow'
when taken 'OFF'.
(3)
If need arises due to failure of alternatives to electrically operated boom as mentioned in sub-clause (1) of the rule 277
above, the gateman shall take action to close Gates against the road traffic by any other means if so feasible, and to
Hand signal the train movement pass the Level Crossing in accordance with sub-rule (4) of the rule 277 below.
(4)
In case for any reason the gate cannot be closed or fastened across thoroughfares on both sides of the track, - (a) He
shall,-
(i)
ensure that the fixed signals, protecting the gate are kept at `ON';
(ii)
show stop hand signal and do his best to stop any approaching train;
(iii)
put banner flags by day and red lamps by night showing towards the direction of approaching trains;
(iv)
not remove the banner flag or red lamp till the trains have come to stop short of it; and
(b)
only after ensuring that the track is clear of obstruction or road users, the banner flag or red lamp may be removed and
train hand signalled past the level crossing.
(5)
If any defect in the mechanism of closing the gate against the road traffic, or defect of any other kind specially in the
road surface, channel for flange of wheels or the fastenings thereof, or any signal pertaining to road traffic or fixed
signals for trains, is noticed by the Gateman he shall immediately report the facts to the station master on duty of the
controlling or of nearest station.
(6)
The Station Master on duty on being informed of the defects shall inform the Station Masters at the other end to issue
caution to the approaching trains if the defect so warrants, and inform the supervisor responsible for upkeep of the Gate
to rectify the defect.
(7)
The supervisor responsible for upkeep of the gate and its equipment, on being informed of the defect, if the defect
directly affects safety and running of the trains shall immediately undertake repair and in the other cases at the first
available opportunity.
Page 108/124
----- PAGE 109 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
278.
Gateman to observe passing trains and position of Gateman.
(1)
Except, where otherwise prescribed under special instructions, the Gateman shall, as far as feasible, observe all
passing trains and be prepared to take such action as may be necessary to ensure safety of trains;
(2)
Unless provided with video monitoring of passing trains, the Gateman should stand attentively facing the track at a place
nominated in the Station Working Rule or the Gate Working Instructions in the manner indicated below,-
(a)
during daytime he shall hold red and green hand signal flags, furled up on separatesticks with the red flag in his active
hand, whereas; and
(b)
during night time he shall hold a lighted hand signal lamp with white light.
(3)
The Gateman shall, as far as feasible, watch passing train and keep a sharp look out for any unusual condition like hot
axle, hanging part of any vehicle on fire, load shifted, etc. and in case he notices any of the above or any other danger to
safe running of the train, he should take prompt action to warn the Loco pilot by showing the danger signal, except in
case of train parting. If the train crew fails to take notice or act upon the Gateman's signal he shall immediately inform
the Station Master or the Gateman of the gate in advance on telephone or any other approved means of communication.
Provided further that in case of train parting instead of showing a red hand signal the gateman shall follow the procedure
as prescribed in rule 281.
(4)
The Loco pilot shall be on the lookout for such danger signals from the Gateman.
279.
Channel for flange of wheels.
- The Gateman shall see that the channel for the flange of the wheels is kept clear.
280.
Obstruction at level crossing.
(1)
Every Gateman, on noticing any obstruction on the line, shall at once remove it or, if unable to do so, shall,- (a) take
action to ensure that the fixed signals, protecting the gate are kept at `ON';
(b)
show stop hand signal and do his best to stop any approaching train;
(c)
protect the obstruction by putting banner flags by day and red lamps by night showing towards the direction of
approaching trains; and
(d)
take action to close the gates against the road traffic.
(2)
If after removal of obstruction on line the gate can still not be closed, the protection prescribed in sub-rule (1) under the
rule 280 above shall be continued to be provided, and the banner flag or red lamp shall not be removed till the train have
come to stop short of it, and only after ensuring that the track is clear of obstruction or road users, the banner flag or red
lamp may be removed and train hand signalled past the level crossing.
281.
Parting of a train.
(1)
If a Gateman notices that a train has parted, he shall not show a stop Hand signal to the Loco pilot, but shall endeavour
to attract the attention of the Loco pilot by shouting, gesticulating or by moving a green flag by day and a white light by
night up and down vertically as high and low as possible or through approved means of communication, if provided.
(2)
He shall then inform the Station Master of the station in rear and prepare himself to stop any train approaching from
Page 109/124
----- PAGE 110 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
behind depending upon the location of the rear portion of the parted train if within his reach.
(3)
In case of derailment he shall also assist train crew in taking action to protect the adjacent track provided he is in
position to leave the gate.
282.
Trespassing.
- Every Gateman shall, as far as possible, prevent any trespassing by persons or cattle.
283.
Transfer of charge of gate.
- No Gateman shall leave his gate unless another Gateman has taken charge of it.
284.
Height gauges.
(1)
On electrified sections, adequate arrangements shall be made to erect height gauges on either side of the Over Head
Equipment or other equipment at every level crossing so as to ensure that all vehicles and moving structures passing
under the height gauge also pass under Over Head Equipment or other equipment with adequate clearance.
(2)
The adequate clearance referred to in sub-rule (1) of the rule 284 above shall be prescribed by the Railway
administration.
(3)
Vehicles and moving structures, which cannot pass under the height gauge without striking or touching it, shall not be
permitted to pass the overhead equipment or other equipment except in accordance with special instructions.
285.
Appendix.
- Appendix contains the description of authority or Form and the relevant provision of the rule which apply thereto for the
purpose of these Rules.
Appendix
List of Authorities to be used During Train Working
Form Number
Rule Number
Description of Authority to be used
1.
65(a)
Disconnection or Reconnection Notice.
2.
97(2)(a)
Paper Line Clear Ticket
3.
103(2)(b)
Shunting Order
4.
117(6)
Authority To Proceed during prolonged failure of
signals on double line section in Automatic Block System.
5.
136(2)(b)
Authority to receive a train on an Obstructed
Line
6.
137(1)(d)
Authority to receive a train on a Non-signalled
Page 110/124
----- PAGE 111 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
line
7.
138(1)(b)
Authority to start from a Non-signalled line or
a line provided by common departure signal.
8.
155(1)
Caution Order
9.
155(6)
Nil-Caution Order
10.
211(3)(a)
Advance Authority to pass defective approach
signals at `ON" position.
11.
211(3)(b)
Authority to pass defective approach signals at
`ON" position.
12.
212(1)(c)
Authority to pass defective departing signals at
`ON" or defective position
13.
218(2)
Message to be exchanged between Station Mangers
for introduction of Temporary Single Line Working on a double
line section.
14.
218(4)(e)
Authority for Temporary Single Line Working on a
double line.
15.
218(5)(b)
The Following Train System Authority To Proceed
16.
218(10)
Authority to receive a train during Temporary
Single Line Working on a double line approaching on wrong line.
17.
218(11)(C)
Message to be exchanged between Station Mangers
for restoration of normal working after Temporary Single Line
Working.
18.
227(6)
Authority To Proceed Without Line Clear and
Proceed into an occupied block section.
19.
257(d)
Motor Trolley Following Permit.
Page 111/124
----- PAGE 112 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
20.
259(1)
Working of a Motor Trolley or Lorry or Rail
Dolly on full block.
Form 2
[See Rule 97(2) (a)]
Sr. No._____
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Paper Line Clear Ticket
(Loco Pilot and Record)
*UP or DN
Name of Station_____________
Date __/___/20__
Time__ hour_____minutes
Paper Line Clear working between ______________ station and ______________ station.
Line Clear asked by ___________________(Name of Station Master on duty) from ____________ Station Master on
duty at __________________station for train No.__________*UP or DN.
Through______________________________ (Means of communication).
Last train in the block section was ______________*UP or DN, which cleared block section at___________station.
Line clear *granted or received under Private Number _____________________ (in words) _______ (in figures).
___________________________________________________________________________
* To
The Loco Pilot of Train No. __________________
Line is clear and you are authorised to proceed to ______________ (station).
*Authority to pass Signal at `ON' position
(For Double Line only when Line clear cannot be obtained on block instrument.)
You are authorised to pass *Starter or *Intermediate Starter or *Advanced Starter at `ON'.
_____________
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
*Signature of Loco Pilot
Date __/___/20 ____
Time___ hour------minutes
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Form 3
[See Rule 103(2) (b)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Shunting Order
(Loco Pilot, Guard and Record)
Station_____________
Date __/___/20__
Time__ hour_____minutes
To
The Loco Pilot of Train No._______________ *UP or DOWN.
Please perform shunting as indicated below as per instructions of Station staff or Guard:
1. ___________________________________________________
2. ___________________________________________________
3. ___________________________________________________
4. ___________________________________________________
*You are authorised to pass ___________________________________signal in the `ON' position and proceed *up to
Page 112/124
----- PAGE 113 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
or beyond **________________________signal.
***Section between _______station and _________ station is *blocked back or blocked forward. For this purpose and
*Token or Tablet or Shunting Key has been extracted and kept in *safe personal custody or block instrument has been
turned to `Train On Line' position and locked.
_____________
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
Signature of Loco Pilot _________ Date __/__/20___ Time _____ hour------minutes
Signature of Guard__________ Date __/__/20___ Time _____ hour------minutes
* Strike out whichever is not applicable
** Enter Kilo meter or Signal No.
***Applies when Line is Block back or Block forward.
Form 4
[See Rule 117(6)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Authority to Proceed During Prolonged Failure of Signals on Double Line Section in Automatic Block System
(Loco Pilot and Record)
Station _________.
Date ___/___/20__.
Time__ hour_____minutes
To
The Loco Pilot Train No. ______________ * Up or Down.
All signals between __________ Station and _____________ Station have failed. Line Clear has been received from
________________ Station under his Private No. (In words) __________________(in figures)_______.
*You are, hereby, authorised to proceed cautiously on* Up or Down line at a speed not exceeding twenty five kilo meters
per hour and further fifteen kilo meters per hour during bad weather impairing visibility and while passing over facing
points.
You are also authorised to pass Automatic or Semi-Automatic or Manual Stop or Gate signals in between station
___________ and _____________station at `ON' on this authority.
You shall stop outside the first Stop Signal at ______________________ Station and thereafter be guided by the
instructions of the Station Master of that station.
_____________
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
I have understood the contents of this authority.
Signature of Loco Pilot __________ Date _______ Time__ hour_____minutes
* Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Form 5
[See Rule 136(2) (b)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Authority to Receive a Train on an Obstructed Line
(Loco Pilot and Record)
Station ________
Date___/____/20___
Time__ hour_____minutes
To
The Loco Pilot of Train No ._______________ *Up or Down.
Your train is being received on line No.(in words) ____________(in figures)________ which is obstructed.
You are hereby authorised to pass *Up or Down*Outer or Home or Routing Signals in `ON' position cautiously at a
Page 113/124
----- PAGE 114 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
speed not exceeding fifteen kilo meters per hour on being accompanied by the bearer of this Authority. You are required
to bring your train to a stand observing hand danger signal being exhibited forty five meters before the obstruction.
______________
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
Signature of Loco Pilot ________________ Date __________
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Form 6
[See Rule 137(1) (d)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Authority to Receive a Train on a Non Signaled Line
(Loco Pilot and Record)
Station ________
Date__/___/20_____
Time__ hour_____minutes
To
The Loco Pilot of Train No. ______________ *Up or Down.
Your train is being received on non-signalled line No. (in words) _______________(in figures)______.
You are hereby authorised to pass *Up or Down *Outer or Home or Routing Signals in `ON' position cautiously at a
speed not exceeding fifteen kilo meters per hour on being accompanied by the bearer of this Authority. You are required
to bring your train to a stand before stop board or fouling mark of line on which your train is being received.
_______________
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
Signature of Loco Pilot ________________ Date __________
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Form 7
[See Rule 138(1) (b)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Authority to Start From A Non_signaled Line
Or
A Line Provided By Common Departure Signal
(Loco Pilot and Record)
Station ______________
Date___/___/20__
Time__ hour_____minutes
To
The Loco Pilot of Train No._____________________ *Up or Down.
Your train is being started from line No. (in words)__________(in figure_________ which is * a nonsignalled line or
having a common departure signal.
You are authorised to pass *Starter or Intermediate Starter or Advanced Starter bearing No.
________________________ in the `ON' position and leave the Yard cautiously at a speed not exceeding fifteen kilo
meters per hour over the points duly accompanied by the competent Railway servant up to last set of points of line
No.____(in figures) and ________________(in words).
Line clear is obtained on *Block Instrument or Approved Means of communication from _________ Station.
* Private No. received from station in advance (In words) ________________________(In figures) ____ .
Or
Token or Paper line clear ticket No. ___________.
_____________
Page 114/124
----- PAGE 115 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
Signature of Loco Pilot ______________ Date ________
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Form 8
[See Rule 155(1)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Caution Order
(Loco Pilot, Guard and Record)
Station _______________
Date ________
To
The Loco Pilot of Train No. and Name____________.
You are hereby instructed to exercise the following speed restrictions:-
Sl. No.
Stations between
Kilometers or position of Indicators if
provided
Speed (kilometre per hour)
Cause or Remarks
From
To
From
To
1
2
3
4
5
_____________
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
Signature of Loco pilot ________________ Date ____________
Signature of Guard ________________ Date _______________
Form 9
[See Rule 155(6)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Caution Order
(Loco Pilot, Guard and Record)
Station ________________
Date___/____/20____
To
The Loco Pilot of Train No.___________________________ .
Caution Order
NIL
Up to _______________________ Station (Name of next Noticed Station or Station)
_____________
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
Page 115/124
----- PAGE 116 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
Signature of Loco Pilot ________________ Date ___/____/20___
Signature of Guard __________________ Date ___/____/20___
Form 10
[See Rule 211(3) (a)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Advance Authority to Pass Defective Approach Signals at `on' Position at _______________ Station
(Loco Pilot and Record)
Station______________
Date ___________
To
The Loco Pilot of Train No. ______________*Up or Down
As per advice of Station Master on duty at ___________________ Station, *Up or Down * Outer or Home or Routing
Home signal bearing number____________________________________ *is or are out of order.
You are hereby authorised to pass such signals at `ON' on being hand signalled at the foot of Home signal at a speed
not exceeding fifteen kilo meters per hour.
______________
Signature of Station Master
SM Stamp
__________________
Signature of Loco Pilot
Date ___/___/20____
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Form 11
[See Rule 211(3) (b)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Authority to Pass Approach Signals at `on' or Defective Position
(Loco Pilot and Record)
Station _______________
Date ___/____/20__
Time ___ hour______ minutes
To
The Loco Pilot of Train No.____________________ Up or Down
You are hereby authorised to pass the defective * Outer or Home or Routing Home signal at `ON' position at a speed not
exceeding fifteen kilometers per hour.
The train will be admitted on line number (in words)______________and (figures) ____.
_____________
Signature of Station Master
SM Stamp
___________________
Signature of Loco Pilot
Date___/___/20______
* Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Form 12
[See Rule 212(1) (c)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Authority to Pass Departing Signals at `on' or in Defective Position
(Loco Pilot and Record)
Station _______________
Page 116/124
----- PAGE 117 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
Date ___/____/20__
Time__ hour_____minutes
To
The Loco Pilot of Train No._____________ Up or Down, waiting to depart from line No._____
(1)
You are hereby authorised to pass the *Starter or Intermediate Starter or Advanced Starter signals at `ON' position.
*(2) Applicable for Double Line only -
(In case of failure of Advanced Starter Signal or Last Stop Signal) - Line clear has been obtained on
_______________(means of communication) from_____________ station. Private No. received is (in
figures)________(in words) __________________ .
*(3) Applicable for Intermediate Block signal or Modified Automatic Block Signal- You are authorised to pass
Intermediate Block Signal or Modified Automatic Block Signal at `ON' without stopping. Line Clear has been obtained on
___________________ (means of communication) from _______________ station. Private number received is
________________ (in words) ______(in figures)
__________
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
___________________Signature of Loco Pilot
Date__________________
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Form 13
[See Rule 218(2)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Message to be Exchanged for Introduction of Temporary Single Line Working on a Double Line Section
(A)
For station proposing to introduce Temporary Single Line Working.
Date ___/___/20___
Time_____hours_____ minutes
No.______________
From
Station Master ____________ station
To
Station Master ____________ station
(1)
Temporary Single Line Working is proposed to be introduced on *Up or Down line between __________and
___________station due to _____________________________________.
* (2) _________________stations shall be closed during Temporary Single Line Working.
(3)
Obstruction on * Up or Down exists at ___________________kilometer
(4)
Last train No. _________ * Up or Down over the line on which Temporary Single Working is been introduced has arrived
at my station at ________________hrs.
Private No. ______________(in words)_________________(in figures).
_____________
Signature of Station Master
(B)
For station acknowledging Temporary Single Line Working
From
Station Master ____________ station
To
Page 117/124
----- PAGE 118 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
Station Master ____________ station
Refer your message no. _____________________. I have understood that Temporary Single Line Working is proposed
to be introduced on *Up or Down line between __________and ___________stations due to
___________________________________________. Last train No. __________* Up or Down left my station on the
line on which Temporary Single Working is being introduced has arrived complete at your station.
Private No. ______________ (in words)_________________(in figures).
_____________
Signature of Station Master
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Form 14
[See Rule 218(4) (e)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Authority For Temporary Single Line Working on Double Line
(Loco Pilot, Guard & Record)
Station _________
Date ___/___/20___
To: The Loco Pilot of Train No.___________________ UP or DOWN
(1)
Line Clear Ticket
The line is clear and you are authorised to proceed on Up or Down Line up to _____________station, Private No.
received from station in advance is (in words)_____________________(in figures)_____.
(2)
Authority To Pass Signals In `on' Position
You are authorised to pass *Starter or Intermediate Starter or Advanced Starter Signals bearing Nos.
__________________________at `ON'.
* Observe hand signal at the foot of the 1st starter signal.
* You are authorised to pass signals of intermediate ______________________station at `ON' which has* or have*
been closed temporarily for single line working.
* Your train shall start from the line not provided with departing signals. Start on being piloted by the railway servant on
duty at station.
(3)
Caution Order
* (i) Your train is going on *Right line or Wrong line. The obstruction exists at kilometers ________on *Up or Down line.
Switch On flasher light when proceeding on Wrong line.
* (ii) You have to inform the Gate men and Trackman enroute regarding Introduction of single line working on *Up line or
Down line.
*(iii) Your Train is the First Train to work under Temporary Single Line working. Speed of your train shall be restricted to
twenty five kilometers per hour subject to observance of other speed restriction in force.
*(iv) Observe "Neutral section" on the line on which your Train is going. (For electrified section).
*(v) *There are no Trap Points on the line in question or Trap points have been clamped or cotter bolted or spiked.
* (v) Following are the caution Orders in force in Block Section-
Sr No
Station between
Kilometrage
Speed (Kilometer per hour)
Cause or Remarks
From
To
From
To
Page 118/124
----- PAGE 119 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
1
2
____________
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
I /We have understood the contents of this authority.
___________________ _____________
Signature of Loco Pilot Signature of Guard
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Form 15
[See Rule 218(5) (b)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
The Following Trains System Authority to Proceed
(Up or Down)
Train No.________________Up or Down Date ______________________
Time ___________________ Hours _________________________ Minutes.
From ___________________ Station, To _____________________ Station.
To Loco Pilot
(1)
You are hereby authorized to proceed with your train from ___________________ station to _____________________
station
*(2) Train No. ____________ ahead of your train left this station at _________________ hours _______________
Minutes.
*(3) Train No. _______________shall follow your train from this Station at _________ hours _________________
minutes.
*(4) You are required to observe a speed restriction of _______________ kilometers per hour.
Signed __________________
Station Master at __________
(Station stamp)
Signature of the Loco Pilot at __________________ station.
*Strike out whichever is inapplicable.
Form 16
[See Rule 218(10)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Authority to Receive a Train During Temporary Single Line Working on Double Line Approaching on Wrong Line
(Loco Pilot and Record)
Station ________
Date__/____/20____
Time ______hours _________ minutes
To
The Loco Pilot of Train No.________ *Up or Down.
Your train will be received on line No. (in words) _____________(in figures)______.
You are hereby authorised enter cautiously at a speed not exceeding fifteen kilometers per hour on being accompanied
by the bearer of this Authority.
______________
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
Signature of Loco Pilot ________________ Date __________
Form 17
Page 119/124
----- PAGE 120 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
[See Rule 218(11) (c)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Message to be Exchanged For Restoration of Normal Working after Temporary Single Line Working
(A)
For station proposing to restoring normal Working.
Date ___/___/20___
Time_____hours____ minutes
No.______________
From
Station Master ____________ station
To
Station Master ____________ station
* (1) Normal Working shall be introduced between __________and ___________station after arrival of train No.______
at your station.
*(2) Normal Working shall be introduced between __________and ___________station after train No.______ arrived at
my station at ________hrs.
(3)
The obstruction on *Up or Down line at Km _________________has been removed as per information received from
_________________vide No. ________________.
Private No. ______________(in words)_________________(in figures).
_____________
Signature of Station Master
(B)
For station acknowledging normal working
From
Station Master ____________ station
To
Station Master ____________ station
*(1) Refer your message no. _____________________. Train No. _______ has arrived complete at my station at
______hours. Normal working shall be restored on *Up or Down line between __________and ___________stations.
*(2) Refer your message no. _____________________. Train No. _______ which left last has arrived your station
complete at ______hours. Normal working shall be restored on *Up or Down line between __________and
___________stations.
Private No. ______________(in words)_________________(in figures).
_____________
Signature of Station Master
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Form 18
[See Rule 227(6)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
*UP or DOWN
Authority to Proceed Without Line Clear and Proceed into an Occupied Block Section
(Loco Pilot, Guard and Record)
Station _____________
Date: ___/____20__. Time __ hours___ minutes
To: Loco Pilot of Train No______________
(1)
This order is being given due to Obstruction of UP or DN line between__________ Station and ___________station at
Kilometers__________.
Page 120/124
----- PAGE 121 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
(2)
You are hereby authorised to proceed cautiously without Line clear. From ___________ station up to kilometers
_________on *UP or DOWN Line with your Train.
(3)
You shall bring your Train to a stop short of kilometers _______ and thereafter be guided by the instructions from the
Competent Authority at the site.
(4)
You shall clear the section at station ___________________
Authority to Pass Signals at `on' Position
(1)
*You are authorised to pass the Signals No. and description ________________, at `ON' position or *start from the line
not provided with departing signals at a speed not exceeding fifteen kilometers per hours observing hand signals at the
foot of the first starting signal.
Caution Order
(1)
You are permitted to work your Train upto kilometers ________ between Station __________and _________stations
with the speed of twenty five kilometers per hour when view ahead is clear and ten kilometers per hour at night or when
view ahead is not clear or when brake-van is leading.
(2)
Caution Orders in force in the Block Section are as under:-
Sr No
Station between
Kilometer
Speed (Kilometer per hour)
Cause or Remarks
From
To
From
To
1
2
_____________
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
I have understood the contents of this authority.
Signature of Loco Pilot_________________
Signature of Guard_______
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Form 19
[See Rule 257(d)]
Sr. No.______
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Motor Trolley Following Permit
(Original and Duplicate)
Station _____________
From Station Master______________
Date ___/__/20___.
To
_____________ (Officer-in-charge) Motor Trolley No.______.
You are hereby being permitted to follow *Train No.__________ or Motor Trolley No.________ in the block section upto
______________Station.
Page 121/124
----- PAGE 122 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
The Train No.__________/Motor Trolley No.________ left this station at___ hours ____minutes
You are also authorised to pass *Up or Down_________ signals at `ON' position.
On arrival at ___________________ Station you are required to hand over this permit to Station Master on duty.
Private No. received (in words)______________(in figures)_______.
______________________
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
Received ____________
Signature of *{Official Incharge and Designation} ______________.
{Motor Trolley Driver}
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Form 20
[See Rule 259 (1)]
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Sr. No.______
Working Of A * Motor Trolly Or Lorry Or Rail
Dolly Etc. On Full Block.
Record
Date __/__/20__ Time __ hour ___minutes
No. ___________
To
The Station Master _________
**___________No.____ is required to work between
___ station and ________station on Up or Down line from ___
hour__ minutes to__ hour __ minutes on full block. The Section
will be cleared at ______ station at ___hour ___minutes
________________________
Signature of Official In Charge
*The block cannot be permitted or will be
granted after passage of Train No. ________
* UP or DOWN.
*The UP or DOWN Line has been blocked for your
**___________and block will be removed only on receipt of the
removal report of **___________ No. Token or Tablet or Paper Line
Clear Ticket No. _____ issued to you.
Private Number___________ (in words)___(in
figures).
You are advised to ensure clearance of Block
Section within Block permitted.
_______________________
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
Date __/__/20__Time __hour__ minutes
Reference: No. ___________
**___________ No._____has arrived at ______
station at ____hour ___ minutes / has been removed from the track
at kilometers ______. Block section is clear and free from
obstruction. Token or tablet or Paper Line Clear Ticket no. is
being surrendered to resume normal Train Working.
________________________
Signature of official-incharge
Page 122/124
----- PAGE 123 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
Removal report received at ____ hour ___minutes
on date ___/____/20__.
_____________
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.
**Push or Cycle or Moped or Motor Trolly or Rail
Dolly or Ladder Trolly etc. whichever is applicable to be filled.
Form 20
[See Rule 259 (1))]
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Sr. No.______
Working Of A * Motor Trolly Or Lorry Or Rail
Dolly Etc. On Full Block.
REMOVAL REPORT
No. ___________
To
The Station Master ______
**___________No. ___________ has arrived at
_____________ station at ___ hour ___minutes has been removed
from the track at km ______. Block section is clear and free from
obstruction. Token or Tablet or Paper Line Clear Ticket No. is
being surrendered to resume normal Train Working..
_______________
Signature of official-in-charge
Removal report received at ____ hour ___minutes
on date ___/____/20__.
______________
Signature of SM
Station Stamp
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.
**Push or Cycle or Moped or Motor Trolly or Rail
Dolly or Ladder Trolly etc. whichever is applicable to be filled.
Form 20
[See Rule 259 (1)]
Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway
Sr. No.______
Working Of A * Motor Trolly Or Lorry Or Rail
Dolly Etc. On Full Block.
NOTICE FOR WORKING
To
The Station Master _________
**___________No. ___________ is required to work
between _______ station and ___________station on *Up or Down
/_________line from __ hour ___minutes to__ hour ___minutes on
full block. The Section will be cleared at ______ station at ___
hour ___minutes
_________________________
Signature of official-in-charge
Date __/__/20___Time __ hour ___minutes.
*The block cannot be permitted or will be
Page 123/124
----- PAGE 124 -----
The Dedicated Freight Corridor Railway General Rules, 2018
granted after passage of Train No. ________________ * UP or DOWN.
*The UP or DOWN Line has been blocked for your **No. ________ and
block will be removed only on receipt of the removal report of
**________No.____ Token or Tablet or Paper Line Clear Ticket No.
_____ issued to you.
Private Number___________ (in words) ______(in
figures).
You are advised to ensure clearance of block
section within block permitted.
_____________
Signature of Station Master
Station Stamp
Date__/__/20__Time__ hour ___minutes
_________________________
Signature of official-in-charge
Date __/__/20___
Time __ hour ___minutes
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.
**Push or Cycle or Moped or Motor Trolly or Rail
Dolly or Ladder Trolly etc. whichever is applicable to be filled.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 124/124