
----- PAGE 1 -----
All India Council for Technical Education (Categorisation of Standalone Institutions for G...
All India Council for Technical Education (Categorisation of
Standalone Institutions for Grant of Graded Autonomy) Regulations,
2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/61747922/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
All India Council for Technical Education (Categorisation of Standalone Institutions for Grant of Graded Autonomy)
Regulations, 2019
UNION OF INDIA
India
All India Council for Technical Education (Categorisation of Standalone Institutions for Grant of Graded Autonomy)
Regulations, 2019
Rule
ALL-INDIA-COUNCIL-FOR-TECHNICAL-EDUCATION-CATEGORISATION-OF-STANDALONE-INSTITUTIONS-FOR-G
RANT-OF-GRADED-AUTONOMY-REGULATIONS-2019 of 2019
Published on 18 January 2019
Commenced on 18 January 2019
[This is the version of this document from 18 January 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
All India Council for Technical Education (Categorisation of Standalone Institutions for Grant of Graded Autonomy)
Regulations, 2019
Published vide Notification F. No. AICTE/P&AP/SIs/2019, dated 18.1.2019
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
All India Council for Technical Education (Categorisation of Standalone Institutions for G...
Last Updated 29th January, 2019
F. No. AICTE/P&AP/SIs/2019. - The following is published for general information: -
Preamble. - Whereas All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) is mandated to determine, promote and
maintain the standards of higher education in Standalone Institutions (SIs);
Whereas, AICTE recognizes the need to create an enabling environment whereby Standalone Institutions can become
institutions of global excellence;
Whereas, AICTE recognizes that autonomy is pivotal to promoting and institutionalizing excellence in higher education
and that the regulatory framework needs to facilitate better performing institutions towards excellence in higher
education.
Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (1) of section 23 read with section 10(b) (g) (i) (m) of
the All India Council for Technical Education Act, 1987, the All India Council for Technical Education hereby makes the
following regulations: -
1.
Short title, application and commencement.
(1)
These regulations shall be called the All India Council for Technical Education (Categorisation of Standalone Institutions
for Grant of Graded Autonomy) Regulations, 2019.
(2)
They shall apply to all Standalone Institutions conducting courses/programmes with the approval of AICTE as per AICTE
Act, 1987.
(3)
They shall come into force from the date of their notification in the Official Gazette of India.
2.
Definitions.
- In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: -
(a)
"Accreditation" means the process of quality control in higher education, whereby, as a result of evaluation or
assessment or by any other scientific method followed by recognized accreditation agencies, a Standalone Institution or
programme(s) conducted therein is recognised as conforming to benchmarked parameters of academic quality;
(b)
"Assessment" means the process involved in ascertaining or verifying the capabilities of Standalone Institution in terms
of its physical infrastructure, human resources (including faculty), administration, course curricula, admission and
student evaluation procedures and governance structure prior to the commencement of its academic programmes;
(c)
"AICTE" means the All India Council for Technical Education as defined in the All India Council for Technical Education
Act, 1987;
(d)
"Score" means cumulative score as followed by NBA or any other Assessment and Accreditation Agencies (AAA)
recognized by the AICTE under relevant AICTE regulations, while granting accreditation;
(e)
"National Board of Accreditation (NBA)" means the body established by the AICTE to assess and accredit among others
the Standalone Institutions in the country;
(f)
"Open & Distance Learning" mode means a mode of providing flexible learning opportunities by overcoming separation
of teacher and learner using a variety of media, including print, electronic, online and occasional interactive face-to-face
meetings with the presence of a Standalone Institution or Learner Support Services to deliver teaching-learning
experiences, including practical or work experiences;
(g)
"Times Higher Education/QS Rankings" means annual publication of university rankings by Times Higher Education
(THE) magazine and by Quacquarelli Symonds (QS);
(h)
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
All India Council for Technical Education (Categorisation of Standalone Institutions for G...
"Standalone Institutions" means those institutions which are not affiliated to any of the Universities, and imparting
courses through regular or through Open and Distance Learning Systems, leading to Diploma, Post Diploma Certificate,
Post Graduate Certificate and Post Graduate Diploma Levels in Management and allied areas, Computer Applications
and Travel and Tourism with the approval of AICTE;
Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the All India Council for Technical
Education Act, 1987 and not consistent with these regulations shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in
that Act.
3.
Framework for Categorisation of Standalone Institutions for Grant of Graded Autonomy.
- The AICTE shall categorize Standalone Institutions into following three categories i.e. Category-I, Category-II and
Category-III based on the parameters laid down in sub-clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) and as notified by the AICTE through
detailed guidelines from time to time.
(i)
Category-I Standalone Institution. - Standalone Institution shall be in Category-I if
a. It has been accredited by NBA with a score of 750 or above on a scale of 1000; or
b. It has been ranked among top 500 of reputed world rankings, such as Times Higher Education or QS.
(ii)
Category-II Standalone Institution. - Standalone Institution shall be in Category-II if
?  It has been accredited by NBA with a score of 700 and above, upto 750 on a scale of 1000.
(iii)
Category-III Standalone Institution. - Standalone Institution shall be in Category-III if it does not come either under
Category-I or Category-II.
4.
Dimensions of Autonomy for Category-I Standalone Institutions.
- 4.1 Standalone Institutions shall be eligible for grants and no inspections by the AICTE shall be required for the same.
4.2
Standalone Institutions may start a new course/programme in disciplines that form a part of its existing academic
framework without approval of the AICTE with the nomenclature of Diploma, Post Diploma Certificate, Post Graduate
Certificate and Post Graduate Diploma in new and innovative areas that are relevant to local, national or international
needs, with information to the AICTE.
4.3
Standalone Institutions may start skill courses, consistent with the National Skills Qualification Framework, without
approval of the AICTE, consistent with the approved nomenclature of AICTE.
4.4
Standalone Institutions may open research parks, incubation centres, institute society linkage centres, in self-financing
mode, either on its own or in partnership with private partners, without approval of AICTE. However, in all such
arrangements, the ownership of all immovable property and that component of movable property procured through the
resources of the Institution shall remain with the Standalone Institution.
4.5
Standalone Institutions, subject to the Rules, Regulations and Guidelines of Government of India, may hire, without
approval of the AICTE, foreign faculty having taught at any institution appearing in top five hundred (500) of any of the
world renowned ranking frameworks, such as the Times Higher Education World University Rankings or the QS
Rankings, upto twenty percent over and above of their total sanctioned faculty strength. Standalone Institutions will have
the freedom to hire foreign faculty on "tenure/contract" basis as per the terms and conditions approved by their
Governing Council/Statutory bodies.
4.6
Standalone Institutions shall be free to admit foreign students on merit, subject to a maximum of twenty percent, over
and above of the strength of their approved domestic students. Standalone Institutions would be free to fix and charge
fees from foreign students without any restriction.
4.7
Standalone Institutions, while following the pay scales as laid down by the AICTE, shall build in an incentive structure to
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
All India Council for Technical Education (Categorisation of Standalone Institutions for G...
attract talented faculty, with the condition that the incentive structure shall have to be paid from their own revenue
sources and not from AICTE or Government funds. Such incentive structure shall be strictly merit based with clear
defined, transparent and objective criteria and shall not be universal. It must necessarily be approved by the Board of
Management of the Standalone Institution. The AICTE shall be informed of the incentive structure within thirty days of
approval by the Board of Management of the Standalone Institution.
4.8
Standalone Institutions may engage in academic collaborations with foreign institutions in top 500 of Times Higher
Education World University Rankings or QS Rankings or top 200 of discipline specific ranking in Times Higher Education
World University Rankings or QS Rankings without approval of the AICTE.
4.9
Standalone Institutions may offer courses in the Open and Distance Learning mode, without approval of the AICTE,
provided it satisfies all the norms & standard laid down by AICTE from time to time.
4.10
Standalone Institutions shall be exempted from annual monitoring of their institutions and learning resource centre(s) as
stipulated under AICTE Approval Process Handbook (APH) as amended /modified from time to time, except when there
is substantive evidence of their not meeting basic minimum criteria or of irregularities or malpractices.
4.11
In case there is any external review required by the AICTE under any statute or executive order, then it would be
sufficient that the institution sends a report to the AICTE in a prescribed review format.
5.
Dimensions of Autonomy for Category-II Standalone Institutions.
- 5.1 Standalone Institutions may start a new course/programme in disciplines that form a part of its existing academic
framework without approval of the AICTE with the nomenclature of Diploma, Post Diploma Certificate, Post Graduate
Certificate and Post Graduate Diploma in new and innovative areas that are relevant to local, national or international
needs, with information to the AICTE.
5.2
Standalone Institutions may start skill courses, consistent with the National Skills Qualification Framework, without
approval of the AICTE, consistent with the approved nomenclature of AICTE.
5.3
Standalone Institutions, subject to the Rules, Regulations and Guidelines of Government of India, may hire, without
approval of the AICTE, foreign faculty having taught at any institution appearing in top five hundred of any of the world
renowned ranking frameworks, such as the Times Higher Education World University Rankings or the QS Rankings,
upto twenty percent over and above of their total sanctioned faculty strength. Standalone Institutions will have the
freedom to hire foreign faculty on "tenure/contract" basis as per the terms and conditions approved by their Governing
Council/Statutory bodies.
5.4
Standalone Institutions shall be free to admit foreign students on merit, subject to a maximum of twenty percent, over
and above of the strength of their approved domestic students. Standalone Institutions would be free to fix and charge
fees from foreign students without any restriction.
5.5
Standalone Institutions, while following the pay scales as laid down by the AICTE, shall build in an incentive structure to
attract talented faculty, with the condition that the incentive structure shall have to be paid from their own revenue
sources and not from AICTE or Government funds. Such incentive structure shall be strictly merit based with clear
defined, transparent and objective criteria and shall not be universal. It must necessarily be approved by the Board of
Management of the Institution. The AICTE shall be informed of the incentive structure within thirty days of approval by
the Board of Management of the Institution.
5.6
Standalone Institutions may offer courses in the Open and Distance Learning mode, without approval of the AICTE,
provided it satisfies all the norms & standard laid down by AICTE from time to time.
5.7
Standalone Institutions shall be exempted from annual monitoring of their institutes and learning resource centre(s), as
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
All India Council for Technical Education (Categorisation of Standalone Institutions for G...
stipulated under AICTE approval process handbook as amended /modified from time to time, except when there is
substantive evidence of their not meeting basic minimum criteria or of irregularities or malpractices.
5.8
In case there is any external review required by the AICTE under any statute or executive order, then it would be
sufficient that the institution sends a report to the AICTE in a prescribed review format.
6.
Change in Category of Standalone Institutions for non-maintenance of accreditation score or ranking as defined in
Clause 3.
- 6.1 Standalone Institutions under Category-I and Category-II shall continue to be in their respective categories as long
as they maintain the required parameters related to accreditation score or international ranking as defined in Clause 3,
as the case may be, for that category.
6.2
It shall be incumbent upon Standalone Institution to intimate the AICTE, its changed status within thirty days of such a
change.
6.3
If Standalone Institution fails to maintain status in a category and moves down to a lower category, it shall not be entitled
to enjoy any privileges already accorded to it from the day of such downgrading:
Provided that any kind of initiatives taken under the privileges associated with erstwhile higher status shall be permitted
to continue till their approved duration / logical conclusion, provided that the activity / action initiated has been
communicated previously to the AICTE:
Provided further that if such Standalone Institution regains back its earlier higher status, the privileges of that higher
category shall be restored from the day the status is changed.
6.4
All Standalone Institutions shall have to submit student's data on AICTE portal and must register on National Academic
Depository (NAD).
6.5
In case data is not uploaded as above on NAD the AICTE may not grant approval to the Institution for the next academic
year or impose penalty as per Approval Process Handbook of AICTE.
7.
Procedure for Categorisation of Standalone Institutions.
- 7.1 The AICTE shall fix dates (at least two times in a year, preferably 1st of June and 1st of December) by which an
institution shall submit a request in prescribed format for categorisation under these Regulations. The dates so fixed
shall be notified at least three months in advance.
7.2
All such applications shall be scrutinized by the AICTE and orders on Categorisation shall be passed within thirty days
from the last date specified for the receipt of such applications. During this period, the Institution and the AICTE shall
both place such application on their websites.
8.
Change in parameters/requirements, if any, for eligibility under Category-I or Category-II of Standalone Institutions.
- Whenever there is a change in the categorisation parameters as detailed in Regulation (3) above, it shall be notified by
the AICTE separately.
9.
Graded Autonomy Regulations vis-a-vis other Regulations.
- The provisions mentioned in the clause 4 and 5 of the Regulations i.e. dimensions of autonomy for Category-I
Standalone Institutions and Category-II Standalone Institutions respectively, shall prevail in case of any
inconsistent/conflicting provisions in the other AICTE Regulations.
10.
Removal of Difficulties.
- AICTE reserves the right to remove difficulty/difficulties in the course of implementation of these Regulations in
consultation with the Government of India/ Ministry of Human Resource Development.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
All India Council for Technical Education (Categorisation of Standalone Institutions for G...
Translation
Page 6/6