
----- PAGE 1 -----
National Highways (manner of depositing the amount by the Central Government; making requi...
National Highways (manner of depositing the amount by the Central
Government; making requisite funds available to the competent
authority for acquisition of land) Rules, 2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/39137305/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
National Highways (manner of depositing the amount by the Central Government; making requisite funds available to
the competent authority for acquisition of land) Rules, 2019
UNION OF INDIA
India
National Highways (manner of depositing the amount by the Central Government; making requisite funds available to
the competent authority for acquisition of land) Rules, 2019
Rule
NATIONAL-HIGHWAYS-MANNER-OF-DEPOSITING-THE-AMOUNT-BY-THE-CENTRAL-GOVERNMENT-MAKING-RE
QUISITE-FUNDS-AVAILABLE-TO-THE-COMPETENT-AUTHORITY-FOR-ACQUISITION-OF-LAND-RULES-2019 of
2019
Published on 18 January 2019
Commenced on 18 January 2019
[This is the version of this document from 18 January 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
National Highways (manner of depositing the amount by the Central Government; making requisite funds available to
the competent authority for acquisition of land) Rules, 2019
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
National Highways (manner of depositing the amount by the Central Government; making requi...
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 39(E), dated 18.1.2019
Last Updated 21st January, 2019
G.S.R. 39(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (aa) of sub-section (2) of section 9 of the National
Highways Act, 1956 (
48 of 1956
), and in supersession of the National Highways (Manner of depositing the amount by the Central Government with the
competent authority for acquisition of land) Rules, 1998, except as respects things done or omitted to be done before
such supersession, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the National Highways (manner of depositing the amount by the Central Government; making
requisite funds available to the competent authority for acquisition of land) Rules, 2019.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Explanation.
- For the purposes of these rules, -
(a)
"Act" shall mean the National Highways Act, 1956 (
48 of 1956
).
(b)
"competent authority" shall mean the competent authority for land acquisition (CALA) appointed under clause (a) of
section 3 of the National Highways Act, 1956.
(c)
"executing agency" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause (d) of rule (2) of the National Highways
Rules, 1957.
3.
The manner of making requisite funds available to the competent authority shall be as follows: -
(i)
Subject to provisions of the Act, the executing agency authorised by the Central Government in this behalf, shall open
and maintain an account with one or more Scheduled Commercial Banks for remittance of the amount for land
acquisition across the country, with arrangements for access to such account by the competent authority for specific
jurisdiction as per authorisation of limits by the executing agency. The Executing Agency shall, on the demand raised by
the competent authority before announcement of the award, issue requisite authorisation limits in favour of the
competent authority for withdrawal of amount from such account as per requirements from time to time for disbursement
to the landowners or persons interested therein through an electronic banking mechanism as per extant Reserve Bank
of India regulations and the said authorisation limits, revolving in nature, shall entitle the competent authority to withdraw
money from such account as per requirements, without any further reference to the land acquiring agency, for
disbursement to the landowners or persons interested therein, as follows: -
(a)
The amount determined under section 3(G) of the Act within fifteen days of the raising of demand by the competent
authority, and
(b)
Where the amount determined by the Arbitrator under sub-section (7) of Section 3G of the Act is in excess of the
amount determined by the competent authority, the excess amount, together with interest, if any, awarded by the
Arbitrator, within 30 days of the communication of Arbitrator's award, unless such Award has been further challenged by
either of the aggrieved parties.
Explanation. - The authorisation limits, revolving in nature, are explained with the help of an illustration as under: -
Say, the amount of award is Rs. 200 crore for which the CALA places demand on the acquiring/ executing agency. The
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
National Highways (manner of depositing the amount by the Central Government; making requi...
executing agency shall issue an authorisation in favour of CALA to draw an amount up to Rs. 200 crore from the Central
account, in limits of Rs. 50.00 crore at any point in time. As the CALA keeps disbursing the amount, the limit of Rs.
50.00 crore shall keep getting automatically recouped and so on till the utilisation of total amount of authorisation of Rs.
200 crore.
(ii)
The executing agency, authorised by the Central Government in this behalf, shall ensure that the requisite account is
maintained with a Scheduled Commercial Bank, against which an authorisation limit is issued in favour of the competent
authority for disbursement of the compensation amount, duly determined under Section 3(G) of the Act, to the
landowners or persons interested therein. Further, the said authorisation limit shall be utilised by the competent authority
for the intended purpose of disbursement and shall be duly reflected in the books of accounts of the executing agency
for the purpose of proper monitoring and reconciliation thereof and any interest earned thereon shall be credited into the
said account and shall belong to the executing agency.
(iii)
In cases where the executing agency of a project is any State Government or Union territory, the amount shall
preferably be disbursed through the Public Financial Management System of the Ministry of Finance.
(iv)
The competent authority shall, in turn, disburse the compensation amount to the landowners or the persons interested
therein preferably by electronically crediting the said amount into their respective bank accounts.
4.
Where the amount deposited earlier by the executing agency into the account of the competent authority has remained
undisbursed, or where the authorisation limit for an account has been issued in favour of the competent authority for
disbursement purposes but certain amounts remain undisbursed, due to disputes which are referable to the principal
civil court of original jurisdiction for resolution in terms of sub-section (4) of section 3H of the National Highways Act,
1956, the competent authority shall, while forwarding such references to the Court, cause such undisbursed amounts to
be deposited with the principal court of civil jurisdiction to whom any such disputes are referable, for payment to entitled
persons as and when the said disputes are resolved, or the absentee title-holders submit their claims, as the case may
be, such amounts deposited with the principal court of civil jurisdiction shall, for all purposes, be deemed as payment
made to entitled persons under sub-section (2) of section 3H of the Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3