
----- PAGE 1 -----
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Private Secretary, Limited Departmenta...
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Private
Secretary, Limited Departmental Competitive Examination Rules,
2018
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/186566610/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Private Secretary, Limited Departmental Competitive Examination
Rules, 2018
UNION OF INDIA
India
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Private Secretary, Limited Departmental Competitive Examination
Rules, 2018
Rule
MINISTRY-OF-ELECTRONICS-AND-INFORMATION-TECHNOLOGY-PRIVATE-SECRETARY-LIMITED-DEPARTMEN
TAL-COMPETITIVE-EXAMINATION-RULES-2018 of 2018
Published on 12 February 2019
Commenced on 12 February 2019
[This is the version of this document from 12 February 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Private Secretary, Limited Departmental Competitive Examination
Rules, 2018
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 116(E), dated 12.2.2019
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Private Secretary, Limited Departmenta...
Last Updated 19th February, 2019
G.S.R. 116(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of the Constitution and in supersession
of the Ministry of Information Technology, Private Secretary Departmental Competitive Examination Rules, 2000, except
as respects things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the President hereby makes the following rules
regulating the Limited Departmental Competitive Examination for promotion to the post of Private Secretary in the
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, namely: -
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Private Secretary, Limited
Departmental Competitive Examination Rules, 2018.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definition.
- In these rules unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"appointing authority" means the Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Electronics and Information
Technology;
(b)
"available vacancy" means a vacancy in the post of Private Secretary's grade in the Ministry of Electronics and
Information Technology which is required to be filled up on the basis of the results of the examination;
(c)
"crucial date" means the first day of January of the year of the vacancies for which such examination is held;
(d)
"examination" means the Limited Departmental Competitive Examination for promotion to the post of Private Secretary
held in the manner specified in the Schedule;
(e)
"recruitment year" means the period commencing from the 1st day of January and ending on the 31st day of December
of the same year;
(f)
"Schedule" means the Schedule annexed to these rules;
(g)
"Scheduled Castes" and "Scheduled Tribes" shall have the same meanings respectively as assigned to them in clauses
(24) and (25) of article 366 of the Constitution.
3.
Conditions of eligibility.
(1)
Personal Assistant in level-7 in the pay matrix (Rs. 44900-142400) in the Ministry of Electronics and Information
Technology who have rendered not less than five years approved service which should include at least four years
regular and continuous service in that level in the pay matrix and have successfully completed probation period and
possessing a Bachelor's Degree from a recognized university or equivalent on the crucial date shall be eligible to appear
in the Limited Departmental Competitive Examination on the crucial date.
(2)
The eligibility shall continue to be the same for persons holding the feeder posts on regular basis on the date of
notification of the revised rules.
Note 1. - The approved service rendered in the grade, on the 1st day of the recruitment year, as the residency period will
be counted for promotion.
Note 2. - For the purposes of this rule, the period of ‘approved service' shall be calculated in the following manner,
namely: -
(i)
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Private Secretary, Limited Departmenta...
in respect of an officer recruited to that grade through departmental examination, period or periods of regular service
rendered in that grade, including period or periods of absence during which he would have held a post on regular basis
in that grade but for his being on leave or otherwise not being available to hold such post, from the first day of the
recruitment year for vacancies of which such examination was held;
(ii)
in respect of an officer recruited to that grade on the basis of length of service in the lower grade, period or periods of
regular service rendered in that grade, including period or periods of absence during which he would have held a post
on regular basis in that grade but for his being on leave or otherwise not being available to hold such post, from the first
day of the recruitment year for which the recruitment was made:
Provided that where there is delay of more than Ninety days in joining on appointment, in any of the cases mentioned in
the sub-clauses (i) and (ii) above, such delay should not be due to any fault on the part of the officer.
Note 3: Where juniors who have completed their qualifying or eligibility service are being considered for promotion, their
seniors would also be considered provided they are not short of the requisite qualifying or eligibility service by more than
half of such qualifying or eligibility service or two years, whichever is less, and have successfully completed probation
period for promotion to the next higher grade along with their juniors who have already completed such qualifying or
eligibility service.
4.
Holding of the examination.
(1)
The appointing authority shall notify the dates and place of the examination and number of available and anticipated
vacancies assessed at the time of announcing the examination.
(2)
The examination shall be conducted after the expiry of at least thirty days from the date of notifying the vacancies in the
manner specified in the Schedule which may be held before the 31st March of the recruitment year.
(3)
The number of vacancies reserved for the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of
person, if any, shall be clearly indicated in the notification.
5.
Results.
(1)
On the basis of the aggregate marks secured by the candidate in Part I, II and III of the examination, a merit list
containing the names of the successful candidates in order of merit shall be notified, keeping in view the number of
vacancies and anticipated vacancies, if any, falling in the recruitment year.
(2)
The standards of evaluation for candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall be as per
the Government instructions from time to time.
(3)
The candidates for appointment against the available vacancies shall be considered in the order in which their names
appear in the merit list prepared under sub-rule (1).
(4)
The merit list shall remain in operation till the notified vacancies are filled up or upto a period of 18 months from the date
of its approval by the appointing authority or till next merit list is approved by the appointing authority, whichever is
earlier.
6.
Appointment.
- The inclusion of the name of any candidate in the merit list shall not confer a right to appointment and he shall be
appointed by the Appointing Authority only after satisfying itself that no vigilance or disciplinary case is either pending or
contemplated against the candidate and after taking into account his placement in the merit list, the reservation of posts
or such other requirements as may be laid down by statutory orders or rules issued by the Central Government, from
time to time, in this regard.
7.
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Private Secretary, Limited Departmenta...
Removal of name from merit list on resignation, etc.
(1)
In case a candidate after appearing at the examination resigns from the service or whose services are terminated or
who is appointed to an excadre post or to any other service and does not have a lien on any post mentioned in rule 3,
his name shall not be included in the merit list, or if included in the said merit list shall be struck off therefrom.
(2)
Where a candidate, whose name is included in the said merit list, is appointed to an ex-cadre post or is transferred to
another Department of the Central Government with the permission of the appointing authority and continue to have a
lien on any post mentioned in rule 3, shall not be appointed as Private Secretary till he resumes the duties in the Ministry
of Electronics and Information Technology on his initial post during the period the merit list remains in force:
Provided that his claim for proforma promotion may be considered by the appointing authority in accordance with the
orders and rules of the Central Government, issued in this behalf from time to time.
8.
Penalty for impersonation or other misconduct.
- A candidate, who is or has been declared by the appointing authority to be guilty of -
(i)
obtaining support for his candidature by any means; or
(ii)
impersonation; or
(iii)
procuring impersonation by any person; or
(iv)
submitting fabricated documents or documents which have been tampered with; or
(v)
making statements which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information; or
(vi)
resorting to any other irregular or improper means in connection with his candidature for the examination; or
(vii)
using unfair means in the examinations hall; or
(viii)
misbehaving in the examination hall; or
(ix)
attempting to commit or, as the case may be, abetting the Ministry of all or any of the acts specified in clauses (i) to (viii);
may, in addition to the criminal proceedings, liable -
(a)
to be disqualified by the appointing authority from the examination; or
(b)
to disciplinary action, under the appropriate rules:
Provided that no penalty under this rule shall be imposed except after -
(i)
giving the candidate an opportunity of making such representation in writing as he may wish to make in that behalf; and
(ii)
taking the representation, if any submitted by the candidate within the period allowed to him, into consideration.
9.
Power to relax.
- Where the central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient to do so, it may, by order and for
reasons to be recorded in writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class or category of
persons.
Schedule
(See rule 4)
The examination shall be conducted in the following three parts, namely: -
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Private Secretary, Limited Departmenta...
Part I ? I. Written examination shall carry a maximum of 500 marks. The subject of the written examination, the
maximum marks allotted to each paper and the time limit allowed shall be as follows, namely: -
Paper No.
Subject
Type of Paper
Maximum Marks
Time
I.
Noting and Drafting, Precis Writing
Descriptive
200
3 hours
II.
Procedure and Practice in the Government of
India Secretariat and Attached Offices and General Financial and
Service Rules duly taking into account the requirement of
relevant categories of services. The Sexual Harassment of Women
at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
and e-office.
Objective
150
2 hours
III.
General Studies and General Knowledge of
Constitution of India and Machinery of Government, Practice and
Procedure in Parliament, the Right to Information Act, 2005.
Objective
150
2 Hours
2. Syllabus for examination:
Paper-I
Candidates are required to prepare notes and drafts on specific problems and precis from a passage.
Paper-II
The paper is intended to be intensive and detailed test in methods and procedure of work in the Government of India
Secretariat and attached offices. Detailed knowledge of General Financial and Service Rules viz., Conduct Rules, Leave
Rules, Travelling Allowance Rules etc. will be tested. The following Reference Books (which are however not
exhaustive) are recommended-
(i)
Manual of office procedure;
(ii)
Notes on office procedure issued by the Institute of Secretarial Training and Management;
(iii)
Handbook of orders regarding use of Hindi for official purpose of the Union issued by the Personnel and Training,
Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances and Pension;
(iv)
Fundamental and Supplementary Rules;
(v)
The Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972;
(vi)
The Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1964;
(vii)
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Private Secretary, Limited Departmenta...
The Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965;
(viii)
Central Civil Services (Leave) Rules, 1972;
(ix)
Compilation of the General Financial Rules, 1963 (Revised and Enlarged);
(x)
Delegation of Financial Power Rules, 1978;
(xi)
The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013; and
(xii)
e-office.
C. Paper-III
This paper will cover subject of interest and importance in the present day. Questions will be set to test knowledge of
broad salient features of the Government Planning, Indian Economy and major Development Schemes as also
intelligence awareness of current affairs both national and international.
A broad knowledge of the following aspects will also be expected:
(i)
The main principles of the Constitution of India;
(ii)
Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha;
(iii)
The organisation of the machinery of Government of India - designation and allocation of subjects between Ministries,
Departments, and attached or subordinate offices and their relation inter-se; and
(iv)
The Right to Information Act, 2005.
3. Penalty for wrong answers (in Objective Type Papers). - There will be penalty (Negative Marking) for wrong answers
marked by a candidate in the objective question papers as under-
(i)
There will be four alternatives for the answer to every question and for each question for which a wrong answer has
been given by the candidate, one-fourth (0.25) of the marks assigned to that question will be deducted as penalty;
(ii)
If a candidate gives more than one answer, it will be treated as a wrong answer even it one of the given answers
happens to be correct and there will be same penalty as above for that question; and
(iii)
If a question is left blank, i.e. no answer is given by the candidate, there will be no penalty for that question.
4. Candidates are allowed the option to answer the Noting and Drafting, Precis Writing paper either in Hindi
(Devanagari) or in English. All the three question papers or test booklets will be set both in Hindi and English.
Note 1. - Candidates desirous of exercising the option to answer the Noting and Drafting, Precis Writing paper in Hindi
(Devnagari) should indicate their intention to do so in the application form otherwise it would be assumed that they
would answer the aforesaid paper in English. The option once exercised shall be treated as final and no request for
change shall be entertained later on. No credit shall be given for examination taken in a language other than the one
opted for by the candidate.
Note 2. - Candidates exercising the option to answer the paper in Hindi (Devanagari) may, if they so desire, give English
version within brackets of the description of the technical terms, if any, in addition to the Hindi version.
Note 3. - If a medium other than the one indicated by the candidate in the application form is used to write the answer in
the examination, the paper of such candidates will not be evaluated.
5. The minimum qualifying marks in each of the three subjects in Part I should be thirty-five per cent and aggregate
marks should be forty-five per cent.
6. Marks will not be allotted for mere superficial knowledge.
7. Deduction upto five per cent. of the maximum marks in the written subject will be made for illegible handwriting.
8. Credit will be given for neat and methodical expression of ideas with due economy of words, in the descriptive paper.
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Private Secretary, Limited Departmenta...
9. The decision of the Central Government with regard to the acceptance of the application of a candidate and his
eligibility or otherwise for admission to the examination shall be final.
10.
Appearance of candidates in all the three papers is a must for qualifying in the examination. The Ministry has the
discretion to fix minimum qualifying marks in any or all the subjects of the examination.
11.
Candidates should use only international form of Indian numerals (e.g. 1,2,3,4,5,6 etc.) while answering paper-I.
Part II ? Shorthand Skill Test In Hindi or In English (For Those Who Qualify In The Written Examination) - 200 Marks.
Scheme of shorthand test will be as follows, namely: -
(1)
The Stenography or shorthand test in English will comprise dictation test at 100 words per minute for 10 minutes which
the candidates will be required to transcribe in 50 minutes on the Computer.
(2)
The Stenography or shorthand test in Hindi will comprise dictation test at 100 words per minute for 10 minutes which the
candidates will be required to transcribe in 65 minutes on the Computer.
Part III ? 1. Assessment of Annual Performance Appraisal Reports:-
(a)
This part shall carry a maximum of 100 marks.
(b)
The Annual Performance Appraisal Reports of the candidates shall be scrutinised for the service period reckoned for
promotion and marks will be accordingly allotted by the Departmental Promotion Committee.
(c)
The minimum qualifying marks in the Annual Performance Appraisal Reports of each year during the residency period
will not be lower than the benchmark prescribed for promotion to the post of Private Secretary.
2. The Departmental Promotion Committee referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 1 shall consist of the following
persons, namely:-
(1) Additional
Secretary (Personnel) or Joint Secretary (Personnel),
Ministry of Electronics and Information
Technology
- Chairman;
(2) Joint Director,
Ministry of Electronics and Information
Technology
- Member;
(3) One Deputy
Secretary or equivalent to the Government of
India from Ministry or Department or an
Organisation other than the Ministry of Electronics and
Information Technology
- Member.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7