
----- PAGE 1 -----
Indian Nursing Council (Nurses Registration & Tracking System) Regulations, 2019
Indian Nursing Council (Nurses Registration & Tracking System)
Regulations, 2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/141298470/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Indian Nursing Council (Nurses Registration & Tracking System) Regulations, 2019
UNION OF INDIA
India
Indian Nursing Council (Nurses Registration & Tracking System) Regulations, 2019
Rule INDIAN-NURSING-COUNCIL-NURSES-REGISTRATION-TRACKING-SYSTEM-REGULATIONS-2019 of 2019
Published on 7 May 2019
Commenced on 7 May 2019
[This is the version of this document from 7 May 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Indian Nursing Council (Nurses Registration & Tracking System) Regulations, 2019
Published vide Notification F. No. 22-10/NUID/2014-INC, dated 7.5.2019
F. No. 22-10/NUID/2014-INC. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 15A and Sub-section (1) of Section 16 of
the Indian Nursing Council Act, 1947 (XLVIII of 1947), as amended from time to time and in supersession of Regulation
59 of Indian Nursing Council (Conduct of Business) Regulations 2009, the Indian Nursing Council here by makes the
following regulations, namely: -
1.
Short Title and commencement.
- (i) These regulations may be called the Indian Nursing Council (Nurses Registration & Tracking System) Regulations,
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Indian Nursing Council (Nurses Registration & Tracking System) Regulations, 2019
2019.
(ii)
These Regulations shall come into force on the date of notification of the same.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,
(i)
'the Act' means the Indian Nursing Council Act, 1947 (XLVIII of 1947) as amended from time to time;
(ii)
'the Council' means the Indian Nursing Council constituted under the Act;
(iii)
'SNRC' means the State Nurse and Midwives Registration Council, by whichever name constituted, by the respective
State Governments.
(iv)
'RN & RM' means a Registered Nurse and Registered Midwife (RN & RM) and denotes a nurse who has completed
successfully, recognised Bachelor of Nursing (B.Sc. Nursing) or Diploma in General Nursing and Midwifery (GNM)
course, as prescribed by the Council and is registered in a SNRC as Registered Nurse and Registered Midwife.
(v)
'RANM' means a Registered Auxiliary Nurse Midwife and denotes an Auxiliary Nurse Midwife who has completed
successfully, recognised Auxiliary Nurse Midwifery (ANM) course as prescribed by the Council and is registered in a
SNRC as Registered Auxiliary Nurse Midwife.
(vi)
'RLHV' means a Registered Lady Health Visitor and denotes a Lady Health Visitor who has completed successfully,
recognised Lady Health Visitor course (LHV) as prescribed by the Council and is registered in a SNRC as Registered
Lady Health Visitor.
(vii)
The 'Indian Nurses Register' means the register of Nurses, Midwives, Auxiliary Nurses Midwives and Health Visitors
registered in respective SNRCs as referred in Section 15-A of the Act.
(viii)
Nurses Registration & Tracking System (NRTS) means a system developed by Indian Nursing Council and software
developed in association with National Informatics Centre (NIC), Government of India, and hosted by NIC for the
purpose of maintenance and operation of the Indian Nurses Register. It has standardised forms for collection of the data
of Registered Nurse and Registered Midwife (RN & RM)/ Registered Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (RANM)/Registered Lady
Health Visitor (RLHV) upon Aadhar based biometric authentication.
(ix)
'The Parent Nursing Council' means the SNRC of the concerned State under the jurisdiction of which the institution, from
where the candidate has obtained recognised qualification under Section 10 of Act, is situated.
(x)
'Reciprocal Registration' means the registration which should be done by a RN & RM/ RANM / RLHV when she/ he
moves from one SNRC to another SNRC where she/he intends to practice.
(xi)
'CNE' means Continuing Nursing Education to be compulsorily undergone by the RN & RM/ RANM / RLHV for renewal
of registration after every 5 (five) years.
3.
Indian Nurses Register.
- Indian Nurses Register referred under Section 15A of the Act shall include the name of each RN&RM, RANM and
RLHV along with his/her qualifications and other details.
4.
Maintenance of Live Register.
- The Council shall maintain the Indian Nurses Register in electronic/physical form and for this purpose enrol all
categories of nursing personnel and collate the data in order to achieve the mandate of maintaining the Live Register.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Indian Nursing Council (Nurses Registration & Tracking System) Regulations, 2019
The process of enrolment is as follows:
(i)
All Registered Nurses would ensure that their names are duly captured in the nearest available agency (health/nursing
educational institutions/establishments) set up by the Council or the concerned SNRC as the case may be as per the
NRTS plan by SNRC.
(ii)
Data would be entered and uploaded after Aadhar based bio-metric authentication in a online real time basis.
(iii)
For this purpose the Registered Nurse would be required to submit the requisite documents such as Class X certificate
or equivalent certificate authenticating the date of birth, certificates of nursing educational qualifications and SNRC
registration certificate only for verification and for uploading the scanned images of certificates.
(iv)
After due verifications and approval by the SNRC and on being enrolled in Indian Nurses Register, the concerned
Nurses shall be provided with a Nurse Unique Identity Card (NUID) and Nurse & Midwife Register Passbook.
5.
Primary Registration.
- As regards newly qualified personnel with prescribed recognized nursing qualifications the Registration shall be done
by the concerned SNRC on the NRTS platform. All the SNRCs shall charge a uniform Registration Fee as indicated in
the Schedule.
6.
Reciprocal/Transfer of Registration.
- (i) For transfer of registration from one State to another State, the registered nurse would login and apply online in
NRTS portal and state reasons for such transfer of registration.
(ii)
On issue of NOC by the previous SNRC online, new SNRC after biometric authentication and verification shall complete
transfer formalities with the same registration number as before
(iii)
All the SNRCs shall charge a uniform Reciprocal Registration Fee as indicated in the Schedule. SNRCs shall also levy a
penalty as indicated in the schedule, from an applicant if the reciprocal registration has not been done within three
months after leaving the earlier SNRC jurisdiction.
7.
Periodic Renewal of Registration /License.
- (i) In order to maintain Live-Register all registered nursing personnel need to renew registration after every 5 years.
(ii)
Renewal of Registration /License is linked with 150 hours of CNE in terms of CNE guidelines issued by the Council with
object of ensuring that the nursing personnel are updated with latest knowledge and skills.
(iii)
For renewal of registration, the registered nurse would login and apply online in NRTS portal and upload the CNE
certificates along with requisite fee mentioned in the schedule to this regulation.
(iv)
All the SNRCs shall charge a uniform Renewal Registration Fee as indicated in the Schedule. In case the application for
renewal is received after six months of expiry of the five year period after earlier registration, a penalty shall be charged
in addition to the renewal fee as indicated in the Schedule.
8.
Additional/Higher Qualification.
- (i) NRTS portal allows nurses who have acquired recognized higher nursing qualification to update their higher
qualification in an online mode along with requisite documents and prescribed fees.
(ii)
All the SNRCs shall charge a uniform fee for Registration of Additional qualification as indicated in the Schedule.
9.
Penalties.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Indian Nursing Council (Nurses Registration & Tracking System) Regulations, 2019
- In case of non-adherence of any of the provisions of above regulations penalties as stipulated in the Schedule will be
imposed.
Schedule
A. Fees
(i)
Registration fee: - Rs. 1000/- for ANM and Rs. 2000/- for GNM/BSc.-- Para 5
(ii)
Reciprocal Registration fee: - Rs. 1000/- Para 6 (iii)
(iii)
Renewal of Registration fee: - Rs. 500/- Para 7 (iv)
(iv)
Additional/Higher Qualification Registration fee: - Rs. 1000/- Para 8 (ii)
B. Penalties
(i)
Delay in Reciprocal of Registration for more than 3 months: Rs. 5000/- Para 6 (iii)
(ii)
Delay in Renewal of Registration for more than 6 months: Rs. 5000/- Para 7 (iv)
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4