
----- PAGE 1 -----
Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Power System Development Fund) Regulations, 201...
Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Power System
Development Fund) Regulations, 2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/41067883/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Power System Development Fund) Regulations, 2019
UNION OF INDIA
India
Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Power System Development Fund) Regulations, 2019
Rule
CENTRAL-ELECTRICITY-REGULATORY-COMMISSION-POWER-SYSTEM-DEVELOPMENT-FUND-REGULATIONS-
2019 of 2019
Published on 28 August 2019
Commenced on 28 August 2019
[This is the version of this document from 28 August 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Power System Development Fund) Regulations, 2019
Published vide Notification No. L-1/247/2019/CERC, dated 28.8.2019
Last Updated 29th November, 2019
No. L-1/247/2019/CERC. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 178(1) and 178(2)(ze) of the Electricity Act,
2003 (
36 of 2003
) and all other powers enabling it in this behalf and after previous publication, the Central Electricity Regulatory
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Power System Development Fund) Regulations, 201...
Commission hereby makes the following regulations, namely: -
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These regulations may be called the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Power System Development Fund)
Regulations, 2019.
(2)
These regulations shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
"Act" means the Electricity Act, 2003 (
36 of 2003
);
(b)
"Appraisal Committee" means the Committee constituted by the Central Government as per the Guidelines for the
purpose of scrutiny (techno-economic appraisal) and prioritization of project proposals for funding from PSDF;
(c)
"Congestion Amount" has the same meaning as assigned to it in Regulation 33 of the Power Market Regulations;
(d)
"Congestion Charge" has the same meaning as assigned to it under Congestion Relief Regulations;
(e)
"Congestion Relief Regulations" means Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Measures to relieve congestion in
real time operation) Regulations, 2009;
(f)
"Deviation Settlement Charges" has the same meaning as assigned to it in the Deviation Settlement Mechanism
Regulations;
(g)
"Deviation Settlement Mechanism Regulations" means the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Deviation
Settlement and related matters) Regulations, 2014;
(h)
"Grid Code" means the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Indian Electricity Grid Code) Regulations, 2010;
(i)
"Guidelines" means the procedures approved by the Central Government for disbursement of funds from PSDF issued
vide Office Memorandum dated 18th September, 2014;
(j)
"Monitoring Committee" means the Committee constituted by the Central Government as per the Guidelines for the
purpose of sanctioning of projects or schemes, release of funds from PSDF and overall supervision and monitoring of
the implementation of projects or schemes, as the case may be;
(k)
"Nodal Agency" means the agency as designated under clause (1) of Regulation 5 of these regulations;
(l)
"Power Market Regulations" means Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Power Market) Regulations, 2010;
(m)
"Project Entity" means the agency that submits proposals for funding of projects from PSDF and shall include Regional
Power Committees, Generating Companies, Transmission Licensees, Distribution Licensees, Load Despatch Centers;
(n)
"PSDF" or "Power System Development Fund" means the funds constituted under Regulation 3 of these regulations;
(o)
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Power System Development Fund) Regulations, 201...
"Reactive Energy Charges" has the same meaning as assigned to it in the Grid Code;
(2)
Save as aforesaid and unless repugnant to the context or the subject-matter otherwise requires, words and expressions
used in these regulations and not defined, but defined in the Act, or the regulations made thereunder by the
Commission, shall have the meanings assigned to them respectively in the Act or the regulations.
(3)
Reference to any Act, Rules, Regulations or Guidelines shall include amendments or consolidation or reenactment
thereof.
3.
Constitution of the Fund.
(1)
A fund named "Power System Development Fund" or "PSDF" shall be constituted and the following amounts shall be
credited thereto:
(a)
Congestion charges standing to the credit of the "Congestion Charge Account" after release of amounts payable to
Regional Entities entitled to receive congestion charges along with interest, if any, in accordance with the Congestion
Relief Regulations;
(b)
Congestion amount arising from the difference in the market prices of different regions as a consequence of market
splitting in power exchanges in accordance with Power Market Regulations;
(c)
Deviation Settlement Charges standing to the credit of the "Regional Deviation Pool Account Fund" after final settlement
of claims in accordance with Deviation Settlement Mechanism Regulations;
(d)
Reactive Energy Charges standing to the credit of "Reactive Energy Charges Account" in accordance with the Grid
Code;
(e)
Additional Transmission Charges arising out of the explicit auction process in Short-Term Open Access Advance
Bilateral transactions in accordance with the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Open Access in inter-State
Transmission) Regulations, 2008; and
(f)
Such other charges as may be notified by the Commission from time to time.
(2)
The agencies authorized to collect the amounts under sub-clauses (a) to (f) of clause (1) above shall transfer these
funds to the credit of the PSDF, in accordance with the guidelines, on monthly basis or as per the periodicity decided by
the Central Government.
(3)
The PSDF shall be maintained and operated through the Public Account of India
4.
Utilization of the PSDF.
(1)
The funding for projects from PSDF to the project entities shall be in the form of grant.
(2)
To ensure that the tariff in respect of such projects or schemes is not claimed for the portion of the grant from PSDF,
such grant amount shall be reduced from capital cost of the project.
(3)
PSDF shall be utilized for funding of projects or schemes for creation of necessary infrastructure for the following
purposes:
(a)
Creating necessary transmission systems of strategic importance based on operational feedback by Load Despatch
Centers for relieving congestion in inter-State transmission system and intra-State Systems which are incidental to the
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Power System Development Fund) Regulations, 201...
ISTS;
(b)
Installation of shunt capacitors, series compensators and other reactive energy generators for improvement of voltage
profile in the Grid;
(c)
Installation of standard and special protection schemes, pilot and demonstrative projects and for setting right the
discrepancies identified in the protection audits on regional basis;
(d)
Renovation and Modernization of transmission and distribution systems for relieving congestion; and
(e)
Any other project in furtherance of the above objectives such as conducting technical studies and capacity building.
(4)
Funds from PSDF may also be utilized for the projects proposed by the distribution utilities in the above areas which are
incidental to inter-State transmission system and have a bearing on grid safety and security, provided that these projects
are not covered under any other scheme of the Government of India or respective State Government(s).
(5)
Any Central Government scheme in the interest of development of power system which requires support from PSDF as
part of the scheme shall be eligible for assistance from PSDF.
(6)
The Central Government may prioritize sanctioning and release of funds from PSDF based upon importance of the
project or the scheme and quantum of fund involved.
(7)
Private sector projects shall not be eligible for assistance from PSDF.
5.
Nodal Agency and its functions.
(1)
National Load Despatch Centre (NLDC) shall be the Nodal Agency for the implementation of the projects or schemes
under these regulations.
Provided that the Central Government may designate any other agency as the Nodal Agency.
(2)
The Nodal Agency shall perform the following functions:-
(a)
Keep a record of business transacted out of PSDF;
(b)
Prepare procedure for preparation of Budget, Accounting and Audit:
Provided that the Central Government may give directions as regards preparation of such procedures;
(c)
Prepare Annual Report of PSDF; and
(d)
Perform such other functions as may be assigned to it by the Central Government.
6.
Sanction of funds from PSDF.
(1)
The Central Government may frame procedures or guidelines, either directly or through the Nodal Agency, for
application, processing, sanction, disbursal, appraisal and monitoring of funds from PSDF.
(2)
After scrutiny of the proposals by the Appraisal Committee, the Nodal Agency is authorized to recommend the proposal
to the Monitoring Committee if project activities are covered under the scope of the Guidelines and these Regulations.
(3)
The Regional Power Committees, Generating Companies, Transmission Licensees, Distribution Licensees, Load
Despatch Centers, as the case may be, shall furnish necessary details of the projects or schemes to the Nodal Agency.
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Power System Development Fund) Regulations, 201...
(4)
The project entity shall be responsible for the execution as well as Operation & Maintenance of the projects or schemes,
as the case may be, during its useful life.
7.
Annual Report.
(1)
The Nodal Agency shall prepare an Annual Report of the PSDF and submit the same to the Central Government and
the Commission.
(2)
The Annual Report shall also be laid on the table of both Houses of Parliament through the Ministry of Power.
8.
Repeal and Savings.
(1)
Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Power System
Development Fund) Regulations 2014 is hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including any
procedure, minutes, annual reports, confirmation or declaration or any instrument executed under the repealed
regulations shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the relevant provisions of these regulations.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5