
----- PAGE 1 -----
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Medical Facility to Chairperson and Whole-time M...
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Medical Facility to
Chairperson and Whole-time Members) Scheme Rules, 2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/122608616/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Medical Facility to Chairperson and Whole-time Members) Scheme Rules,
2019
UNION OF INDIA
India
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Medical Facility to Chairperson and Whole-time Members) Scheme Rules,
2019
Rule
INSOLVENCY-AND-BANKRUPTCY-BOARD-OF-INDIA-MEDICAL-FACILITY-TO-CHAIRPERSON-AND-WHOLE-TIME-
MEMBERS-SCHEME-RULES-2019 of 2019
Published on 2 August 2019
Commenced on 2 August 2019
[This is the version of this document from 2 August 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Medical Facility to Chairperson and Whole-time Members) Scheme Rules,
2019
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 553(E), dated 2.8.2019
Last Updated 6th August, 2019
Ministry of Corporate Affairs
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Medical Facility to Chairperson and Whole-time M...
G.S.R. 553(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (zd) of sub-section (2) of section 239 read with
sub-section (5) of section 189 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (31 of 2016) and in supersession of the
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Medical Facility to Chairperson and Whole-time Members) Scheme, 2019,
except as respects things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Central Government hereby makes
the following rules, namely: -
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Medical Facility to Chairperson and
Whole-time Members) Scheme Rules, 2019.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Code" means the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (31 of 2016) ;
(b)
family mean, -
(i)
self;
(ii)
spouse;
(iii)
parents(female employee can have either her parents or her parents- in-law as dependents);
(iv)
sisters, widowed sisters, widowed daughters, minor brothers and minor sisters;
(v)
children and step-children normally residing with the employee (son up to the age of twenty-five years or till his
marriage, whichever is earlier, and daughter till she gets married);
(vi)
divorced or separated daughters (including their minor children) and step-mother;
Explanation. - For the purposes of this clause, it is hereby clarified that, except for spouse, the family members must be
dependent on the employee;
(c)
"Group Mediclaim Policy" means health insurance policy as being purchased by the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of
India for their employees.
(d)
words and expressions used in these rules but not defined, and defined in the Code shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Code.
3.
Outdoor treatment.
- The Chairperson and the whole-time members shall be entitled to reimbursement of expenses incurred on outdoor
medical treatment, including medicines, tests, procedures, dentures and spectacles, for self and family members, as per
actuals subject to maximum expenditure upto sixty-five thousand rupees annually if claim is supported by prescription of
a registered medical practitioner or Government hospital or private hospital registered under the law.
4.
Indoor treatment.
(1)
The Chairperson and the whole-time members shall be covered under a Group Mediclaim Policy with an annual cover
up to fifteen lakh rupees for self and family subject to the condition that treatment has been taken as per the terms and
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Medical Facility to Chairperson and Whole-time M...
conditions of the Group Mediclaim Policy.
(2)
The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India will bear the expenditure towards premium for coverage under a family
floater Group Mediclaim Policy.
5.
Monthly subscriptions.
(1)
The monthly subscription payable by the Chairperson and the whole-time members shall be at the rate of one thousand
rupees per month.
(2)
The subscription once paid shall not be refundable.
(3)
The monthly subscription so received shall be utilised for payment towards purchase of Group Mediclaim Policy,
referred to in rule 4, for the Chairperson and the whole-time members and other related expenses on treatment.
6.
Exercise of option by beneficiary.
- In case the beneficiary of the scheme under these rules is also the beneficiary of the Central Government Health
Scheme or other health scheme, the beneficiary shall have to exercise option for availing of any one Scheme.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3