
----- PAGE 1 -----
Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Non-Debt Instruments) Regula...
Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of
Non-Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/4741656/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Non-Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2019
UNION OF INDIA
India
Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Non-Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2019
Rule
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE-MANAGEMENT-MODE-OF-PAYMENT-AND-REPORTING-OF-NON-DEBT-INSTRUMENTS-R
EGULATIONS-2019 of 2019
Published on 17 October 2019
Commenced on 17 October 2019
[This is the version of this document from 17 October 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Non-Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2019
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 795(E), dated 17.10.2019
Last Updated 19th October, 2019
Reserve Bank of India
(Foreign Exchange Department)
(Central Office)
No. FEMA. 395/2019-RB
Page 1/8
----- PAGE 2 -----
Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Non-Debt Instruments) Regula...
G.S.R. 795(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (
42 of 1999
) and consequent to the Foreign Exchange Management (Non-Debt Instrument) Rules, 2019, the Reserve Bank makes
the following regulations relating to mode of payment and reporting requirements for investment in India by a person
resident outside India, namely:
1.
Short title & commencement.
(a)
These regulations may be called the Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Non- Debt
Instruments) Regulations, 2019.
(b)
They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these regulations, unless the context requires otherwise, -
(a)
'Act' means the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (
42 of 1999
);
(b)
'Rules' means Foreign Exchange Management (Non-Debt Instrument) Rules, 2019;
(c)
The words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations shall have the same meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act or the Rules.
3.
Mode of Payment and Remittance of sale proceeds.
- 3.1
Schedule of the Rules
Instructions on Mode of payment and Remittance
of sale proceeds
I. Schedule I
(Purchase or sale of equity instruments of an
Indian company by a person resident outside India)
A. Mode of payment
(1) The amount of
consideration shall be paid as inward remittance from abroad
through banking channels or out of funds held in
NRE/FCNR(B)/Escrow account maintained in accordance with the
Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.
Explanation :The amount of consideration shall include:
(i) Issue of equity
shares by an Indian company against any funds payable by it to
the investor
(ii) Swap of equity
instruments.
(2) Equity
instruments shall be issued to the person resident outside India
making such investment within sixty days from the date of receipt
of the consideration.
Explanation:In case of partly paid equity shares, the period of 60 days shall
be reckoned from the date of receipt of each call payment
Page 2/8
----- PAGE 3 -----
Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Non-Debt Instruments) Regula...
(3) Where such equity
instruments are not issued within sixty days from the date of
receipt of the consideration the same shall be refunded to the
person concerned by outward remittance through banking channels
or by credit to his NRE/ FCNR (B) accounts, as the case may be
within fifteen days from the date of completion of sixty days.
(4) An Indian company
issuing equity instruments under this Schedule may open a foreign
currency account with an Authorised Dealer in India in accordance
with Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign currency accounts by a
person resident in India) Regulations, 2016.
B. Remittance of
sale proceeds
The sale proceeds (net of taxes) of the equity
instruments may be remitted outside India or may be credited to
the NRE/ FCNR (B) of the person concerned.
II. Schedule II
(Investments by Foreign Portfolio Investors)
A. Mode of payment
(1) The amount of
consideration shall be paid as inward remittance from abroad
through banking channels or out of funds held in a foreign
currency account and/ or a Special Non-Resident Rupee (SNRR)
account maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange
Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.
Provided balances in
SNRR account shall not be used for making investment in units of
Investment Vehicles other than the units of domestic mutual fund.
(2) The foreign
currency account and SNRR account shall be used only and
exclusively for transactions under this Schedule.
B. Remittance of
sale proceeds
The sale proceeds
(net of taxes) of equity instruments and units of domestic mutual
fund may be remitted outside India or credited to the foreign
currency account or a SNRR account of the FPI.
The sale proceeds (net of taxes) of units of
investment vehicles other than domestic mutual fund may be
remitted outside India.
III. Schedule III
(Investments by Non- Resident Indian (NRI) or
Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) on repatriation basis)
A. Mode of payment
(1) The amount of
consideration shall be paid as inward remittance from abroad
through banking channels or out of funds held in a Non-Resident
External (NRE) account maintained in accordance with the Foreign
Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.
(2) The NRE account
will be designated as an NRE (PIS) Account and the designated
Page 3/8
----- PAGE 4 -----
Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Non-Debt Instruments) Regula...
account shall be used exclusively for putting through
transactions permitted under this Schedule.
(3) Investment in
units of domestic mutual fund shall be paid as inward remittance
from abroad through banking channels or out of funds held in
NRE/FCNR(B) account.
(4) Subscription to
National Pension System shall be paid as inward remittance from
abroad through banking channels or out of funds held in
NRE/FCNR(B)/NRO account.
B. Remittance of
sale proceeds
The sale proceeds
(net of taxes) of equity instruments may be remitted outside
India or may be credited to NRE (PIS) account of the person
concerned.
The sale proceeds (net of taxes) of units of
mutual funds and subscription to National Pension System may be
remitted outside India or may be credited to NRE
(PIS)/FCNR(B)/NRO account of the person concerned at the option
of the NRI/OCI investor.
IV. Schedule IV
(Investment by NRI or OCI on non-repatriation
basis)
1. Purchase or
sale of equity instruments of an Indian company or units or
contribution to the capital of a LLP by Non-Resident Indian (NRI)
or Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) on Non-repatriation basis.
A. Mode of Payment
The amount of
consideration shall be paid as inward remittance from abroad
through banking channels or out of funds held in NRE/FCNR(B)/NRO
account maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange
Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.
B. Sale/maturity
proceeds
(1) The sale/maturity
proceeds (net of applicable taxes) of equity instruments or units
or disinvestment proceeds of a LLP shall be credited only to the
NRO account of the investor, irrespective of the type of account
from which the consideration was paid;
(2) The amount
invested in equity instruments of an Indian company or the
consideration for contribution to the capital of a LLP and the
capital appreciation thereon shall not be allowed to be
repatriated abroad.
2. Investment in a
firm or a proprietary concern.
A. Mode of payment
The amount of
consideration shall be paid as inward remittance from abroad
Page 4/8
----- PAGE 5 -----
Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Non-Debt Instruments) Regula...
through banking channels or out of funds held in NRE/FCNR(B)/NRO
account maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange
Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.
B. Sale/maturity
proceeds
(1) The disinvestment
proceeds shall be credited only to the NRO account of the person
concerned, irrespective of the type of account from which the
consideration was paid;
(2) The amount invested for contribution to the
capital of a firm or a proprietary concern and the capital
appreciation thereon shall not be allowed to be repatriated
abroad.
V. Schedule V
(Investment by other nonresident investors)
A. Mode of Payment
The amount of
consideration shall be paid out of inward remittances from abroad
through banking channels.
B.
Remittance/credit of sale/ maturity proceeds
The sale/ maturity proceeds (net of taxes) may
be remitted abroad.
VI. Schedule VI
(Investment in a Limited Liability
Partnership)
A. Mode of payment
Payment by an
investor towards capital contribution of an LLP shall be made by
way of an inward remittance through banking channels or out of
funds held in NRE or FCNR(B) account maintained in accordance
with the Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.
B. Remittance of
disinvestment proceeds
The disinvestment proceeds may be remitted
outside India or may be credited to NRE or FCNR(B) account of the
person concerned.
VII. Schedule VII
(Investment by a Foreign Venture Capital
Investor)
A. Mode of payment
(1) The amount of
consideration shall be paid as inward remittance from abroad
through banking channels or out of funds held in a foreign
currency account and/or a Special Non-Resident Rupee (SNRR)
account maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange
Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.
(2) The foreign
currency account and SNRR account shall be used only and
exclusively for transactions under this Schedule.
B. Remittance of
Page 5/8
----- PAGE 6 -----
Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Non-Debt Instruments) Regula...
sale/maturity proceeds
The sale/maturity proceeds (net of taxes) of the
securities may be remitted outside India or may be credited to
the foreign currency account or a Special Non-resident Rupee
Account of the FVCI.
VIII. Schedule VIII
(Investment by a person resident outside
India in an Investment Vehicle)
A. Mode of payment
The amount of
consideration shall be paid as inward remittance from abroad
through banking channels or by way of swap of shares of a Special
Purpose Vehicle or out of funds held in NRE or FCNR(B) account
maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management
(Deposit) Regulations, 2016.
B. Remittance of
sale/maturity proceeds
The sale/maturity proceeds (net of taxes) of the
units may be remitted outside India or may be credited to the NRE
or FCNR(B) account of the person concerned.
IX. Schedule X
(Issue of Indian Depository Receipts)
A. Mode of Payment
NRIs or OCIs may
invest in the IDRs out of funds held in their NRE/FCNR(B)
account, maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange
Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.
B. Remittance of
sale/maturity proceeds
Redemption/conversion of IDRs into underlying
equity shares of the issuing company shall be a compliance the
Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of any Foreign
Security) Regulations, 2004.
3.2
Issue of Convertible Notes by an Indian start-up company. - A start-up company issuing convertible notes to a person
resident outside India shall receive the amount of consideration by inward remittance through banking channels or by
debit to the NRE/FCNR(B)/Escrow account maintained by the person concerned in accordance with the Foreign
Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016. Repayment or sale proceeds may be remitted outside India or
credited to NRE/FCNR(B) account maintained by the person concerned in accordance with the Foreign Exchange
Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.
4.
Reporting Requirements.
- The reporting requirement for any Investment in India by a person resident outside India shall be as follows:
(1)
Form Foreign Currency-Gross Provisional Return (FC-GPR): An Indian company issuing equity instruments to a person
resident outside India and where such issue is reckoned as Foreign Direct Investment, defined under the rules, shall
report such issue in Form FC-GPR, not later than thirty days from the date of issue of equity instruments. Issue of
'participating interest/rights' in oil fields shall be reported in Form FC-GPR.
(2)
Annual Return on Foreign Liabilities and Assets (FLA): An Indian Company which has received FDI or an LLP which has
received investment by way of capital contribution in the previous year including the current year, shall submit form FLA
Page 6/8
----- PAGE 7 -----
Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Non-Debt Instruments) Regula...
to the Reserve Bank on or before the 15th day of July of each year.
Explanation.  - Year for this purpose shall be reckoned as April to March.
(3)
Form Foreign Currency-Transfer of Shares (FC-TRS): (a) Form FCTRS shall be filed for transfer of equity instruments in
accordance with the rules, between:
i. a person resident outside India holding equity instruments in an Indian company on a repatriable basis and person
resident outside India holding equity instruments on a non-repatriable basis; and
ii. a person resident outside India holding equity instruments in an Indian company on a repatriable basis and a person
resident in India, The onus of reporting shall be on the resident transferor/transferee or the person resident outside India
holding equity instruments on a non-repatriable basis, as the case may be.
Note. - Transfer of equity instruments in accordance with the rules by way of sale between a person resident outside
India holding equity instruments on a non-repatriable basis and person resident in India is not required to be reported in
Form FC-TRS.
(b)
Transfer of equity instruments on a recognised stock exchange by a person resident outside India shall be reported by
such person in Form FC-TRS.
(c)
Transfer of equity instruments prescribed in Rule 9(6) of the Rules, shall be reported in Form FC-TRS on receipt of
every tranche of payment. The onus of reporting shall be on the resident transferor/transferee.
(d)
Transfer of 'participating interest/rights' in oil fields shall be reported Form FC-TRS.
The form FCTRS shall be filed within sixty days of transfer of equity instruments or receipt/remittance of funds whichever
is earlier.
(4)
Form Employees' Stock Option (ESOP): An Indian company issuing employees' stock option to persons resident outside
India who are its employees/directors or employees/directors of its holding company/joint venture / wholly owned
overseas subsidiary/subsidiaries shall file Form-ESOP, within 30 days from the date of issue of employees' stock option.
(5)
Form Depository Receipt Return (DRR): The Domestic Custodian shall report in Form DRR, the issue / transfer of
depository receipts issued in accordance with the Depository Receipt Scheme, 2014 within 30 days of close of the issue.
(6)
Form LLP (I): A Limited Liability Partnerships (LLP) receiving amount of consideration for capital contribution and
acquisition of profit shares shall file Form LLP (I), within 30 days from the date of receipt of the amount of consideration.
(7)
Form LLP (II): The disinvestment/transfer of capital contribution or profit share between a resident and a nonresident (or
vice versa) shall be filed in Form LLP(II) within 60 days from the date of receipt of funds. The onus of reporting shall be
on the resident transferor/transferee.
(8)
LEC(FII): The Authorised Dealer Category I banks shall report to the Reserve Bank in Form LEC (FII) the
purchase/transfer of equity instruments by FPIs on the stock exchanges in India.
(9)
LEC(NRI): The Authorised Dealer Category I banks shall report to the Reserve Bank in Form LEC (NRI) the
purchase/transfer of equity instruments by Non-Resident Indians or Overseas Citizens of India on stock exchanges in
India.
(10)
Form InVI: An Investment vehicle which has issued its units to a person resident outside India shall file Form InVI within
30 days from the date of issue of units.
(11)
Downstream Investment
a. An Indian entity or an investment vehicle making downstream investment in another Indian entity which is considered
as indirect foreign investment for the investee Indian entity in terms of the Rules, shall notify the Secretariat for Industrial
Page 7/8
----- PAGE 8 -----
Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Non-Debt Instruments) Regula...
Assistance, DPIIT within 30 days of such investment, even if equity instruments have not been allotted, along with the
modality of investment in new/existing ventures (with/without expansion programme).
b. Form DI: An Indian entity or an investment Vehicle making downstream investment in another Indian entity which is
considered as indirect foreign investment for the investee Indian entity in terms of Rule 22 of the Rules shall file Form DI
with the Reserve Bank within 30 days from the date of allotment of equity instruments.
(12)
Form Convertible Notes (CN):
a. The Indian start-up company issuing Convertible Notes to a person resident outside India shall file Form CN within 30
days of such issue.
b. A person resident in India, who may be a transferor or transferee of Convertible Notes issued by an Indian start-up
company shall report such transfers to or from a person resident outside India, as the case may be, in Form CN within
30 days of such transfer.
Provided, the format, periodicity and manner of submission of such reporting shall be as prescribed by Reserve Bank in
this regard.
Provided further that unless otherwise specifically stated in these regulations all reporting shall be made through or by
an Authorised Dealer bank, as the case may be.
5.
Delays in reporting.
- The person/entity responsible for filing the reports provided in Regulation 4 above shall be liable for payment of late
submission fee, as may be decided by the Reserve Bank, in consultation with the Central Government, for any delays in
reporting.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 8/8