
----- PAGE 1 -----
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Indian Computer Emergency Response Tea...
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Indian Computer
Emergency Response Team (Medical Facilities for the Officers and
Employees) Rules, 2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/23632092/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (Medical Facilities for
the Officers and Employees) Rules, 2019
UNION OF INDIA
India
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (Medical Facilities for
the Officers and Employees) Rules, 2019
Rule
MINISTRY-OF-ELECTRONICS-AND-INFORMATION-TECHNOLOGY-INDIAN-COMPUTER-EMERGENCY-RESPONS
E-TEAM-MEDICAL-FACILITIES-FOR-THE-OFFICERS-AND-EMPLOYEES-RULES-2019 of 2019
Published on 7 November 2019
Commenced on 7 November 2019
[This is the version of this document from 7 November 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (Medical Facilities for
the Officers and Employees) Rules, 2019
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 841(E), dated 07.11.2019
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Indian Computer Emergency Response Tea...
Last Updated 18th November, 2019
G.S.R. 841(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (ze) of sub-section (2) of section 87 read with sub-section
(3) of section 70B of the Information Technology Act, 2000, (21 of 2000), the Central Government hereby makes the
following rules for providing the medical facilities to the officers and employees of the Indian Computer Emergency
Response Team in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Indian Computer Emergency
Response Team (Medical Facilities for the Officers and Employees) Rules, 2019.
(2)
They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the official Gazette.
2.
Definition.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires; -
(i)
"Act" means the Information Technology Act, 2000 (
21 of 2000
);
(ii)
"officers and employees" means officers and employees (except the Director-General) of the Indian Computer
Emergency Response Team as referred to in sub-section (2) of section 70B of the Act; and
(iii)
"ICERT" means Indian Computer Emergency Response Team appointed under sub-section (1) of section 70B of the
Act.
(2)
Words and expressions not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall have have the same meaning as assigned
to them under the Act.
3.
Medical facilities.
- The officers and employees of the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team shall be eligible to get following
medical facilities, namely: -
(1)
Outdoor treatment. - (i) The reimbursement of outdoor medical expenses during the year shall be limited to the actual
expenses or one month's pay as on the 1st January of the year (Basic Pay + Dearness Allowance), whichever is less,
and the release of increment or promotion during the year shall not affect the limit as on the 1st January:
Provided that the said ceiling shall not apply in case of treatment for diseases such as Cancer, Diabetes, Mental
diseases, Poliomyelitis, Cerebral Palsy and Spastics, Tubercular diseases, Leprosy, Thalassaemia Major, Hepatitis C
and D for which special medical treatment facility is required.
(ii)
The claim for the outdoor medical expenses shall be supported by the Doctor's prescription alongwith the original cash
memos or bills for treatment by the Doctor and purchase of medicines.
(iii)
For officers and employees who joined the ICERT during the year, the annual entitlement shall be restricted on pro-rata
basis.
(iv)
The outdoor treatment shall be taken from Government Hospital or Authorised Medical Attendants or hospitals
empanelled under the Central Government Health Scheme or the Central Government (Medical Attendance) Rules,
1944.
(2)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Indian Computer Emergency Response Tea...
Indoor treatment. - (i) The officers and employees who reside in the Central Government Health Scheme covered area
shall be eligible for reimbursement of expenses incurred towards medical treatment at Government hospitals or
hospitals empanelled under the Central Government Health Scheme.
(ii)
The officers and employees who reside outside the Central Government Health Scheme covered areas, shall be eligible
for reimbursement of expenses incurred towards medical treatment at Government hospitals or hospital empanelled
under the Central Government Health Scheme or the Central Government (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1944, as the
case may be, on the prescription of the empanelled Authorised Medical Attendant.
(iii)
For the purposes of clauses (i) and (ii), the officers and employees shall be eligible for reimbursement of indoor medical
treatment expenses including hospital accommodation and nursing home facility on similar rates as applicable to the
Central Government employees drawing equivalent pay, under the Central Government Health Scheme or the Central
Government (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1944, as the case may be.
(iv)
The Medical expenses incurred by the officers and employees availing medical treatment in emergency conditions from
non-empanelled private hospitals, shall be allowed on the similar rates as applicable to a Central Government Health
Scheme covered city and in case of non- Central Government Health Scheme city, on similar rates as applicable to the
nearest Central Government Health Scheme covered city. as the case may be, or on the actual basis, whichever is less.
4.
Other matters relating to medical facilities.
- The other matters relating to the medical facilities for which no specific provisions has been made under these rules,
shall be regulated in accordance with the provisions of the Central Government Health Scheme or the Central Service
(Medical Attendance) Rules, 1944, as the case may be, as applicable to the Central Government employees drawing
equivalent pay.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3