
----- PAGE 1 -----
THE CENTRAL UNIVERSITIES (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2022
THE CENTRAL UNIVERSITIES (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2022
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/26832937/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
THE CENTRAL UNIVERSITIES (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2022
UNION OF INDIA
India
THE CENTRAL UNIVERSITIES (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2022
Act 17 of 2022
Published in Gazette of India on 16 August 2022
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 16 August 2022.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
An Act further to amend the Central Universities Act, 2009.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Seventy-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:?
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Central Universities (Amendment) Act, 2022.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
2.
Amendment of section 2.
In the Central Universities Act, 2009 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in section 2, after clause (j), the
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
THE CENTRAL UNIVERSITIES (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2022
following clause shall be inserted, namely:??
?(ja) ?Gati Shakti Vishwavidyalaya? means the University established under section 3F;?.
3.
Insertion of new section 3F.
After section 3E of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:?
3F.
Establishment of Gati Shakti Vishwavidyalaya in Gujarat.
(1)
The National Rail and Transportation Institute, Vadodara, Gujarat, declared as a deemed to be University under section
3 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956, shall be established as a body corporate under this Act by the name
Gati Shakti Vishwavidyalaya.
(2)
The territorial jurisdiction of Gati Shakti Vishwavidyalaya shall extend to the whole of India, as specified in the First
Schedule to this Act.
(3)
The Gati Shakti Vishwavidyalaya shall be sponsored and funded by the Central Government in the Ministry of
Railways.?.
4.
Amendment of section 4.
In section 4 of the principal Act,??
(i)
in clause (e), for the words ?whichever is earlier; and?, the words ?whichever is earlier;? shall be substituted;
(ii)
after clause (f), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:??
?(g) any reference to the National Rail and Transportation Institute, Vadodara, in any contract or other instrument shall
be deemed as a reference to Gati Shakti Vishwavidyalaya established under this Act;
(h)
all properties, movable and immovable, of or belonging to the National Rail and Transportation Institute, Vadodara, shall
vest in Gati Shakti Vishwavidyalaya established under this Act;
(i)
all rights and liabilities of the National Rail and Transportation Institute, Vadodara, shall be transferred to, and be the
rights and liabilities of Gati Shakti Vishwavidyalaya established under this Act;
(j)
every person employed by the National Rail and Transportation Institute, Vadodara, immediately before the
commencement of the Central Universities (Amendment) Act, 2022 shall hold his office or service in Gati Shakti
Vishwavidyalaya established under this Act with the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms
and conditions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension, leave, gratuity, provident fund and other matters
as he would have held the same if the Central Universities (Amendment) Act, 2022 had not been enacted and shall
continue to do so unless and until his employment is terminated or until such tenure, remuneration and terms and
conditions are duly altered by the Statutes:
Provided that if the alteration so made is not acceptable to such employee, his employment may be terminated by the
University in accordance with the terms of the contract with the employee or, if no provision is made therein in this
behalf, on payment, to him by the University, of compensation equivalent to three months? remuneration in case of
permanent employees and one month?s remuneration in the case of other employees;
(k)
any reference, by whatever form of words, to the Vice-Chancellor and Pro-Vice-Chancellor of the National Rail and
Transportation Institute, Vadodara, in any law for the time being in force, or in any instrument or other document, shall
be construed as reference to the Vice-Chancellor and Pro-Vice-Chancellor of Gati Shakti Vishwavidyalaya; and
(l)
the incumbent Vice-Chancellor of the National Rail and Transportation Institute, Vadodara, shall hold office for a period
of six months from the date of coming into force of the Central Universities (Amendment) Act, 2022 or till such time the
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
THE CENTRAL UNIVERSITIES (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2022
first Vice-Chancellor of Gati Shakti Vishwavidyalaya is appointed under section 44, whichever is earlier.?.
5.
Amendment of section 5.
In section 5 of the principal Act, after the proviso, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:??
?Provided further that the Gati Shakti Vishwavidyalaya established as an University under section 3F shall take
additional measures for providing high quality teaching, research and skill development in diverse disciplines related to
transportation, technology and management including establishing centres in India and abroad, as may be required in
the opinion of the said University.?.
6.
Amendment of First Schedule.
In the First Schedule to the principal Act, after serial number 5 and the entries relating thereto, the following serial
number and entries shall be inserted, namely:??
?5A. Gujarat Gati Shakti Vishwavidyalaya Whole of India.?.
CORRIGENDA
In the Indian Antarctic Act, 2022 (13 of 2022), published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 1, dated
the 8th August, 2022 issue No. 15,?
(i)
at page 16, in line 29, for ?rupees, or with both?, read ?rupees?;
(ii)
at page 16, in line 38, for ?rupees, or with both?, read ?rupees?;
(iii)
at page 20, in line 8, for ?Every rule and?, read ?Every rule made and?.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3