
----- PAGE 1 -----
International Financial Services Centres Authority (Manner of Payment and Receipt of Premi...
International Financial Services Centres Authority (Manner of
Payment and Receipt of Premium) Regulations, 2022
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/19015274/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
International Financial Services Centres Authority (Manner of Payment and Receipt of Premium) Regulations, 2022
UNION OF INDIA
India
International Financial Services Centres Authority Act, 2019
International Financial Services Centres Authority (Manner of Payment and Receipt of Premium) Regulations, 2022
Regulation IFSCA-2022-23-GN-REG032- of 2023
Published in THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 27 on 12 January 2023
Commenced on 12 January 2023
[This is the version of this document from 12 January 2023.]
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL SERVICES CENTRES AUTHORITY
NOTIFICATION
Gandhinagar, the |20 January, 2023
International Financial Services Centres Authority (Manner of Payment and Receipt of Premium) Regulations, 2022
IFSCA/2022-23/GN/REG032.?In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 28 read with Sections 2 and 3 of the
International Financial Services Centres Authority Act, 209, and clause (zaa) of sub-section (2) of Section ll4A of the
Insurance Act, 938, read with Ministry of Finance, Department of Financial Services, notification number 5.0. 3035(E)
dated 047 July, 2022, the International Financial Services Centres Authority hereby makes the following regulations
namely: -
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
International Financial Services Centres Authority (Manner of Payment and Receipt of Premi...
Chapter 1
PRELIMINARY
1.
Short title, commencement and applicability: -
(1)
These regulations may be called the International Financial Services Centres Authority (Manner of Payment and Receipt
of Premium) Regulations, 2022.
(2)
They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the official Gazette.
(3)
These regulations shall be applicable to all Os.
2.
Objective: The objective of these regulations is to put in place the manner of payment of premium for
insurance policy, assumption of risk, receipt or refund of premium and other terms and conditions, in
accordance with Section 64 VB of the Insurance Act, 938, for carrying on the insurance business in the
International Financial Services Centres.
3.
Definitions -
(1)
? In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires ?
(a)
?Act?? means the International Financial Services Centres Authority Act, 209 (50 of 209);
(b)
?Authority? or ?IFSCA? means the International Financial Services Centres Authority established under sub-section ()
of Section 4 of the Act;
(c)
?cash deposit? means deposit of cash by the insured, policy holder or proposer to the ITO in advance towards
adjustment of premium;
(d)
?grace period? means the specified period of time immediately following the premium due date within which the policy is
considered to be in force, and payment can be made without any penalty or late fee for renewal or continuation of an
existing policy, without the policy getting lapsed;
(e)
?International Financial Services Centre Insurance Office?or ?ITO? shall have the meaning as assigned to it under
clause (k) of sub-regulation (.) of regulation 3 of the International Financial Services Centres Authority (Registration of
Insurance Business) Regulations 202];
(f)
?premium? refers to the consideration paid or payable under a contract of insurance to cover the risk;
(g)
?premium payment warranty clause? refers to a clause incorporated in the contract of insurance, relating to the time and
manner of payment of premium.
(2)
Words and expressions used and not defined in these Regulations but defined in the Act or Acts mentioned in the First
Schedule to the Act or any rules, regulations made thereunder, shall have the same Meanings respectively assigned to
them in those Acts, rules or regulations or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be.
Chapter 2
Manner of Payment, Receipt of Premium and Assumption of Risk
4.
The premium to be paid by a person proposing to take an insurance policy (hereinafter referred to as the proposer?) or
by a policyholder to an I[O may be made through any of the following manner(s), namely: -
(1)
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
International Financial Services Centres Authority (Manner of Payment and Receipt of Premi...
recognised instrument of payment using banking channels including payment made through electronic mode;
(2)
bank guarantee or equivalent instrument issued by any bank in favour of the IO for payment of premium, in case the
insured fails to make such payment;
(3)
cash deposit; or
(4)
? any other method or manner of payment as may be specified by the Authority.
Assumption of risk with or without receipt of premium in advance -
For the purposes of these regulations, an ITO may assume the risk, continue to assume the risk or terminate any
assumption of risk, subject to satisfaction of the following -
(a)
the premium payable is received by it;
(b)
the premium payable is guaranteed in terms of sub-regulation (2) of regulations 4 of these regulations;
(c)
the deposit of such amount, as the Authority may specify, is made in advance for adjustment towards premium; or
(d)
the premium payable to it is in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract of insurance entered into in this
behalf or in such manner as may be specified by the Authority from time to time.
An IIO and prospect or insured, as the case may be, may mutually agree for payment of premium in instalments, time
schedule and manner of payment of such instalments by incorporating a premium payment warranty clause in the
contract of insurance.
The contract of insurance shall, inter-alia, specify the following:
(1)
the manner and time schedule of payment of premium in full or in instalments;
(2)
grace period, if any and consequence of non-payment of premium within such grace period;
(3)
conditions for the revival of lapsed policy, if any;
(4)
date of commencement of risk ;
(5)
? date of termination of risk upon non-payment or non-realization of premium taking into account the line of business,
duration of the insurance policy;
(6)
Premium Payment Warranty clause, if any, as agreed upon by the IO and the Insured; and
(7)
? any other information as may be specified by the Authority from time to time.
Payment of Premium for contracts of Reinsurance ?
(8)
the risk may be assumed without payment of premium in advance on insurances accepted under automatic reinsurance
contracts;
(2)
In the case of facultative reinsurance, risk may be assumed without payment of premium in advance in accordance with
the terms of the Premium Payment Warranty clause, if incorporated in the contract of insurance;
(3)
Reinsurers shall have systems in place to ensure that all premiums receivable are duly received and accounted for.
Chapter 3
Refund of Premium to the Insured
Any refund of premium, which may become due to an insured on account of cancellation of a policy or alteration of any
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
International Financial Services Centres Authority (Manner of Payment and Receipt of Premi...
term and condition or otherwise, shall be paid by the HO directly to the insured in any manner specified in sub-regulation
(), (3) and (4) of regulation 4 of these regulations and shall in no case be credited to the account of the agent.
Chapter 4
MISCELLANEOUS
Board Approved Credit Risk Policy: Every IO at all times shall have a Board approved policy on mitigation of credit risk,
inter-alia, indicating therein the downsides of non-payment of premium by the insured.
Power to specify procedures and issue clarification: For the purpose of implementation of these regulations and matter
incidental thereto, or in order to facilitate and regulate financial services related to insurance and re-insurance in an
International Financial Services Centre (IFSC), the Authority may specify norms, procedures, processes, manners
including relaxations therefrom, if any, by way of guidelines or circulars.
Power to remove difficulties and relax strict enforcement of the regulations:
(1)
In order to remove any difficulty in the application or interpretations of the provisions of these regulations, the Authority
may issue clarifications through guidance notes or circulars.
(2)
The Authority, for reasons to be recorded in writing, may in the interest of development of financial market, relax the
strict enforcement of any requirement of these regulations, upon payment of fee, if any, as may be specified by the
Authority.
Repeals and saving:
(1)
On and from the commencement of these regulations:
(a)
The provisions of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Manner of Receipt of Premium) Regulations,
2002, shall cease to apply in an International Financial Services Centre; and
(b)
Clause (2) under Chapter - 2 of International Financial Services Centres Authority (Operations of International Financial
Services Centres Insurance Offices) Guidelines, 202, shall stand omitted.
(2)
An IIO operating in an IFSC prior to the commencement of these regulations, shall comply with the additional
requirements specified in these regulations, within a period of six months from the commencement of these regulations
or within such extended period as may be permitted by the Authority.
INJETI SRINIVAS, Chairperson
[ADVT.IN/4/Exty./556/2022-23]
Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-0064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-|0054. A LO K KU MAR Dastialy signed by ALK kurta
Date: 2023.0.4 7:22:9 +05'30'
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4