
----- PAGE 1 -----
Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Technical Standards and Specifications includi...
Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Technical Standards
and Specifications including Safety Standards for Liquefied Natural
Gas Facilities) Amendment Regulations, 2023
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/191492716/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Technical Standards and Specifications including Safety Standards for
Liquefied Natural Gas Facilities) Amendment Regulations, 2023
UNION OF INDIA
India
The Petroleum And Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006
Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Technical Standards and Specifications including Safety Standards for
Liquefied Natural Gas Facilities) Amendment Regulations, 2023
Regulation F-NO-PNGRB-TECH-4-T4SLNG-1-2019-P-3317- of 2023
Published in Gazette of India : Extraordinary 86 on 14 February 2023
Commenced on 14 February 2023
[This is the version of this document from 14 February 2023.]
F. No. PNGRB /Tech /4 -T4SLNG /(1)/2019 (P -3317 ).? In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 61 of the
Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act , 2006 (19 of 2006 ), the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory
Board hereby makes the following regulations further to amend the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board
(Technical Standards and Specifications including Safety Standards for Liquefied Natural Gas Facilities ) Regulations,
2018, namely : -
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Technical Standards and Specifications includi...
1.
Short title and commencement:
(1)
These regulations may be called the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Technical Standards and
Specifications including Safety Standards for Liquefied Natural Gas Facilities ) Amendment Regulations, 2023.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the official gazette.
2.
In the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (Technical Standards and Specifications including Safety Standards
for Liquefied Natural Gas Facilities ) Regulations , 2018, -
In Regulation 7, after sub -regulation (3),the following shall be inserted : -
"(4) The Board of the concerned entity , within ninety days of the notification of these regulations shall appoint one of its
directors , who shall be responsible for ensuring compliance to these regulations ."
In Clause 1.8.3 of Schedule - 1A , -
(a)
in sub -clause (i),the words "control room and ","and process area " shall be omitted ;
(b)
in sub -clause (ii), the words ?and /or substation " shall be omitted .
in Annexure -II , -
(a)
The table shall be substituted with the following :
(b)
In General Notes to the Table,
In point (i),the words ? ?T ? indicates the table number to be referred ." shall be omitted ,the word ?x ?, shall be
substituted by the word ?X ? , and at the end the words "D " stands for diameter of the LNG storage tank ." shall be
inserted;
In point (ii), the words "(i) In " shall be substituted by the words "in " and the words "(ii) The distances given in the
brackets () are from the shell of the Heater / Boiler /Furnace / Still .", shall be omitted.
(c)
in Specific notes to Table , -
(i)
in Note -4 ,the words "For Exploration & Production installations , this shall be in line with Oil Mines Regulations ." shall
be omitted ;
(ii)
after Note -4 , the following shall be inserted,
" Note -5 : (i) In case of bulk loading /unloading gantry , minimum separation distance between :-
(a)
Tank wagon gantry to tank wagon gantry , tank truck gantry and boundary wall shall be 50m.
(b)
Tank truck gantry to tank truck gantry and boundary wall shall be 30m.
(ii)
The number of LNG tank lorry bays in a single tank trunk gantry shall not exceed 8.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2