
----- PAGE 1 -----
Coinage (Issue of Commemorative Coin on the occasion of Inauguration of New Parliament Bui...
Coinage (Issue of Commemorative Coin on the occasion of
Inauguration of New Parliament Building) Rules, 2023
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/52752962/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Coinage (Issue of Commemorative Coin on the occasion of Inauguration of New Parliament Building) Rules, 2023
UNION OF INDIA
India
Coinage (Issue of Commemorative Coin on the occasion of Inauguration of New Parliament Building) Rules, 2023
Published on 31 May 2023
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 31 May 2023.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (d) and (e) of sub-section (2) of section 24 of the Coinage Act, 2011(11
of 2011), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1) These rules may be called the Coinage (Issue of Commemorative Coin on the occasion of Inauguration of New
Parliament Building) Rules, 2023.
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Denomination of coin.
The coin of Seventy Five Rupees denomination shall be coined at the Mint for issue under the authority of the Central
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Coinage (Issue of Commemorative Coin on the occasion of Inauguration of New Parliament Bui...
Government on the occasion of Inauguration of New Parliament Building.
3.
Dimension and composition of coin.
The coin of the above denomination mentioned in rule 2 shall conform to the following dimensions and composition,
namely:-
Denomination of coin
Shape and outside diameter
Number of serrations
Metal composition
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Seventy Five Rupees
Circular 44 millimeter
200
Quaternary AlloySilver - 50 per cent.Copper - 40 per cent. Nickel - 05 per cent. Zinc - 05 per cent.
4.
Design.
The design of the coin shall be as specified in the First Schedule.
5.
Standard weight and remedy allowed.
The standard weight of the coin of above denomination coined to commemorate the occasion of Inauguration of New
Parliament Building and the remedy allowed in making of such coin shall be as specified in the Second Schedule.
The First Schedule
(See rule 4)
Seventy Five Rupees
Obverse
:
This face of the coin shall bear the Lion Capitol of Ashoka Pillar in the centre with the legend "
??????? ????
" inscribed below, flanked on the left periphery with the word "
????
" in Devnagri script and on the right periphery with the word
"INDIA"
in English. It shall also bear the Rupee symbol "
???
" and denominational value
"75"
in the international numerals below the Lion Capitol.
Reverse:
This face of the coin shall bear the image of Parliament Complex. The inscription "
???? ?????
" shall be written in Devnagari script on the upper periphery and the inscription
?PARLIAMENT COMPLEX?
in English shall be written on the lower periphery of the coin. The Year ?2023? in International numeral shall be written
below the image of Parliament Complex.
The Second Schedule
[See rule 5]
Denomination of coin
Standard weight
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Coinage (Issue of Commemorative Coin on the occasion of Inauguration of New Parliament Bui...
Remedy allowed
In composition
In standard weight
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Seventy Five Rupees
35 Grams
1/500th plus or minus for Silver, that is to say, the Silver content may vary from 498 to 502 per 1000.
1/100th plus or minus, that is to say, the weight could vary from 34.65 grams to 35.35 grams.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3