
----- PAGE 1 -----
Coinage (Issue of Commemorative Coin on the occasion of the Birth Centenary of Late Shri K...
Coinage (Issue of Commemorative Coin on the occasion of the Birth
Centenary of Late Shri Karpoori Thakur) Rules, 2024
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/56527596/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Union of India - Act
Coinage (Issue of Commemorative Coin on the occasion of the Birth Centenary of Late Shri Karpoori Thakur) Rules,
2024
UNION OF INDIA
India
Coinage (Issue of Commemorative Coin on the occasion of the Birth Centenary of Late Shri Karpoori Thakur) Rules,
2024
Rule G-S-R-56-E of 2024
Published on 23 January 2024
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 23 January 2024.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (d) and (e) of sub-section (2) of section 24 of the Coinage Act, 2011 (11
of 2011), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely: -
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1) These rules may be called the Coinage (Issue of Commemorative Coin on the occasion of the Birth Centenary of
Late Shri Karpoori Thakur) Rules, 2024.
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Coinage (Issue of Commemorative Coin on the occasion of the Birth Centenary of Late Shri K...
2.
Denomination of coin.
The coin of one hundred rupees denomination shall be coined at the Mint for issue under the authority of the Central
Government on the occasion of the Birth Centenary of Late Shri Karpoori Thakur.
3.
Dimension and composition of coin.
The coin of the denomination mentioned in rule 2 shall conform to the following dimensions and composition, namely: -
Denomination of coin
Shape and outside diameter
Number of serrations
Metal composition
1
2
3
4
One Hundred Rupees
Circular 44 millimetre
200
Quaternary Alloy
Silver - 50 per cent.Copper - 40 per cent.Nickel - 05 per cent.Zinc - 05 per cent.
4.
Design.
The design of the coin shall be as specified in the First Schedule to these rules.
5.
Standard weight and remedy allowed.
The standard weight of the coin of denomination referred in rule 2 shall be coined to commemorate on the occasion of
the Birth Centenary of Late Shri Karpoori Thakur and the remedy allowed in making of such coin shall be as specified in
the Second Schedule to these rules.
The First Schedule
[See rule 4]
One Hundred Rupees
Obverse:
This face of the coin shall bear the Lion Capitol of Ashoka Pillar in the centre with the legend
^^lR;eso t;rs**
inscribed below, flanked on the left periphery with the word
^^Hkkjr**
in Devnagari script and on the right periphery with the word "INDIA" in English. It shall also bear the Rupee symbol "L"
and denominational value "100" in the international numerals below the Lion Capitol.
Reverse:
This face of coin shall bear the portrait of Shri Karpoori Thakur in the centre of the coin. The inscription
^^LoxhZ; Jh diwZjh Bkdqj dh tUe 'krkCnh**
shall be written in Devnagari script on the upper  periphery and the inscription
"Birth Centenary Of Late Shri Karpoori Thakur"
in English is depicted on the lower periphery of the coin. The year
"2024"
in international numeral shall be written below the portrait of Shri Karpoori Thakur.
The Second Schedule
[See rule 5]
Denomination of coin
Standard weight
Remedy allowed
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Coinage (Issue of Commemorative Coin on the occasion of the Birth Centenary of Late Shri K...
In composition
In standard weight
1
2
3
4
One Hundred Rupees
35 Grams
1/500
th
plus or minus for Silver, that is to say the Silver content may vary from 498 to 502 per 1000.
1/100
th
plus or minus, that is to say weight could be 34.65 grams to 35.35 grams.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3