
----- PAGE 1 -----
THE CONSTITUTION (EIGHTEENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1966
THE CONSTITUTION (EIGHTEENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1966
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/24876084/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Constitution and Amendments
THE CONSTITUTION (EIGHTEENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1966
India
THE CONSTITUTION (EIGHTEENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1966
Act 018 of 1966
Published in Gazette of India on 16 May 1966
Commenced on 27 August 1966
[This is the version of this document from 16 May 1966.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Twentieth Amendment) Bill, 1966 which was enacted
as the Constitution (Eighteenth Amendment) Act, 1966
STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS
Article 3 of the Constitution provides for the formation of new States and alteration of areas, boundaries, or names of
existing States.
Before the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, was enacted, the expression "States" occurring in that article
meant Part A States, Part B States and also Part C States. By the Seventh Amendment of the Constitution in 1956, the
concept of "Union territories" was introduced in our Constitution but article 3 was not amended to include in terms "Union
territories". It is considered proper to amend this article to make it clear that "State" in clauses (a) to (e)
of that article (but not in the proviso) includes "Union territories". It is also considered proper to make it clear that power
under clause (a) of article 3 includes power to form a new State or Union territory by uniting a part of a State or Union
territory to another State or Union territory.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
THE CONSTITUTION (EIGHTEENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1966
The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.
An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Seventeenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title.-
This Act may be called the Constitution (Eighteenth Amendment) Act, 1966.
2.
Amendment of article 3.-
In article 3 of the Constitution, the following Explanations shall be inserted at the end, namely:-
Explanation I.-In this article in clauses (a) to (e), "State" includes a Union territory, but in the proviso, "State" does not
include a Union territory.
Explanation II.-The power conferred on Parliament by clause (a) includes the power to form a new State or Union
territory by uniting a part of any State or Union territory to any other State or Union territory.
[The Constitution (Eighteenth Amendment) Act, 1966, revised Article 3 of the Constitution to give new meaning to the
terms ?State? and ?Union territories?. The modification clarified that in Article 3, the term ?State? in clauses (a) to (e)
must include ?Union territories?. However, this was not applicable in the proviso. It further explained that the power
under clause (a) involves the authority of the Parliament for the formation of a new State or Union territory. This may be
done by joining a part of any State or Union territory with some other State or Union territory. Article 3 of the Indian
Constitution was concerned with the establishment of new States. It also provided for altering names, areas, or
boundaries of existing States. Hence, it needed modification to include the concept of ?Union territories? within the
meaning of ?State? in clauses (a) to (e), but not in the proviso. This would allow the reorganization of Union territories.
Therefore, this amendment was crucial for the formation and rise of Union territories.
Also refer
]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2