
----- PAGE 1 -----
THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 1984
THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 1984
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/4889959/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Constitution and Amendments
THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 1984
India
THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 1984
Act 051 of 1984
Published in Gazette of India on 22 August 1984
Commenced on 29 April 1985
[This is the version of this document from 22 August 1984.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Fifty-third Amendment) Bill, 1984 (Bill No. 81 of 1984)
which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Fifty-first Amendment) Act, 1984
STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS
The Meghalaya Legislative Assembly passed a resolution on 31st March, 1980 urging the Government of India to
provide for reservation of seats for Scheduled Tribes in the State Legislative Assembly and also in the House of the
People on the pattern obtaining in other States in the country. The State Government, therefore, recommended
amendment of articles 330 and 332 of the Constitution. The Governments of Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and
Mizoram have also supported the amendment in respect of their respective areas. It is, therefore, proposed to amend
article 330 of the Constitution to provide for reservation of seats in the Lok Sabha for Scheduled Tribes in Meghalaya,
Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram and article 332 to provide for similar reservation in the Legislative
Assemblies of Nagaland and Meghalaya. The amendments have been proposed to meet the aspirations of the local
tribal population.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY-FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 1984
2.
This Bill seeks to achieve the above object.
An Act further to amend the Constitution of India.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
This Act may be called the Constitution (Fifty-first Amendment) Act, 1984.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date_670 as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint.
2. Amendment of article 330.-
(1)
In article 330 of the Constitution, in clause (1), for sub-clause (b), the following sub-clause shall be substituted, namely:-
"(b) the Scheduled Tribes except the Scheduled Tribes in the autonomous districts of Assam; and".
(2)
The amendment made to article 330 of the Constitution by sub-section (1) shall not affect any representation in the
House of the People until the dissolution of the House of the People existing at the commencement of this Act.
3.
Amendment of article 332.-
(1)
In article 332 of the Constitution, in clause (1), for the words "except the Scheduled Tribes in the tribal areas of Assam,
in Nagaland and in Meghalaya", the words "except the Scheduled Tribes in the autonomous districts of Assam" shall be
substituted.
(2)
The amendment made to article 332 of the Constitution by sub-section (1) shall not affect any representation in the
Legislative Assembly of the State of Nagaland or the Legislative Assembly of the State of Meghalaya until the
dissolution of the Legislative Assembly of the State of Nagaland or the Legislative Assembly of the State of Meghalaya
existing at the commencement of this Act.
[The Constitution (Fifty-First Amendment) Act, 1984, it  w?s  en??ted  t?  ?r?vide  f?r  reserv?ti?n  ?f  seats  in  the 
house of  the  ????le  for  scheduled  tribes  in  n?g?l?nd,  megh?l?y?,  miz?r?m  ?nd  ?run??h?l  ?r?desh  ?nd  ?ls? 
f?r  reserv?ti?n  ?f  se?ts  f?r  s?heduled  tribes  in  the  legislative  assemblies of  n?g?l?nd  and  megh?l?y?  by 
suitably  amending  articles  330  ?nd  332. The  number  ?f  se?ts  reserved  f?r  s?heduled  ??stes  and  scheduled 
tribes  in  the  legislative  assembly  ?f  ?ny  st?te  under  ?rti?le  332  ?f  the  ??nstituti?n  will  h?ve  to be  determined 
having  reg?rd  t?  the  provisions  of article  332  (3)  ?f  the  ??nstituti?n.
Also refer
]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2