
----- PAGE 1 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of South Africa for the Avoidance of
double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to
Taxes on income
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/114918679/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
International Treaty - Act
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of South Africa for the
Avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to Taxes on income
TREATY
India
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of South Africa for the
Avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to Taxes on income
Rule
AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-R
EPUBLIC-OF-SOUTH-AFRICA-FOR-THE-AVOIDANCE-OF-DOUBLE-TAXATION-AND-THE-PREVENTION-OF-FISCA
L-EVASION-WITH-RESPECT-TO-TAXES-ON-INCOME of 1998
Published on 21 April 1998
Commenced on 21 April 1998
[This is the version of this document from 21 April 1998.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/14
----- PAGE 2 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of South Africa for the
Avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to Taxes on income
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 198(E), dated 21st April, 1998
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Revenue)
Income-Tax
G.S.R. 198(E). - Whereas the annexed Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the Republic of South Africa for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion
with respect to taxes on income, has entered into force on the twenty-eighth day of November, 1997, in accordance with
Article 28 of the said Agreement, after the notification by both the Contracting States to each other of the completion of
the procedures required under their laws for bringing into force of the said Agreement;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central
Government hereby directs that all the provisions of the said Agreement shall be given effect to in the Union of India.
Annexure
Preamble
The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of South Africa desiring to conclude an
Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income,
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Personal Scope
This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
Article 2
Taxes Covered
1.
The existing taxes to which this Agreement shall apply are:
(a)
In India, the income-tax (including any surcharge thereon);
(hereinafter referred to as "Indian-tax");
(b)
in South Africa:
(i)
the income-tax (the normal tax); and
(ii)
the secondary tax on companies;
(hereinafter referred to as "South African tax").
2.
The Agreement shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes which are imposed by either Contracting
State after the date of signature of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The competent
authorities of the Contracting States shall notify each other of any significant changes which have been made in their
respective taxation laws.
Article 3
General Definitions
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
the term "India" means the territory of the Republic of India and includes the territorial sea and airspace above it. For the
purposes of this Agreement the term shall cover any other maritime zone in which the Republic of India has sovereign
rights, other rights and jurisdictions, according to the Indian law and in accordance with international law in particular as
laid down in the UN Convention of the Law of the Sea, 1982; and
(b)
the term "South Africa" means the Republic of South Africa, and, when used in a geographical sense, includes the
territorial sea thereof as well as any area outside the territorial sea, including the continental shelf, which has been or
Page 2/14
----- PAGE 3 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
may hereafter be designated, under the laws of South Africa and in accordance with international law, as an area within
which South Africa may exercise sovereign rights or jurisdiction;
(c)
the terms "a Contracting State" and the "other Contracting State" mean India or South Africa, as the context requires;
(d)
the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity which is treated as a company or body corporate for tax
purposes;
(e)
the term "competent authority" means:
(i)
in India, the Central Government in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) or their authorised representative;
and
(ii)
in South Africa, the Commissioner for Inland Revenue or his authorised representative;
(f)
the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively an
enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other
Contracting State;
(g)
the term "fiscal year" means:
(i)
in India, the twelve-month period beginning on 1 April;
(ii)
in South Africa, the "year of assessment" as defined in the Income-tax Act, 1962;
(h)
the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise of a Contracting State
except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting State;
(i)
the term "national" means:
(i)
any individual possessing the nationality of a Contracting State;
(ii)
any legal person or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in a Contracting State;
(j)
the term "person" includes an individual, a company and any other body of persons which is treated as an entity for tax
purposes under the taxation laws in force in the respective Contracting States; and
(k)
the term "tax" means Indian tax or South African tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any amount which is
payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this Agreement applies or which represents
a penalty imposed relating to those taxes.
2. As regards the application of the provisions of the Agreement at any time by a Contracting State, any term not defined
therein shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning which it has at that time under the law of that
State for the purposes of the taxes to which the Agreement applies, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that
State prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that State.
Article 4
Resident
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means:
(a)
in India, any person who, under the laws of India, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of
management or any other criterion of a similar nature, but this term does not include any person who is liable to tax in
India in respect only of income from sources in India;
Page 3/14
----- PAGE 4 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
(b)
in South Africa, any individual who is ordinarily resident in South Africa and any other person which has its place of
effective management in South Africa.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his
status shall be determined as follows:
(a)
he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a
permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State with which his
personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);
(b)
if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home
available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an habitual abode;
(c)
if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State of
which he is a national;
(d)
if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the
question by mutual agreement.
3.
Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which its place of effective management is situated.
If the State in which its place of effective management is situated cannot be determined, then the competent authorities
of the Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
Article 5
Permanent Establishment
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through
which the business of enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:
(a)
a place of management;
(b)
a branch;
(c)
an office;
(d)
a factory;
(e)
a workshop;
(f)
a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources, including an installation or
structure used for the exploration or exploitation of natural resources; and
(g)
a warehouse, in relation to a person providing storage facilities for others.
3. A building site, a construction, installation or assembly project or any supervisory activity in connection with such site
or project constitutes a permanent establishment only if it lasts more than six months.
4.
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to
include:
(a)
the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise;
Page 4/14
----- PAGE 5 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
(b)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage,
display or delivery;
(c)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by
another enterprise;
(d)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise, or for
collecting information, for the enterprise;
(e)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity of
a preparatory or auxiliary character, and
(f)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a) to
(e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or
auxiliary character.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person -- other than an agent of an independent status
to whom paragraph 6 applies -- is acting on behalf of an enterprise and has, and habitually exercises, in a Contracting
State an authority to conclude contacts, in the name of the enterprise, that enterprise shall be deemed to have
permanent establishment in that State in respect of any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, unless
the activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through a fixed place of
business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that
paragraph.
6.
An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State merely because it carries
on business in that State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status,
provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business.
7.
The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a
resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent
establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
Article 6
Income from Immovable property
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property, including income from agriculture or
forestry, situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which
the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed
property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working
of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources, ships, boats and aircraft shall not be
regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting or use in any other form of
immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and to
income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
Article 7
Business profits
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on
business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on
business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is
Page 5/14
----- PAGE 6 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
attributable to that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other
Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be
attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly
independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are
incurred for the purposes of the permanent establishment, including executive and general administrative expenses so
incurred, whether in the Contracting State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere, in accordance
with and subject to the limitations prescribed in the taxation laws in that Contracting State.
4. In so far as it has been customary in a Contracting State to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanent
establishment on the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in
paragraph 2 shall preclude that Contracting State from determining the profits to be taxed by such an apportionment as
may be customary. The method of apportionment adopted shall, however, be such that the result shall be in accordance
with the principles contained in this Article.
5. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise
6. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
7. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Agreement, then the
provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
Article 8
Shipping and Air Transport
1. Profits of an enterprise of a Contacting State from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be
taxable only in that State.
2. For the purposes of this Article, profits, from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall include:
(a)
profits derived from the rental on a bare boat basis of ships or aircraft used in international traffic,
(b)
profits derived from the use or rental of containers,
if such profits are incidental to the profits to which the provisions of paragraph 1 apply.
3. For the purposes of this Article, interest on funds connected with the operations of ships or aircraft in international
traffic shall be regarded as profits derived from the operations of such ships or aircraft and the provisions of Article 11
shall not apply in relation to such interest.
4. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to profits from the participations in a pool, a joint business or an
international operating agency.
Article 9
Associated Enterprises
1. Where
(a)
an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an
enterprise of the other Contracting State; or
(b)
the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting
State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations
which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for
those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may
be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State and taxes accordingly - profits on which
an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included are
Page 6/14
----- PAGE 7 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between the two
enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shall
make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits if that other State considers
the adjustment justified. In determining such adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this
Agreement and the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall if necessary consult each other.
Article 10
Dividends
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident of the other
Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends.
The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the mode of application of these limitations by mutual
agreement.
This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares or other rights participating in profits (not being
debt-claims), as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment as income
from shares by the laws of the Contracting State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal
services from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as
the case may be, shall apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting
State, that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except in so far as such dividends
are paid to a resident of that other State or in so far as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is
effectively connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the
company's undistributed profits to a tax on undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits
consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in such other State.
Article 11
Interest
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of that
State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the interest the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the
gross amount of the interest.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, interest arising in a Contracting State shall be except from tax
in that State if it is derived and beneficially owned by:
(a)
the Government, a political sub-division or a local authority of the other Contracting State;
(b)
the Reserve Bank of India or the South African Reserve Bank; or
(c)
any agency or instrumentality which is wholly owned by the Government of a Contracting State and which has been
approved in writing by the competent authorities of the Contracting States for the purposes of this paragraph.
4. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by
mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from
government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds, or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purposes of
this Article.
Page 7/14
----- PAGE 8 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
5. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a Contracting
State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent establishment
situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and
the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or
fixed base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State itself, a political sub-division, a
local authority or a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a
Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which
the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was incurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent
establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent
establishment or fixed base is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments
shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this
Agreement.
Article 12
Royalties and Fees for Technical Services
1. Royalties or fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such royalties or fees for technical services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise,
and according to the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical
services, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties or fees for technical
services.
3. The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or
the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work (including cinematograph films and films, tapes or
discs for radio or television broadcasting), any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or
for the use of, or the right to use, industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, or for information concerning industrial,
commercial or scientific experience.
4. The term "fees for technical services" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration
for services of a managerial, technical or consultancy nature, including the provision of services by technical or other
personnel, but does not include payments for services mentioned in Article 15.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical
services, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the
royalties or fees for technical services arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that
other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right, property or contract in
respect of which the royalties or fees for technical services are paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
6. Royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State
itself, a political sub-division, a local authority or a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the
royalties or fees for technical services, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State
a permanent establishment or a fixed base with which the right, property or contract in respect of which the royalties or
fees for technical services are paid is effectively connected, and such royalties or fees for technical services are borne
by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to
arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the royalties or fees for technical services exceeds the amount which would have
been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this
Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable
according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Agreement.
Page 8/14
----- PAGE 9 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
Article 13
Capital Gains
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6
and situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed
base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing
independent personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or
with the whole enterprise) or of such fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains of an enterprise of a Contracting State from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international traffic or
movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships or aircraft, shall be taxable only in that State.
4. Gains from the alienation of shares or similar rights in a company, or of an interest in a partnership, trust or estate, the
assets of which consist principally of immovable property situated in a Contracting State, may be taxed in that State.
5. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the sale, exchange or other disposition, directly or indirectly,
of shares or similar rights in a company, other than those mentioned in paragraph 4, which is a resident of the other
Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
6. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in the preceding paragraphs, shall be taxable only
in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
Article 14
Independent Personal Services
1. Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State in respect of professional services or other
activities of an independent character shall be taxable only in that State unless he has a fixed base regularly available to
him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing his activities. If he has such a fixed base, the income
may be taxed in the other State but only so much of it as is attributable to that fixed base. For the purposes of this
Agreement, where an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State stays in the other Contracting State for a period
or periods exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any twelve-month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year
concerned, he shall be deemed to have a fixed base regularly available to him in that other State and the income that is
derived from his activities that are performed in that other State shall be attributable to that fixed base.
2. The term "professional services" includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching
activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, dentists and accountants.
Article 15
Dependent personal Services
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18 and 19, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a
resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is
exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom
may be taxed in that other State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of
an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if:
(a)
the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any
twelve-month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned; and
(b)
the remuneration is paid by or on behalf of an employer who is not a resident of the other State; and
(c)
the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in the other State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised
aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a Contracting State may be taxed in that
State.
Article 16
Directors' Fees
Directors' fees and similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of the
Page 9/14
----- PAGE 10 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
board of directors of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
Article 17
Entertainers and Sportspersons
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 7, 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
entertainer such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from his
personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an entertainer or a sportsperson in his capacity as such
accrues not to the entertainer or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the
provisions of Articles 7, 14 and 15, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the entertainer or
sportsperson are exercised.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, income derived by an entertainer or sportsperson from his personal
activities as such shall be exempt from tax in the Contracting State in which these activities are exercised if the activities
are exercised within the framework of a visit which is wholly or mainly supported by the other Contracting State, political
sub-division, a local authority or public institution thereof.
Article 18
Pensions and Annuities
1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, pensions and other similar remuneration and annuities arising in
a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State, may be taxed in the first-mentioned State.
2. The term "annuity" means a stated sum payable periodically at stated times during life or during a specified or
ascertainable period of time under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full consideration in
money or money's worth.
Article 19
Government Service
1.
(a)
Salaries, wages and similar remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a political sub-division or
a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or sub-division or authority shall be
taxable only in that State.
(b)
However, such salaries, wages and similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the
services are rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who:
(i)
is a national of that State; or
(ii)
did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2.
(a)
Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority thereof
to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or sub-division or authority shall be taxable only in that
State.
(b)
However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of, and a
national of, that State.
3. The provisions of Article 15, 16, 17 or 18 shall apply to salaries, wages and similar remuneration, and to pensions, in
respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political sub-division or
a local authority thereof.
Article 20
Students, Apprentices and Business Trainees
1. A student, apprentice or business trainee who is present in a Contracting State solely for the purpose of his education
or training and who is, or immediately before being so present was, a resident of the other Contracting State, shall be
exempt from tax in the first-mentioned State on payments received from outside that first-mentioned State for the
Page 10/14
----- PAGE 11 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
purposes of his maintenance, education or training.
2. Payments which a student or business apprentice receives as remuneration from employment in the first-mentioned
State, in an amount not exceeding a sum equivalent to 3000 US dollars in the currency of the first-mentioned State
during any fiscal year shall be exempt from tax in the first-mentioned State during the period ending five years after the
date of his first arrival in the first-mentioned Contracting State.
Article 21
Other Income
Items of income arising in a Contracting State which are not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this Agreement may
be taxed in that State.
Article 22
Elimination of Double Taxation
Double taxation shall be eliminated as follows:
(a)
In India, where a resident of India derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, may be
taxed in South Africa, India shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident an amount equal to the
South African tax paid, whether directly or by deduction. Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the
income-tax (as computed before the deduction is given) which is attributable to the income which may be taxed in South
Africa.
(b)
In South Africa, Indian tax paid by residents of South Africa in respect of income taxable in India, in accordance with the
provisions of the Agreement shall be deducted from the taxes due according to South African fiscal law. Such deduction
shall not, however, exceed an amount which bears to the total South African tax payable the same ratio as the income
concerned bears to the total income.
Article 23
Non-discrimination
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any
requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to
which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances are or may be subjected. This provision shall
notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not residents of one or both of the Contracting
States.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State
carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as preventing a Contracting State from charging
the profits of a permanent establishment which a company of the other Contracting State has in the first-mentioned
State at a rate of tax which is not more than 10 percentage points higher than that imposed on the profits of a similar
company of the first-mentioned Contracting State, nor as being in conflict with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 7
of this Agreement.
3. Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to residents of the other
Contracting State any personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for taxation purposes on account of civil status or
family responsibilities which it grants to its own residents.
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled directly or indirectly, by
one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any taxation
or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which other similar enterprises of that first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
5. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 5 of Article 11 or paragraph 6 of Article 12 apply,
interest, royalties, fees for technical services and other disbursements paid by an enterprise of a Contracting State to a
resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be
deductible under the same conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State.
6. In this Article the term "taxation" means taxes which are the subject of the Agreement.
Article 24
Mutual Agreement Procedure
Page 11/14
----- PAGE 12 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in
taxation not in accordance with this Agreement, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the domestic law of
those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a resident or, if his case
comes under paragraph 1 of Article 23, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national. The case must be
presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in accordance with the
Agreement.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive
at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracting
State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Agreement. Any agreement reached
shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties
or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Agreement. They may also consult together for the
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Agreement.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of
reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs. When it seems advisable in order to reach agreement
to have an oral exchange of opinions, such exchange may take place through a joint commission consisting of
representatives of the competent authorities of the Contracting States.
Article 25
Exchange of Information
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information, including documents, as is
necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Agreement or of the domestic laws of the Contracting States concerning
taxes covered by the Agreement in so far as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Agreement. The exchange of
information is not restricted by Article 1. Any information received by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the
same manner as information obtained under the domestic law of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or
authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement
or prosecution in respect of, or the determination of appeals in relation to, the taxes covered by the Agreement. Such
persons or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court
proceedings or in judicial decisions.
2. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:
(a)
to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws or the administrative practice of that or of the other
Contracting State;
(b)
to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of that or of the
other Contracting State;
(c)
to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial commercial or professional secret or trade
process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (order public).
Article 26
Assistance in Recovery
1. The Contracting States shall, to the extent permitted by their respective domestic law, lend assistance to each other in
order to recover the taxes referred to in Article 2 as well as interest and penalties with regard to such taxes, provided
that reasonable steps to recover such taxes have been taken by the Contracting State requesting such assistance.
2. Claims which are the subject of requests for assistance shall not have priority over taxes owing in the Contracting
State rendering assistance and the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 25 shall also apply to any information which, by
virtue of this Article, is supplied to the competent authority of a Contracting State
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall by mutual agreement settle the mode of application of the
provisions of this Article.
Article 27
Members of Diplomatic Missions and Consular Posts
Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts under
Page 12/14
----- PAGE 13 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 28
Entry into Force
1. Each of the Contracting States shall notify to the other the completion of the procedures required by its law for the
bringing into force of this Agreement. The Agreement shall enter into force on the date of receipt of the later of these
notifications.
2. The provisions of the Agreement shall apply:
(a)
in India:
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited in the fiscal year beginning in the calendar year next
following that in which the Agreement enters into force; and
(ii)
in respect of other taxes, for any fiscal year beginning in the calendar year next following that in which the Agreement
enters into force;
(b)
in South Africa, in respect of fiscal years beginning on or after the first day of January next following the date upon which
the Agreement enters into force.
Article 29
Termination
1. This Agreement shall remain in force indefinitely but either of the Contracting States may terminate the Agreement
through the diplomatic channel, by giving to the other Contracting State written notice of termination not later than 30
June of any calendar year starting five years after the year in which the Agreement entered into force.
2. In such event the Agreement shall cease to apply:
(a)
in India:
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited in the fiscal year beginning in the calendar year next
following that in which such notice is given; and
(ii)
in respect of other taxes, for any fiscal year beginning in the calendar year next following that in which such notice is
given;
(b)
in South Africa, in respect of fiscal years beginning after the end of the calendar year in which such notice is given.
In Witness Whereof the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Agreement.
Done at New Delhi in duplicate, this Fourth day of December, 1996, in the English and Hindi languages, both texts being
equally authentic. In case of divergence in interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
The Minister of Finance
The Minister of Trade and Industry
For the Government ofthe Republic of India
For the Government ofthe Republic of South Africa
Protocol
At the signing of the Agreement concluded today between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government
of the Republic of South Africa for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to
taxes on income, the undersigned have agreed that the following provisions shall form an integral part of the said
Agreement:
1. With reference to any provision of the Agreement in terms of which income derived by a resident of a Contracting
State may be taxed in the other Contracting State, it is understood that such income may, subject to the provisions of
Article 22, also be taxed in the first-mentioned Contracting State.
2. With reference to paragraph 1 of Article 7, it is understood that where a permanent establishment which an enterprise
of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State, participates, itself or together with other parts of that enterprise
Page 13/14
----- PAGE 14 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republ...
or with an associated enterprise, in the negotiation, conclusion or fulfilment of a contract entered into by that enterprise
or associated enterprise, there shall be attributed to the permanent establishment that portion of the profits of the
contract arising in the other State as relates to the contribution by the permanent establishment to the negotiation,
conclusion or fulfilment of the contract.
3. With reference to paragraph 3 of Article 7, it is agreed that the limitations referred to therein shall in no event be less
than those prevailing on the day of the signing of the Agreement.
In Witness Whereof the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Protocol.
Done at New Delhi in Duplicate this fourth day of December 1996, in the English and Hindi languages, both texts being
equally authentic. In case of any divergence in interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
The Minister of Finance
The Minister of Trade and Industry
For the Government ofthe Republic of India
For the Government ofthe Republic of South Africa
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 14/14