
----- PAGE 1 -----
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State ...
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the State of Qatar for the Avoidance of Double
Taxation and for the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to
Taxes on Income
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/103315298/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
International Treaty - Act
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State of Qatar for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and for the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
TREATY
India
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State of Qatar for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and for the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
Rule
AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-S
TATE-OF-QATAR-FOR-THE-AVOIDANCE-OF-DOUBLE-TAXATION-AND-FOR-THE-PREVENTION-OF-FISCAL-EVAS
ION-WITH-RESPECT-TO-TAXES-ON-INCOME of 2000
Published on 8 February 2000
Commenced on 8 February 2000
[This is the version of this document from 8 February 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/14
----- PAGE 2 -----
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State ...
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State of Qatar for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and for the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
Published Vide Notification No. G.S.R. 96(E), dated 8th February, 2000
Ministry of Finance
(Department of Revenue)
(Foreign Tax Division)
G.S.R. 96(E). - Whereas the annexed Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government
of the State of Qatar for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on
income has come into force on the 15th day of January, 2000, on the notification by both the Contracting States to each
other, under Article 29 of the said Agreement, of the completion of the procedures required by their respective laws for
bringing into force of the said Agreement;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central
Government hereby directs that all the provisions of the said Agreement shall be given effect to in the Union of India.
The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State of Qatar, desiring to conclude an Agreement
for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and with a view
to promoting economic cooperation between the two countries, have agreed as follows :
Article 1
Persons Covered
This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
Article 2
Taxes Covered
1.
This Agreement shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its political subdivisions or
local authorities irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
2.
The existing taxes to which the Agreement shall apply are in particular:
(a)
In India:
the income tax, including any surcharge thereon; and
(hereinafter referred to as "Indian tax");
(b)
In the State of Qatar:
the income tax
(hereinafter referred to as "Qatari Tax")
3.
The Agreement shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes which are imposed after the date of
signature of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes referred to in para 2. The competent
authorities of the Contracting States shall notify each other significant changes which have been made in their
respective taxation laws.
Article 3
General Definitions
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
the term "India" means the territory of India and includes the territorial sea and airspace above it, as well as any other
maritime zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and jurisdiction, according to the Indian law and in
accordance with international law, including the U. N. Convention on the Law of the Sea;
(b)
The term "The State of Qatar" means the territory of the State of Qatar as well as its territorial sea and its continental
shelf over which it exercise sovereign rights and jurisdiction according to the Qatari Law and in accordance with
International Laws.
(c)
Page 2/14
----- PAGE 3 -----
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State ...
the term "person" includes an individual, a company, a body of persons and any other entity which is treated as a
taxable unit under the taxation laws in force in the respective Contracting States;
(d)
the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity which is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(e)
the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively an
enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other
Contracting State;
(f)
the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise which is a resident of a
Contracting State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting State;
(g)
the term "competent authority" means:
(i)
in India: the Central Government in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) or their authorised representative;
(ii)
in the State of Qatar: the Minister of Finance, Economy and Commerce or his authorised representative
(h)
the term "national" means:
(i)
any individual possessing the nationality of a Contracting State;
(ii)
any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in a Contracting State.
(i)
the term "fiscal year" means :
(i)
in the case of India, "previous year" as defined in the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961);
(ii)
in the case of the State of Qatar "taxable year" as defined in Qatar Income Tax Law.
(j)
the term "tax" means Indian tax or Qatari tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any amount which is payable
in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this Agreement applies or which represents a
penalty or fine imposed relating to those taxes;
(k)
the terms "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State" mean the Republic of India or the State of Qatar as the
context requires.
2. As regards the application of the Agreement by a Contracting State any term not defined therein shall, unless the
context otherwise requires have the meaning which it has under the law of that State concerning the taxes to which the
Agreement applies.
Article 4
Resident
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the laws
of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management or any other criterion of a
similar nature. This term, however, does not include any person who is liable to tax in that State in respect only of
income from sources in that State.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his
status shall be determined as follows:
(a)
he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a
permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State with which his
personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);
Page 3/14
----- PAGE 4 -----
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State ...
(b)
if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home
available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which he has an habitual abode;
(c)
if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State of
which he is a national;
(d)
if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the
question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which its place of effective management is situated. If the
State in which its place of effective management is situated cannot be determined, then the competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
Article 5
Permanent Establishment
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially :
(a)
a place of management;
(b)
a branch;
(c)
an office;
(d)
a factory;
(e)
a workshop;
(f)
a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources;
(g)
a sales outlet;
(h)
a warehouse in relation to a person providing storage facilities for others; and
(i)
a farm, plantation or other place where agricultural, forestry, plantation or related activities are carried on.
3. A building site, construction, assembly project or supervisory activities in connection therewith constitute a permanent
establishment only if such site, project or activity last more than six months.
4.
An enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State and to carry on business
through that permanent establishment if it provides services or facilities in connection with, or supplies plant and
machinery on hire used for or to be used in the prospecting for, or extraction or exploitation of mineral oils in that State.
5.
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be decided not to
include :
(a)
the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display or delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise;
(b)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage,
display or delivery;
Page 4/14
----- PAGE 5 -----
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State ...
(c)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by
another enterprise;
(d)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of collecting
information, for the enterprise;
(e)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity of
a preparatory or auxiliary character;
(f)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in subparagraphs (a) to
(e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or
auxiliary character.
6.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person— other than an agent of an independent status
to whom paragraph 8 applies— is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned Contracting State in respect of
any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, if such a person :
(a)
has and habitually exercises in that State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise, unless the
activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 5 which, if exercise through a fixed place of
business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that
paragraph; or
(b)
has no such authority, but habitually maintains in the first-mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise from which
he regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise; or
(c)
habitually secures orders in the first-mentioned State, wholly or almost wholly for the enterprise itself or for the
enterprise and other enterprises controlling, controlled by, or subject to the same control, as that enterprise.
7.
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall, except in
regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collects
premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of an
independent status to whom paragraph 8 applies.
8.
An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State merely because it carries
on business in that State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status,
provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. However, when the activities of such an
agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise, he will not be considered an agent of an
independent status within the meaning of this paragraph.
9.
The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a
resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent
establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
Article 6
Income from Immovable Property
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture or
forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which
the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed
Page 5/14
----- PAGE 6 -----
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State ...
property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working
of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources; ships, boats and aircraft shall not be
regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of
immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and to
income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
Article 7
Business Profits
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on
business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on
business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may also be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is
attributable to that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other
Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be
attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly
independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are
incurred for the purposes of the business of the permanent establishment, including executive and general
administrative expenses so incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or
elsewhere, in accordance with the provisions of and subject to the limitations of the tax laws of that State.
4. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
5. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
6. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Agreement, then the
provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
Article 8
Shipping and Air Transport
1. Profits derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of ships or aircrafts in international traffic
shall be taxable only in that State.
2. In the case of the State of Qatar for the purposes of the preceding paragraph the ships and aircraft shall mean Gulf
Air Company and United Arab Shipping Company so long as the State of Qatar owns a share in these companies or any
other air or sea transport enterprise designated by the Government of the State of Qatar.
3. Profits derived by a transportation enterprise which is a resident of a Contracting State from the use, maintenance, or
rental of containers (including trailers and other equipment for the transport of containers) used for the transport of
goods or merchandise in international traffic shall be taxable only in that Contracting State unless the containers are
used solely within the other Contracting State.
4. For the purposes of this Article, interest on funds connected with the operation of ships or aircrafts in international
traffic shall be regarded as profits derived from the operation of such ships or aircraft, and the provisions of Article 11
shall not apply in relation to such interest.
5. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to profits from the participation in pool, a joint business or an
international operating agency.
Article 9
Associated Enterprises
1. Where
(a)
an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an
enterprise of the other Contracting State, or
(b)
Page 6/14
----- PAGE 7 -----
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State ...
the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting
State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State, and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the
two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations which differ from those which would be made between
independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises,
but by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed
accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State- and taxes accordingly- profits on
which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included
are profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first mentioned State if the conditions made between the
two enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State
shall make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such
adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Agreement and the competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall, if necessary consult each other. However, in such circumstances a Contracting State shall not
adjust the profits of an enterprise after the expiry of the time limits provided under its statute of limitations.
Article 10
Dividends
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the dividends the tax so
charged shall not exceed.
(a)
5 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends if the beneficial owner is a company which owns at least ten per cent of
the shares of the company paying the dividend; and
(b)
10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends in all other cases.
This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares or other rights, not being debt-claims,
participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment
as income from shares by the laws of the State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal
services from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the
case may be, shall apply
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting
State, that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends
are paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the company's
undistributed profits to a tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits
consist wholly or partly or profits or income rising in such other State.
Article 11
Interest
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of that
State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the interest the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the
gross amount of the interest.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest arising in a Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that
State provided it is derived and beneficially owned by :
Page 7/14
----- PAGE 8 -----
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State ...
(i)
the Government, a political subdivision or a local authority of the other Contracting State; or
(ii)
the Central Bank of the other Contracting State; or any other bank or governmental financial institutions/agencies that
may be mutually agreed upon between the two Contracting States.
4. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by
mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from
government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of
this Article.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that state itself, a political subdivision, a
local authority or a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a
Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which
the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was incurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent
establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the Contracting State in which the permanent
establishment or fixed base is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments
shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this
Agreement.
Article 12
Royalties and Fees for Technical Services
1. Royalties or fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such royalties or fees for technical services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise,
and according to the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical
services, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties or fees for technical
services.
3. (a) The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of,
or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films, and films or tapes for
television or radio broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or any
industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific
experience.
(b)
The term "fees for technical services" means payment of any kind in consideration for the rendering of any managerial,
technical or consultancy services including the provision of services by technical or other personnel but does not include
payments for services mentioned in Article 14 and 15 of this Agreement.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical
services being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the royalties
or fees for technical services arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the
royalties or fees for technical services are paid in effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed
base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
5. Royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State
Page 8/14
----- PAGE 9 -----
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State ...
itself, a political subdivision, a local authority or a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the royalties
or fees for technical services, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a
permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the liability to pay the royalties or fees for technical
services was incurred, and such royalties or fees for technical services are borne by such permanent establishment or
fixed base, then such royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the
permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the royalties or fees for technical services, having regard to the use, right or
information for which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the
beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned
amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting
State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Agreement.
Article 13
Capital Gains
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6
and situated in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable properly forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed
base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing
independent personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or
with the whole enterprise) or of such fixed base, may also be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international
traffic or movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships, aircraft shall be taxable only in that State.
4. Gains from the alienation of shares of the capital stock of a company the property of which consists directly or
indirectly principally of immovable property situated in a Contracting State may be taxed in that State.
5. Gains from the alienation of shares other than those mentioned in paragraph 4 in a company which is a resident of a
Contracting State may be taxed in that State.
6. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
Article 14
Independent Personal Services
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of professional services or other activities of an
independent character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following circumstances, when such income may
also be taxed in the other Contracting State :
(a)
if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing his activities,
in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in that other State; or
(b)
if his stay in the other State is for a period or periods aggregating 183 days or more in any 12-month period commencing
or ending in the fiscal year concerned; in that case, only so much of the income as is derived from his activities
performed in that other State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "professional services" includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching
activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, surgeons, dentists and
accountants.
Article 15
Dependent Personal Services
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18 and 19, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a
resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is
exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom
may be taxed in that other State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of
Page 9/14
----- PAGE 10 -----
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State ...
an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if:
(a)
the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any
12-month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned, and
(b)
the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State, and
(c)
the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in the other State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised
aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic, by an enterprise of a Contracting State may be taxed in that
State.
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the two Contracting States shall exempt salaries, wages,
allowances and perquisites from tax in the case of employees of a designated national air transport carrier of either
Contracting State provided that they are nationals of the other Contracting State.
Article 16
Directors' Fees
Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of
the board of directors of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other
State.
Article 17
Artistes and Sports Persons
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sports person, from his
personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an entertainer or a sportsperson in his capacity as such
accrues not to the entertainer or sports person himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the
provisions of Articles 7, 14 and 15, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the entertainer or sports
person are exercised.
3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, shall not apply to income from activities performed in a Contracting State by
entertainers or sports persons if the visit to that State is substantially supported by public funds of one or both of the
contracting States or of political sub-divisions or local authorities thereof. In such a case, the income is taxable only in
the Contracting State of which the entertainer or sports person is a resident.
Article 18
Pensions
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, pensions and other similar remuneration paid to a resident of a
Contracting State in consideration of past employment shall be taxable only in that State.
Article 19
Government Service
1. (a) Remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority
thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or sub-division or authority shall be taxable only in
that State.
(b)
However, such remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the services are rendered in that
State and the individual is a resident of that State who:
(i)
is a national of that State; or
(ii)
did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. (a) Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or political sub-division or a local authority
thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or sub-division or authority shall be taxable only in
that State.
Page 10/14
----- PAGE 11 -----
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State ...
(b)
However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of, and a
national of, that State.
3. The provisions of Articles 15, 16 and 18 shall apply to remuneration and pensions in respect of services rendered in
connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority thereof.
Article 20
Students and Apprentices
A student or business apprentice who is or was a resident of a Contracting State immediately before visiting the other
Contracting State and who is present in that other Contracting State solely for the purpose of his education or training
shall be exempt from tax in that other State on:
(a)
payments made to him by persons residing outside that other State for the purposes of his maintenance, education or
training; and
(b)
remuneration from employment in that other State, in an amount not exceeding US $1000 or its equivalent amount
during any fiscal year, as the case may be, provided that such employment is directed to his studies or is undertaken for
the purpose of his maintenance.
Article 21
Professors, Teachers and Research Scholars
1. A professor or teacher who is or was a resident of the Contracting State immediately before visiting the other
Contracting State for the purpose of teaching or engaging in research, or both, at a university, college, school or other
approved institution in that other Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that other State on any remuneration for
such teaching or research for a period not exceeding two years from the date of his arrival in that other State.
2. This Article shall not apply to income from research, if such research is undertaken primarily for the private benefit
person or persons.
3. For the purposes of this Article and Article 20, an individual shall be deemed to be a resident of a Contracting State if
he is resident in that State in the fiscal year in which he visits the other Contracting State or in the immediately preceding
fiscal year.
4. For the purposes of paragraph approved institution means an institution which has been approved in this regard by
the competent authority of the concerned State.
Article 22
Other Income
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this
Agreement shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The Provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in
paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in
the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the
income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of
Article or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, items of income of a resident of a Contracting State not dealt
with in the foregoing articles of this Agreement and arising in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other
State.
Article 23
Mutual Agreement Procedure
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in
taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the
domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a
resident or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 25, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national.
The case must be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in
accordance with the provisions of the Agreement.
Page 11/14
----- PAGE 12 -----
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State ...
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive
at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracting
State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Agreement. Any agreement reached
shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties
or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Agreement. They may also consult each other for the
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Agreement.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of
reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs. When it seems advisable in order to reach agreement
to have an oral exchange of opinions, such exchange may take place through a Commission consisting of
representatives of the competent authorities of the Contracting States.
Article 24
Elimination of Double Taxation
1. The laws in force in either of the Contracting State will continue to govern the taxation of income in the respective
Contracting State except where provisions to the contrary are made in this Agreement.
2. In the case of India double taxation shall be eliminated as follows :
Where a resident of India derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, may be taxed in
the State of Qatar, India shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident an amount equal to the
income tax paid in the State of Qatar whether directly or by deduction at source. Such amount shall not however exceed
that part of the income tax, as computed before the deduction is given, which is attributable to the income which may be
taxed in the State of Qatar.
3. In the case of the State of Qatar double taxation shall be eliminated as follows:
Where a resident of the State of Qatar derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, may
be taxed in India, the State of Qatar shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident an amount
equal to the income tax paid in India. Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the income tax as
computed before the deduction is given, which is attributable to the income which may be taxed in India.
4. The tax payable in the Contracting State mentioned in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article shall be deemed to include
the tax which would have been payable but for the tax incentives granted under the laws of the Contracting State and
which are designed to promote economic development.
Article 25
Non-Discrimination
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any
requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to
which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances are or may be subjected. This provision shall,
notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not residents of one or both of the Contracting
States.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State
carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as preventing a Contracting State from charging
the profits of a permanent establishment which a company of the other Contracting State has in the first-mentioned
State at a rate of tax which is higher than that imposed on the profits of a similar company of the first-mentioned
Contracting State, nor as being in conflict with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 7 of this Agreement.
3. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to residents of the other Contracting
State any personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for taxation purposes on account of civil status or family
responsibilities which it grants to its own nationals.
4. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing a legal obligation on a Contracting State to extend to the
residents of the other Contracting State the benefit of any treatment preference or privilege which may be accorded to
any other State or its residents through agreements to which the first mentioned Contracting State may be a party.
5. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by
one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any taxation
or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
Page 12/14
----- PAGE 13 -----
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State ...
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
6. Except where the provisions of Article 9, paragraph 7 of Article 11, or paragraph 6 of Article 12, apply, interest,
royalties and other disbursement paid by an enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible under the same conditions as if
they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State. Similarly, any debts of an enterprise of a Contracting State
to a resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable capital of such enterprise,
be deductible under the same conditions as if they had been contracted to a resident of the first-mentioned State.
7. In this Article, the term "taxation" means taxes which are the subject of this Agreement.
Article 26
Exchange of Information
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting State shall exchange such information (including documents), as is
necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Agreement or of the domestic laws of the Contracting States concerning
taxes covered by the Agreement insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Agreement in particular for the
prevention of fraud or evasion of such taxes. The exchange of information is not restricted by Article 1. Any information
received by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as information obtained under the
domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative
bodies) involved in the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in respect of, or the determination of
appeals in relation to, the taxes covered by the Agreement. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for
such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions.
2. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:
(a)
to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other
Contracting State;
(b)
to supply information or documents which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration
of that or of the other Contracting State;
(c)
to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade
process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy.
Article 27
Collection Assistance
1. The Contracting States undertake to lend assistance to each other in the collection of taxes to which this Agreement
relates, together with interest, costs, and civil penalties relating to such taxes, referred to in this Article as a "revenue
claim".
2. Request for assistance by the competent authority of a Contracting State in the collection of a revenue claim shall
include a certification by such authority that, under the laws of that State, the revenue claim has been finally determined.
For the purposes of this Article, a revenue claim is finally determined when a Contracting State has the right under its
internal law to collect the revenue claim and the taxpayer has no further rights to restrain collection.
3. Amount collected by the competent authority of a Contracting State pursuant to this Article shall be forwarded to the
competent authority of the other Contracting State. However, the first-mentioned Contracting State shall be entitled to
reimbursement of costs, if any, incurred in the course of rendering such assistance to the extent mutually agreed
between the competent authorities of the two States.
4. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing on either Contracting State the obligation to carry out
administrative measures of a different nature from those used in the collection of its own taxes or those which would be
contrary to its public policy.
Article 28
Diplomatic Agents and Consular Officers
Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the fiscal privileges of diplomatic agents or consular officers under the general
rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 29
Entry into Force
Page 13/14
----- PAGE 14 -----
Agreement Between The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State ...
1. The Contracting States shall notify each other in writing, through diplomatic channels, the completion of the procedure
required by the respective laws for the entry into force of this Agreement.
2. This Agreement shall enter into force thirty days after the receipt of the latter of the notifications referred to in
paragraph 1 of this Article.
3. The provisions of this Agreement shall have effect in India and in the State of Qatar in respect of income arising on or
after the first day of the fiscal year next following the calendar year in which the Agreement enters into force.
Article 30
Termination
This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State may terminate the
Agreement, through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination at least six months before the end of any
calendar year after the expiration of five years from the date of entry into force of the Agreement. In such event, the
Agreement shall cease to have effect in India and the State of Qatar, in respect of income arising on or after the first day
of the fiscal year next following the calendar year in which the notice of termination is given.
In Witness Whereof the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Agreement.
Signed in two originals at New Delhi this seventh day of April, 1999 in Arabic, Hindi and English languages, all three
texts being equally authentic. In case of divergence between the texts the English text shall be the operative one.
For The Government ofthe
Republic of India
For The Government ofthe State
of Qatar
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 14/14