
----- PAGE 1 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United...
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland on the transfer of sentenced persons
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/82744797/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
International Treaty - Act
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland on the transfer of sentenced persons
TREATY
India
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland on the transfer of sentenced persons
Rule
AGREEMENT-BETWEEN-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-REPUBLIC-OF-INDIA-AND-THE-GOVERNMENT-OF-THE-U
NITED-KINGDOM-OF-GREAT-BRITAIN-AND-NORTHERN-IRELAND-ON-THE-TRANSFER-OF-SENTENCED-PERSO
NS of 2005
Published on 7 July 2005
Commenced on 7 July 2005
[This is the version of this document from 7 July 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland on the transfer of sentenced persons
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United...
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 458(E), dated 7th July 2005
Ministry of Home Affairs
(CS Division)
G.S.R. 458(E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 3 of the Repatriation of
Prisoners Act, 2003 (49 of 2003), the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of the said Act shall apply
to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and notifies the text of the treaty entered into between India
and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland as follows :-
The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, hereinafter referred to as the Contracting States;
Desiring to facilitate the social rehabilitation of sentenced person into their own countries; and
Considering that this objective should be fulfilled by giving foreigners, who have been convicted and sentenced as a
result of their commission of a criminal offence, the opportunity to serve their sentences within their own society;
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Definitions
For the purpose of this Agreement:
(a) "Judgment" means a decision or order of a court or tribunal imposing a sentence;
(b) "receiving State" means a State to which the sentenced person may be, or has been, transferred in order to serve his
sentence;
(c) "sentence" means any punishment or measure involving deprivation of liberty ordered by a court or tribunal for a
determinate period of time or for life imprisonment, in the exercise of its criminal jurisdiction;
(d) "sentenced person" means a person undergoing a sentence of imprisonment under an order passed by a criminal
court including the courts established under the law for the time being in force in the Contracting States;
(e) "transferring State" means the State in which the sentence was imposed on the person who may be, or has been
transferred.
Article 2
General principles
1.
A person sentenced in the territory of one Contracting State may be transferred to the territory of the other Contracting
State in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement in order to serve the sentence imposed on him. To that end,
he may express to the transferring State or the receiving State his willingness to be transferred under this Agreement.
2.
Transfer may be requested by any sentenced person who is a national of a Contracting State or by any other person
who is entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with the law of the Contracting State by making an application to the
Contracting State and in the manner prescribed by the Government of that Contracting State.
Article 3
Conditions for transfer
1. A sentenced person may be transferred under this Agreement only on the following conditions :
(a)
the person is a national of the receiving State;
(b)
the death penalty has not been imposed on the sentenced person;
(c)
the judgment is final:
(d)
no inquiry, trial or any other proceeding is pending against the sentenced person in the transferring State;
(e)
at the time of receipt of the request for transfer, the sentenced person still has at least six months of the sentence to
serve or is undergoing a sentence of life imprisonment;
(f)
that the acts or omissions for which that person was sentenced in the transferring State are those which are punishable
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United...
as a crime in the receiving State, or would constitute a Criminal offence if committed on its territory;
(g)
the sentenced person has not been convicted for an offence under the military law;
(h)
transfer of custody of the sentenced person to the receiving State shall not be prejudicial to the sovereignty, security or
any other interest of the transferring State;
(i)
consent to the transfer is given by the sentenced person or, where in view of his age or physical or mental condition
either Contracting State considers it necessary, by any other person entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with the
law of the Contracting State; and
(j)
the transferring and receiving States agree to the transfer.
2. In exceptional cases, the transferring and receiving States may agree to a transfer even if the remaining period to be
served by the sentenced person is less than six months.
Article 4
Obligation to furnish information
1. If the sentenced person has expressed an interest to the sentencing State in being transferred under this Agreement,
the transferring State shall send the following information and documents to the receiving State unless either the
receiving or the transferring State has already decided that it will not agree to the transfer :
(a)
the name and nationality, date and place of birth of the sentenced person;
(b)
his address, if any, in the receiving State;
(c)
a statement of the facts upon which the sentence was based;
(d)
the nature, duration and date of commencement of the sentence;
(e)
a certified copy of the judgment and a copy of the relevant provisions of the law under which  the sentence has been
passed against the sentenced person;
(f)
a medical, social or any other report on the sentenced person, where it is relevant for the disposal of his application or
for deciding the nature of his confinement;
(g)
any other information which the receiving State may specify as required in all cases to enable it to consider the
possibility of transfer and to enable it to inform the sentenced person of the full consequences of transfer for him under
its law;
(h)
the request of the sentenced person to be transferred or of a person entitled to act on his behalf in accordance with the
law of the transferring State; and
(i)
a statement indicating how much of the sentence has already been served, including information on any pre-trial
detention, remission, or any other factor relevant to the enforcement of the sentence.
2. For the purposes of enabling a decision to be made on a request under this Agreement, the receiving State shall send
the following information and documents to the transferring State unless either the receiving or the transferring State has
already decided that it will not agree to the transfer :
(a)
a statement or document indicating that the sentenced person is a national of the receiving State;
(b)
a copy of the relevant law of the receiving State constituting the acts or omissions, on account of which the sentence
has been passed in the transferring State as if such acts or omissions were an offence under the law of the receiving
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United...
State or would constitute an offence if committed on its territory;
(c)
a statement of the effect of any law or regulation relating to the duration and enforcement of the sentence in the
receiving State after the sentenced persons transfer including, if applicable, a statement of the effect of paragraph 2 of
Article 8 of this Agreement on his transfer;
(d)
the willingness of the receiving State to accept the transfer of the sentenced person and an undertaking to administer
the remaining part of the sentence of the sentenced person; and
(e)
any other information or document which the transferring State may consider necessary.
Article 5
Requests and replies
1. Requests for transfer shall be made in writing in the prescribed proforma, if any, and addressed through the central
authority of the requesting State through diplomatic channels to the central authority of the requested State. Replies
shall be communicated through the Same channels.
2. For the purpose of paragraph 1 of this Article, the central authority shall be, in relation to India, the Ministry of Home
Affairs; and in relation to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, shall be :
(i)
Her Majesty' Prison Service in relation to England and Wales;
(ii)
The Scottish Prison Service in relation to Scotland; and
(iii)
The Northern Ireland Prison Service in relation to Northern Ireland.
3.
The requested State shall promptly inform the requesting State of its decision whether or not to agree to the requested
transfer.
Article 6
Consent and its verification
1. The transferring State shall ensure that the person required to give consent to the transfer in accordance with
paragraph 1(i) of Article 3 of this Agreement, does so voluntarily and with full knowledge of the legal consequences
thereof. The procedure for giving such consent shall be governed by the law of the transferring State.
2. The transferring State shall afford an opportunity to the receiving State to verify that the consent is given in
accordance with the conditions set out in paragraph 1 of this Article.
Article 7
Effect of transfer for the receiving State
1. The competent authorities of the receiving State shall continue the enforcement of the sentence through a court or
administrative order, as may be required under its national law, under the conditions set out in Article 8 of this
Agreement.
2. Subject to the provisions of Article 10 of this Agreement, the enforcement of the sentence shall be governed by the
law of the receiving State and that State alone shall be competent to take all appropriate decisions.
Article 8
Continued enforcement of sentence
1. The receiving State shall be bound by the legal nature and duration of the sentence as determined by the transferring
State.
2. If, however, the sentence is by its nature or duration or both in compatible with the law of the receiving State, or its
law so requires, that State may, by court or administrative order, adapt the sentence to a punishment or measure
prescribed by its own law. As to its nature and duration the punishment or measure shall, as far as possible, correspond
with that imposed by the judgment of the transferring State. It shall however not aggravate, by its nature or duration, the
sentence imposed in the transferring State.
Article 9
Effect of completion of sentence for the transferring State
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United...
When the receiving State notifies the transferring State under paragraph 1 (a) of Article 12 of this Agreement that the
sentence has been completed, such notification shall have the effect of discharging that sentence in the transferring
State.
Article 10
Pardon, amnesty or commutation and review of judgment
(1)
The transferring State alone shall decide on any application for the review of the judgment.
(2)
Either of the Contracting States may grant pardon, amnesty or commutation of the sentence in accordance with its
Constitution or other laws.
Article 11
Termination of enforcement of sentence
The receiving State shall terminate enforcement of the sentence as soon as it is informed by the transferring State of
any decision or measure as a result of which the sentence ceases to be enforceable.
Article 12
Information on enforcement of sentence
1. The receiving State shall notify the transferring State.
(a)
when the enforcement of the sentence has been completed; or
(b)
if the sentenced person escapes from custody before enforcement of the sentence has been completed. In such cases
the receiving State should make arrangements for his/ her arrest and make him/her liable for committing an offence
under the relevant law of the receiving State;
2. The receiving State shall furnish a special report concerning the enforcement of the sentence, if so required by the
transferring State.
Article 13
Transit
If either Contracting State enters into arrangements for the transfer of sentenced persons with any third State, the other
Contracting State shall cooperate in facilitating the transit through its territory of the sentenced persons being transferred
pursuant to such arrangements, except that it may refuse to grant transit to any sentenced person who is one of its own
nationals. The Contracting State intending to make such a transfer shall give advance notice to the other Contracting
State of such transit.
Article 14
Costs
Any costs incurred in the application of this Agreement shall be borne by the receiving State, except costs incurred
exclusively in the territory of the transferring State. The receiving State may, however, seek to recover all or part of the
costs of transfer from the sentenced person or from some other source.
Article 15
Territorial application
1. This Agreement shall apply;
(a)
to the Republic of India, and
(b)
in relation to the United Kingdom, to Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and to the Isle of Man, and any territory for the
international relations of which the United Kingdom is responsible and to which the Agreement shall have been
extended by agreement between the Contracting States;
and references to the territory of a Contracting State shall be construed accordingly.
2. The Application of this Agreement to any territory, in respect of which extension has been made in accordance with
paragraph 1 of this Article, may be terminated upon expiry of six months' notice given by either Contracting State to the
other though the diplomatic channels.
Article 16
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United...
Language
Requests and supporting documents shall be accompanied by a translation into the language or one of the official
languages of the requesting State.
Article 17
Scope of application
This Agreement shall be applicable to the enforcement of sentences imposed either before or after the entry into force of
this Agreement.
Article 18
Amendments
Any amendments or modifications to this Agreement agreed by the Contracting States shall come into effect when
confirmed by an Exchange of Diplomatic Notes.
Article 19
Final provisions
1. This Agreement shall be subject to ratification and shall enter into force on the date on which instruments of
ratification are exchanged.
2. The Agreement shall continue to remain in force until six months from the date upon which either Contracting State
gives written notice to the other Contracting State of its intention to terminate it.
3. Notwithstanding any termination, this Agreement shall continue to apply to the enforcement of sentences of
sentenced persons who have been transferred under this Agreement before the date on which such termination takes
effect.
In witness whereof the undersigned being duty authorised thereto by their respective Government, have signed this
Agreement.
Done in duplicate at New Delhi on the 18th day of February, 2005, in the Hindi and English languages, all texts being
equally authentic.
For the Government of the Republic of India
For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland
Sd/-
Sd/-
Shivraj V.Patil
Jack Straw
Home Minister
Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs"
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6