
----- PAGE 1 -----
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ARGENT...
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF
INDIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC FOR
THE EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION AND ASSISTANCE IN
COLLECTION WITH RESPECT TO TAXES
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/18936384/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
International Treaty - Act
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC FOR THE EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION AND ASSISTANCE IN COLLECTION WITH
RESPECT TO TAXES
TREATY
India
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC FOR THE EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION AND ASSISTANCE IN COLLECTION WITH
RESPECT TO TAXES
Published on 23 March 2013
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 23 March 2013.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
AGREEMENT FOR AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION AND PREVENTION OF FISCAL EVASION WITH
ARGENTINA
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ARGENT...
Whereas, an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Argentine
Republic for the exchange of information and assistance in collection with respect to taxes was signed at Argentina on
the 21st day of November, 2011 (hereinafter referred to as the Agreement);
And whereas, the date of entry into force of the Agreement is the 28th day of January, 2013, being the date of the later
of the notifications of completion of the procedures as required by the respective laws for entry into force of the
Agreement, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 13 of the Agreement;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central
Government hereby notifies that all the provisions of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India
and the Government of the Argentine Republic for the exchange of information and assistance in collection with respect
to taxes, as set out in the Annexure hereto, shall be given effect to in the Union of India with effect from the 28th day of
January, 2013, that is. the date of entry into force of the Agreement.
The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Argentine Republic, desiring to facilitate the
exchange of information and assistance in collection with respect to taxes have agreed as follows:
Article 1 OBJECT AND SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT
The competent authorities of the Contracting Parties shall provide assistance through exchange of information that is
foreseeably relevant to the administration and enforcement of the domestic laws of the Contracting Parties concerning
taxes covered by this Agreement. Such information shall include information that is foreseeably relevant to the
determination, assessment and collection of such taxes, the recovery and enforcement of tax claims, or the investigation
or prosecution of tax matters. Information shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. The
competent authorities shall also lend assistance to each other in the collection of tax claims. The rights and safeguards
secured to persons by the laws or administrative practice of the requested Party shall continue to be applicable. The
requested Party shall do everything what is necessary in order not to unduly prevent or delay effective exchange of
information or assistance in collection.
Article 2 JURISDICTION
Information shall be exchanged to accordance with this Agreement without regard to whether the person to whom the
information relates is, or whether the information is held by, a resident of a Contracting Parry. However, the requested
Party is not obliged to provide information which is neither held by its authorities nor is in the possession or control of
persons who are within its territorial jurisdiction.
Article 3 TAXES COVERED
1. The taxes which are the subject of this Agreement are:
(a) in India, taxes of every kind and description imposed by the Central Government or the Governments of political
subdivisions or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied;
(b) in Argentina,
(i) income tax;
(ii) value added tax;
(iii) personal assets tax (bienes personales);
(iv) tax on presumptive minimum income (ganancias minima presunta);
(v) excise tax; and
(vi) tax on financial transactions.
2. This Agreement shall also apply to any identical or substantially similar taxes imposed after the date of signature of
this Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The competent authorities of the Contracting Parties shall
notify each other of any substantial changes to the taxation and related information gathering measures and assistance
in collection measures which may affect the obligations of that Party pursuant to this Agreement.
Article 4 DEFINITIONS
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless otherwise defined:
(a) the term "India" means the territory of India and includes the territorial sea and airspace above it, as well as any other
maritime zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and jurisdiction, according to the Indian law and in
accordance with international law, including the U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea;
(b) the term, "Argentina" means the territory of Argentine Republic and includes the territorial sea and airspace above it,
as well as any other maritime zone in which Argentina has sovereign rights, other rights and jurisdiction, according to the
Argentine law and in accordance with international law, including the U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea;
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ARGENT...
(c) the term "Contracting Party" means India or Argentina as the context requires;
(d) the term "competent authority" means
(i) in the case of India, the Finance Minister, Government of India, or his authorized representative;
(ii) in the case of Argentina, "Administraction Federal de Ingresos Publicos" (the Federal Administration of Public
Revenues);
(e) the term "person" includes an individual, a company, a body of persons and any other entity which is treated as a
taxable unit under the taxation laws in force in the respective Contracting Parties;
(f) the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(g) the term "publicly traded company" means any company whose principal class of shares is listed on a recognised
stock exchange provided its listed shares can be readily purchased or sold by the public. Shares can be purchased or
sold "by the public" if the purchase or sale of shares is not implicitly or explicitly restricted to a limited group of investors;
(h) the term "principal class of shares" means the class or classes of shares representing a majority of the voting power
and value of the company;
(i) the term "recognised stock exchange" means
(i) in India, the National Stock Exchange, the Bombay Stock Exchange, and any other stock exchange recognized' by
the Central Government under section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956;
(ii) in Argentina; "Bolsa de Comercio de Buenos Aires"(Stock Exchange of Buenos Aires), or the "Mercado de Valores
de Buenos Aires Sociedad Anonima"; and
(iii) any other stock exchange which the competent authorities agree to recognize for the purposes of this Agreement.
(j) the term "collective investment fund or scheme" means any pooled investment vehicle, irrespective of legal form.
(k) the term "public collective investment fund or scheme" means any collective investment fund or scheme provided the
units, shares or other interests in the fund or scheme can be readily purchased, sold or redeemed by the public. Units,
shares or other interests in the fund or scheme can be readily purchased, sold or redeemed "by the public" if the
purchase, sale or redemption is not implicitly or explicitly restricted to a limited group of investors;
(l) the term "tax" means any tax to which this Agreement applies;
(m) the term "requesting Party" means the Contracting Party-
(i) submitting a request for information to, or
(ii) having received information from, or
(iii) submitting a request for assistance in collection of tax to, the requested Party.
(n) the term "requested Party" means the Contracting Party-
(i) which is requested to provide information, or
(ii) which has provided information, or
(iii) which is requested to provide assistance in collection of tax.
(o) the term "information gathering measures" means laws and administrative or judicial procedures that enable a
Contracting Party to obtain and provide the requested information;
(p) the term "assistance in collection measures" means laws and administrative or judicial procedures that enable a
Contracting Party to collect and remit the requested tax claim;
(q) the term "information" means any fact, statement, document or record in whatever form;
2. As regards the application of this Agreement at any time by a Contracting Party, any term not defined therein shall,
unless the context otherwise requires or the competent authorities agree to a common meaning pursuant to the
provisions of Article 12 of this Agreement, have the meaning that it has at that time under the law of that Party, any
meaning under the applicable tax laws of that Party prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that
Party.
Article 5 EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION UPON REQUEST
1. The competent authority of the requested Party shall provide upon request information for the purposes referred to in
Article 1. Such information shall be exchanged without regard to whether the requested Party needs such information for
its own tax purposes or whether the conduct being investigated would constitute a crime under the laws of the requested
Party if such conduct occurred in the requested Party.
2. If the information in the possession of the competent authority of the requested Party is not sufficient to enable it to
comply with the request for information, that Party shall use all relevant information gathering measures to provide the
requesting Party with the information requested, notwithstanding that the requested Party may not need such
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ARGENT...
information for its own tax purposes.
3. If specifically requested by the competent authority of die requesting Party, the competent authority of the requested
Party shall provide information under this Article, to the extent allowable under its domestic laws, in the form of
depositions of witnesses, and authenticated copies of original records.
4. Each Contracting Party shall ensure that its competent authority, for the purposes of this Agreement, has the authority
to obtain and provide upon request:
(a) information held by banks, other financial institutions, any other person acting in an agency or fiduciary capacity,
including nominees and trustees of such banks, financial institutions or person;
(b) information regarding the legal and beneficial ownership of companies, partnerships, collective investment funds or
schemes, trusts, foundations and other persons, including, within the constraints of Article 2, ownership information on
all such persons in an ownership chain; in the case of collective investment funds or schemes, information on shares,
units and other, interests; in the case of trusts, information on settlors, trustees, beneficiaries and other persons to whom
the trust property title is transferred at the expiration of the trust, wherever applicable; in the case of foundations,
information on founders, members of the foundation council and beneficiaries; and equivalent information in case of
entities that are neither trusts nor foundations.
5. This Agreement does not create an obligation on the Contracting Parties to obtain or provide ownership information
with respect to publicly traded companies or public collective investment funds or schemes unless such information can
be obtained without giving rise to disproportionate difficulties.
6. The competent authority of the requesting Party shall provide the following information to the competent authority of
the requested Party when making a request for information under the Agreement to demonstrate the foreseeable
relevance of the information to the request:
(a) the identity of the person under examination or investigation;
(b) the period for which information is requested;
(c) the nature of the information requested and the form in which the requesting Party would prefer to receive it;
(d) the tax purpose for which the information is sought;
(e) grounds for believing that the information requested is present in the requested Party or is in the possession or
control of a person within the jurisdiction of the requested Party;
(f) to the extent known, the name and address of any person believed to be in possession or control of the requested
information;
(g) a statement that the request is in conformity with the laws and administrative practices of the requesting Party, that if
the requested information was within the jurisdiction of the requesting Party then the competent authority of the
requesting Party would be able to obtain the information under the laws of the requesting Party or in the normal course
of administrative practice and that it is in conformity with this Agreement;
(h) a statement that the requesting Party has pursued all means available in its own territory to obtain the information,
except those that would give rise to disproportionate difficulties.
7. The competent authority of the requested Party shall forward the requested information as promptly as possible to the
requesting Party. To ensure a prompt response, the competent authority of the requested Party shall:
(a) Confirm receipt of a request in writing to the competent authority of the requesting Party and shall notify the
competent authority of the requesting Party of deficiencies in the request, if any, within 60 days of the receipt of the
request;
(b) If the competent authority of the requested Party has been unable to obtain and provide the information within 90
days of receipt of the request, including if it encounters obstacles in furnishing the information or it refuses to furnish the
information, it shall immediately inform the requesting Party, explaining the reason for its inability, the nature of the
obstacles or the reasons for its refusal.
Article 6 TAX EXAMINATIONS ABROAD
1. At the request of the competent authority of the requesting Party, the requested Party may allow representatives of
the competent authority of the requesting Party to enter the territory of the requested Party, to the extent permitted under
its domestic laws, to interview individuals and examine records with the prior written consent of the individuals or other
persons concerned. The competent authority of the requesting Party shall notify the competent authority of the
requested Party of the time and place of the intended meeting with the individuals concerned.
2. At the request of the competent authority of the requesting Party, the requested Party may allow representatives of
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ARGENT...
the competent authority of the requesting Party to be present at the appropriate part of a tax examination in the
requested Party, in which case the competent authority of the requested Party conducting the examination shall, as
soon as possible, notify the competent authority of the requesting Party about the time and place of the examination, the
authority or official designated to carry out the examination and the procedures and conditions required by the requested
Party for the conduct of the examination. All decisions with respect to the conduct of the tax examination shall be made
by the Party conducting the examination.
Article 7 POSSIBILITY OF DECLINING A REQUEST FOR INFORMATION
1. The competent authority of the requested Party may decline to assist:
(a) where the request is not made in conformity with this Agreement; or
(b) where the requesting Parry has not pursued all means available in its own territory to obtain the information, except
where recourse to such means would give rise to disproportionate difficulty; or
(c) where disclosure of the information would be contrary to public policy (ordre public) of the requested Party.
2. This Agreement shall not impose on a Contracting Party the obligation:
(a) to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade
process, provided that information described in paragraph 4 of Article 5 shall not be treated as such a secret or trade
process merely because it meets the criteria in that paragraph; or
(b) to obtain or provide information, which would reveal confidential communications between a client and an attorney,
solicitor or other admitted legal representative where such communications are:
(i) produced for the purposes of seeking or providing legal advice; or
(ii) produced for the purposes of use in existing or contemplated legal proceedings.
3. A request for information shall not be refused on the ground that the tax claim giving rise to the request is disputed.
4. The requested Party shall not be required to obtain and provide information which the requesting Party would be
unable to obtain in similar circumstances under its own laws for the purpose of the administration or enforcement of its
own tax laws or in response to a valid request from the requested Party under this Agreement.
5. The requested Party shall not decline to provide information solely because the request does not include all the
information required under Article 5 if the information can otherwise be provided according to the law of the requested
Party.
Article 8 CONFIDENTIALITY
Any information received by a Contracting Party under this Agreement shall be treated as confidential and may be
disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) in the jurisdiction of the Contracting
Party concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in respect of, or the determination
of appeals in relation to, the taxes covered (including tax claims) by this Agreement. Such persons or authorities shall
use such information only for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial
decisions. The information may not be disclosed to any other person or entity or authority or any other jurisdiction
(including a foreign Government) without the express written consent of the competent authority of the requested Party.
Article 9 ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
1. Unless the competent authorities of the Parties otherwise agree, ordinary costs incurred in providing assistance shall
be borne by the requested Party, and, subject to the provisions of this Article, extraordinary costs incurred in providing
assistance (including costs of engaging external advisors in connection with litigation or otherwise necessary to comply
with the request) shall, if they exceed USD 500, be borne by the requesting Party.
2. The competent authorities will consult each other, in advance, in any particular case where extraordinary costs are
likely to exceed USD 500 to determine whether the requesting party will continue to pursue the request and bear the
cost.
3. The competent authorities shall consult from time to time with regard to this Article.
Article 10 ASSISTANCE IN THE COLLECTION OF TAX CLAIMS
1. The Contracting Parties shall lend assistance to each other in the collection of tax claims.
2. The term "tax claim" as used in this Article means an amount owed in respect of taxes as mentioned in Article 3, as
well as interest, administrative penalties and costs of collection or conservancy related to such amount.
3. When a tax claim of a Contracting Party is enforceable under the laws of that Party and is owed by a person who, at
that time, cannot, under the laws of that Party prevent its collection, that tax claim shall, at the request of the competent
authority of that Party, be accepted for purposes of collection by the competent authority of the other Contracting Party.
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ARGENT...
That tax claim shall be collected by that other Party in accordance with the provisions of its laws applicable to the
enforcement and collection of its own taxes as if the tax claim were a tax claim of that other Party.
4. When a tax claim of a Contracting Party is a claim in respect of which that Party may, under its law, take measures of
conservancy with a view to ensure its collection, that tax claim shall, at the request of the competent authority of that
Party, be accepted for purposes of taking measures of conservancy by the competent authority of the other Contracting
Party. That other Party shall take measures of conservancy in respect of mat tax claim in accordance with the provisions
of its laws as if the tax claim were a tax claim of that other Party even if, at the time when such measures are applied,
the tax claim is not enforceable in the first-mentioned Party or is owed by a person who has a right to prevent its
collection.
5. When a Contracting Party, under its law, takes interim measures of conservancy by freezing of assets before a tax
claim is raised against a person, the competent authority of the other Contracting Party if requested by the competent
authority of the first-mentioned Contracting Party shall take measures for freezing the assets of that person in that
Contracting Party in accordance with the provisions of its law.
6. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4, a tax claim accepted by a Contracting Party for purposes of
paragraph 3 or 4 shall not, in that Party, be subject to the time limits or accorded any priority applicable to a tax claim
under the laws of that Party by reason of its nature as such. In addition, a tax claim accepted by a Contracting Party for
the purposes of paragraph 3 or 4 shall not, in that Party, have any priority applicable to that tax claim under the laws of
the other Contracting Party.
7. Proceedings with respect to the existence, validity or the amount of a tax claim of a Contracting Party shall only be
brought before the courts or administrative bodies of that Party. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as creating or
providing any right to such proceedings before any court or administrative body of the other Contracting Party.
8. Where, at any time after a request has been made by a Contracting Party under paragraph 3 or 4 and before the
other Contracting Party has collected and remitted the relevant tax claim to the first mentioned Party, the relevant tax
claim ceases to be:
(a) in the case of a request under paragraph 3, a tax claim of the first-mentioned Party that is enforceable under the laws
of that Party and is owed by a person who, at that time, cannot, under the laws of that Party, prevent its collection, or
(b) in the case of a request under paragraph 4, a tax claim of the first-mentioned Party in respect of which that Party
may, under its laws, take measures of conservancy with a view to ensure its collection, the competent authority of the
first-mentioned Party shall promptly notify the competent authority of the other Party of that fact and, at the option of the
other Party, the first-mentioned Party shall either suspend or withdraw its request.
9. In no case shall the provisions of this Article be construed so as to impose on a Contracting Party the obligation:
(a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other
Contracting Party;
(b) to carry out measures which would be contrary to public policy (ordre public);
(c) to provide assistant if the other Contracting Party has not pursued all reasonable measures of collection or
conservancy, as the case may be, available under its laws or administrative practice;
to provide assistance in those cases where the administrative burden for that Party is clearly disproportionate to the
benefit to be derived by the other Contracting Party.
10. The competent authority that submits a request of assistance in the collection of tax claims shall provide the
following information: the identity of the person about whom assistance is requested, the nature of the tax claim, the
constituting elements of such claims, and the assets which can be used for collection.
11. The request of assistance in the collection of tax claims shall be accompanied by the following documents:
(a) a declaration stating that the tax claim corresponds to a tax covered by this Agreement;
(b) an official copy of the instrument permitting enforcement in the State of the requesting competent authority; and
(c) any other document required for recovery or for the measures referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5.
12. The instrument permitting enforcement in the State of the requested competent authority shall, where appropriate
and in accordance with the legal provisions in force in the State of the requested competent authority, be accepted,
recognised, supplemented or replaced as soon as possible after the date of receipt of the request of assistance, by an
instrument permitting enforcement in the State of the requested competent authority.
Article 11 IMPLEMENTATION LEGISLATION
1. The Contracting Parties shall enact any legislation necessary to comply with, and give effect to, the terms of the
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ARGENT...
Agreement.
Article 12 MUTUAL AGREEMENT PROCEDURE
1. Where difficulties or doubts arise between the Contracting Parties regarding the implementation or interpretation of
the Agreement, the competent authorities shall endeavour to resolve the matter by mutual agreement. In addition the
competent authorities of the Contracting Parties may mutually agree on the procedures to be used under Articles 5, 6, 9
and 10 of this Agreement.
2. The competent authorities of the Contracting Parties may communicate with each other directly for purposes of
reselling agreement under this Article.
Article 13 ENTRY INTO FORCE
1. The Contracting Parties shall notify each other in writing, through diplomatic channels, of the completion of the
procedures required by the respective laws for the entry into force of this Agreement.
2. This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the later of the notifications referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Article and shall thereupon have effect forthwith.
Article 14 TERMINATION
1. This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by either Contracting Party.
2. Either Contracting Party may terminate the Agreement by serving a written notice of termination to the other
Contracting Party through diplomatic channels.
3. Such termination shall become effective on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of six months
after the date of receipt of notice of termination by the other Contracting Party. All requests received up to the effective
date of termination shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement.
In witness whereof, the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Agreement.
DONE in duplicate at Buenos Aires, this 21st day of November, 2011, each in the Hindi, Spanish and English
languages, all texts being equally authentic. In case of divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7