
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/120254789/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
53
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
Act 8 of 1317
Published on 1 January 1317
Commenced on 1 January 1317
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1317.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
(Act
No. 8 of 1317
)
Last Updated 7th June, 2019
Whereas it is expedient to amend and consolidate the orders and regulations relating to land revenue; It is hereby
enacted as follows:
Chapter 1
Preliminary
1.
Short title and commencement.
Page 1/32
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
(1)
This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317 F. and it shall come into force
from 1st Azur, 1318 Fasli.
(1-a) It shall extend to the whole of the Telangana area of the State of Andhra Pradesh.
(2)
Previous rules and orders Rules and orders in force before the commencement of this Act, provided they are not
repugnant to the provisions contained in this Act, shall remain in force until rules relating to such matters are made
under this Act.
1A.
Effect of Regulations LX LXIX of 1358 Fasli and Act XXI of 1950 on this Act.
- With effect from the commencement of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Board of Revenue Regulation, 1358 F.)
the A.P. (Telangana Area) (Abolition of Jagirs) Regulation 1358 F.) and the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Tenancy
and Agricultural Lands Act 1950 (Act XXI of 1950) Regulation LXI of 1358 F. Regulation, LXIX 1358 F. Act XXI of 1950
respectively, the provisions of this Act are subject to the provisions of the said Regulation and Act.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,
(1)
"Revenue Officer" means every officer of any rank whatsover appointed under any provision of this Act or of the Andhra
Pradesh (Telangana Area) Record of Rights in Land Regulation, 1358 F. (Regulation LXIII of 1358 F.) and appointed for
carrying on the land revenue administration or who discharges the function relating to survey, assessment and
preparation of accounts and records;
(1-a) "Survey Officer" means an officer appointed under Section 12 of this Act;
(1-b) "land" includes all kinds of benefits pertaining to land or things attached to the earth, or permanently fastened to
things attached to the earth and also includes shares in, or charges on, the revenue or rent which are or may be levied
on villages, or other defined areas;
(2)
"number" means a portion of land the area and other particulars of which are separately entered with a number in the
village records and shall include a Pote number , if any, in a number.
(3)
"Pote number" means the portion of a number separately assessed and entered in a register.
(4)
"residential site" means the land set apart for the purposed of constructing a house whether a house be constructed
thereon or not and also includes the court yard or ground enclosed by or appurtenant to a house.
(5)
"boundary marks" means the marks made of earth, stone or any other material, and also a fence, or embankment or any
other object, whether natural or artificial, set up, named or fixed by any competent officer, in order to determine the
boundary and also include the boundary marks fixed before 1374 F.
(6)
" to hold land" or "to be a land holder" of land means to be lawfully in possession of land whether such possession is
actual or not.
(7)
"holding" means a portion of land held by a holder.
(8)
" Superior holder" means a land holder entitled to receive rent or land revenue from other land holders (hereinafter
called inferior holders ) whether he is accountable or not for such rent or land revenue, or any part thereof to
Government;
(8-a) "occupation" means possession;
(8-b) "to occupy land" means to possess or to take possession of land;
(8-c) "occupant" means a holder in actual possession of unalienated land other than an asami shikmi; provided that
where the holder in actual possession is an asami shikmi, the superior holder shall be deemed to be the occupant;
Page 2/32
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
(8-d) "occupancy" means a portion of land held by an occupant;
(9)
[***]
(9-a) [***]
(10)
"Inam land" means the land exempted wholly or in part from payment of land revenue and includes Maqta and Agrahar
land:
(11)
"Pattadar" means the person who is directly responsible to the Government for payment of land revenue and whose
name has been entered as such in Government records whether he be personally in possession of the holding or
through his Shikmidar;
(12)
"Shikmidar" means the person who like Pattadar possesses a title to the land or who from the beginning has been jointly
in possession of the land with the Pattadar or who, before the commencement of this Act,m has acquired by virtue of
any regulation in force, or may acquire by virtue of that law the right of a Shikmidar.
(13)
"asami shikmi" means a lessee, whether holding under an instrument or under an oral agreement, and incudes a
mortgagee of an asami shikmi s rights with possession, but does not include a lessee holding directly under
Government;
(14)
"village" includes a town or city and all the land belonging to a village, town or city;
(15)
"village officer" means the Patel and Patwari of a village;
(16)
"rent" means the consideration in money or kind or partly in money and partly in kind paid or payable by a Shikmidar to
his Pattadar or by an Asami Shikmi to the holder of the land on account of the use or occupation of the land held by him
as Shikmidar or Asami Shikmi but shall not include the rendering of any personal service];
(17)
"revenue" means the amount payable by the holder to the Government at fixed periods for use of or entry into the land;
(18)
"chavadi" includes in any village, in which there is no chavadi, such place as the Collector may direct shall be deemed to
be the chavadi for the purposes of this Act.
Chapter 2
Appointment and Powers of Revenue Officers
3.
Chief Controlling Authority in matters relating to land revenue.
(1)
The Chief Controlling Authority in all matters relating to land revenue shall be the Board of Revenue constituted under
the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Board of Revenue Regulation, 1358 F.) (Regulation LX of 1358 F.) (hereinafter in
this Act referred to as the Board of Revenue), subject to the Government in the Revenue Department.
4.
[xxx]
5.
[xxx]
6.
Appointment of Collector.
- The Government shall appoint in each district a Collector who shall be subordinate to the Board of Revenue and shall
exercise all the powers and discharge the duties conferred or imposed on a Collector un this Act, or any other law for the
time being in force, and in all matters not specially provided for by law shall act according to the instructions of the
Government. The Government may, if necessary, appoint in any district Additional Collector who shall discharge such
duties of a Collector as may, from time to time, be determined by the Government.
Page 3/32
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
6A.
Additional Collector or Additional Taluqdar to have had always the same powers and duties as the Collector or Taluqdar.
- Subject to any special orders of Government in force at the relevant time
(a)
An Additional collector shall have and shall be deemed always to have the powers and duties of a Collector; and
(b)
An Additional Taluqdar shall be deemed always to have had the powers and duties of Taluqdar within their respective
districts, whether under this Act or under any other law for the time being in force read with the Andhra Pradesh
(Telangana Area) District Officers (Charge of Designation and Construction of References) Act, 1950 Act XXXV of 1950.
7.
Appointment of Deputy or Assistant collector.
(1)
The Government may appoint in each district so many Deputy or Assistant Collectors, as it may deem expedient, and
they may be called Additional Deputy or Assistant Collector or Divisional officer or by any other name, as may be
specified in the order of appointment. All the Deputy or Assistant Collectors and all other officers, employed in the
revenue administration of the district shall be subordinate to the Collector.
(3)
To such Deputy or Assistant Collectors as it may not be possible or expedient to place in charge of a taluqa Collector
shall, in pursuance of the general or special order of the Government, assign such of his special duties and powers as
may, from time to time, appear fit.
8.
Deputy or Assistant Collector to hold charge of that office in absence of Collector until person is appointed or Collector
resumes charge.
- If the Collector is not able to perform his services, or for any reason vacates his office or leaves his district, or dies, the
senior most Deputy or Assistant Collector of the District who may be present in the district, shall temporarily hold charge
of the office, and for the purposes of this Act shall be deemed to be a Collector until the Collector resumes charge or
until the Government appoints his successor and such successor takes charges of his appointment. An officer whose
principal functions are different from those of a Deputy or Assistant Collector and who is appointed Deputy or Assistant
Collector for special purposes only, shall not be deemed to be Deputy or Assistant Collector for the purposes of this
section.
9.
Tahsildar, his appointment, duties and powers.
(1)
The Revenue officer entrusted with the revenue administration of a taluqa shall be called a Tahsildar and he shall be
subordinate to the Collector and the Deputy or Assistant Collector concerned. He shall be appointed by the Government
or by an officer authorised by the Government in this behalf by notification in the Official Gazette. His duties and powers
shall be such as may be expressly imposed or conferred by this Act or by any other law for the time being in force, or as
may be imposed upon or delegated to him by the Collector under the general or special order of the Government: The
Government may, if necessary, appoint more than one Tahsildar.
(2)
The Government may appoint one or more officers to be designated as Naib Tahsildar, to assist the Tahsildar in the
revenue administration of his taluqa, and may by general or special order confer upon the Naib Tahsildars generally or
any specified Naib Tahsildar all or any of the powers of a Tahsildar under this Act or any other law for the time being in
force.
10.
Tahsildar may depute subordinates to perform certain of his services.
- A Tahsildar may, subject to such general orders as may from time to time be passed by the Board of Revenue or the
Collector, depute any of his subordinates to perform any portion of his ministerial or executive duties: Provided that all
acts and orders of the subordinates so appointed shall be subject to modification and confirmation by the Tahsildar.
11.
Temporary arrangement of office of Tahsildar.
Page 4/32
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
- If a Tahsildar is not able to perform his service or for any reason vacates his office, or leaves his taluqa, or dies, the
Peshkar or the superior clerk on the establishment shall temporarily hold charge of the office and shall be deemed to be
the Tahsildar of that taluqa until the Tahsildar resumes charge of the taluqa or until such time as a successor is
appointed by order of competent authority and takes charge of the office.
12.
Survey officers, their duties and powers.
- For the purposes of Chapters VII and VIII of this Act, the Government may appoint such officers as may be from time
to time appear necessary. Such officers shall be designated "Commissioner of Survey Settlement", "Commissioner of
Land Records," "Assistant Commissioner of Survey Settlement", "Assistant Commissioner of Land Records" or
otherwise as may appear requisite, and they shall be subordinate to one another in such order as Government may fix.
Subject to the orders of the Government all matters, connected with survey and settlement, shall relate to the officers so
appointed and they shall exercise and perform all such powers duties as have been fixed by this Act or any other law for
the time being in force.
13.
Combination of offices.
- The Government may appoint one and the same person, being otherwise competent according to law, to any two or
more of the offices provided for in this Chapter or to confer upon an officer of one class all or any of the powers or duties
of any other officer or officers within any particular areas or otherwise as may appear expedient.
14.
Appointment of officers to be notified.
- The appointment of all officers mentioned in Sections 3 to 9, 12 and 13 shall be notified in the manner as may be
prescribed by the Government.
15.
Power of appointment of establishment.
- Subject to the rules made in this behalf under Section 172, the Government shall regulate the power of appointment of
all members of establishment vested in Board of Revenue, Collector, Commissioner of Survey Settlement and
Commissioner of Land Records in their respective departments. The Government shall also determine, inter alia the
powers which the said officers may delegate to their subordinate officers. Provided that the aforesaid officers shall
always have a right of modification and revision in respect of appointments made by their such subordinate officer.
16.
Power of Collector to transfer cases.
- A Collector may, after recording reasons, transfer any case from his own or from that of any of his subordinate
departments to any other department or from that of his subordinate department to his own department.
Chapter 3
[***] Omitted
Chapter 4
Land and Land Revenue
24.
All lands etc, are property of Government.
- All public roads, lanes, paths, bridges,ditches, dikes, rivers, streams, tanks, ponds, canals, lakes, and flowing water
and all lands, wherever situated, together with all rights appertaining thereto are the property of the Government
excepting:
(a)
those belonging to persons or class legally capable of holding property and to the extent so far as their such rights are
established;
(b)
those in respect of which any other order under any law may have been given. It shall be lawful for the Collector or other
officer appointed by the Government for this purpose subject to rules sanctioned by the Government and contained in
notification and the order of the Board of Revenue, to dispose of them in his discretion; but the right of way or other right
legally vesting in any person or the public shall subsist.
25.
Page 5/32
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
Assigning of land for special purposes to be lawful.
- When a village is under settlement, the Commissioner of Survey Settlement or the Commissioner of Land Records in
that Village and in other cases with the sanction of the Board of Revenue, the Collector may, subject to the orders of the
Government set apart any Khalsa land not in the lawful occupation of any person or class for pasturage of cattle or for
grass reserves or for other Government purposes or for the purposes of public benefit; provided that it does not interfere
with any right of any person or class. The land so set apart shall not be otherwise appropriated without the order of the
Board of Revenue.
26.
Animals which shall graze on land set apart for free pasturage of animals.
- The right of grazing on land set apart for free pasturage of animals shall confine only to the animals of the village within
the limits of which the land is situate and for which it has been set apart. If there is a dispute as to such right the decision
of the Collector in respect thereof shall be conclusive.
27.
Cases in which there shall be right to carry earth, stones, etc., from river, stream or bed of tank.
- There shall be the right in the following cases, without obtaining the permission and without payment of tax to carry
from a river, stream or bed of a tank and also from land which has not been assessed or not been part for any special
purpose, earth, stone, gravel, sand, morrum inasmuch as has not been reserved by any order of the Government:
(a)
For any person for his private purpose in the village of residence and for agricultural need in the village where he has
residence or cultivation.
(b)
For a potter or brick maker or tile maker or for the person who makes use of any of the aforesaid articles in his
professional work at the place where he carries on the work of his profession but where trade in any of these articles is
carried on a big scale at any place and on account of digging of earth therefor, there is risk of destruction and of
becoming useless of any building or cultivation or arising of difficulties in the ordinary requirements of villages or
endangering public health, the Tahsildar shall for that purpose select and assign some plots and notify, the same and no
person among them shall be authorised to dig earth at any place other than the said plots.
28.
Trees Irsali or Ghairi on land held by Pattadar.
- The Pattadar shall have full right over Irsali Ghairi trees within the limits of land held by a pattadar, so long as he
remains the pattadar of that land, as also over the trees which may, after obtaining the patta have grown up naturally or
have been planted or have cropped up from the roots of trees cut by the Forest Department. But the trees over which
the Government may have retained its proprietary right by notification shall be execluded from the ownership of the
pattadar.
29.
Right of pattadar to trees planted on occupied land prior to his occupation.
- Trees Irsali or Ghairi in land in the occupation of pattadar which may have been planted by the pattadar or by the
persons of whom the present pattadar is a successor: on the ownership or which may have been acquired by the
pattadar or his predecessors by other lawful means, shall belong to the present Pattadar and remain at his disposal by
all means and the Government shall have no right of any kind thereto; but the Pattadar shall have full rights over such
trees as have not been planted by the Pattadars or by his ancestors or by a former Pattadar whose successor he is and
to which the right of the Government may be subsisting, if they have not been felled by the Forest Department or sold by
fixing the price to the present pattadar under rules made by the Government by notification.
30.
Trees outside occupied tracts or in bed of rivers, streams, etc.
- All trees being outside the occupied tracts or in river, stream or on road or in the bed of tank and pond or on the bund
shall be deemed to be the property of the Government.
31.
Sale of Irsali trees out side reserved area.
- In the taluqas in which boundaries of existing forest have been demarcated by the Forest Department, the x x x
Collector may, if he deems fit to be let out for cultivation such land as are excluded from the boundaries fixed, sell the
Page 6/32
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
trees therein at a reasonable price and let out the land for cultivation and credit the sale proceeds of the timber to the
Forest Department; but in case the valuable Irsali timber therein be in abundance an intimation in writing for sale of
timber shall be given to the District Forest Officer. It shall be incumbent on the Forest Department either to fell or sell the
trees within one year from the date of receipt of the intimation, otherwise the Collector on the expiry of the said period
may, at his own instance, sell and credit the amount to the Forest Department, and in case it is not deemed fit to fell
such trees, they may be preserved and including the land on which those trees lie patta of the remaining land may be
given.
32.
Letting out for cultivation unoccupied land containing valuable trees situate in taluqa where forest boundaries have not
been demarcated.
- If the xx Collector in taluqas where reserved forest has not been demarcated, deems fit to let out for cultivation the
unoccupied land beyond the proposed boundaries containing forest or valuable trees he shall consult the Forest
Department and, if with the concurrence of competent officer of the Forest Department occupation of such land is given
to any person the provisions of the preceding section shall apply thereto.
33.
Fresh patta within reserved forest to be given in consultation with Conservator of Forests.
- Unless land is set apart demarcated for cultivation within the limits or reserved forest no fresh patta shall be given
without consulting the Chief Conservator of Forest.
34.
Proprietary rights over toddy and sendhi trees and the rights to plant such trees.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of this section and Section 25 all toddy and sendhi trees standing for the time being within the
limits of the land legally occupied by a pattadar, shikmidar or any other person in possession (hereinafter referred to in
this section as owner) whether grown by such person or not, shall be deemed to be the property of the owner. Such
owner shall not however be entitled to plant toddy and sendhi trees within the limits of such land without obtaining the
permission of the Government.
(2)
The owner shall not be entitled to tap the trees referred to in sub section (1) or get them tapped by any person other
than a person authorised by the Government. An owner, who permits the trees to be tapped by a person authorised by
the Government, shall be entitled to charge such person for each tree not more than 25 per cent of the tree tax payable
for the tree to the Government in accordance with the laws and rules for the time being in force.
(3)
Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to exempt the juice of such trees from any excise duty that may be
leviable thereon under any law for the time being in force.
35.
Proprietary rights of Government over toddy, sendhi and gulmohwa trees.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in Sections 34 and 38 with effect from the date of the coming into force of the
Hyderabad Land Revenue (Amendment) Act, 1956 (XXXII of 1956), all the toddy, sendhi and gulmohwa trees standing
within the limits of any land that may be given on patta on or after the date, shall belong to the Government and the
pattadar, Shikmidar or any other person in possession shall not be entitled to plant such trees within the limits of such
lands without obtaining the permission of the Government.
36.
[***] Omitted
37.
Rules relating to lopping of Sendhi and toddy and tapping trees to apply to trees belonging to Government.
- Rules and orders relating to the lopping of sendhi and toddy trees which are now in force or may hereafter be enforced
by the Government by notification shall apply to trees belonging to the Government only. Lopping of trees belonging to
Pattadar and use of leaves, fruits and wood shall be exempted from such restrictions and orders.
37A.
Duty of Pattadar or tenant to report illegal tapping of toddy and sendhi trees.
(1)
Page 7/32
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
The pattadar, tenant or other person, in actual possession of land on which any toddy or sendhi tree stands must report
in writing or in case where he does not know writing, orally to the Patel or Patwari of the village any case of tapping of
such trees as soon as possible after he becomes aware of such tapping and on receipt of the information by Patel or
Patwari, as the case may be, he must issue written acknowledgment thereof to the reporter, and in case of illegal
tapping he must report the same to the Abkari authorities concerned.
(2)
Any contravention of sub section (1) shall be punishable with fine which may extend to the amount of the tree tax
payable, in respect of the tree illegally tapped, in accordance with the laws and rules for the time being in force.
38.
Proprietary right over Gulmohwa trees and the rights to plant such trees.
(1)
Subject to the provision of this section and Section 35, all gulmohwa trees standing for the time being within the limits of
the land legally occupied by a pattadar, shikmidar or any other person in possession (hereinafter referred to in this
section as owner) whether grown by such person or not, shall be deemed to be the property of the owner. Such owner
shall not however, be entitled to plant gulmohwa trees within the limits of such land without obtaining the permission of
the Government.
(2)
The pattadar shall not be entitled to ferment any Gulmohwa grown on such land or to sell such Gulmohwa to any person
other than a person authorised by Government. If the Pattadar sells such Gulmohwa to a person so authorised the
Pattadar shall not be entitled to charge such person more than 25 per cent of the amount payable to such person by the
Government in accordance with the laws and rules of the time being in force relating to supply of Gulmohwa to
Government.
(3)
Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to exempt any Gulmohwa grown on such land from any excise duty
leviable thereon under any law for the time being in force.
(4)
Any owner who is desirous of grazing his cattle within the limits of such lands shall inform the Excise Commissioner of
his intention, in writing, in the form prescribed and within the period notified by the Excise Commissioner. Failure on the
part of an owner to give such information shall mean that he is willing to have the gulmohwa on the said lands collected
by the person authorised by the Government in this behalf. Such owner, shall not, however, be entitled to store
gulmohwa exceeding five seers.
(5)
Any owner who stores gulmohwa in contravention of the provisions of sub section (4) shall be liable to a Penalty not
exceeding Rs. 200, such penalty may be imposed by the Collector or any other Officer empowered by the Government
in this behalf.
39.
Right to fruit bearing trees in occupied land.
- Fruit bearing trees standing for the time being within the limits of the land legally occupied by a Pattadar, whether
grown by the Pattadar, or not, shall be deemed to be the property of the Pattadar and the Pattadar shall be fully entitled
to the use of such trees.
40.
[***] Omitted
41.
Procedure where land is in occupation of one person and another person has right on trees.
- If the right or possession of another over existing trees in any holding is recognised it shall subsist, but in future
whenever the holder of the land tenders a compromise or dies heirless or absconds, the Patta of such land may be
made in the name of the owner of the trees and in case he refuses to take Patta his right to the trees shall cease.
42.
Procedure for trees planted in unoccupied land by any person and retained in his possession.
- If in an unoccupied land there are trees planted by any person and they are in possession of the planter the Patta of
such land may be made in his name but if he refuses to have the Patta made in his name his right to such trees shall
Page 8/32
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
cease.
43.
If in event of pattadar absconding or dying or tender in compromise, right of any other person to land is not recognised,
trees to be property of Government.
- If any Pattadar absconds or dies or tenders compromise and in case the rights of the Pattadar or his heirs or Asami
Shikmis are regards restoration of land have not been recognised the trees standing on such land shall be deemed to be
the property of the Government.
44.
Land may be let out free of assessment for planting shady trees for public benefit.
- If any person plants by the side of the road or close to it or around an inn or such wakf buildings where travellers put up
or at places which are camps for travellers or troops, shady trees, whether fruit bearing or not so that travellers may
have amenities under their shade, land may be given by the Government free of assessment of planting such trees.
45.
Conditions on which land for raising groves may be given.
- If any person desires for his own benefit to arise in the land laying barren or waste outside the reserved forests for
more than ten years, and does not contain any valuable forest trees, a mango grove, tamarind grove, babul or grove of
any other kind of trees as may in some manner be deemed to be of public benefit as well, such land may be obtained by
the order of the Collector, free of assessment for twenty years and after twenty years it shall be assessed at the dry rate,
provided that the Government water is not taken; but if the Government water is taken "dastband" shall be paid. The
applicant shall plant annually trees in at least one fifth portion of the land so that the trees may be planted in the entitled
land within five years. If the trees in sufficient number with regard to their kind are not planted within five years in the
whole land that portion of land in which trees have been planted shall, remain free of assessment and the rest shall be
assessed from the sixth year; Cultivation between the trees shall not be prohibited.
46.
Procedure where Pattader is felling trees belonging to Government.
- A Pattadar shall not fell fruit bearing trees or timber, Irsali, and Ghairi which have been declared to be belonging to the
Government. If a person without the permission of an authority, cuts any tree or its roots or appropriates it to his own
use or carries it away, the price thereof together with a penalty which may extend to double the price of the tree, shall be
recovered from him as a revenue demand.
46A.
Restrictions on felling of sendhi, toddy and gulmohwa trees and fruit bearing trees.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in Sections 34, 38 and 39 the Government may by notification in the Official Gazette
prohibit or regulate the felling of sendhi, toddy and Gulmohwa trees and fruit bearing trees of any specified kind in such
area and subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be specified in the notification.
(2)
No notification shall be made under sub section (1) until after the issue of a general notice to the owner of such trees in
the local area concerned calling upon them to show cause within a reasonable period to be specified in such notice why
such notification should not be made and until their objections, if any, and any evidence that they may produce in
support of the same have been heard by an officer duly appointed by the Government in that behalf and have been
considered by the Government.
(3)
The notification referred to in sub section (1) shall be published in the locality, and the notice referred to in sub section
(2) shall be served, in such manner as may be laid down by rules made under this Act.
(4)
The Government may by order delegate its powers under sub sections (1) and (2) to the Collector or such other officer
as the Government thinks fit subject to such conditions and restrictions, if any, as may be specified in the order.
(5)
If any tree mentioned in sub section (1) is cut in contravention of any prohibition, condition or restriction imposed under
that sub section the Pattadar of the land on which the tree stood or where the Pattadar has not cut or authorised the
cutting of the tree any other person who has cut or authorised the cutting thereof shall be liable to a penalty not
Page 9/32
----- PAGE 10 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
exceeding the market value of the tree as determined by the Collector and such penalty shall be recoverable from the
Pattadar or such other person, as the case may be, as an arrear of land revenue and the trees shall be forfeited to
Government by order of the Collector.
(6)
The powers of the Collector under sub section (5) may be exercised by any other officer who is authorised by
Government in this behalf.
47.
Permission to take wood from waste land out side reserved forest.
- Where trees are standing in any waste land outside the reserved forests the ryots in general of the village may take
firewood and agriculturists such wood as may be required for agricultural implements without payment of any tax and
subject to rules made by the Government by notification.
Land Revenue
48.
All land to be liable to payment of land revenue save in case of remission.
- All land, whether applied to agricultural or any other purpose, and wherever situate shall be liable to payment of land
revenue to the Government in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter and Chapters VII and IX except in case
title to land has been transferred to any Local Authority or the revenue thereof has been wholly remitted under any
special contract with Government or under any order or law.
49.
If alluvial land be within land excluded from Government demand, etc., shall be subject to original land for purpose of
payment of land revenue.
- All rights, conditions, restrictions and liabilities in respect of payment of land revenue applicable to any land excluded
from Government demand or Mukta or Inamjodi shall also apply to alluvial land within the limits of such land or which
has come up from the river bed on account of the river abandoning its course but land revenue shall not be leviable in
respect of any such land or river bed unless the area of the same exceeds the area mentioned in Section 55.
50.
Land revenue to be assessed according to use of land for various requirements.
- Land revenue shall be assessed according to the various modes of use.
(a)
Agricultural use.
(b)
In addition to agricultural use any other use from which profit advantage is derived.
When rate is assessed on any land for any one of the aforesaid purposes and the land is appropriated for any other
purpose the rate thereof shall be altered and fixed again, although the term of subsisting settlement may not have
expired. If any land granted by the Government with remission of land revenue for any special purpose is appropriated
to some other purpose against the intention of the grant, the land revenue thereof shall be recovered. It shall be lawful
for the Collector, and in case a taluqa is under settlement, for the Commissioner of Survey Settlement or Commissioner
of Land Records after giving a hearing to the land holder to prohibit its appropriation for any particular purpose and
record reasons therefor and to summarily evict the holder who may have appropriated the said land to prohibited
purpose.
51.
Settlement of land revenue with whom to be made.
- The settlement of the land revenue of each number or pote number shall be made with the pattadar of the number of
pote number. If such person be absent and there be no authorised agent of his in the district, such settlement shall be
made with the person who has acquired from him the occupancy right of such land or who is on his behalf in occupation
of such land; but if the pattadar is of unsound mind or is a minor or incapable to contract, the settlement of land revenue
shall be made with his lawful guardian or after six months notice with the Shikmidar or the Asami who is the land holder.
52.
Assessment of land revenue by whom and how to be made.
- In respect of land on which land revenue is wholly or partially recoverable and for which settlement of assessment has
not been duly notified, the Nizam Jamabandi shall, with due regard to subsisting rights assess the land revenue but the
Page 10/32
----- PAGE 11 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
assessment of land for which settlement has not been made shall not be increased or decreased until settlement is
made.
53.
Water rate.
- The Government may confer upon the Collector or any officer the power to fix such rate, as may be deemed fit to
recover for use of water which is either the property of the Government or which the Government has by constructing
and repairing an anicut or by any other means made available for cultivation and with regard to the use of which rate has
not already been fixed on the land. Such rate shall be liable to revision after a period which Government may with regard
to the principle and rules of settlement, determine and it shall be recoverable as Government land revenue.
Chapter 5
Occupation of Khalsa Land and Right of Occupants
54.
Procedure for acquiring unoccupied land.
(1)
When any person is desirous of taking unoccupied land he shall before occupying the land submit a petition to the
Tahsildar and obtain his permission in writing.
(2)
On such petition being submitted, the Tahsildar may, in accordance with the rules made by the Government in this
behalf from time to time, give permission in writing for occupation.
54A.
Procedure in respect of land acquired for purpose of public and no more required.
- When agricultural or pasturage land acquired for public benefit is no longer required the patta thereof shall be made in
the name of the person or his successor from whom, such land was acquired provided he consents to refund the
compensation originally paid to him. If such person or his successor does not take the land, it may be given on patta
under Section 54.
55.
Rules relating to alluvial land.
- Alluvial land, upto two guntas where it is wet and upto one acre where it is dry shall remain, without collecting any
revenue in the occupation of the holder of the adjacent land, and if it exceeds that extent it shall be let out as unoccupied
Khalsa land but the holder of the adjacent land shall have preference over others.
56.
Rules relating to diluvial land.
- If diluvial land is upto two guntas where it is wet and upto one acre where it is dry, the pattadar of the land shall not get
any rebate in its revenue and if it exceeds that extent rebate shall be given in its revenue.
57.
Procedure when person unlawfully occupies unoccupied land or uses land without title.
- (2) In case of every occupation of unlawful use the decision of the [
*] Collector [
*] as to the assessment of land revenue shall be conclusive and for the purposes of assessment of land revenue
occupation for a portion of a year shall be deemed to be an occupation for a whole year.
(3)
The [
*] Collector [
*] may summarily evict from land any person having unlawful occupation or use and attach the crop raised on such land.
Similarly if any building or construction of any kind is erected on such land; the [
*] Collector [
*] shall have power to grant reasonable opportunity (which shall not be less than one month) and give to the landholder
an order in writing to remove such building or construction from the land. If the holder does not comply with the order
within the period fixed the Collector at its expiry shall have authority to attach such building or construction or to
summarily demolish and remove it from the land.
(4)
Page 11/32
----- PAGE 12 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
After the property is attached by the order of the [
*] Collector [
*] the attached property shall be managed according to his discretion, and if there be any encroachments on such
property, the cost incurred in removing them under the provisions of this section shall be recoverable from the unlawful
occupier or the person who has unlawfully used it, as the case may be, as an arrear of land revenue.
58.
Occupancy right is heritable and transferable.
- An occupancy right to land shall be deemed to be heritable and transferable.
58A.
Sanction of Collector for transfer of occupied land compulsory in certain cases.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding section the Government may, by Official Gazette notify in respect
of any village or tract of the area to which this Act extends that the right of occupation of any land under Section 54
given after the date of the notification shall not be transferable without obtaining the previous sanction of the Collector
(2)
The Government may also as its discretion from time to time notify by Official Gazette, that any part or person or class of
persons of such village or tract of the area to which this Act extends to which the provisions of sub section (1) have been
made applicable shall be exempt from the said provisions.
58B.
Procedure in case of transfer by order of Court of land not transferable without sanction of Collector.
- Where right of occupancy of any land is declared non transferable without the sanction of the [
*] Collector [
*] and the Collector has not given sanction for its transfer and the transfer of such occupation has been made by the
order of a Civil court or the Civil Court has passed a decree regarding its transfer or its decree or order is founded on
such transfer as has been affected without the sanction of the Collector.
(a)
no process of the Civil Court shall have effected on such land nor any transfer thereof shall be considered as valid; and
(b)
Where a certificate is produced before such Court under the hand and seal of the [
*] Collector [
*] to the effect that right of occupancy of the land is not transferable without the sanction of the Collector which should be
previously obtained and that such sanction has not been given, such court shall remove any attachment of land if it has
been made or cancel any other process if it has been unissued in respect thereof or if the land has been sold auctioned
or any such auction has been made as affects right of occupsancy of such land, shall also cancel every such sale.
59.
Who shall be Pattadar on death of Pattadar.
- On the death of a Pattadar of Khalsa land the name of the person who is lawfully entitled under a will and if there be no
such person, of the nearest heir, and if there are several heirs of equal degree, of the one who by custom has the right
of primogeniture shall be entered in the register by the Collector and the names of the remaining heirs shall be entered
as Shikmidar. But, if at anytime, any person produces against the claimant, of a patta a decree of a competent Court as
regards his right of preference amendment in the Government records shall be made in accordance with the decree.
60.
Occupancy right to be sold in case Pattadar dies intestate or heirless.
- Where a Pattadar dies intestate or without making a will, the occupancy right of land held by him shall be sold and after
deducting expenses of sale the arrears of land revenue, if any, shall first be paid from the sale proceeds and the
remainder shall be dealt with as unclaimed property.
61.
Occupant to be entitled to construct godowns and wells, etc., or otherwise improve conditions of land.
(1)
Every occupant shall be entitled to construct or repair godowns or wells on land occupied by him or otherwise improve
its condition and shall not be entitled except with the written permission of the Collector to appropriate agricultural land
Page 12/32
----- PAGE 13 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
to purposes other than agricultural. If no written reply for such permission is given by the Collector for three months from
the date of presentation of the application, the application shall be deemed to have been granted. In every such case the
Collector on receipt of the application, shall furnish a written acknowledgment thereof and without unnecessary delay
communicate to him the sanction of refusal of the application, and the Collector at the time of granting such application,
may, in addition to the new assessment payable under Section 50, if necessary, after recording reasons therefor
introduce such conditions as he may have settled with the consent of the occupant.
(2)
No occupant of land shall be entitled to construct or repair any tank or kunta without the permission of the Government.
62.
Procedure in case of agricultural land appropriated to non agricultural purposes.
- The Collector may take action under Section 57 against a pattadar or Shikmidar who has, without permission,
appropriated agricultural land to non agricultural purposes.
63.
Right to all mines vests in Government.
- Right to all mineral products vests in the Government and no person shall excavate anything from any mine without
permission. But this section shall have no effect on subsisting rights.
64.
Occupant may relinquish or transfer occupancy right to another.
- A pattadar may, before expiry of the date fixed by the Government by notification in this behalf, by presenting a
compromise relinquish the land occupied by him or get it transferred in the name of any other person, but he shall
remain responsible for the Government demands due by him. A compromise not applying to a whole number or a whole
pote number shall not be acceptable.
65.
Right of way on relinquishing land to vest in future holder.
- If any person relinquishes land, the way to which lies through other land occupied by him the right of way shall continue
to the person who shall hold land in future, provided there is no other way equally convenient.
Chapter 6
Superior Holder and Shikmi Holder
66.
Liability and rights of Pote Pattadar.
- A Pote pattadar shall pay on his portion of land proportionate land revenue and so long as he continues to pay the land
revenue for his share he shall not be evicted from his portion of land. The pattadar shall not be entitled to enhance the
Government land revenue on the land of the pote pattadar.
67.
When shall Asami Shikmi have perpetual occupancy right.
- Where no agreement has been made between the Pattadar and Asami Shikmi pertaining to the period of possession,
and the possession by the Asami Shikmi has been for a continuous period of twelve years he shall be deemed to be a
Shikmidar and he shall have permanent right as against the Pattadar. If any person has been from the commencement
of cultivation or the patta jointly cultivating with the Pattadar he shall be deemed to be a Shikmidar until a decision of a
Court of law to the contrary is obtained:
Provided that an Asami Shikmi who has been in possession of any bil Maqta land in an ijara village for a continuous
period of 12 years, whether there was any agreement between the Ijaradar and the Asami Shikmi pertaining to the
period of cultivation or not, and every person who has from the commencement of cultivation or from the time patta was
granted to the Ijaradar, jointly with such Ijaradar cultivated and bil Maqta land held by such Ijaradar, shall be deemed to
be a Shikmidar in respect of such bil Maqta land.
Explanation. - If an Asami Shikmi remains out of possession for a period of more than one year and during that period
takes no action against the pattadar for possession, such period shall not be deemed to be continuous.
67A.
Conferment of Pattadari rights on Shikmidars.
- Notwithstanding anything in any law usage, contract, grant, decree or order of a court but subject to the provisions of
Section 166 B.
Page 13/32
----- PAGE 14 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
(i)
a Shikmidar who was granted a Shikmidar certificate in respect of any land by a Revenue Officer, shall be declared as
pattadar of that land by the Deputy Collector in whose jurisdiction the land is situtate, within a period of seven years from
the date of commencement of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue (Amendment) Act, 1964 and the
Deputy collector shall issue a certificate to that effect in the prescribed form and give intimation thereof to the former
pattadar of that land; and such certificate shall be binding on the former pattadar;
(ii)
where no Shikmidari certificate was granted to a Shikmidar in respect of any land by a Revenue Officer as provided in
clause (i), the Deputy Collector, shall on an application made within a period of seven years from the date of
commencement of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue (Amendment) Act, 1964, or may, suo motu at
any time, after making an inquiry in the prescribed manner declare the Shikmidar as pattadar of that land and issue a
certificate to that effect in the prescribed form and give intimation thereof to the former pattadar of that land and such
certificate shall be binding on the former pattadar.
(iii)
where a Shikmidar is declared to be a pattadar in respect of any land under clause (i) or clause (ii), the former pattadar
of land, who has not received the price payable therefor from the Shikmidar, shall within a period of one year from the
date of intimation to him, apply to the Deputy Collector for the determination of the reasonable price to be paid to the
former pattadar for that land by the Shikmidar:
67B.
Validation of certain transfers of land conferment of pattadari rights on transferees.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything in this Act where, before the commencement of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land
Revenue (Amendment) Act, 1964, any transferee has in good faith purchased or otherwise acquired the interests of the
Shikmidar in the land either directly from the Shikmidar or from any other person who in good faith acquired such
interests, and where such transferee is in possession of the land on such commencement, he shall within a period of
seven years from such commencement apply to the Deputy Collector within whose jurisdiction the land is situate for
declaring him as pattadar of that land.
(2)
Where transferee has made an application for declaring him to be a pattadar in respect of any land under sub section
(1), if the former pattadar has not received the price payable thereof from the transferee, the Shikmidar or any other
person who in good faith purchased the interests of the Shikmidar in the land, such former pattadar shall, within a period
of one year from the date of intimation to him by the Deputy collector of such application, apply to the Deputy Collector
for the determination of the reasonable price to be paid to him by the transferee.
(3)
On receipt of an application under sub section (2), the Deputy Collector shall give notice to the applicant and the
transferee and to all other persons who appear to him to be interested of the date, time and place at which he proposes
to inquire into the application and on the completion of the enquiry, he shall determine the reasonable price payable for
the land by the transferee to the applicant; Provided that the amount so determined as reasonable price shall not be
more than ten times and less than eight times the difference between the rent paid or payable by the Shikmidar to the
former pattadar for the year 1952 and the land revenue paid or payable for that year by the former pattadar to the
Government in respect of that land.
(5)
The Deputy Collector shall after satisfying himself that the price payable to the former pattadar referred to in sub section
(2) has been paid or has been deposited within such time and in such manner as may be prescribed, require the
transferee to deposit in the office of the Deputy Collector an amount equal to the registration fees and the stamp duty
that would have been payable had the transferee been effected by a registered document in accordance with the
provisions of the Indian Registration Act, 1908. On the deposit of such amount, the Deputy collector shall issue a
certificate in the prescribed form to the transferee declaring him as pattadar of that land and such certificate shall,
notwithstanding anything in the Indian Registration Act, 1908, be conclusive evidence of such transfer".
68.
Liability of Shikmidar to payment of land revenue.
Page 14/32
----- PAGE 15 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
- A Shikmidar shall pay on the land held by him only so much of fixed rent or share of produce as may be due in
accordance with the agreement entered into between him and the pattadar or pote pattadar; and if no such agreement
has been entired into as much as he was paying in accordance with the usage in previous years, and so long as he
continues to pay the rent he shall not be evicted from the land in his possession.
69.
When rent may be enhanced on Shikmidar.
- The rent on the Shikmidar may be enhanced in the following cases only:
(a)
When after expiry of term of settlement an enhancement in the assessment of land revenue on the land held by the
Shikmidar is made by the Government or at any time any new local tax is levied by the Government, the Shikmidar shall
be liable to a proportionate increase, provided that no agreement to the contrary has been entered into.
(b)
When the term of agreement between the pattadar and the Shikmidar expires and the right of the pattadar to enhance
the rent after the expiry of the term has been agreed to under the agreement the enhancement may be made under the
terms of the agreement.
(c)
If, apart from the labour and expenses of the Shikmidar through the expenses of the pattadar or owing to other reasons
the capacity or the area of the land is improved an enhancement may be made with regard to such improvement
provided that no agreement to the contrary has been entered into and enhancement shall not be made again within five
years.
70.
When Shikmidar shall be entitled to reduction of rent.
- A Shikmidar shall be entitled to reduction of rent in the following case only:
(a)
When any reduction in the land revenue in respect of land held by the Shikmidar is made by the Government or any
local tax is remitted by the Government in proportion thereto provided that no agreement to the contrary exists.
(b)
When it may be so provided in the agreement.
(c)
When the area or capacity of the land diminished owing to some reason, not being the result an act of the Shikmidar,
provided that no agreement to the contrary has been entered into.
71.
Liability of Asami Shikmi respecting payment of rent and procedure when Shikmi relation is not desired to be
maintained.
- If no agreement has been entered into with the Assami Shikmi the same rent as was due for the previous year shall be
recoverable either in cash or share of produce and if the Asami Shikmi has from the beginning taken possession of the
land without any agreement, such rent shall be fixed as is realised for land of similar capacity from Asami Shikmi in the
neighbourhood. The pattadar shall not be entitled, after the commencement of the agricultural year, to make any
variation without the consent of the Asami Shikmi, in the terms or the rent for that year, or to evict the Asami from the
land. If the pattadar desires to vary the terms or evict the Asami for which there is no express agreement as written
notice of enhancement of rent and other conditions of eviction shall be given to the opposite party three months before
the termination of the agricultural year or if the person giving the notice so desires such notice may be given through the
Tahsil Office under the rules made in this behalf. If the Asami Shikmi agrees to the rent and terms he shall retain
possession of the land during the following year, otherwise he shall relinquish the land. If he retains his possession
notwithstanding the receipt of notice he shall be bound to pay the enhanced rent and observe the conditions set forth in
the notice; and if the notice before eviction the Asami Shikmi shall have no right of possession during the following year.
Asami Shikmi, after commencement of the agricultural year, shall not be authorised to relinquish the land for the whole
year, without payment of rent, but if he desires to relinquish, he shall as therein before specified, notify the pattadar
three months before the termination of the current agricultural year. Application regarding enhancement or reduction of
rent eviction shall be presented and heard in the Tahsil.
72.
Page 15/32
----- PAGE 16 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
Application for arrears of land revenue or rent in Tahsil within three years.
- If a pote pattadar Shikmidar or Asami Shikmi does not pay the land revenue or rent in time, application in respect of the
same may be presented in Tahsil within three years from the date of its becoming due and the decision of the Tahsil
shall be enforced under the rules for the realisation of land revenue, but this procedure shall not be a bar to seek
remedy in the Civil court.
73.
Procedure in case of remission or suspension of land revenue.
- If land revenue is wholly or partially remitted or suspended by the Government the remission or suspension shall also
apply to the rent of pote pattadar, Shikmidar and Asami Shikmi according to the shares; provided that no agreement has
been made to the contrary.
74.
[***] Omitted
75.
Penalty when proved that land holder has by force recovered any amount in excess of fixed land revenue or rent.
- When it is proved to the Collector regarding any land holder that he has unlawfully recovered from any Shikmidar or
Asami Shikmi an amount in excess of fixed land revenue or rent payable under the provisions of this Chapter, the
Collector shall get the amount recovered in excess refunded to the aggrieved person and may also levy on him a fine
not exceeding the amount recovered in excess and the Collector may also, if he deems fit order to pay a portion of the
amount of fine recovered to the aggrieved person by way of damages.
76.
In default of payment of land revenue it shall be lawful in certain cases to cease and auction right of pattadar and make
any co occupant or other concerned person a pattadar.
- When it appears to Collector that a pattadar with intent to defraud or cause injury to Shikmidar or other person
interested in the number, has, wilfully not paid the land revenue and rendered the number liable to attachment and sale,
the Collector may instead of attaching and selling the right of occupancy, attach only the title of such pattadar, and on
condition of payment of the whole amount of land revenue due on that land cause the name of the Shikmidar or the
person interested in such number to be entered as a pattadar in the village records. The person whose name may be so
entered in the village records shall acquire the same rights as the original pattadar.
Chapter 7
Settlement and Partition of areas
77.
Government may introduce revenue survey into any part of Dominions.
- The Government may whenever they deem it expedient, issue order to make survey of any land in any part of the area
to which this Act extends, for the purpose of settlement and assessment of land revenue and record and preservation of
the rights relating thereto, or for any other similar purpose. Such survey shall be called the revenue survey. Such survey
may be made of the land of any village, town or city generally of such land only as the Government may direct; and
subject to the orders of the Government the Officers conducting such survey may exempt from survey any land the
settlement of which does not appear expedient.
The entire power to control every such survey shall vest in the Government.
78.
Land holders, etc., may be made by general notice or summons, to attend survey operations and assistance of village
officers, and officers, concerned may be taken.
- The Survey officer may require, by general notice or summons, the attendance of all land holders and all persons
interested in such land, person or through an authorised agent acquainted with the facts and able to answer material
questions, and the presence of village servants and officers concerned, who are, legally or by usage, bound to perform
their functions by virtue of their offices and services and also take from them such assistance in the operation of survey
as may not be inconsistent with their dignity and position.
79.
No number to comprise of less than fixed area.
- Number of any cultivable land shall not be made of less or greater area than fixed by the Government for each district
according to different types of land and a statement showing the area fixed shall, before the commencement of the
Page 16/32
----- PAGE 17 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
survey be displayed at a conspicuous place in each village. These provisions shall not apply to the numbers which have
already been made of a lesser area or which have been made under the special order of a superior Survey officer or
which may be made, separately demarcated, under the order of the Collector [***] in accordance with the provisions of
Section 25 for purpose other than agricultural.
80.
When pattadar or pote number tenders compromise it may be made over to any one of pote pattadars of same number.
(1)
If a pattadar of a pote number of any number tenders comprise the pote number shall be made over to such person from
among the Pote pattadars as may be entitled thereto and if there is no such person or he does not take it then to him
who pays the largest amount of land revenue and if he also does not take, all the pote pattadars of the same number
shall in the same manner successively have the right.
(2)
[***]
81.
Settlement officers to make assessment.
- Subject to rules made under Section 172 the Survey officer shall, with due regard to laws and subsisting rights, make
the assessment on all lands within the local limits in respect of which an order may have been under Section 77.
Provided the land is not wholly exempt from the land revenue ; but nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent
the Survey officer from making or registering the assessments on land wholly exempt from land revenue or specially
expected under Section 77 from settlement or from dividing into numbers all such land where the survey is being made.
82.
Assessment of land revenue may be made directly of land or of means of irrigation.
- Where assessment is to be made on the land which is used for agricultural purpose only, the aforesaid powers shall
also include the power to make assessment either directly on the land or to fix a rate of tax for water according to the
means of irrigation, provided that of tax has been fixed on such means of irrigation under Section 53 or any other law or
that land is assessed in some other manner approved by the Government.
83.
Assessments made in settlement shall not be recovered without sanction of Government.
- The assessment made by the Survey Officer shall not be recovered without the sanction of the Government. The
Government shall after proper modification, sanction such assessment for any fixed term which in the case of the
agricultural land shall not exceed thirty years.
84.
Announcement of assessment how made.
- When the assessment fixed by the settlement for the agricultural land is sanctioned by the Government a Survey
Officer not lower in rank than an Assistant Commissioner or in his absence the Collector either himself or through any
Deputy or Assistant Collector shall fix a date for the announcement of the assessment and at a reasonable time before
hand make proclamation and on such date shall publicly announce the assessment fixed on each number. No person by
being absent at the time of announcement shall be absolved from any liability to which he may be subject under the
announcement of assessment.
85.
When assessment fixed shall be levied.
- In the agricultural year in which a settlement, whether original or subsequent, is announced under the last preceding
section, assessment fixed shall not be levied but it shall be levied in the subsequent year as may be fixed in the
announcement of assessment. Any person who does not agree with the assessment fixed may, before the
commencement of that agricultural year, file a compromise under Section 64.
86.
Preparation of register.
(1)
The Survey Officer shall, at each settlement, prepare a separate register for each village showing the area and
assessment of each number together with the name of the pattadar. This register and other records shall be prepared in
accordance with the rules made by the Government by notification.
Page 17/32
----- PAGE 18 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
(2)
[***]
(3)
[***]
87.
Settlement officer to correct clerical and other errors admitted by all parties and application for correction of name to be
made within two years.
- The Director of Settlements and on making over the settlement records to the Collector, the Collector may, at any time,
correct or cause to be corrected any clerical error or errors admitted by the party concerned. The aforesaid officer shall
hear all applications made within two years after the introduction of the settlement, for the correction of any wrong entry
of a pattadar's name in the register referred to in the preceding section and if satisfied about the error whether such error
has been made through negligence, fraud, or collusion shall correct the same, notwithstanding that the party concerned
does not admit the error but no such application shall be entertained after two years, unless reasonable cause is shown
to the said officer for the delay, and in such cases if any error is proved it shall not be corrected without obtaining the
sanction of the Government.
87A.
Delegation of powers of Government.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything in this Act, the Government may, by notification published in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette,
delegate their powers under Section 87 to the Settlement Commissioner, and may, by like notification, withdraw any
such delegation.
(2)
The exercise of the powers delegated under sub section (1) shall be subjected to such restrictions and conditions, if any,
as may be specified in the notification.
88.
Settlement records to be made over Collector who shall cause village records to be prepared.
(1)
The settlement register and other records prepared by the Survey officers shall be made over to the Collector, who shall
cause Village records to be prepared in accordance therewith.
(2)
[***]
88A.
[
[Section 88-A omitted by A.P Adaptation Order, 1957.]
[***]]
89.
Division of numbers and fixing of pote numbers on second settlement to be lawful.
- The Survey officer may, on the occasion of any subsequent settlement, subject to the provisions of Section 79 and
under the rules made in this behalf, break up and divide a number into two or more numbers and shall fix separate
assessment for each such number and enter the area of each such number and the name of the occupant in the
settlement register.
89A.
Division of Survey numbers into new Survey numbers.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 79 and Section 89 or rules made thereunder, when any portion of
cultivable land is permitted to be used under the provisions of Sections 61 and 62 for non agricultural purpose or when
any portion of land is specially set apart under Section 25 or when an assessment on any portion of the land is altered or
levied under Section 50, separate survey number may, subject to the rules made by the Government under this Act in
this behalf, be made of such portion.
89B.
Division of Survey numbers into pote numbers.
(1)
Page 18/32
----- PAGE 19 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 89 the Government at any time, may direct that survey numbers be divided in
to so may pote numbers as may be required in view of the rights acquired in land or for any other reason.
(3)
The area and the assessment fixed of such pote numbers shall be entered into such records as the Government may
prescribe in this behalf.
Chapter 8
Dispute Relating to Boundaries and Installation and maintenance of Boundary Marks
90.
Determination of village boundaries.
- The Collector or any other officer nominated by the Government for this purpose, or the Settlement Commissioner, if
survey operations are proceeding in the village shall enquire about and fix the boundaries of villages and determine
disputes, if any, relating thereto. When the Patels and Patwaris of any two or more adjoining villages agree to any given
line of boundary and such agreement is not illegal, the officer determining the boundary shall require the said parties to
execute an agreement to that effect and shall mark off the boundary accordingly.
91.
Procedure in case of disagreement or dispute.
- If the parties do not agree in the manner prescribed in the last preceding section, the said officer shall, after necessary
inquiry make a plan showing the area of the ground in dispute together with the boundaries or marks, existing or which
may be stated, in different colours, and shall, after completing the inquiry make an award in the case.
92.
Determination of field boundaries.
- If, at the time of a survey, the boundary of a field is pointed out by the holder and it is undisputed and its correctness is
also affirmed by the Patel and Patwari of the village the boundary shall be marked. If the boundary of a field is disputed
or the landholder is not present or does not point out the same, the Survey officer and when settlement operation is not
proceeding the Collector in a case the land is of khalsa area [***] shall fix the boundary according to the entries in village
records, and according to occupation if, adverse to the entries in village records, it is established that the occupation
extends over a year and no legal action has been taken in connection therewith.
93.
Settlement of boundary disputes by arbitration.
- If the parties agree to refer the boundary dispute to arbitration and make an application to that effect in writing, the
competent officer shall refer the case to arbitration for settlement ; and to the dispute shall apply all provisions of
arbitration relating to civil suits and the powers vested in a Court by virtue of such provisions shall vest in Collector or the
Settlement Commissioner.
94.
Construction or repair boundary marks of Villages and survey number.
- When survey operations are proceeding, it shall be lawful for the Settlement Commissioner or such other officer
authorised by him in this behalf, to cause to be constructed or repaired boundary marks of villages and occupied
numbers ; and the officers concerned shall see to their maintenance. The Survey officer shall, by a notification posted in
the Chavdi or in some adjacent and conspicuous place, require the holders of lands to construct or repair the boundary
marks of their numbers and in accordance with the directions given in the notification within specified period which shall
not be less than one month, and on their failure to comply with the requisition within the specified period, the said Survey
Officer shall cause the boundary marks to be constructed or repaired and cause charges incurred to be recovered from
Pattadar as an arrears of land revenue.
95.
Dimensions and form etc.,of boundaries to be determined with sanction of Chief Revenue Authority.
- The dimensions and form of boundary marks of villages and numbers and the material of which they shall be made,
shall be determined with the sanction of the Government according to local conditions, climate, durability and cheapness
of materials.
96.
Collector to have charge of boundary marks after introduction of settlement.
- When settlement is introduced into a district, the Collector shall be in charge of boundary marks. The Collector may for
Page 19/32
----- PAGE 20 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
their preservation and maintenance, exercise all the powers as are vested in a Settlement officer under Section 94.
97.
Responsibility for preservation of boundary marks.
(1)
Every land holder shall maintain the boundary marks of the land occupied by him in original condition and if he fails in it
and does not carry out necessary repairs in spite of orders of the village and Taluqa officers the Revenue officers, not
lower in rank to a [***] Tahsildar, shall cause the necessary repairs to be carried out and recover the charges thereof
from the pattadar as an arrear of land revenue.
(2)
[***]
98.
Penalty for damaging etc., boundary marks.
- Any person convicted after a summary trial, before a [***] Collector or Deputy or Asst. Collector or Survey officer or
Tahsildar, of wilfully erasing, removing or damaging boundary marks, shall be liable to a penalty which may extend to
four times the cost of repair or fixation of each mark so erased, removed or damaged and such mark shall be repaired or
fixed from such amount.
99.
Fixing of limits of village sites.
- The Collector or the Survey officer may, subject to rules and safeguarding the subsisting rights of landholders,
determine the limits of a village site.
100.
No land revenue to be levied in certain cases on lands within village site.
- No land revenue for purposes of this Act shall in the following cases be levied on lands situated within a village site and
not used for purposes of agriculture:
(a)
where a person or his legal representative upto the date of commencement of this Act, has held any land without
payment of land revenue and has not made an agreement with the Government to pay it in future ;
(b)
where a competent officer has made an order or granted a Sanad in respect of right of occupancy exempting any land
from land revenue without fixing any period. In other cases also no land revenue shall be levied on a land within a village
site without the sanction of the Government.
101.
Procedure on occupying without permission land situate in village site.
- If, after the commencement of this Act, any person without the written permission of the officer, occupies any land
situated in the village site which has not been set apart for agriculture the Collector may recover the compensation for
occupancy right of such land or fix a land revenue on the land or order both for recovery of compensation and levy of
land revenue; and if it is proved that the land was held dishonestly or through mischief he may recover penalty to the
extent of double the compensation for occupancy right. And if any building has been constructed on it and the
Government purposes or the public benefit is thereby encroached upon if that building is not demolished and not more
than one year has elapsed from the date of completion of construction the Collector may, after recording his reasons,
order the person who has constructed the building to demolish it and remove the materials thereof within a fixed period
which shall not be less than six months. If he does not comply within the period the Collector may seize the building.
102.
Suit not to be instituted in Civil Court after one year from order of Collector.
- No suit against the order of the Collector made under Section 101 shall be instituted in any Civil Court after one year
from the date of the order.
Chapter 9
Realisation of Land Revenue and other Government Demands
103.
Responsibility for payment of land revenue.
- The person primarily liable for payment of land revenue for khalsa land, shall be the pattadar of such land and for non
Page 20/32
----- PAGE 21 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
khalsa land the superior holder thereof. And when he fails to pay the land revenue, the land revenue may be recovered
from Shikmidar, or co sharer of the superior holder or inferior holder or person in actual occupation of the land, but the
amount which he may have paid to the pattadar or superior holder at the time of instalment or thereafter shall not be
recovered from him, and the amount so recovered shall be refunded from that pattadar or superior holder.
Priority of Government Claim for Land Revenue
104.
Government demand to have priority over all claims.
- The demand on any land, for its land revenue shall have priority over other demands whether in respect of debts or
mortgage or based on a decree of or attachment by a Court, and if the title to any land on which such Government
demand is due is transferred, such land or its transferee shall not be discharged from such demand. If the demand for
land revenue which cannot be recovered from the title to or existing produce of that land is due from a person the liability
for the payment of the land revenue shall have precedence over debt to decree of a Court also on his property other
than the land on which the demand is due; provided that such property before it is forfeited for recovery of the said
demand, is not sold or mortgaged or given has a gift or otherwise transferred or hypothecated or attached.
105.
Produce of land to be deemed as, hypothecated for payment of land revenue.
- The produce of land for every year shall be deemed to have been hypothecated for land Revenue due for that year.
Precautionery Measures for Securing Land Revenue
106.
Produce disposed of by sale etc., may be withheld till payment of land revenue.
- When the produce of any land is wholly or partly sold, mortgaged, or other otherwise disposed of whether by order of a
court or other competent department or with the desire of the land holder, the Collector may prevent such produce being
removed until the land revenue for the current year has been paid, though the date for the prescribed instalment has yet
not arrived. But in no case shall a produce or a portion of produce, which has been sold, mortgaged or disposed of be
detained on account of land revenue of a period exceeding one year.
107.
Power of Collector when apprehended that revenue shall not be recoverable.
- If the Collector has reason to believe that any land holder is a defaulter or it is apprehended that land revenue shall not
be recoverable on any land in case the crop is reaped or the produce is sold :
(a)
he may require that the standing crop of the land liable to payment of land revenue shall not be reaped without a notice
to himself or to the officer appointed by him for this work. Such notice shall be given in writing and returned with
acknowledgment receipt and if the crop has been reaped:
(b)
he may direct that such crop shall not be removed from the land on which it has been reaped, or from the place where it
may have been stored, without the written permission of the Collector or of other officer as aforesaid;
(c)
he may appoint a watchman, fixing his pay, to watch that the standing crop is not unlawfully reaped or removed without
permission. The pay of such watchman shall not exceed five rupees per month, and may be realised as an arrear of
land revenue from the land holders, but if the produce could be watched through the village officers a paid watchman
shall not be appointed.
108.
Issue of orders provided for in Section 107 and penalty for contravention thereof.
- Orders provided in clauses (a) and (b) of the preceding section may be issued generally or all the co occupants or land
holders or individually or any particular holder. If the orders be made generally to all land holders they shall be issued by
proclamation to be made by beat of drum and a copy thereof shall be affixed at some conspicuous place in the village
Chavadi. If the said orders be made individually they shall be issued separately to each holder concerned. Any person
who contravenes the orders so issued or abets such contravention shall be liable, on conviction after a summary enquiry
before the Collector to a fine not exceeding double the amount of the land revenue on the land in respect of produce of
which the offence is committed.
109.
Page 21/32
----- PAGE 22 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
Reaping or removal of produce of land not to be prohibited for such long period as to damage produce.
- The Collector shall not defer the reaping of the crop and its removal so as to damage the produce of the land and if the
land revenue has not been paid within two months from the date of attachment or within such lesser time as the
Collector may fix in special cases, he shall either release the produce and adopt other measures to realise the land
revenue under the provisions of this Chapter or sell such portion of the attached produce under the provisions of this
Chapter relating to sale of movable property for the recovery of revenue the price of which will be sufficient for payment
of revenue.
110.
Attachment of village or part of village for land revenue.
- If the holding consists of an entire village or of a part of a village and the Collector has reason to believe that owing to a
dispute among the sharers of for any other reason its land revenue will not be recoverable in the prescribed instalments,
he may temporarily attach the village or part of the village and take it under his own management or entrust it to an
officer or agent appointed by him for that work. The provisions of Section 125 shall also apply to any village or part of a
village which has been temporarily attached under this section and the income of the village or part of the village in
surplus after allowing the costs of attachment and management of the land, and payment of the land revenue and of the
cost of survey and settlement, if made under Section 77 shall be kept in deposit for eventual payment to the person
entitled to the same, or subject to the orders of the Board of Revenue, shall be paid by the Collector to the person
entitled to the same.
111.
Precautionary measures to be suspended on security being furnished.
- The precautionary measures provided for in Sections 106 to 110 shall be suspended or relinquished if the person
responsible for the payment of land revenue shall pay the entire costs of attachment and management of the land up to
the time of relinquishment and shall furnish reliable security to the effect that the land revenue shall be paid on the fixed
date or in the prescribed instalments, as the case may be.
Mode of Instalment of Land Revenue
112.
Government to determine date and instalments for recovery of amount.
(1)
Land Revenue, except under circumstances mentioned in Sections 106 to 110, shall be payable in such instalments and
on such dates and at such places, and to such persons as may be determined by order of the Government for this
purposes.
(2)
No officer shall recover any instalment before prescribed date.
Defaulters
113.
Arrears and Defaulter.
- An amount of land revenue not paid as above shall be called an arrear of land revenue and the persons from whom the
arrears is due under Section 103 or any other section shall be called defaulters.
114.
Liability incurred in case of non payment of arrear.
- If any instalment be not fully paid even after the expiry of the prescribed time, the Collector may adopt measures to
recover both the entire amount of land revenue due by the defaulter for the current year and the interest or penalty as
may be recovered according to a scale fixed by the Government but if he is satisfied that the arrear of land revenue is
only due to poverty he may remit the penalty or interest and refund the same if already recovered.
115.
Certified account to be conclusive evidence as to arrears.
- An account, certified by Peshkar or any other Taluqa officer, higher in rank than a Peshkar, shall be conclusive
evidence of the existence of the arrear its amount, or of the person by whom it is due. On receipt of such certified
account, the Collector or one district shall proceed to recover the arrear of land revenue of another district under the
provisions of this Chapter as if the arrears is of his own district.
Recovery of Arrears of Land Revenue
Page 22/32
----- PAGE 23 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
116.
Measures for recovery.
- An arrear of land revenue may be recovered by the following measures and as far as possible, the measurers shall be
employed in the order mentioned below:
(a)
by issuing a notice to the defaulters under Section 118.
(b)
by distraint and sale of the defaulter's movable property under Section 119:
(c)
by distraint and sale of the defaulter's immovable property under Section 120;
(d)
by arrest and detention of the defaulter under Section 122;
(e)
by forfeiture of the right of occupancy in respect of which the arrear is due under Section 124;
(f)
[***]
117.
Measures specified applicable to arrears due both for previous years and current year.
- The measures specified above may be employed for the recovery of arrear, both of previous years and of the current
year, but the preference provided in Section 105 shall apply only to arrears for the current year, and the preference
provided in Section 104 shall apply to arrears for three years, except in case any measures for any arrears commenced
in the very year for which it is due but it has not been fully executed by the end of the year and the execution is pending.
Notice of Demand
118.
When and by whom notice of demand may be issued and its costs.
- The Tahsildar may, on any day after the expiry of the date on which the arrear accrues send on any day to the
defaulter a notice of demand, and the cost of demand notice being two annas if the amount of demand does not exceed
ten rupees, four annas if it exceeds ten rupees but does not exceed twenty five rupees and eight annas in all other
cases, may be recovered.
119.
Distraint and sale of defaulter s movable property.
- The Tahsildar may distraint and sell the defaulter s movable property. Such distraint shall be made by officers or clerks
appointed by him for this work.
120.
Distraint and sale of defaulter s immovable property.
- The Collector or the Deputy or Assistant [***] Collector may distrain the defaulter's immovable property other than the
land held by him, but where such distraint has been made by the order of the Deputy or Assistant Collectors it shall not
be sold except with the sanction of Collector
121.
Property of defaulter exempt from attachment.
- All such property of the defaulter shall be exempt from attachment and sale under the preceding sections as is except
under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 from attachment and sale in execution of a decree of a Court. Collector's order
as to what property of the defaulter shall be exempt from attachment and sale shall be final.
Arrest and Imprisonment
122.
Power to arrest defaulter and send him to Civil Jail.
- After an arrear becomes due, when it may not appear possible to recover it in any other way the defaulter may be kept
in custody for ten days in the district or Tahsil office, but if within the said period the arrear, together with penalty of
interest and the costs of arrest of and subsistence for the defaulter during custody and the cost of notice that may be
recoverable is recovered, the defaulter shall forthwith be released. If during the period of ten days the amount due is not
recovered the Collector may thereafter or if he deems fit before the expiry of ten days, send the defaulter a warrant to
Page 23/32
----- PAGE 24 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
remain in custody in the Civil Jail of his district; but no defaulter shall be kept in imprisonment for a period exceeding one
month.
123.
Power to arrest.
- The Government may declare by notification the officers or class of officers empowered to arrest under Section 122
and the cost of arrest and scale of subsistence for the person under custody.
Forfeiture of Occupancy and Eviction of Defaulter
124.
Lease and sale of occupancy right.
(1)
The Collector may attach the holding in respect of which land revenue is due and lease it out for a period not exceeding
ten years; but if in his opinion it is proper to sell such land he may, with the sanction of the Board of Revenue sell the
right of occupancy of the land. Any sum realised by auction or sale or through other management of the land shall be
credited to the account of the defaulter.
(2)
The Government may, whenever it appears necessary, by general or special order, authorise any Collector or Additional
Collector to sell the land attached under sub section (1) without the sanction of the Board of Revenue.
[***]
[The heading 'Attachment of Villages' omitted by the A.P.A.O. 1957.]
[125 to 128.
[Sections 125 to 128 were omitted by the A.P.A.O. 1957.]
[***]]
Stay of Proceedings for Recovery of Arrears.
129.
Recovery proceedings to be stayed on security being given or amount being paid.
- If, in the presence of the Collector or other officer appointed by him for this purpose and if the defaulter is imprisoned,
before the officer of the Jail reliable security or amount in cash towards payment of the aforesaid arrears and other costs
is furnished to the satisfaction of the Collector or such other officer he shall forthwith be released from custody or
imprisonment. Any person against whom, under some measure, any proceeding for the recovery is pending before any
officer may deposit the amount demanded with that officer stating that he has objection for the payment of the said
amount.
130.
Procedure for sale and publication of notification.
- When an order for sale of the property of the defaulter is made under the provisions of this Chapter the Tahsildar or
any [***] Collector or Deputy or Assistant Collector shall issue a notification in the vernacular. The notification shall
contain the following particulars :
(a)
the time and place of sale;
(b)
by whose sanction the sale shall be made final;
(c)
when the property to be sold is revenue land its area and revenue;
(d)
other matters which the Collector may think necessary.
Such notification shall be affixed at some conspicuous place in the chavidi or any place in the village wherein the
property was attached and the Tahsildar s Office and its substance shall be proclaimed by beat of drum in the village
wherein the property was attached and in such places also as the Collector may deem fit. If the property to be sold be
immovable property, a copy of the notification shall also be affixed at some conspicuous place in the Collector's Office
and its substance shall be published by beat of drum at the headquarters of the district; and the Collector may in
addition to the aforesaid method get very notification published in any other manner also.
131.
Page 24/32
----- PAGE 25 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
Objection in respect of attached property.
- When any objection is made by any person in respect of any property for the sale of which notification has been issued
and not being a holding the right of occupancy of which has been absolutely forfeited to the Government under Section
124, the Collector shall make a summary inquiry and decide it and excluding the property in respect of which the
objection is admitted he shall order the rest to be sold.
132.
Sale by whom and when to be made.
- Sale shall be made through such persons as the Collector may appoint for the work on a day not being a public
holiday, during ordinary office hours but not within at least thirty days if the property is immovable, and seven days if it is
immovable the issue of the notification referred to in Section 130, but this provision shall not apply to perishable articles,
which irrespective of the restriction as to said period shall be sold immediately at the discretion of the officer conducting
the sale and he shall have power to finally conclude such sale. The Collector shall have power to stay from time to time
the sale for any sufficient reason.
133.
When sale may be stayed.
- If at any time before the date fixed for the sale the arrear together with the other lawful charges is deposited by the
defaulter with the auctioneer or the person appointed under Section 112 for the recovery of land revenue or if reliable
security is furnished under Section 129 the sale shall forthwith be stayed.
134.
By whose sanction sale shall be final.
- Every sale or immovable property shall be finally concluded by the sanction of the Collector and that of movable
property by the sanction of the officer empowered by the Collector by a general or special order.
135.
Mode of payment of purchase money.
- The auction purchaser shall pay the purchase money as directed below :
(a)
When the sale is concluded before an officer authorised to confirm and conclude it finally
(1)
on account of movable property, in full, immediately after the sale in concluded or within such period as the officer
conducting sale the may fix.
(2)
on account of immovable property one fourth, as deposit, immediately after the sale is concluded and the entire balance
within 30 days from the date of sale and if the thirtieth day be a public holiday, then on the first day following the holiday.
136.
Resale if purchase money is not paid within prescribed time.
- If purchase money is not paid within the period provided in the preceding section, the deposit money, if any, after
defraying therefrom the expenses shall forfeit to the Government and there shall be a resale and for every such resale,
when it does not take place on the day fixed and in the meeting of the first sale, action shall be taken for the issue of a
notice under Section 130. If the amount for which the resale was concluded be less than the first sale the deficiency
shall be recovered from the purchaser at the first sale as an arrear of land revenue and the purchaser at the first sale
shall have no claim to the property sold and the amount of deposit forfeited.
137.
Receipt for purchase money to be furnished and sale as concluded to become absolute.
- On payment of the purchase money the auction purchaser shall get a receipt and after payment of full amount of
purchase money such sale, shall subject to the provisions of Sections 138 and 139, become absolute in favour of the
purchaser as against all other persons.
138.
Application to set aside sale of immovable property.
- At any time within thirty days from the date of sale of immovable property application may be made to the Collector to
set aside the sale on the ground of illegality of proceedings material mistake, or fraud, in conducting sale or publishing
notification but no sale shall be set aside on such application only unless the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the
Page 25/32
----- PAGE 26 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
Collector that he has sustained loss by reason of the illegality, mistake or fraud. If such application be allowed the
Collector shall make order to set aside the sale with the direction that it should be resold.
139.
Order confirming or setting aside sale.
- If application for setting aside the sale is not made under the preceding section or has been made and rejected the
Collector shall make an order confirming the sale; and if he thinks that the sale may set aside on reasonable ground
though no such grounds where set forth in the application rejected, he may, after recording his reasons make an order
setting aside the sale.
140.
Refund of purchase money if sale is not confirmed or set aside.
- Where the sale of any property is not confirmed or set aside the purchaser shall be entitled to receive back the
purchase money or the deposit.
141.
Putting purchaser into possession of holding sold and entering his name as pattadar in village record.
- Where a sale of a holding for which an arrears of land revenue is due is confirmed in accordance with the aforesaid
provisions, the Collector shall put the auction purchaser into possession of the same and shall grant him a certificate to
the effect that the person has purchased the occupancy right of the land. The certificate shall be treated as an authority
for transfer of that land and the name of the auction purchaser shall be entered into the village records as a pattadar;
and no suit against the purchaser whose name has been recorded in such certificate shall be entertained in a Civil Court
on the ground that the certificate holder is not in fact the purchaser but that by mutual agreement certificate has been
made in his name.
142.
Application of purchase money.
- The purchase money after the sale has been concluded shall be applied first to the payment of expenses of the sale
and then to the payment of arrears due by the defaulter at the date of conclusion of the sale and recoverable as an
arrear of land revenue, and the person whose property has been sold shall be entitled to the surplus, if any. The
expenses of the sale shall be assessed according to the rules and orders approved by the Government.
143.
Liability of purchaser for payment of land revenue.
- The person whose name has been entered in the sale certificate as purchaser of occupancy right of the Government
land shall be liable for the payment of all instalments of land revenue due in respect of such land subsequent to the date
of sale.
144.
Sums recoverable under provisions of this Chapter.
- All the Government sums under the following heads may be recovered under the provisions of this Chapter :
(1)
Land revenue
(2)
Quit rent
(3)
Nazrana
(4)
Peshkash
(5)
Taxes
(6)
Local cess
(7)
Fine and penalties
(8)
Income from lands
Page 26/32
----- PAGE 27 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
(9)
Rusum
(10)
Fees
(11)
Charges
(12)
Penal interest
(13)
Lease money
(14)
Moneys recoverable from sureties
(15)
Taccavi loans
(16)
All sums in respect of which provision has been made in this Act or in any other Act that they be recovered as arrears of
land revenue.
Chapter 10
Procedure of Revenue Officers
145.
Revenue officer to be subordinate to his superior.
- In all official works and proceedings a Revenue officer shall be subject as to the place, time, and manner, of performing
his duty, to the direction and control of his superior, provided there is no express provision in the law to the contrary.
146.
Power to issue summons for evidence and producing document etc.
- Every Revenue officer not lower in rank than a Peshkar of Tahsil the Assistant Settlement Commissioner may issue
summons to any person to be examined as a party or to give evidence as a witness or to produce any document or
article, as the case may be, for the purposes of an enquiry which he is empowered to make. Such officer shall have all
the powers which are vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908) to compel
the attendance of person to whom summons has been issued or the production of document or other article. Every
person to whom summonses have been issued shall attend either in person or by an agent as may be directed in the
summons and state the truth upon any subject respecting which his statement or evidence is recorded and produce
such document and articles as may be required.
147.
Form, issue and service of summons.
- The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the form,
issue and service of summons.
148.
Code of Civil Procedure regarding sustenance allowance to be followed when party desires attendance of witnesses.
- If any party, in any formal or summary inquiry, shall desire the attendance of witnesses he shall follow the rules
contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908) regarding summons, allowance and sustenance
to witnesses.
Formal Inquiry
149.
Mode of recording evidence in formal inquiry.
- In a formal inquiry, the officer making the inquiry shall in his own hand record evidence in full or cause it to be recorded
in his presence and under his personal superintendence that it may be audible to him and sign it. The cases in which the
officer making the inquiry is not able to record the evidence in his own hand, he shall in the course of examination make,
in his own hand, a memorandum of the substance of the deposition of the witness and after signing it cause it to be put
on the file. If such officer is not able to record such memorandum, he shall write the reason of his inability.
150.
Page 27/32
----- PAGE 28 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
Mode of writing of decisions.
- The competent officer shall after completing the inquiry write every decision in his own hand and fully record therein
the grounds on which the decision is based.
Summary Inquiry
151.
Mode of summary inquiry.
- In summary inquiry the competent officer shall, in the course of inquiry, record a minute of the proceedings in his own
hand containing the material averments of the parties to the case, the gist of the evidence, and the decision and the
reasons in brief for the same. But the officer making an inquiry may, if deemed fit, in the cases where an inquiry directed
by this Act is to be summary, act under all or any of the rules in force for formal inquiry.
152.
Formal and summary inquiry to be deemed judicial proceedings and to be conducted openly.
- In a formal or summary inquiry provided in this Act the proceedings by a competent officer shall be deemed to be
judicial proceedings for purposes of Sections 183, 198 and 210 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and his office shall be
deemed to be a Civil Court. Every act and decision in a formal or summary inquiry shall be in public, and the parties to
the case or their authorised agents, shall be duly given an opportunity for attendance.
153.
Mode of ordinary inquiry.
- An inquiry which this Act does not expressly require to be either formal or summary or an inquiry which a Revenue
officer may on any occasion deem necessary in the execution of duties, shall be conducted according to any special or
general rules, made under the order of the Government or at the instance of a superior authority and subject to such
rules the said officer shall in his discretion adopt such procedure as may be fit for finding out facts and for the public
welfare.
154.
Manner of obtaining copies and translation.
- In all cases in which a formal or summary inquiry is made authenticated copies and translations of decisions, orders
and exhibits shall be furnished to the parties on application being made; and original documents produced in evidence, if
they have not been impounded under any rule or by any order or decision, shall be restored to the persons who had
produced them; provided that the full charges for copying or translation, as the case may be, have been received in
accordance with the rules as are in force by the order of the Government.
155.
Arrest to be made by warrant.
- When, under the provisions contained in this Act, a defaulter or any other person is held liable to be arrested, such
arrest shall be made upon a warrant of arrest issued by an officer competent to order the arrest, of such person.
156.
Power to enter upon land or premises when necessary.
- Every Revenue officer may, enter, whenever necessary for measurements, fixing of boundary marks or inspecting of
boundaries, classification of soil, or assessment, or for any other necessity connected with the discharge of duty, any
land for premises, whether such land or premises belongs to the Government or to any private individual and whether
the revenue is partially or wholly realised from the land or not;
Provided that he shall not enter into any house used as a dwelling without the permission of the occupier of the house
and without giving twenty four hours previous notice, and on entering such a house due regard shall be had to the
religious and social ideologies of the occupier of the house.
157.
Mode of evicting unlawful occupant.
- Whenever a Collector may desire to evict, under the provisions of this Act or any other law, any person having unlawful
occupation of any land, such eviction shall be made in the following manner :
(1)
a notice shall be served on the unlawful occupant requiring him to vacate the land within a fixed period from the date of
receipt of the notice;
(2)
Page 28/32
----- PAGE 29 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
if it is not obeyed such person shall be evicted from the land by force;
Chapter 11
Appeal, Review and Revision Appeal
158.
Appeal from order of Revenue officer.
- (2) Subject to the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Board of Revenue Regulation, 1358 F.,
(Regulation LX of 1358F.) an appeal shall lie to the Government from any decision or order passed by a Collector or
Settlement Commissioner except in the case of any decision or order passed by such officer on second or third appeal.
(3)
When on account of promotion or change of designation, an appeal against any decision or order lies under this section
to the same officer who has originally passed the decision or order appealed against, the appeal shall lie to the officer
competent under this section to hear appeals against the decisions of the said officer.
(4)
Subject to the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Board of Revenue Regulation, 1358 F., (regulation
LX of 1358F.) if any decision or order is varied or reversed on revision or review in accordance with the provisions
hereinafter land down, an appeal shall lie from the order passed on such revision or review as if such order were an
original order or decision.
159.
Non appealable orders.
- The following orders shall be non appealable:
(1)
order for exemption from period of limitation for a memorandum of appeal or application for review under Section 5 of
the Indian Limitation Act, 1908 (Central Act 9 of 1908).
(2)
order rejecting an application for revision or review.
160.
Period of Limitation.
- Except as otherwise provided in this Act the period of limitation for the appeal preferred under Section 158 shall be as
follows:
(1)
when the appeal is against the order or decision of an officer lower in rank to a [
*] Collector [
*] or Settlement Commissioner, 60 days;
(2)
in all other cases, 90 days.
161.
Original order or copy thereof to be filed along with memorandum etc.
- The original order or decision appealed against or an authentic copy thereof shall be filed along with every
memorandum of appeal.
162.
Powers of appellate authority.
- (2) If the memorandum of appeal is admitted, a date shall be fixed for the hearing and the respondent informed of it by
a notice.
163.
Power to stay execution.
(1)
When a memorandum of appeal is admitted the appellate authority may, pending decision of the appeal, direct the
execution of the order or decision under appeal to be stayed.
(2)
Any Revenue officer who has passed an order or decision or his successor may, if an appeal against the order or
decision has not been preferred to a competent officer, on the application of any aggrieved party at any time within the
Page 29/32
----- PAGE 30 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
period of appeal stay the execution of such order or decision for such period (not exceeding three months, in any case)
as he may deem fit in order to enable the aggrieved party to present a memorandum of appeal to the competent officer
and obtain an order for the stay of execution. Orders under this sub section by which execution is stayed or refused to
be stayed shall not be appealable.
(3)
When an order of stay of execution is passed under sub section (1) or (2) the appellate authority or the executing officer
may, at his discretion, take security from the party concerned or impose any other conditions as may be deemed fit.
164.
Final order to be deemed non appealable.
- Whenever in this Act or any rule or order made thereunder, it is declared that a decision or order shall be final, such
expression shall be deemed to mean that no appeal lies from such decision or order but, subject to the provisions of the
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Board of Revenue Regulation, 1358F (Regulation LX of 1358F). the Government
may under Section 166 B, annul, vary or modify even a final order or decision.
165.
Propriety or reconsideration of order passed on motion of incompetent officer.
- If in any case on the motion of any officer who is not competent to deal with it, a superior competent officer passes any
order in the first instance, nothing shall prevent such competent officer, on the application of any party, to reconsider the
said order and modify, annul, or vary it and such modification, annulment or variation shall be deemed to be in the first
instance.
166.
Review.
- (3) Where in the opinion of a ... Settlement Commissioner or the Collector [
*] the review of an order or decision not passed by him is necessary or when any other Revenue officer, below the rank
of a [
*] Collector [***] Settlement Commissioner desires to review an order or decision whether passed by him or his
predecessor every such officer shall before granting the application for review obtain the sanction of such officer or
higher department whose immediate subordinate he may be.
(4)
No order or decision shall be modified or annulled on review unless all the parties to the case to be affected are
summoned and heard against the order or decision under review.
(5)
When a memorandum of appeal or application for revision has been filed against any order or decision, such order or
decision shall not be reviewed.
(6)
No order or decision shall be reviewed which affects the mutual rights of the ryot unless an application is filed by some
party to the case and such application for review shall not be admitted unless it is filed within 90 days from the date of
the order or decision.
(7)
When an order or decision has been disposed of in appeal or revision, no Revenue officer lower in rank to the authority
hearing the appeal or revision shall be competent to review such order or decision.
(8)
For purposes of this section, the [
*] Collector [
*] shall be deemed to, be the successor of every such Revenue officer in the district as may not be present within the
limits of the district or who has ceased to have powers in the Revenue Department: Provided that his successor has not
been appointed.
(9)
Orders passed in review shall on no account be reviewed.
166A.
Application of Limitation Act.
- The provisions of the India Limitation Act, 1908 (Central Act 9 of 1908) shall as far as possible, apply to every
Page 30/32
----- PAGE 31 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
memorandum of appeal and application for review under this Act.
166B.
Revision.
- (2) Every Revenue Officer lower in rank to a Collector or Settlement Commissioner may call for the records of a case
or proceedings for a subordinate department and satisfy himself that the order or decision passed or the proceedings
taken is regular, legal and proper and if, in his opinion, any order or decision or, proceedings should be modified or
annulled, he shall put up the file of the case with his opinion to the [
*] Collector [
*] or Settlement Commissioner as the case may be. Thereupon the [***] Collector or Settlement Commissioner may pass
suitable order under the provisions of sub section (1).
(3)
The original order or decision or an authentic copy of the original order or decision sought to be revised shall be filed
along with every application for revision.
166C.
Review by Government.
- (2) This Government may stay the execution of any such decision or order, pending the exercise of their powers under
sub-section (1) in respect thereof.
(3)
The provisions of this Section shall apply to any order passed under Section 158 or Section 166-B whether before or
after the Commencement of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue (Amendment) Act, 1990 and in the
case of an application for review from any person interested in respect of such an order passed prior to such
Commencement, the period of ninety days specified in Sub-section 91) shall be computed from the date of such
Commencement.
Chapter 12
Miscellaneous
167.
Inspection of maps survey records and village accounts and granting copies thereof.
- Subjects to such rules and after taking such fees as the Government may prescribe by notification, settlement records,
all maps and village accounts shall be open to the inspection of the public and copies and extracts thereof may be given.
168.
Rules for partition of an area on which land revenue is levied The following rules shall be enforced at the partition of any
area on which land revenue is levied.
(1)
The area shall be divided as far as possible according to numbers without sub dividing any number;
But if the partition cannot be completely effected without sub dividing a number, such number may be sub divided by the
Collector, subject to the provisions of Section 79.
(2)
Any number or its pote number which may remain undivided after the partition has been carried out under the preceding
rule and which is incapable of sub division or further sub division according to Section 79, shall be made over to one of
the sharers; provided that such sharer pays to the other sharers the consideration for their sharers or they shall be sold
or auctioned and the proceeds divided among all the sharers or disposed as of as the Collector thinks fit.
(3)
The expenses properly incurred in making such partition shall be recoverable as an arrear of land revenue in such
proportions as the Collector thinks fit from all the shares or from the persons at whose request partition is made or from
the persons interested in such portion.
169.
[
[Sections (169), (170) and (171) omitted by the A.P.A.O. 1957.]
[***]
170.
[
Page 31/32
----- PAGE 32 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
[Sections (169), (170) and (171) omitted by the A.P.A.O. 1957.]
[***]
171.
[
[Sections (169), (170) and (171) omitted by the A.P.A.O. 1957.]
[***]]
172.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The Government may, by notification published in the Official Gazette, make rules not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act, the carry out the purposes and objects of this Act and for the guidance of all persons in the matters connected
with the enforcement of this Act or in matters not expressly provided for in the Act.
173.
Punishment for breach of rules.
(1)
The Government may prescribe punishment for breach of rules which may either be imprisonment to the extent of one
month or fine which may extend to five hundred rupees or both.
(2)
Under sub section (1) punishment on conviction shall be awarded by a magistrate.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 32/32