
----- PAGE 1 -----
Delegation of Powers of Collector to Deputy or Assistant Collectors Delegation Rule
Delegation of Powers of Collector to Deputy or Assistant Collectors
Delegation Rule
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/142957264/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Delegation of Powers of Collector to Deputy or Assistant Collectors Delegation Rule
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Delegation of Powers of Collector to Deputy or Assistant Collectors Delegation Rule
Rule
DELEGATION-OF-POWERS-OF-COLLECTOR-TO-DEPUTY-OR-ASSISTANT-COLLECTORS-DELEGATION-RULE of
1800
Published on 1 January 1800
Commenced on 1 January 1800
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1800.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Delegation of Powers of Collector to Deputy or Assistant Collectors Delegation Rule
Last Updated 6th June, 2019
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub section (2) of Section 7 of the A.P. (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, No.
VIII of 1317 F. (hereinafter referred to as the said Act) Government is hereby pleased to order that the following powers
of Collector be delegated to Deputy or Assistant Collectors for exercising in their respective jurisdiction:
1.
To impose penalties for unauthorised cultivation or use of land under Section 57 of the said Act.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Delegation of Powers of Collector to Deputy or Assistant Collectors Delegation Rule
2.
To enquire and fix boundaries of villages and determine disputes, if any, relating thereto under Section 90 of the said
Act.
3.
To determine filed boundaries under Section 92 of the said Act.
4.
To have charge of boundary marks after introduction of Survey Settlement under Section 96 of the said Act.
5.
To determine the limits of the village site, respect being had to subsisting rights of landholders, under Section 99 of the
said Act.
6.
To take action under Section 101 of the said Act, if land situated in a village site is held without permission.
7.
To take action under Section 157 of the said Act, for evicting a person wrongfully in possession of Land.
8.
To declare a double crop land as single crop land, if the said land is not fit for double crop cultivation.
9.
To grant remission on dry lands whose crops are destroyed for reasons beyond the control of agriculturists like hail
storm, floods, locusts and frost, under Rule 33 of the Settlement Rules.
10.
To sanction conversion of wet lands irrigated by Bhurkies into dry in case of the Bhurkies becoming irrepairable.
11.
To sanction expenditure on boundary marks within the Budget allotment.
12.
To sanction a reward of Rs. 100 per Taluk for the immediate protection of a tank and to sanction reappropriation of the
savings of one Taluk to another Taluk for this purpose. Such reward shall not exceed Rs. 25 per case.
13.
To sanction arrears of pay or other amounts payable or travelling allowance or railway fare of his subordinates excepting
Tahsildars and Naib Tahsildars, pertaining to a period within three years.
14.
To refund or adjust arrears of rusum scale outstanding up to three years.
15.
To rectify the wrong entry of the amount of one village into another village.
16.
To sanction the appointment of Mutasaddies to conditional religious Mashes not exceeding Rs. 100.
17.
To condone late appearance upto 3 years of the heirs of Watandars when cogent reasons are shown, and permit
enquiry into succession.
18.
To sanction leave to Patels and Patwaries upto three years to be availed of within the State, or outside, provided no
expenditure to Government is involved.
19.
To appoint Gumasthas on behalf of Government on lawaris watants.
20.
To exempt asaldar patels and patwaris from passing examination if their age exceeds forty (40) years or they have
worked satisfactorily for 10 years.
21.
To sanction transfer of watans of Balutadars.
22.
To make appointments of Balutadars on lawaris watans.
23.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Delegation of Powers of Collector to Deputy or Assistant Collectors Delegation Rule
To make new appointments to the ports of sethsindhies and neeradies and to grant land in lieu of cash mash.
24.
To exchange the land of neeradies with unoccupied Government land.
25.
To sanction casual leave to Tahsildars. [Notification No. 44 A4 55 56, Revenue, dated 17 8 1956].
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3