
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Revenue Commissioner Act, 1849
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Revenue Commissioner Act, 1849
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/122171667/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Revenue Commissioner Act, 1849
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Revenue Commissioner Act, 1849
Act 10 of 1849
Published on 26 May 1849
Commenced on 26 May 1849
[This is the version of this document from 26 May 1849.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Revenue Commissioner Act, 1849
Act
No. 10 of 1849
[Dated 26.5.1849]
An Act for appointing a Commissioner of Revenue [x x x].
Whereas it is expedient that the State Government of Andhra Pradesh should be empowered to depute a Member of the
Board of Revenue to perform in any of the districts of that State all or any of the duties which, by the general
Regulations and laws of the State belong to the Board of Revenue collectively : It is enacted as follows:
1.
Power to depute Member to perform duties of Board:
- The State Government of Andhra Pradesh may, from time to time whenever they shall see fit, depute a Member of the
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Revenue Commissioner Act, 1849
Board of Revenue to perform alone, in any of the districts of that State all or any of the duties which, by the general
Regulations and laws of the State belong to the Board of Revenue collectively.
2.
Powers of Member so deputed:
- When a special commission shall be given to a Member of the Board of Revenue under this Act, the Member of the
Board named therein shall, by virtue thereof, be empowered to exercise, within the limits of his commission, all the
powers and duties which by law are vested in the Board of Revenue collectively, without exception, or subject to any
exceptions or restrictions which shall be prescribed in such commission ; and all Regulations and Acts concerning the
Board of Revenue shall be deemed to apply to the Commissioner within the limits of his commission, and with regard to
all things concerning the revenues of the district included in it, so far as is necessary to give full effect to his commission
and to this Act.
3.
Publication of commission, and revocation thereof:
- Every such Commission shall be published in Official Gazette, and the Commissioner shall enter on his office from the
date of such publication and in like manner the revocation or other determination of any such commission shall be
published in the Official Gazette.
4.
Deposit of records:
- The correspondence and other documents belonging to any such commission shall be deposited, on the determination
thereof in the office of the Board of Revenue, and shall be deemed records of the said Board.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2