
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1859.
The Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1859.
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/89474490/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
12
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
The Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1859.
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
The Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1859.
Act 24 of 1859
Published in Gazette 24 on 6 September 1859
Assented to on 6 September 1859
Commenced on 6 September 1859
[This is the version of this document from 6 September 1859.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1859.
[Act No. 24 of 1859]
[6th September, 1859]
An Act for the better regulation of the Police within the Andhra area of the State of Andhra Pradesh.
WHEREAS it is expedient to make the Police-force throughout the Andhra area of the State of Andhra Pradesh a more
efficient instrument for the prevention and detection of crime, and to re-organize the Police-force? It is enacted as
follows:--
1.
Interpretation
The following words and expressions in this Act shall have the meanings hereby assigned to them, unless there be
Page 1/8
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1859.
something in the subject or context repugnant to such construction (that is to say),
"Magistrate"
the word "Magistrate" shall include all persons, within their respective jurisdictions, exercising all or any of the powers of
a Magistrate;
"Superior Police."
the expression "Superior Police" shall mean the Director General of Police, the Inspector General of Police, Deputy
Inspector-General of Police, Commissioner of Police, District Superintendent of Police, Deputy Commissioner of Police.
Assistant Commissioner of Police, Assistant Superintendent of Police and Deputy Superintendent of Police
"Subordinate Police."
the expression "subordinate police" shall mean all police-officers of and below the rank of an Director;
"Police."
the word "Police" shall include all persons appointed under this Act;
"General Police District."
the expression "General Police District" shall embrace all districts to which the operation of this Act shall be extended;
"Property."
the word "property" shall include any movable property; money or valuable security;
'Person."
the word "person" shall include company or corporation;
"Month."
the word "month" shall mean calendar month?
"Cattle."
the word "cattle" shall, besides horned cattle, include elephants, camels, horses, asses, mules, sheep, goats and swine.
2.
Repeal and amendment of certain Acts
Repealed by the Repealing Act, 1870 (Central Act XIV of 1870).
3.
Jurisdiction of officers appointed under Reg. XI of 1816
Repealed by the Repealing Act, 1870 (Central Act XIV of 1870).
4.
Superintendence vested in the State Government
The superintendence of the Police throughout the General Police District shall vest in, and be exercised by the State
Government and, except as authorized by them under the provisions of this Act, no person officer or Court shall be
empowered to supersede or control any police-functionary, any Regulation, Act or usage to the contrary
notwithstanding.
5.
Director General of Police, etc
The administration of the Police throughout the General Police District shall be vested in an officer to be styled the
Director-General of Police for the Andhra area of the State of Andhra Pradesh and in such superior police officers as to
the State Government shall deem fit.
5A.
Appointment of Commissioners, Deputy Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners
(1)
Where in any Central Police District, an area is declared as metropolitan area as defined in clause (k) of section 2 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, the Government may appoint a Commissioner of Police for the said area and he
shall, in such metropolitan area exercise, the same powers and perform the same functions as are exercisable and
performable by the District Superintendent of Police under this Act.
(2)
The Government may also appoint such number of Deputy Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners as they may
deem necessary for the metropolitan area referred to in sub-section (1) to assist the Commissioner.
6.
Powers of Police, etc
Page 2/8
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1859.
All powers not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act which up to the passing of this Act belonged by law to the
existing Police-authorities shall be vested in the Police-authorities appointed under this Act: Provided always that no
Police-functionary so appointed shall possess or exercise any judicial or revenue authority.
7.
Director-General to be Justice of the Peace
The Director-General of Police shall be appointed a Justice of the Peace; he shall also have the full powers of a
Magistrate throughout the General Police District, but shall exercise these powers subject to such orders as may from
time to time be issued by the State Government. The State Government may vest any District Superintendent of Police
with all or any of the powers of a Magistrate within such limits as they may deem proper; but such Superintendent shall
exercise the powers with which he shall be so invested only so far as may be necessary for the preservation of the
peace, the prevention of crime, and the detection, apprehension and detention of offenders in order to their being
brought before a Magistrate, and as far as may be necessary for the performance of the duties assigned to him by this
Act.
8.
Constitution, pay, etc., of force
The entire Police-establishment of the Andhra area of the State of Andhra Pradesh shall for the purposes of this Act be
deemed to be one Policeforce and shall be formally enrolled, and shall consist of such number of officers and men, and
shall be otherwise constituted in such manner, as shall be from time to time ordered by the State Government. The pay
and all other conditions of service of officers of the Subordinate Police shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be such
as may be determined by the State Government.
9.
Director-General to control force and make rules
The Director-General may, from time to time, subject to the approval of the State Government, frame such orders and
regulations as he shall deem expedient, relative to the general government and distribution of the force, the places of
residence, the classification, rank and particular service of the members thereof; their inspection; the description of
arms, accoutrements and other necessaries to be furnished to them; to the collecting and communicating intelligence
and information; and all such other orders and regulations relative to the said Police-force as the said Director-General
shall, from time to time, deem expedient for preventing abuse or neglect, and for rendering such force efficient in the
discharge of all its duties.
10.
Dismissal, suspension or reduction of officers of the Subordinate Police
Subject to the provisions of article 311 of the Constitution and to such rules as the State Government may, from time to
time make under this Act, the Director-General, Deputy Inspectors-General and District Superintendents of Police may
at any time dismiss, suspend or reduce to a lower post, or time scale, or to a lower stage in time scale, any officer of the
Subordinate Police whom they shall think remiss or negligent in the discharge of his duty or otherwise unfit for the same
and may order the recovery from the pay of any such Police officer of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to
Government by his negligence or breach of orders.
11.
Police-officers to receive certificates of office
Every person appointed as an Officer of the Subordinate Police shall receive on his enrolment a certificate (A) under the
seal of the Director-General, by virtue of which he shall be vested with the powers, functions and privileges of a
Police-officer. Such certificate shall cease to have effect whenever the person named in it is suspended or dismissed, or
otherwise removed from employment in the Police-force, and shall thereupon be immediately surrendered to his
superior officer, or other person empowered to receive it.
12.
Police Superannuation Fund
Repealed by the Repealing Act, 1874 (Central Act XVI of 1874).
13.
Additional Police-officers employed at cost of individuals
It shall be lawful for the State Government, if they shall think fit, on the application of any person showing the necessity
thereof, to appoint any additional number of Police-officers to keep the peace at any place within the General Police
Page 3/8
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1859.
District, at the charge of the person making the application, but subject to the orders of the Director-General or Deputy
Director-General or District Superintendent and for such time as they shall think fit; provided always that it shall be lawful
for the person on whose application such appointment shall have been made, on giving one month's notice in writing to
the Director-General or Deputy Director-General or District Superintendent, to require that the officers so appointed shall
be discontinued; such person shall be relieved from the charge of such additional force from the expiration of such
notice.
14.
Additional force in neighbourhood of railway and other works
Whenever any railway, canal or other public work shall be carried on, or be in operation, in any part of the country, and it
shall appear to the Director-General that the appointment of an additional Police-force in such neighbour hood is
rendered necessary by the behaviour or reasonable apprehension of the behaviour of the persons employed upon such
work, it shall be lawful for the Director-General with the consent of the State Government, to direct the employment of
such additional force, and to maintain the same so long as such necessity shall continue; and to make orders from time
to time upon the treasurer or other officer having the control or custody of the funds of any Company carrying on such
works, for the payment of the extra force so rendered necessary as aforesaid.
15.
Recovery of sums payable for support of additional Police force
A11 sums of money payable under the two last preceding sections shall be recoverable by suit in any competent Court,
or by distress and sale of the goods of the defaulter under the warrant of a Magistrate.
16.
Special Police-officers
When it shall appear that any unlawful assembly or riot or disturbance of the peace has taken place or may be
reasonably apprehended in any place, and that the ordinary officers appointed for preserving the peace are not sufficient
for its preservation, and for the protection of the inhabitants, and the security of property in such place, it shall be lawful
for any Police-officer not below the rank of Inspector to apply to the nearest Magistrate to appoint so many of the public
or village servants, or residents of the neighbourhood, as such Police-officer may require to act as special Police-officers
for such time and in such manner as he shall deem necessary; and it shall be the duty of such Magistrate at once to
comply with such applications.
17.
Powers of special Police-officers
Every special Police-officer so appointed shall have the same powers, privileges and protection, and be liable to all such
duties and penalties, and be subordinate to the same authorities, as the ordinary officers of Police. He shall receive a
certificate in such form as the State Government may determine, under the signature of the Magistrate who appointed
him.
18.
Punishment for refusal to serve
If any person, being appointed a special Police-officer as aforesaid, shall without sufficient excuse neglect or refuse to
serve as such, or to obey such lawful order or direction as may be given him for the performance of his duties, he shall
be liable upon conviction before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding fifty rupees for such neglect, refusal or
disobedience.
19.
Police-officers not to resign without leave or notice? nor to take other employment
No Police-officer shall be at liberty to resign his office, or withdraw himself from the duties thereof, unless expressly
allowed to do so in writing by the District Superintendent; or unless he shall have given to his superior officer two
months' notice in writing of his intention to do so. Nor Shall any such Police-officer engage in any employment or office
whatever, other than his duties under this Act, unless expressly permitted to do so in writing under the seal of the
Director-General.
20.
Unlawful assumption of Police functions, personation of Police, etc
From and after the passing of this Act, every person not being, or having ceased to be, a duly enrolled Police-officer,
who shall unlawfully assume any function or power belonging to the Police, and who shall not forthwith deliver up his
Page 4/8
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1859.
certificate, and all the clothing, accoutrements and appointments, and other necessaries which may have been supplied
to him for the execution of his duty, or who shall have in his possession any distinctive article of the dress or
appointment directed to be worn exclusively by the Police force, without being able to account satisfactorily for his
possession thereof, or who shall put on the dress of any Police-officer, or any dress designed to represent it, or to be
taken for it, or who shall otherwise personate the character or act the part of any Police-officer for any purpose
whatever, shall, in addition to any other punishment to which he may be liable for any offence committed under the
assumed character, be liable on conviction before a Magistrate to a penalty not exceeding two hundred rupees, or to
imprisonment, with or without hard labour, for a period not exceeding six months, or both.
21.
Duties of Police-officers
Every. Police-officer shall, for all purposes in this Act contained, be considered to be always on duty and shall have the
powers of a Police-officer in every part of the General Police District. It shall be his duty to use his best endeavours and
ability to prevent all crimes, offences and public nuisances; to preserve the peace; to apprehend disorderly and
suspicious characters; to detect
and bring offenders to justice; to collect and communicate intelligence affecting the public peace; and promptly to obey
and execute all orders and warrants lawfully issued to him.
22.
to 41. - Repealed
Repealed by Central Act XVII of 1862.
42.
Powers of the Police, etc., on the occasion of a fire
On the occasion of a fire, any Police-officer above the rank of constable, or any member of the Andhra Pradesh Fire
Services above the rank of fireman, may--
(a)
remove or order the removal of any persons who by their presence, interfere with or impede the operations for
extinguishing the fire or for saving life or property;
(b)
close any street or passage in or near which any fire is burning;
(c)
by himself or those acting under his orders, break into or through, or pull down, or use for the passage of hoses or other
appliances, any premises for the purpose of extinguishing the fire, doing as little damage as possible;
(d)
cause the mains and pipes of any area to be shut off so as to give greater pressure of water in the place where the fire
has occurred;
(e)
call on the persons in charge of any fire-engine to render such assistance as may be possible; and
(f)
generally, take such measures as may appear necessary for the preservation of life and property.
Any damage done on the occasion of fires by members of the Andhra Pradesh Fire Services or of any fire-brigade or by
Police-officers or their assistants in the due execution of their duties shall be deemed to be damage by fire within the
meaning of any policy of insurance against fire.
But nothing in this section shall exempt any Police-officer or any member of the Andhra Pradesh Fire Services or of any
fire-brigade from liability to damages on account of any acts done by him without reasonable cause.
43.
Penalty for false alarm of fire
Whoever gives or causes to be given to any fire-brigade or to any member thereof or to any member of the Andhra
Pradesh Fire Services, whether by means of a street fire-alarm, statement, message or otherwise, any alarm of fire
which he knows to be false, shall be liable on conviction to fine which may extend to fifty rupees.
Whoever is convicted under this section, after having been previously convicted under this section shall be liable to
simple imprisonment for a period which may extend to six months and shall also be liable to fine.
44.
Page 5/8
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1859.
Penalties for neglect of duty, etc
Every Police-officer who shall be guilty of any violation of duty or wilful breach or neglect of any rule or regulation or
lawful order made by competent authority or who shall cease to perform the duties of his office without leave, or without
having given two month's notice as provided by this enactment, or engage without authority in any employment other
than his Police duty, or who shall maliciously and without probable cause prefer any false, vexatious or frivolous charge
or information against any individual, or who shall knowingly and wilfully and with evil intent exceed his powers, or shall
be guilty of any wilful and culpable neglect of duty, in not bringing any person who shall be in his custody, without a
warrant before a Magistrate as provided by law, or who shall offer any unwarrantable personal violence to any person in
his custody, shall be liable on conviction before a Magistrate to a penalty not exceeding three month's pay, or to
imprisonment with or without hard labour not exceeding three months, or both.
45.
Penalty for receiving unauthorized fees, etc
Any Police-officer who shall on any pretext, or under any circumstances, directly or indirectly collect or receive any fee,
gratuity, diet-money, allowance or recompense, other than he may, be duly authorized by the Director-General or other
officer acting under his order to collect or receive shall, on conviction before a Magistrate, be liable to a penalty not
exceeding six months' pay, or to imprisonment, with or without hard labour, not exceeding six months, or both.
46.
Penalty for extortion, etc
(1)
Any Police-officer who shall directly or indirectly extort, exact, seek or obtain any bribe or unauthorized reward or
consideration, by any illegal threat or pretence, or for doing or omitting or delaying to do any act which it may be his duty
to do or to cause to be done, or for withholding or delaying any information which he is bound to afford or to
communicate, or who shall attempt to commit any of the offences above said, or shall be guilty of cowardice, shall be
liable, upon conviction before a Magistrate, to a fine not exceeding twelve months' pay or to imprisonment with or
without hard labour not exceeding twelve months, or both:
(2)
Committal by Magistrate of serious cases.
Provided always that nothing in the three last preceding sections shall be deemed to preclude the Magistrate from
committing for trial any cases of this nature too serious for his cognizance.
47.
Penalty for offences against Police-officer
If any person shall assault or resist any Police-officer in the execution of his duty, or shall aid or incite any other person
so to do, or shall maliciously and without probable cause prefer any false or frivolous charge against any Police-officer,
such person shall, on conviction of such offence before any Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty rupees, or to
imprisonment, with or without hard labour, not exceeding three months, or both.
48.
Penalty for certain offences within limits of towns. Power to arrest without warrant. Slaughtering cattle, furious riding, etc
Repealed by the Andhra Pradesh Towns Nuisances Act, 1889 (Act III of 1589).
49.
Regulation of public processions, etc., and of carriages and persons and places of public resort. Regulation of use of
music in streets
Repealed by Mad. Act V of 1896.
50.
Enquiry into charges against certain Police-officers
Any charge against a Police-officer above the rank of a constable under this Act shall be enquired into and determined
only by an officer exercising the powers of a Magistrate.
51.
Liability to prosecution for higher penalties:
Nothing contained in this Act shall be construed to prevent any person from being prosecuted for any offence made
punishable on conviction by this Act, or to prevent any person from being liable under any other law, Regulation or Act to
any other or higher penalty or punishment than is provided for such offence by this Act; Provided always that no person
Page 6/8
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1859.
shall be punished twice for the same offence.
52.
Levy of fines
All fines, and penalties imposed, and all sums of money recoverable under the authority of this Act, may, in case of
non-payment thereof, be levied by distress and sale of the movable property of the offender by warrant of the Magistrate
53.
Limitation of action
All actions and prosecutions against any person, which may be lawfully brought for anything done or intended to be
done, under the provisions of this Act, or under the provisions of any other law for the time being in force conferring
powers on the police shall be commenced within three months after the act complained of shall have been committed
and not otherwise; and notice in writing of such action and of the cause thereof shall be given to the defendant, or to the
Superintendent or other superior officer of the district in which the act was committed, one month at least before the
commencement of the action; and no plaintiff shall recover in any such action, if tender of sufficient amends shall have
been made before such action brought, or if a sufficient sum of money shall have been paid into Court after such action,
brought by or on behalf of the defendant; and though a decree shall be given for the plaintiff in any such action, such
plaintiff shall not have cost against the defendant, unless the Judge, before whom the trial shall be, shall certify his
approbation of the action:
Bar to action - Provided always that no action shall in any case lie where such officers shall have been prosecuted
criminally for the same act.
54.
Plea that act was done under warrant
Decree for defendant. Proof of signature - When any action, prosecution or proceeding shall be brought against any
Police-officer for any act done by him in such capacity, it shall be lawful for him to plead that such act was done by him
under the authority of a warrant issued by a Magistrate? and such plea shall be proved by the production of the warrant
directing the act and purporting to be signed by a Magistrate. And the defendant shall thereupon be entitled to a decree
in his favour, notwithstanding any defect of jurisdiction in such Magistrate. And no proof of the signature of such official
shall be necessary, unless the Court shall see reason to doubt its being genuine:
Saving of remedy against issue of warrant - Provided always that any remedy which the party may have against the
authority issuing such warrant shall remain entire.
54A.
Power of State Government to extend certain provisions of Act to any town
(1)
The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette extend to any town all or any of the provisions of the
Madras City Police Act, 1888, mentioned in the Schedule and the rules, orders and bye-laws made there under and may
declare such extension to be subject to such modifications as they think fit.
(2)
The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette cancel or modify any such notification as is referred to
in sub-section (1).
55.
Operation of Act
This Act shall take effect in any and, every such district as the State Government shall appoint by notification published
in the official gazette.
See Section 54-A (1)
Definitions of "imprisonment", "Gaming", "Instruments of gaming" "common gaming house" and "conviction" in section 3,
sections 23, 24, 26, 28, 33, 48, 50, 63, 64, 65 and 66, clauses (iii), (v) , (vi), (vi), (viii), (x), (xiii), (xiv), (xv), (xvi), (xvii),
and (xviii) of section 71 and sections 73, 74, 75, 77, 78, 79 and 80.
FORM A.
(See Section 11)
A. B. has been appointed a member of the Police-force under Act XXIV of 1859, and is vested with the powers,
functions and privileges of a Police officer.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Page 7/8
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1859.
Translation
Page 8/8