
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Rent and Revenue Sales and Madras Revenue Recovery (A.P. Extension And Amen...
Andhra Pradesh Rent and Revenue Sales and Madras Revenue
Recovery (A.P. Extension And Amendment) Act, 1958
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/82158712/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Rent and Revenue Sales and Madras Revenue Recovery (A.P. Extension And Amendment) Act, 1958
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Rent and Revenue Sales and Madras Revenue Recovery (A.P. Extension And Amendment) Act, 1958
Act 6 of 1959
Published on 1 November 1956
Commenced on 1 November 1956
[This is the version of this document from 1 November 1956.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Rent and Revenue Sales and Madras Revenue Recovery (A.P. Extension And Amendment) Act, 1958
Act
No. 6 of 1959
An Act to provide for the extension of certain laws to the transferred territories of the State of Andhra Pradesh.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Ninth Year of Republic of India as follows : -
1.
Short title and commencement:
(1)
This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Rent and Revenue Sales and the Madras Revenue Recovery (Andhra
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Rent and Revenue Sales and Madras Revenue Recovery (A.P. Extension And Amen...
Pradesh Extension and Amendment) Act, 1958.
(2)
This section shall come into force at once and the remaining provisions of this Act shall come into force [on such dates
as the State Government may, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, appoint.]
[Came into force on 19-1-1959 vide G.O.Ms. No. 91, Rev., Dated 13.1.1959.]
2.
Definitions:
- In this Act—
(a)
'Andhra Area means the territories of the State of Andhra Pradesh which, immediately before the 1st November, 1956
were comprised in the State of Andhra.
(b)
'transferred territories' means the territories specified in sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the States Re-organisation Act,
1956 (Central Act 37 of 1956).
3.
Extension of Central Act VII of 1839 and Madras Act II of 1864 to the transferred territories:
- The Andhra Pradesh Rent and Revenue Sales Act, 1839 (Central Act VII of 1839) and the Andhra Pradesh Revenue
Recovery Act, 1864 (Madras Act II of 1864) as in force at the commencement of this Act in the Andhra Area, as
amended by Sections 4 and 5 respectively, are hereby extended to, and shall be in force in the transferred territories.
4.
[Incorporated in Principal Act.]
5.
[Incorporated in Principal Act.]
6.
Powers to remove difficulties:
(1)
If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act or of the Acts extended by this Act, in their application
to the transferred territories, in consequence of the transition to the said provisions from the provisions of any
corresponding law in force therein immediately before the commencement of this Act, the State Government may, by
order in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, make such adaptations or modifications of the said Act or Acts not effecting
substance or make such provisions as appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty :
Provided that the power conferred by the sub-section shall not be exercisable after the expiration of three years from the
commencement of this Act.
(2)
If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, or of the Acts extended by this Act (otherwise than in
relation to the transition from the provisions of the corresponding law in force before the commencement of this Act) in
their application to the transferred territories, the State Government may, by order in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, make
such provisions not inconsistent with the purposes of this Act or of the Acts extended by this Act, as appear to them to
be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty.
7.
Effect of other laws:
- Nothing contained in the Hyderabad Land Revenue Act (Hyderabad Act VIII of 1317F) shall apply in so far as it relates
to any matter or proceeding dealt with in this Act or the Acts extended by this Act, except as respect things done or
omitted to be done before the commencement of this Act.
8.
Repeal:
(1)
The Hyderabad Government Demands Act, (Hyderabad Act IV of 1308F.), is hereby repealed.
(2)
Upon such repeal, the provisions of Section 8 of the Andhra Pradesh General Clauses Act, 1891 (Act 1 of 1891) shall
apply ; and for the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that any proceeding commenced under the said Act and
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Rent and Revenue Sales and Madras Revenue Recovery (A.P. Extension And Amen...
pending at the commencement of this Act before any officer or other authority, shall be disposed of in accordance with
the provisions of the said Act as if the said Act had continued to be in force and this Act had not been passed.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3