
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery (Sales of Perishable Articles) Rules, 1959
Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery (Sales of Perishable Articles)
Rules, 1959
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/80796859/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery (Sales of Perishable Articles) Rules, 1959
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery (Sales of Perishable Articles) Rules, 1959
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-REVENUE-RECOVERY-SALES-OF-PERISHABLE-ARTICLES-RULES-1959 of 1959
Published on 9 March 1959
Commenced on 9 March 1959
[This is the version of this document from 9 March 1959.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery (Sales of Perishable Articles) Rules, 1959
Published vide G.O.Ms.No. 480, Revenue (I.L. 3), dated 9th March, 1959
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 60-A of the Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 (Act II of
1864), read with Section 23-A of the said Act, the Government of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following rules:
1.
These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery (Sales of Perishable Articles) Rules, 1959.
2.
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires—
(a)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery (Sales of Perishable Articles) Rules, 1959
'Act' means the Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 (Andhra Pradesh Act II of 1864).
(b)
'Perishable' means crops or products which are in their nature speedily perishable, including milk, eggs and vegetable,
fruits, meat, etc.
(c)
'Section' means a section of the Act.
3.
Where perishables have been distrained under Section 8 the distrainer shall as soon as may be after the distraint, cause
to be affixed to the outer door of the defaulter's house or on the premises where the perishables may have been
distrained a list of the perishables to be sold with a notice specifying the place where, and the day on and the hour at
which the distrained perishable will be sold and shall cause proclamation of the intended sale to be made by beat of
drum in the village where perishables are distrained and in such other places as he may consider necessary to give due
publicity to the sale. The date and hour of the sale shall be fixed having regard to the condition of the perishables at the
time of distraint.
4.
At the appointed time the perishables shall be sold by public auction in one or more lots as the distrainer may consider
advisable and they shall be disposed of to the highest bidder ; where the perishables may sell for more than the amount
of the arrears, the over-plus, after deducting expenses of process and interest, shall be paid to the defaulter, and the
provisions of Section 24 shall apply to every such sale.
5.
Notwithstanding anything in the preceding rules, the distrainer may, on a written application from the defaulter in this
behalf sell the perishables at the nearest market for what, in the opinion of the distrainer, is a fair price, instead of selling
them in public auction.
6.
The sale proceeds shall be deposited with the public officer referred to in Section 22.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2