
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Act, 1960
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal)
Act, 1960
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/18633544/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
64
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Act, 1960
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Act, 1960
Act 2 of 1960
Published on 1 January 1960
Commenced on 1 January 1960
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1960.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Act, 1960
(Act
No. 2 of 1960
)
Last Updated 10th January, 2020
An Act to provide for the constitution of Tribunal for Disciplinary Proceedings to inquire into allegations of misconduct on
the part of Government servants and for other matters connected therewith.
BE it enacted by 'the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Tenth year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Act, 1960
Short title and Commencement.
- (l) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Act, 1960.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette,
appoint.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the contest otherwise requires,-
(a)
'Government' means the State Government.
(b)
[ 'Government Servant' means a person appointed to public services or to a post in connection with the affairs of the
State of Andhra Pradesh.]
[Substituted by Act 6 of 1993.]
(c)
'Prescribed' means prescribed by rules made under this Act.
(d)
'Tribunal' means the· Tribunal constituted under section 3.
3.
Constitution and composition of Tribunal.
(1)
The Government shall constitute a Tribunal for disciplinary proceedings consisting of one or more members.
(2)
The Government may, at any time, by order, appoint one or more additional members to the Tribunal for such period as
they may think fit or reduce the number of members of the Tribunal.
(3)
Every member of the Tribunal shall be a judicial Officer of the status of a District Judge and his appointment shall be
made by the Government [out of a panel of names forwarded by the High Court]
[Added by Act 6 of 1993.]
.
(4)
If the Tribunal consists of more than one member one of the members shall be designated by the Government as the
Chairman of the Tribunal.
4.
Cases to be referred to Tribunal.
- The [The Government may refer to the Tribunal]
[Substituted by Act 6 of 1993 for the words 'The Government shall refer to the Tribunal'.]
for inquiry and Report, such cases as may be prescribed of allegations of misconduct on the part of Government
Servants.
4A.
[ Governments power to withdraw cases.
[Inserted by Act 6 of 1993.]
- The Government may, in appropriate cases and for reasons to be recorded in writing, withdraw any case refer to the
tribunal at any time before the Tribunal concludes its inquiry.]
5.
Power of Tribunal to Sumon and examine witnesses to direct production of documents and to appoint as Assessor.
(1)
The Tribunal shall, for the purpose of conducting an inquiry under this Act, have the powers of a civil court while trying a
suit, under· the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908), in respect of the following matters, namely:
(i)
summoning and enforcing attendance of any person.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Act, 1960
(ii)
requiring the discovery and production of any document; and
(iii)
issuing commissions for the examine of witness or documents.
(2)
The Tribunal may examine on oath any person supposed to be acquainted with the matter under inquiry or any fact
relavant thereto, and may record his evidence
(3)
Every person who is examined under sub-section (1) shall be bound to answer truly all questions relating to the matter
put to him by the Tribunal.
(4)
Any person who wilfully or without reasonable excuse, disobeys any summons or order issued under the foregoing
sub-sections shall be liable to the penalties laid down for the disobedience of the summons or order issued by a civil
court
(5)
The Tribunal may, if it so thinks fit, appoint any person as assessor to assist it in conducting an inquiry into any case or
cases referred to it.
6.
Procedure of Tribunal.
(1)
If the Tribunal consists of more than one member, an inquiry into a case referred to the Tribunal under section 4 shall be
held by all the members sitting together or by a single member, as the Chairman may direct, and where all the
members, sit together the evidence shall be recorded by such member or members as the Chairman may direct.
(2)
Unless the Chairman otherwise directs all proceedings at any such inquiry shall be held in camera.
(3)
The procedure to be followed by the Tribunal at any such inquiry shall, subject to the provisions of sub-sections (1) and
(2) be such as may be prescribed.
7.
Tribunal to report to Government.
- On the conclusion of an inquiry, the Tribunal shall report its findings to the Government [* * *]
[Omitted by Act 6 of 1993.]
[Provided that where a single member of the Tribunal holds an inquiry into a case as provided in sub-section (1) of
section 6, he alone shall report his findings [* * *]
[Added by Amendment Act 27 of 1965.]
and his report to the Government in this regard shall be deemed to be the report of the Tribunal for the purposes of this
Act.(Amendment of Section 7 of 1960).]
[Provided further that where such single member does not examine any witness and record evidence but only hears
arguments in such an inquiry and reports his findings, the hearing of arguments alone by him shall be deemed to be an
inquiry under sub-section (1) of section 6.]
[Added by Amendment Act 4 of 1976.]
8.
Orders of the Government.
- The Government shall consider the report of the Tribunal in the prescribed manner and pass such orders thereon as
they think fit.
9.
Protection of action taken under this Act.
- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person for anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or of any rules made there under.
10.
Power to make rules.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Act, 1960
(1)
The Government may, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette make rules for the purpose of giving effect to the
provisions of this Act.
(2)
[ Any rule made under this Act may be made with retrospective effect from any date not earlier than the date of
commencement of this Act and when such a rule is made, the reasons for so making the rule, shall be specified in a
statement to be laid before the Legislative Assembly of the State.]
[Sustituted by Act 6 of 1993.]
11.
Repeal and Savings.
- (l) The Hyderabad Public Servants Tribunal of Inquiry Act, 1950 (Hyderabad Act XXIII of 1950), the Andhra Civil
Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Rules, 1953, and the Andhra Tribunal for Disciplinary Proceedings
(Summoning and Examination of Witnesses and Documents) Act, 1956 (Andhra Act XXVIII of 1956), are hereby
repealed:
Provided that such repeal shall not effect the previous operation of the repealed laws.
(2)
From the date on which this Act comes into force the Tribunal constituted under the repealed laws shall be deemed to
have been abolished and all cases pending before the said Tribunal on the said date shall be deemed to have been
referred to the Tribunal and shall be disposed of by it under the provisions of the repealed laws as if it was a Tribunal
constituted under those laws and such cases were referred to it.
[Provided that where a single member of the Tribunal holds an inquiry into a case as provided in any of the repealed
laws, he alone shall report his findings and recommend the penalties and his report to the Government in this regard
shall be deemed to be the report of the Tribunal for the purposes of that repealed law.;]
[Added by Amendment Act 27 of 1965.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4