
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Rules, 1961
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal)
Rules, 1961
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/95417599/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Rules, 1961
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Rules, 1961
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-CIVIL-SERVICES-DISCIPLINARY-PROCEEDINGS-TRIBUNAL-RULES-1961 of 1961
Published on 18 July 1961
Commenced on 18 July 1961
[This is the version of this document from 18 July 1961.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Rules, 1961
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 895, General Administration (Services-D) Department, Dated the 18th July,
1961
Last Updated 11th January, 2020
G.O.Ms.No.895. - In exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (i) of Section 10 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil
Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Act, 1960) the Government of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following
rules, namely: -
1.
These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Rules, 1961.
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Rules, 1961
2.
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Act, 1960:
(b)
"Misconduct" shall have the same meaning as criminal misconduct under section 5 (1) of the Prevention of Corruption
Act, 1947 (Central Act (II) of 1947), and shall include any attempt to commit an offence referred to in class (c) of Clause
(d) of that section and any wilful contravention of the rules made under the proviso to Article 309, of the Constitution of
India, to regulate the conduct of persons appointed to Public Services and posts in connection with the affaire of the
State (Amended in G.O.Ms.No.l026, G.A. (Ser.D) Department, dated 16-12-1969.
3.
(1)
The Government may subject to the provisions of rule 4 refer to the Tribunal for enquiry and report under section 4 of
the Act -
(a)
Cases relating to Government servants drawing a basic pay of Rs.600/- and above per mensum in respect of matters
involving misconduct; and
(G.O.Ms.No. 490, dated 25-7-1980)
(b)
[ cases relating to Government servants, drawing a basic pay of less than Rs. 600/- per mensum in respect of matters
involving misconduct committed by such Government Servants either jointly with other Government servants drawing a
basic pay of not less than Rs. 600/- per mensum or in the course of the same transaction involving misconduct
committed by such other Government servants:]
[Amended by G.O.Ms.No.718, G.A. (Ser. C), Dept., dated 8-10-1976) (G.O. Ms.No. 490, dated 25-7-1980]
Provided that it shall not be necessary to refer to the Tribunal any case in which the Tribunal has, at any previous stage,
reported its findings in regard to the order to be passed and no fresh question has thereafter arisen for determination.
(2)
[***]
[Omitted (Vide G.O.Ms.No. 359, G.A. (Ser.C) Dept., dated 22-5-78)]
[(2-A) Where two or more Government servants are concerned in any case, the Government may make an order
directing that disciplinary proceedings against all of them may be taken in a Common proceeding; and there upon the
Tribunal shall conduct the enquiry into such case accordingly.]
[Added by G.O.Ms.No. 862, G.A. (Ser. D) Department, dated 9-8-72]
(3)
notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1) or (2) cases arising in the judicial Department and cases of officers
and servants of the High Court who come under the rule making control of the Chief Justice as laid down in article 229
of the Constitution of India shall not be referred to the Tribunal.
4.
(1)
In every case referred to in sub rule (l) or (2) of rule 3 on completion of investigation. the Anti-Corruption Department on
other departmental authority concerned shall submit a report of the case to the Government.
(2)
The Government shall after examining such records and after consulting the Heads of Departments concerned, if
necessary, decide whether the case shall be tried in a court of law or inquired into by the Tribunal or departmental
authority.
(3)
If the Government decide that the case shall be inquired into by the Tribunal, they shall send the records relating thereto
to the Tribunal.
(4)
In any case where the Head of the Department is not consulted he shall be informed of the action that is being taken.
(5)
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Rules, 1961
[ There shall be a Director of Prosecutions and as many additional Director of Prosecutions, as may be considered
necessary to conduct enquiries on behalf of the Government in disciplinary cases before the Tribunal and the accused
officer concerned shall be allowed to be represented by counsel. In case where the Director of Prosecutions cannot
attend to examination of witnesses on commission an adhoc Director of Prosecutions shall be appointed.]
[Amended in G.O.Ms. No. 109, G.A. (Ser. D) Dept., dated 25-2-1969]
5.
[***]
[Omitted (Vide G.O.Ms.No. 780, G.A. (Ser. D) Dept., dated 6-5-1966.]
6.
The Tribunal may sit at such places as it may determine, with due regard to the convenience of the parties concerned
and expenses involved.
7.
(1)
The following procedure shall be followed by the Tribunal in conducting enquiries into cases of corruption referred to it
under section 4 of the Act:
(i)
As soon as the records relating to allegations of corruption against a Government servant are received, the Tribunal
shall frame appropriate charges and communicate them to the Government servant charges together with a list of
witnesses likely to be examined in respect of each of the charges and with information as to the date and place of
enquiry.
(ii)
The Tribunal shall, before the date fixed for enquiry, furnish copies of the statements of witnesses recorded by the
concerned Departments to the Government servant charged for purposes of cross examination. The Charge or charges
shall at the enquiry, be read over to the Government servant charged and he shall be asked whether he admits or
denies the charge or charges. If the Government servant charged denies any of the charges brought against him,
evidence shall be let in, in support of such of the charge or charges as are not admitted by him.
(iii)
for clause (iii) of sub-rule (1) of rule 7 , the following shall be substituted, namely: -
"At the enquiry, oral and documentary evidence shall be first adduced by the prosecution and the Government servant
charged shall be entitled to cross examine the prosecution witnesses and to explain any documents produced by the
Prosecution. The Government servant charged may, thereafter within the time allowed by the Tribunal, file a written
statement of his defence together with a list of witnesses whom he wishes to examine, stating the points on which he
proposes to examine each of them and a list of documents proposed to be summoned stating the purpose for which
such documents are sought to be summoned. He may also offer himself as a witness in his own defence. The oral and
documentary evidence on his side may then be adduced and the Government Servant charged shall be entitled to
advance the necessary arguments either orally or in writing or both. The prosecution shall also be entitled to advance
the necessary arguments to the Government Servant's arguments, whether written or oral or even in the shape of a
mere written statement detailing the whole defence case. The arguments may be oral or written or both and when time
is requested for written arguments by either party, a reasonable time shall be granted. (G.O.Ms.No.490, dated
25-7-1980)
(iv)
The Tribunal shall, as far as possible, observe the basic rules of evidence relating to the examination of Witnesses and
the marking of documents and the enquiry shall conform to the principles of natural justice.
(v)
The Tribunal, on the application of the Government servant charged shall furnish to him certified copies of depositions of
witnesses records by the Tribunal and may also furnish to him certified copies of the documents exhibited before the
Tribunal.
Provided that the Tribunal may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, refuse to grant certified copy of any such
documents.
Provided further that the Tribunal shall in every case where it refuses to grant a certified copy of any document asked
for, give, under proper supervision, an opportunity to the Government servant charged or to his counsel, if any to inspect
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Rules, 1961
the document and take notes.
(v-a) The Tribunal shall, on the application of the Director of Prosecutions, furnish to him certified copies of, depositions
of witnesses recorded by the Tribunal or the documents exhibited before it on plain unstamped paper.
(vi)
The Tribunal may also interrogate the Government servant charged after the closure of the prosecution evidence.
(vii)
For sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing, the Tribunal shall have power to refuse on either side.
(a)
to summon and examine any witness.
(b)
to call for and exhibit any document or
(c)
to recall a witness for further examination.
(viii)
The Tribunal may, if necessary authorise the Government servant charged or his counsel, if any, to go to the offices
where the documents are available in' order to' enable him either to secure copies of such documents or take necessary
extracts from such documents.
(ix)
The proceeding of the Tribunal shall contain a sufficient record of the evidence.
(2)
(i)
After the enquiry has been completed, the Tribunal shall send the report of its findings and recommendations to the
Government together with its opinion; in cases in which exoneration of Government servant charged is recommended.
Whether he is "fully exonerated" for purposes of Fundamental Rule 54(A). Where the Tribunal does not express any
such opinion it shall be presumed by the Government that he is not fully exonerated by the Tribunal.
(ii)
Where during the enquiry of a case by Tribunal, it is proved that the Government servant charged has accepted or
obtained or has agreed· to accept or attempted to obtain for himself or for any other person, any gratification (other than
legal remuneration) or any valuable thing from any person, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is proved that he
accepted or obtained or agreed to accept or attempted to obtain that gratification or that valuable thing, as the case may
be as a motive or regard, or as the case may be without consideration or for a consideration which he knows. to be
inadequate. Provided that the Tribunal may decline to draw such presumption, if the gratification or thing aforesaid is in
its opinion, so trivial that no inference of misconduct may fairly be drawn.
(iii)
After the Government have arrived at provisional conclusions in regard to the penalty to be imposed, the Government
servant charged shall be supplied with a copy of the report of the Tribunal and he shall be called upon to show cause
within a reasonable time not ordinarily exceeding one month against the particular penalty proposed to be imposed.
Provided that the Government shall consult the Andhra Pradesh Vigilance Commission before the Government arrive at
a provisional conclusion in regard to the penalty to be, imposed and also after the receipt of any representation of the
Government servant charged, against the particular penalty proposed to be imposed but before the actual imposition of
the penalty.
Provided further that where the Government disagree with the whole or any part of the Tribunal' s findings, the point or
points of such disagreement together with a brief statement of the grounds thereof shall, in case where it effects the
Government servant charged adversely or prejudicially be communicated to such Govt. servant. Any representation in
this behalf submitted by the Government servant charged shall be duly taken into consideration by the Government
before final orders are passed.
Provided also that the Government may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, remit the case to the Tribunal for enquiry
and report and Tribunal shall thereupon hold further inquiry.
(G.O. Ms. No. 88, dated 4-2-1980).
(3)
Where the Government servant charged has absconded or where it is for other reasons impracticable to communicate
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Rules, 1961
with him or where he wilfully fails to take part in an enquiry, the enquiry shall be conducted or continued even in his
absence.
(4)
All or any of the provisions of sub-rule (1) and (2) may in exceptional cases, for special and sufficient reasons to be
recorded in writing, be waived by the Tribunal where there is difficulty, in observing ·the requirements of those sub-rules
,and the requirements can be .waived without injustice to the person charged.
(5)
[ The provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1963 shall apply in
regard to any other matter. for which no specific provision has been made in these rules.]
[Amended in G.O. Ms. No. 354,G.A. (Ser.C) Dept. , dated 26-5-1969]
(6)
Where the Chairman or any member of the Tribunal is prevented by death, transfer or other cause from concluding any
enquiry or from reporting his findings in any case referred to the Tribunal, his successor may deal with any evidence
taken down by his predecessor in office as if such evidence had been taken down by him and may proceed with, the
enquiry from the stage at which his predecessor has left it, or report his findings to the Government.
(7)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, or
the Hyderabad Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1955, the Government shall be the authority
competent to impose a penalty in cases of Government servants enquired into by the Tribunal.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5