
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Project Affected Lands Assignment Rules, 1961
Andhra Pradesh Project Affected Lands Assignment Rules, 1961
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/119180355/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Project Affected Lands Assignment Rules, 1961
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Project Affected Lands Assignment Rules, 1961
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-PROJECT-AFFECTED-LANDS-ASSIGNMENT-RULES-1961 of 1961
Published on 1 January 1961
Commenced on 1 January 1961
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1961.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Project Affected Lands Assignment Rules, 1961
Last Updated 6th June, 2019
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 172 of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317
Fasli (Act VIII of 1317 Fasli), the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following rules
1.
These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Project Affected Lands Assignment Rules 1961.
2.
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires
(2)
"Projects under investigation" means projects for the investigation of which provision has been made in the Five Year
Plan.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Project Affected Lands Assignment Rules, 1961
3.
(1)
Assignment of project affected lands, shall be made subject to the payment of such market value as was taken credit
for, in the final estimates of the project concerned, in their unirrigated condition: Provided that the value does not exceed
the price which the lands may fetch, if sold at the time of assignment
(2)
No assignment of lands affected by projects under execution will be made until the alignment of the main channels and
distributaries is indicated by the Chief Engineer and the claims of the persons whose lands might be required for the
purpose of the project are settled.
4.
Assignment of lands covered by Projects under investigation may be made subject to the liability of the assignee to pay
such land value as may be fixed by the Board of Revenue, having regard to their un irrigated condition at the date of
assignment. No refund of land value collected for the assignment of lands under a project under investigation will be
made even though the project may not ultimately be executed. A condition to this effect shall be incorporated in the
order of assignment relating to these lands.
5.
Market value shall be collected in twenty instalments together with the interest thereon. The Board of Revenue shall be
the authority to determine the market value payable by the assignees of project affected lands and the assignee shall be
liable to pay betterment contribution in addition to the market value.
6.
The assignment of project affected lands shall be subject to the condition that the Government may resume if they are
required for project works only. Provided, however, that in the event of resumption, the market value, if any, collected
from the assignee shall be refunded to him but no compensation shall be payable to him for any improvement that might
have been made by him to the land.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2