
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Moving of Resolutions at Meetings of Municipal Council) Rul...
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Moving of Resolutions at Meetings of
Municipal Council) Rules, 1965
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/141423417/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Moving of Resolutions at Meetings of Municipal Council) Rules, 1965
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Moving of Resolutions at Meetings of Municipal Council) Rules, 1965
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-MUNICIPALITIES-MOVING-OF-RESOLUTIONS-AT-MEETINGS-OF-MUNICIPAL-COUNCIL-RUL
ES-1965 of 1965
Published on 22 April 1965
Commenced on 22 April 1965
[This is the version of this document from 22 April 1965.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Moving of Resolutions at Meetings of Municipal Council) Rules, 1965
In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause (1) of sub-section (2) of Section 326 read with sub-section (2) of Section
53 of the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 (Act 6 of 1965), the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the
following Rules for the moving of resolutions at the meetings of municipal councils, the same having been previously
published at pages 68-70 of Rules Supplement to Part 1 of the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, dated 22-4-1965 as required
by Clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 327 of the said Act
1.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Moving of Resolutions at Meetings of Municipal Council) Rul...
These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Moving of Resolutions at Meetings of Municipal Councils)
Rules, 1968.
2.
In these Rues
(a)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965;
(b)
"Chairperson" includes the person for the time being in charge of the office of Chairperson under Section 50(2) of the
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 and the Vice-Chairperson or Councillor who presides at the meeting under
Section 51 (1) of the said Act; and
(c)
"Government" means, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, the Government of Andhra Pradesh.
3.
A Councillor who wishes to move resolution shall be given ten clear day's notice of his intention to the Chairperson and
such notice shall contain the resolution which he wishes to move; Provided that the Chairperson may allow a resolution
to be entered on the list of business with shorter notice than ten days. No resolution shall however be admissible which
does not comply with the following conditions, namely:-
(a)
it shall be clearly and precisely expressed and shall raise a definite issue; and
(b)
it shall not contain arguments, inference, ironical expressions or dafamatory statements not shall it refer to the conduct
or character of persons except in their official or public capacity.
4.
The Chairperson shall decide on the admissibility of a resolution, and shall disallow any resolution which, in his opinion
contravenes the provisions of the Act or the rules made thereunder or may lead to unseemly or communal contraversy
and his decision shall be final:
Provided that, if in the opinion of the Chairperson, a resolution relates to a matter which is unconnected with the
municipal administration, but moved in the larger interest of municipality and in keeping with the declared policies of the
Government, he shall refer the resolution to the Government and obtain their orders as to whether it may be admitted.
5.
A resolution which has been admitted by the Chairperson shall be entered in the list of business in the notice to be given
under Rule 2 of Schedule 1 to the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965.
6.
(1)
No speech, except with the permission of the Chairperson shall exceed fifteen minutes in duration-
Provided that the mover of a resolution when moving the same, may speak for thirty minutes.
(2)
A member who has moved the resolution may speak by way of reply, but the shall not speak more than twice Any other
member taking part in the discussion shall not speak more than once on the subject.
7.
The discussion of a resolution shall be strictly limited to the subject of the resolution.
8.
When a resolution is under discussion, any member may, subject to Rules 4, 5, 8 and 9, move an amendment to such
resolution.
9.
(1)
A member who has moved a resolution or amendment to a resolution shall not withdraw the same except by leave of the
council.
(2)
No discussion shall be permitted on a motion for leave to withdraw except with the permission of the Chairperson.
10.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Moving of Resolutions at Meetings of Municipal Council) Rul...
(1)
When an amendment to any resolution is moved, or when two or more such amendments are moved, the Chairperson
shall, before taking the sense of the thereon, state or read to the Council the terms of the Original Council motion and of
the amendment or amendments proposed.
(2)
Ordinarily, the Chairperson shall put amendments to vote in the order in which they have been moved and lastly the
original motion if all the amendments are lost. But it shall be in his discretion in any case to put to vote the original
motion an the amendments in such order as he thinks fit.
11.
When any resolution involving several points have been discussed, it shall be in the discretion of the Chairperson no
divide the resolution, and put each or any point, separately to vote as he may thinks fit.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3