
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Central Government Buildings) Rules, 1965
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Central Government Buildings) Rules,
1965
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/117195875/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Central Government Buildings) Rules, 1965
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Central Government Buildings) Rules, 1965
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-MUNICIPALITIES-CENTRAL-GOVERNMENT-BUILDINGS-RULES-1965 of 1965
Published on 30 December 1965
Commenced on 30 December 1965
[This is the version of this document from 30 December 1965.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Central Government Buildings) Rules, 1965
Published vide Notification dated 30.12.1965
In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-section (1) of the Section 326 of Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965
(Act
6 of 1965
), the Government of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following rules for the Inspection of Central Government
Buildings situated in the municipalities in the State, the same having been previously published at pages 149-151 of
Rules Supplement to Part I of the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, dated 1st July, 1965 as required under Clauses (a) and (b)
of sub-section (1) of Section 327 of the said Act.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Central Government Buildings) Rules, 1965
1.
These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Central Government Buildings) Rules, 1965.
2.
Whenever the concerned authority of the Central Government contemplates to erect or re-erect, constructs or make
material structural alteration of any building specified in Section 259(2) of the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965
(hereinafter referred to as the Act) (not being a building connected with defence, or a building the plan or construction of
which ought, in the opinion of the Central Government, to be treated as confidential or secret), the authority shall
(i)
ordinarily give reasonable notice of not less than three months of the proposed work to the municipal council concerned;
(ii)
send along with that notice the plans and site plan connected, with the building clearly indicating the proposed erection,
re-erection, Construction, material or structural alteration, as the case may be; and
(iii)
in case it is proposed to deviate from any of the building regulations or from any of the provisions of the Act or any other
law or rules or bye-laws made thereunder regulating the construction of buildings and development of land within
municipal limits, furnish the reasons for such deviations.
3.
(1)
Soon after the receipt of notice and the plans mentioned in Rule 2, the Commissioner shall place the matter before the
Executive Committee with remarks of the Town Planning Officer. The Executive Committee or any person authorised by
it in this behalf may inspect the land, building and all plans connected therewith after intimating the State Government
and the concerned authority of the Central Government of the date and time of such inspection so as to enable the later
to be available at the time of inspection. At the time of inspection a gazetted officer of the municipality or where there is
no gazetted officer, the senior most officer-in-charge of the implementation of building laws shall also be present.
(2)
If after such Inspection, the Executive Committee deems fit to make any objections or suggestions with reference to
such erection, re-erection, construction or material structural alteration of the buildings, it may submit to the State
Government a statement in writing of such objections or suggestions with detailed reasons in support thereof under
intimation to concerned authority of the Central Government such objections or suggestions shall ordinarily be submitted
to the State Government within one month from the date of receipt of the notice from authority of the Central
Government under Sub-section (2) of Section 259 of the Act. If no objections or suggestions are made within the said
period, or no further time obtained from the State Government, it shall be presumed that the Executive Committee has
no objection or suggestions to make. If any objections or suggestions are made, the concerned authority of the Central
Government may await the decision of the State Government under Sub-rule (3).
(3)
The State Government shall within three months from the date of receipt of such objections or suggestions from the
Executive Committee consider the same and pass orders thereon under Section 259(4) of the Act after consulting the
Director of Town Planning if necessary and the concerned Central Government authority.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2