
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Grant of Remission to Contractors and Leases of Municipal C...
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Grant of Remission to Contractors
and Leases of Municipal Councils) Rules, 1965
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/196433987/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Grant of Remission to Contractors and Leases of Municipal Councils) Rules, 1965
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Grant of Remission to Contractors and Leases of Municipal Councils) Rules, 1965
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-MUNICIPALITIES-GRANT-OF-REMISSION-TO-CONTRACTORS-AND-LEASES-OF-MUNICIPAL
-COUNCILS-RULES-1965 of 1965
Published on 22 April 1965
Commenced on 22 April 1965
[This is the version of this document from 22 April 1965.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Grant of Remission to Contractors and Leases of Municipal Councils) Rules, 1965
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 326 of the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965
(Act No. 6 of 1965), the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following rules for the grant of remissions to
persons who have entered into leases and contracts with the councils, the same having been previously published at
pages 84-85 of Rules Supplement to Part 1 of the Andhra Pradesh Gazette dated 22nd April, 1965 as required under
clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 327 of the said Act.
1.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Grant of Remission to Contractors and Leases of Municipal C...
These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Grant of Remissions to Contractors and Leases of
Municipal Councils Rules, 1965.
2.
All lessees of remunerative enterprises of Municipal Councils, all lessees of immovable property, belonging to or vested
in Municipal Councils, and all persons who have entered into contracts with Municipal Councils shall be held strictly to
the terms of their leases or contracts and no remissions shall be granted to them except in accordance with the
provisions of Rule and 4.
3.
The grant of remissions by the Municipal Council to lessees and contractor shall be subject to the following restrictions
and control namely:-
(a)
remission shall be granted only in cases in which the lessee or contractor is prevented from carrying out his part of the
leases or contract by reason of the occurrence of some extraordinary event which could not have reasonably been
anticipated, for example, the compulsory closing on account of the outbreak of an epidemic of a market which has been
leased out;
(b)
the remission granted shall bear a reasonable proportion to the loss actually sustained on account of such extraordinary
cause; and
(c)
the Municipal Councils may sanction remissions as laid down below:-
Municipalities Amount of a remissions
Special and Selection Grade Municipalities
Not exceeding Rs. 1,000
I Grade Municipalities
Not exceeding Rs. 750
II and III Grade Municipalities
Not exceeding Rs. 500
Provided that the remissions exceeding the said limits and not exceeding Rs. 5,000 may be granted with the prior
approval of the Director of Municipal Administration;
Provided further that for all remissions exceeding Rs. 5,000 the prior sanction of the Government shall be obtained.
4.
Penalties provided in the lease or contract shall be strictly enforced in accordance with the terms of the lease or
contract. Penalties for late payment of the amount due to the Municipal Council under the lease or contract shall not be
permitted except in cases where the payments of instalments of the amount due are in the opinion of the Municipal
Council, fairly regular and the whole amount due to the Municipal Council under the lease of contract is paid before end
of the period to which the lease or contract, relates.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2