
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Indebtedness (Relief) Rules, 1977
Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Indebtedness (Relief) Rules, 1977
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/53288441/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Indebtedness (Relief) Rules, 1977
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Indebtedness (Relief) Rules, 1977
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-AGRICULTURAL-INDEBTEDNESS-RELIEF-RULES-1977 of 1977
Published on 1 January 1977
Commenced on 1 January 1977
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1977.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Indebtedness (Relief) Rules, 1977
Last Updated 11th January, 2020
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub section (1) of section 16 (1) of the Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Indebtedness
(Relief) Ordinance, 6, (Ordinance 25 of 6) the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following rules: -
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called by the Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Indebtedness (Relief) Rules, 1977.
2.
Definition.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Indebtedness (Relief) Rules, 1977
Ordinance means the Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Indebtedness (Relief) Ordinance, 1996.
(b)
form means a form appended to these rules;
(c)
Schedule means the schedule appended to these rules;
(d)
Section means a section of the Ordinance;
3.
Filing of statement and applications.
(1)
Every statement referred to in sub section (1) of section 5 shall be in Form I and shall be furnished on or before the 15th
of May, 1997 in duplicate either in person or by agent or may be sent by registered post, acknowledgment due to the
Tribunal.
(2)
The Tribunal shall on receipt of such statement, return one copy there of to the creditor with an endorsement
acknowledging its receipt.
(3)
An application under sub section (2) of section 5 or sub section (i) of section 6 shall be filed stately in respect of each
creditor and shall be in duplication.
4.
Procedure to be followed by the Tribunal in inquiries.
(1)
On receipt of the statement referred to in sub section (1) of section 5 or the application under sub section (2) of section 5
or sub section (1) of section 6, the Tribunal shall fix, the date on which and the place and the time at which an inquiry in
respect of the statement or the application will be held and shall issue notice thereof to the creditor and the debtor
mentioned in the statement or the application, as the case may be.
(2)
The notice referred to in sub rule (1) shall be in Form 2 and shall be accompanied by relevant extracts from the
statement or a copy of the application, as the case may be
(3)
The notice referred to in sub rule (1) shall be served by delivering or tendering it to the party concerned, or to his agent,
or to any adult member of his family, or where none of the above courses is practicable, by affixing it at the last known
place of his rance or by registered post, acknowledgment due.
(4)
The respondents shall be entitled to file a counter to the statement or the application within a period of ten days from the
date of service of the notice referred to in sub rule (1) or within such further time as the Tribunal may for sufficient
reason allow.
(5)
On the date fixed for the inquiry under sub rule (1) or on such subsequent date or dates to which the inquiry may be
abjourned, the Tribunal shall give a reasonable opportunity to the parties to state their case and to adduce such
evidence, both oral and documentary, as may be necessary, in support thereof, and shall thereupon pass such orders or
grant such certificate as it deems fit.
(6)
***
(7)
The notice referred to in sub rule (6) shall be in writing and shall be served on party in person, or on his agent or shall be
sent to him by registered post acknowledgment due.
(8)
The order referred to in sub clause (i) of clause (b) of sub section (5) of section 5 shall be in Form 3.
(9)
The certificate referred to in sub clause (i) of clause (b) of sub section (5) of section 5 shall be in Form 4.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Indebtedness (Relief) Rules, 1977
(10)
The certificate referred to in clause (a) of sub section (2) of section 6 shall be in form 5 and shall be issued soon after
the expiry of the period of appeal, and in case where an appeal is filed, as soon as the appeal is disposed of.
5.
Appeals.
(1)
Every appeal under section 7 shall be in writing and shall set forth concisely the grounds thereof and shall be presented
either in person or by agent or may be sent by registered Post acknowledgment due to the Appellate Tribunal.
(2)
Every such appeal shall bear a court fee lable of Rs 5 and shall also bear a court fee lable or lables of the value
calculated in accordance with the scale specified in the Schedule towards the process fee for the service of notice on
the respondent or respondents and shall be accompanied by the original or an authenticated copy of the order of the
Tribunal appealed against.
(3)
***
(4)
The notice referred to in sub rule (3) shall be in from 6 and shall in the case of a notice to the respondent be
accompanied by a copy of the appeal.
(5)
The notice referred to in sub rule (3) shall be served in the same manner as the notice referred to in sub rule (3) of Rule
4.
(6)
The respondent shall be entitled to file a counter to the appeal within a period of seven days from the date of service of
the notice referred to in sub rule (3) or within such further time as may be allowed by the Appellate Tribunal for sufficient
cause.
(7)
On the date fixed for the hearing of the appeal under sub rule (1) or on such further date or dates to which the hearing
may be adjourned, the Appellate Tribunal shall give a reasonable opportunity to the parties to state their case and
adduce such evidence both oral and documentary as may be necessary in support of their claim and also to advance
their arguments and shall there upon pass such orders as it deems fit.
(8)
If, on hearing the appeal, the Appellate Tribunal con rs that any further inquiry is necessary, it may itself make such
inquiry or cause it to be made by any officer subordinate to it not lower in rank than a Deputy Tahsildar specifying the
points on which such inquiry is necessary.
(9)
***.
(10)
The notice referred to in sub rule (9) shall be in writing and shall be served in the same manner as the notice referred to
in sub rule (7) of rule 4.
(11)
The appellate Tribunal may pending disposal of the appeal, stay the orders of the Tribunal, appealed against.
Schedule 1
[See Rule 5(2)]
Rates of process fee
Name of process
Fee amount payable
Rs. P
1. Summons of each defendant respondent or
witness served by an Officer of the Court
150
2. On every additional defendant, respondent or
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Indebtedness (Relief) Rules, 1977
witness residing in the same village, if process is applied for
at the same time
75
Form 2 Notice Form 3 FORM Form 4 FORM Form 5
FORM Form 6 Notice
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4