
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Conduct of Election of Chairperson and Vice Chairperson) Ru...
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Conduct of Election of Chairperson
and Vice Chairperson) Rules, 2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/41299890/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Conduct of Election of Chairperson and Vice Chairperson) Rules, 2005
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Conduct of Election of Chairperson and Vice Chairperson) Rules, 2005
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-MUNICIPALITIES-CONDUCT-OF-ELECTION-OF-CHAIRPERSON-AND-VICE-CHAIRPERSON-R
ULES-2005 of 2005
Published on 12 November 1986
Commenced on 12 November 1986
[This is the version of this document from 12 November 1986.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Conduct of Election of Chairperson and Vice Chairperson) Rules, 2005
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b) of sub-section (2) of Section 326 read with clause (12) of Section 2,
Sections 5, 10-A, 23 and 27 of the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 (Andhra Pradesh Act
6 of 1965
) and in supersession of the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Councils/ Nagar Panchayats (Direct Election of Chairperson)
Rules, 1986 issued in G.O.Ms.No. 629, Housing, M.A. and U.D. (Elections), dated 12-11-1986, as amended from time to
time, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby, makes the following Rules relating to conduct of election of Chairperson
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Conduct of Election of Chairperson and Vice Chairperson) Ru...
and Vice-Chairperson of Municipality.
Part 1 ? Preliminary
1.
Short title.
- The Rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Conduct of Election of Chairperson and
Vice-Chairperson) Rules, 2005.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(i)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 (Act
6 of 1965
);
(ii)
"Election Authority" means such officer or authority as may be appointed by the State Election Commission under clause
(12) of Section 2;
(iii)
"Form" means the Form appended to these Rules;
(iv)
"Municipality" includes a Nagar Panchayat;
(v)
"Section" means a Section of the Act; and
(vi)
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the
Act.
3.
Powers of Election Authority.
- Subject to the general superintendence, direction and control of the State Election Commission, the Election Authority
shall be responsible for the conduct of elections of the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson.
Part 2 ? Election of Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of Municipality
4.
Convening of Special Meeting for Election of Chairperson.
(1)
A special meeting of the members of Municipality specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of sub-section (2) of Section 5 of the Act
shall be held in the office of the Municipality by any Gazetted Officer of the Government authorised by the District
Collector in this behalf in Form I, for the election of Chairperson and Vice- Chairperson in the manner laid down
hereafter.
(2)
Notice of the date and house of such meeting shall be given in From-II to the members specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of
sub-section (2) of Section 5 of the Act atleast three clear days in advance of the date of the meeting fixed for the election
of the Chairperson and Vice- Chairperson by the District Collector or the Gazetted Officer authorised by him.
5.
Quorum.
- No meeting for the conduct of election of Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson shall be held unless there be present at the
meeting atleast one-half of the number of members then on the Municipal Council who are entitled to vote at the election
within one hour from the time appointed for the meeting.
Provided that where at an election held for the purpose, the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson is not elected, a fresh
election shall be held on the next day whether or not it is a public holiday for the Municipality concerned and where the
Chairperson or vice-Chairperson could not be elected on the next day also, the matter shall be reported to the State
Election Commission for fixing another date for holding election.
Provided further, that where the Election of Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson could not be conducted in the first two
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Conduct of Election of Chairperson and Vice Chairperson) Ru...
special meetings convened for the purpose for want of quorum, the Chairperson or Vice- Chairperson shall be elected in
the subsequent meeting/meetings convened for the purpose from among the members present without insisting for
quorum.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, it is hereby clarified that in determination of one-half of the members under
this rule, any fraction below 0.5 should be ignored and any fraction of 0.5 or above shall be taken as one.
6.
Manner of election.
(1)
A candidate for the office of Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson shall be proposed by one member and seconded by
another, who are entitled to vote, if any candidate claims to be contesting on behalf of a recognised political party, he
shall produce an authorisation, from the President of the Party in the State or a person duly authorised by the State
President under his office seal and such authorisation shall be produced before the Presiding Officer on or before 10.00
a.m. on the day of the election. The names of all candidates validly proposed and seconded shall be read out, along with
the name of the Political Party which has set him up, by the Presiding Officer in such a meeting.
(2)
If only one candidate is duly proposed, there shall be no election and he shall be declared to have been elected.
(3)
If there are two or more candidates, election shall be held by show of hands and votes taken of the members present at
the meeting.
(4)
when an election notice is issued for conducting election to both the offices of the Chairperson and Vice- Chairperson,
no election to the office of the Vice-Chairperson shall be conducted, unless the office of the Chairperson is filled up.
Only after completion of election of Chairperson, the Presiding Officer shall conduct election of Vice- Chairperson.
(5)
The Presiding Officer shall thereafter record the number of votes polled, for each such candidate ascertained by show of
hands. He shall announce the number of votes secured by each candidate and shall declare the candidate who secures
the highest number of votes, as elected.
(6)
In the event of there being an equality of votes between two or more candidates, the Presiding Officer shall draw lots in
the presence of the members and the candidates whose name is first drawn shall be declared to have been duly
elected.
(7)
Every recognised political party may appoint on behalf of that political party a whip and intimation of such appointment
shall be issued by the State President or a person authorised by him under his seal and such intimation shall be sent to
the Presiding Officer to reach him on or before 11.00 a.m. on the day preceding to day of election to the Office of the
Chairperson and vice-Chairperson.
Explanation. - Recognised political party means a political party recognised by Election Commission of India, New Delhi,
as per the provisions of Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968 issued under article 324 of
Constitution of India.
(8)
(i)
Any member of the Municipality elected on behalf of a recognised political party, shall cease to be a member of the
Municipality for disobeying the directions of the party Whip so issued,
(ii)
The Presiding Officer shall, on receipt of a written report from the party Whip within three days of the election that a
member belonging to his party has disobeyed the Whip issued in connection with the election give a show-cause notice
to the member concerned as to why he should not be declared to have ceased to hold office and that he should make
any representation within seven days from the date of the notice. The Presiding Officer shall, consider any explanation
given and pass a speaking order in the matter of cessation for disobedience of the Whip. If no explanation is received,
the Presiding Officer shall pass an order on the basis of the material available with him.
7.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Conduct of Election of Chairperson and Vice Chairperson) Ru...
Record of Proceedings.
- Immediately after the declaration of the Result of the election, the Presiding Officer, shall,-
(a)
prepare a record of the proceedings of the meeting and sign it attesting with his initials every correction made therein
and shall also have the said record of proceedings attested by a majority of the members who participated in the
meeting.
(b)
publish on the notice board of the Municipality a notice signed by him stating the name of the person elected as
Chairperson/Vice-Chairperson of the Municipality and send a copy of such notice to the State Election Commission, the
Commission and Director of Municipal Administration and the District Collector. A copy of the notice shall also be given
to the candidate who is declared elected as Chairperson/Vice-Chairperson of the Municipality.
Part 3 ? Filling up of Casual Vacancies in the Office of Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of Municipality
8.
Procedure for filling casual vacancies.
- The Rules in Part-II shall apply for filling up a casual vacancy in the office of the Chairperson/Vice-Chairperson of a
Municipality:
Provided that every casual vacancy shall be filled up within a period of six months from the date of occurrence of such
vacancy.
Appendix 1
Form 1
[See Rule 4(1)]
I.... (name),
District Collector........... hereby authorise Sri..... (name & designation), to convene the special meeting of the members
of...................................... Municipality specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of sub-section (2) of Section 5 of the Andhra
Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 (Act
6 of 1965
) for the election of the Chairperson and Vice- Chairperson of......... Municipality.
Place:Date:
(Signature)
District Collector.
Appendix 2
Form 2
Notice of Special Meeting for Election of Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson
[See Rule 4(2)]
Notice is hereby given to Sri.................... elected/ex-officio member of the .................. Municipality that a special
meeting of the members of the Municipality will be held at (time..................................................... ) on (date). at its office
for the election of the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson.
The member is requested to make it convenient to attend the meeting.
Place:......................................................
Date:
(Signature)
District Collector/Gazette Officer
Authorised by the District Collector.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4