
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Members Of Police Force (Regulation Of Transfers) Act, 1985.
The Andhra Pradesh Members Of Police Force (Regulation Of
Transfers) Act, 1985.
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/142796486/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
7
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
The Andhra Pradesh Members Of Police Force (Regulation Of Transfers) Act, 1985.
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
The Andhra Pradesh Members Of Police Force (Regulation Of Transfers) Act, 1985.
Act 9 of 1985
Published in Gazette 9 on 8 April 1988
Assented to on 8 April 1988
Commenced on 8 April 1988
[This is the version of this document from 8 April 1988.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Andhra Pradesh Members Of Police Force (Regulation Of Transfers) Act, 1985.
[Act No. 9 of 1985]
[8th April, 1988]
An Act to regulate the transfer of persons appointed to Police Force in the State of Andhra Pradesh.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Thirty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:?
1.
Short title, application and commencement
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Members Of Police Force (Regulation Of Transfers) Act, 1985.
(1)
This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Members of Police Force (Regulation of Transfers) Act, 1985.
(2)
It shall apply to persons appointed to police force, whether appointed before or after the commencement of this Act.
(3)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 11th October, 1984.
2.
Definitions
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,?
(a)
'Government' means the State Government of Andhra Pradesh?
(b)
'police force' means the police force constituted under the Hyderabad City Police Act, 1348 F (Act IX of 1348 F.), the
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1859 and the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) District Police Act,
1329F (Act XXIV of 1859 Act X of 1329 F.). or any other law relating to police force;
(c)
'prescribed' means prescribed by rules made under this Act.
3.
Regulation of transfer of members of police force
(1)
Notwithstanding anything in any law for the time being in force, a member of the police for the time being in force, a
member of the police State of Andhra Pradesh.
(2)
The Government may make rules for the regulation of transfer of members of police force from one part of the State to
another part within the State of Andhra Pradesh by such authority as may be prescribed.
4.
Power to make rules
(1)
The Government may, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, make rules to carry¬out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
Every rule made under this Act shall, immediately after it is made, be laid before each House of the State Legislature if it
is in session and if it is not in session in the session immediately following, for a total period of fourteen days which may
be comprised in one session or in two successive sessions, and if, before the expiration of the session in which it is so
laid or the session immediately following both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or in the annulment of
the rule, the rule shall from the date on which the modification or annulment is notified in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette,
have effect only in such modified form or shall stand annulled, as the case may be; so however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.
5.
Repeal of Ordinance 29 of 1984
The Andhra Pradesh Members of Police Force (Regulation of Transfers) Ordinance, 1984, is hereby repealed.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2