
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Direct Recruitment For Posts of Teachers in Municipalities (Scheme of Selec...
Andhra Pradesh Direct Recruitment For Posts of Teachers in
Municipalities (Scheme of Selection) Rules
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/114814657/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Direct Recruitment For Posts of Teachers in Municipalities (Scheme of Selection) Rules
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Direct Recruitment For Posts of Teachers in Municipalities (Scheme of Selection) Rules
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-DIRECT-RECRUITMENT-FOR-POSTS-OF-TEACHERS-IN-MUNICIPALITIES-SCHEME-OF-SEL
ECTION-RULES of 1988
Published on 15 June 1988
Commenced on 15 June 1988
[This is the version of this document from 15 June 1988.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Direct Recruitment For Posts of Teachers in Municipalities (Scheme of Selection) Rules
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 326 read with proviso to Section 74 of Andhra Pradesh
Municipalities Act, 1965 (Act
No.6 of 1965
), the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following Rules for the direct recruitment for posts of teachers in
Municipalities.
1.
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Direct Recruitment For Posts of Teachers in Municipalities (Scheme of Selec...
Short title and application.
(1)
These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Direct Recruitment for posts of Teachers in Municipalities (Scheme of
Selection) Rules.
(2)
These rules shall apply to all the category of teachers specified in the Annexure-I, appended to these rules.
2.
Qualifications and method of recruitment.
(1)
The candidates appearing for the interview shall possess the qualifications prescribed in column (3) of Annexure-II
appended to these Rules.
(2)
The recruitment shall be through a selection process consisting of a written test, carrying 85 marks and an interview
carrying 15 marks. The break up for 15 marks shall be as decided by Government from time to time. The selection shall
be on the basis of merit.
3.
A committee as provided in Section 74 of Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 consisting of Chairperson the
Commissioner the District Educational Officer having jurisdiction and not less than three but not more than seven
members chosen in this behalf by the Council;
Provided further that appointment to all the other posts, the pay or maximum pay of which exceeds rupees one hundred
shall be made from a panel prepared by a committee consisting of the Chairperson, the Commissioner and not less than
three but not more than seven members chosen in this behalf by the Council.
4.
Estimation of vacancies in Municipal Schools.
- The Municipal Commissioner in respect of each category of posts of teachers specified in the Annexure to this Order in
the Schools under the Municipal Council and for which posts he is the appointing authority, shall estimate every year the
number of vacancies existing on the 1st April and also the vacancies likely to arise upto the end of September of that
year and intimate the same to the member-Convenor of the District Selection Committee, duly indicating the number of
vacancies reserved for various categories as per rules in force.
5.
Notification and communication of vacancies.
- On receipt of the estimate of vacancies in the manner provided in rule 4 above, the Member-Convenor of the District
Selection Committee shall notify the vacancies to the Employment Exchange of the concerned district. He shall also
simultaneously communicate this information to the Director of School Education.
6.
Communication of list by employment exchange.
- On receipt of requisition from the Member-Convenor as per rule 5 above, the concenred District Employment
Exchange shall communicate the list of eligible candidates to the Member-Convenor of the District Selection Committee.
7.
Advertisement in the news papers.
(a)
On receipt of information about the vacancy position from the Member-Convenor of various districts, as indicated in rule
5 above, the Director of School Education shall issue a notification in atleast four (4) leading Newspapers in the State of
which atleast two (2) in Telugu and One (1) in Urdu inviting applications from candidates registered in the respective
Employment Exchanges as of first of May of the year.
(b)
The number of vacancies notified are subject to variation at any time.
8.
Submission of applications together with fees.
(a)
The candidates intending to appear for the written test shall submit an application in the prescribed form to the
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Direct Recruitment For Posts of Teachers in Municipalities (Scheme of Selec...
Member-Convenor of the District Selection Committee, duly furnishing therein required particulars including the name of
Employment Exchange where his/her name is registered, the registration number and date and also his preference to
employment in respective Municipal Council.
(b)
Evey applicant shall remit an amount of Rs.40/- (Rupees Forty only) towards test fee through Demand Draft in favour of
the Member-Convenor of the District Selection Committee.
Provided that the candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes are exempted from the payment of the
said fee.
9.
Issue of Hall Tickets.
- On receipt of applications from candidates, the Member-Convenor of the District Selection Committee concerned shall
take action to scrutinise applications and issue, to such of the candidates who fulfil the qualifications, Hall Tickets for the
written test.
10.
Setting up of question papers.
- The Director, State Council for Educational Research and Training shall get the question paper for the written test set,
printed and sent to the Members-Convenor of the District Selection Committees and shall also undertake the valuation
of answer scripts. He shall intimate the marks secured by the candidates to the respective Member-Convener.
11.
Written Test.
- The written test shall be conducted in all Districts;
provided that it shall not be conducted in those districts where there are no vacancies. The candidates will be required to
appear for the written test in the District in which they have applied.
12.
Requisite minimum marks.
(a)
The candidates who secure, in the written test, a minimum of 50 marks out of 85 shall be eligible to be called for
interview. The minimum marks shall be 45 (forty five) out of 85 in respect of candidates belonging to Backward Classes
and 40 (Forty) out of 85 marks in respect of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes.
(b)
The number of candidates to be called for interview shall however be restricted to thrice the number of posts as
prescribed in G.O.Ms.No.348, GAD dated 15-6-1988.
Provided that all candidates having equal marks shall be called for interview even if it exceeds the prescribed limit.
(c)
The interview shall be conducted by the District Selection Committee. The quorum shall be three members.
13.
Selection.
- On completion of interview, the candidates will be selected on the basis of total marks secured both in written test and
interview.
14.
Preparation of Panel and waiting list.
- The District Selection Committee shall prepare a panel if candidates based on merit which shall be equal to the
number of vacancies notified. A waiting list of candidates not exceeding 5% of the number of posts or 50, whichever is
less may be prepared so as to cater for a contingency where any selected candidate fails to join in the post within
prescribed time. Such waiting list shall cease to exist soon after all the vacancies are filled up, or by March, 31 of
succeeding year, whichever is earlier. The candidates who are in the waiting list shall not have any right/claim for
appointment.
15.
Allotment of candidates.
- The Member-Convenor shall allot the candidates to Municipal Councils on the basis of the preference given in the
application by the candidates. The allocation of preferences will follow the order of merit.
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Direct Recruitment For Posts of Teachers in Municipalities (Scheme of Selec...
16.
Appointment.
- The appointing authority shall issue orders of appointment immediately on receipt of allotment of the candidates from
the Member-Convenor concerned, subject to verification of antecedents, physical fitness, educational qualification
certificates, etc. The appointment order shall be sent by Registered post at the address indicated in the application form.
17.
Deletion from list.
- If any candidate fails to join duty in the post within 45 days from the date of receipt of orders of appointment, his/her
name shall be deemed to have been deleted from the list of selected candidates; and he/she shall not have any claim
for appointment thereafter.
18.
Apprentice.
- Every selected candidate shall be intially appointed as Apprentice for a period of two years from the date of
appointment. He/She shall work under the general supervision of the Head Master. During the period of apprenticeship,
he/she shall be paid a monthly stipend at a rate to be prescribed from time to time by Government. On satisfactory
completion of the period of apprenticeship, he/she shall be appointed to a regular post with a regular scale of pay. The
apprenticeship period shall count for probation.
Annexure 1
Sl. No.
Category of Post
(1)
(2)
1.
School Assistants
2.
Language Pandits Grade-II
3.
Secondary Grade Teachers
4.
Physical Training Instructors/Instructresses
Grade-I and Grade-II
5.
Physical Education Teachers
6.
Librarians
7.
Art Teachers Grade-I and Grade-II
8.
M.T. Is in carpentry
9.
M.T. Is in Weaving
10.
Craft instructors including textile, printing,
tailoring, carpentry, fitter, turner, moulder, blacksmith
instructors and senior mechanics.
11.
Sewing instructresses
12.
Sewing/Tailoring and needle work instructors
13.
Drawing and Sewing instructresses
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Direct Recruitment For Posts of Teachers in Municipalities (Scheme of Selec...
14.
Drawing Teachers
15.
Music Teachers
16.
Dance Teachers
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5