
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1989
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1989
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/192409625/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
8
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1989
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1989
Act 12 of 1989
Published on 25 April 1989
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 25 April 1989.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
An Act to amend the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District police Act, 1859
Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fortieth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-
* Received the assent of the Governor on the 24th April, 1989. For Statement of Objects and Reasons, please see the
Andhra Pradesh Gazette, Part-IV A, Extraordinary, dated the 21st March, 1989 at Page 4.
1.
Short title and commencement.- (1) This Act, may be called the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police
(Amendment) Act, 1989.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette,
appoint.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1989
2.
Amendment of Section 1.- In the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) District Police Act, 1859 (Act XXIV of 1859) (hereinafter
referred to as the principal Act), in section 1, for the definition ?Superior Police? the following shall be substituted,
namely:-
"Superior Police";-the expression "Superior Police" shall mean the Director General of Police, the Inspector General of
Police, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Commissioner of Police, District Superintendent of Police, Deputy
Commissioner of Police, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Assistant Superintendent of Police and Deputy
Superintendent of Police".
3.
Substitution of the words Director General of Police' for ?Inspector General of Police?.- Throughout the principal Act,
except of the section 1, for the words "Inspector General Director of Police", wherever it occurs, the words "Director
General of Police" shall be substituted.
4.
Insertion of new Section 5-A.- After section 5 of the principal Act, the following new section shall be inserted, namely:-
5.
-A "Appointment of Commissioner, Deputy Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners.- (1) Where in any General
Police District, an area is declared as metropolitan area as defined in clause (K) of section 2 of the Code of in, 1973, the
Government may appoint a Commissioner of Police for the said area and he shall, in such metropolitan area exercise,
the same powers and perform the same functions as are exercisable and Performable by the District Superintendent of
Police under this Act. (Centrals Act 11 of 1974)
(2)
The Government may also appoint such number of Deputy Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners' as they may
deem necessary for this metropolitan area referred to in sub-section (1) to assist the Commissioner:
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2