
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and
Appeal) Rules, 1991
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/81699024/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Rule THE-ANDHRA-PRADESH-CIVIL-SERVICES-CLASSIFICATION-CONTROL-AND-APPEAL-RULES-1991 of 1991
Published on 14 September 1992
Commenced on 14 September 1992
[This is the version of this document from 14 September 1992.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Published vide Notification G.O.Ms.No. 487, GA (Ser-C) Department , dated 14-9-1992 issued in G.O.Ms.No. 490, GA
(Ser-C) Department , dated 8-8-1991 and published in A.P. Gazette, Part 1, Extraordinary No. 235, dated 1-7-92)
In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India and of all other powers
hereunto enabling, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following rules, in supersession of the A. P. Civil
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1963 issued in G.O. Ms. No. 1376, G.A. (Rules) Department , dated
the 28th November, 1963.
Part - I General
1.
Page 1/168
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Short title and commencement:
(1)
These Rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991.
(2)
They shall come into force on and after the expiration of three months from the date of publication of these rules in the
Andhra Pradesh Gazette. (Came into effect on 1-10-92).
2.
Interpretation:
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
'appointing authority in relation to a Government servant' means-
(i)
the authority which actually made the temporary or officiating or substantive appointment as the case may be, of the
Government Servant to the post held by him at the time of initiation of disciplinary proceedings; or
(ii)
the authority which is, under the rules regulating the recruitment to the post which the Government servant for the time
being holds, competent to make an appointment, whichever authority is higher;
(b)
'Commission' means the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission;
(c)
'disciplinary authority' means the authority competent under these rules to impose on a Government Servant any of the
penalties specified in Rule 9 or Rule 10;
(d)
'Government' means the Government of Andhra Pradesh;
(e)
'Government Servant' means a person who-
(i)
is a member of a Civil Service of the State or holds a post in connection with the affairs of the State, whether temporary
or permanent, appointed thereto before, on or after the date specified in Rule 1 and includes such Government Servant
whose services are temporarily placed at the disposal of the Government of India, the Government of another State, or a
Company, Corporation or Organisation owned or controlled by Government, or a local or other authority, notwithstanding
that his salary is drawn from sources other than the Consolidated Fund of the State;
(ii)
is a member of a Civil Service of, or holds a Civil post under the Government of India or the Government of another
State and whose services are temporarily placed at the disposal of the Government;
(iii)
is in the service of a local or other authority and whose services are temporarily placed at the disposal of the
Government.
(f)
'Governor' means Governor of Andhra Pradesh;
(g)
'major penalty' means any of the penalties specified in clauses [(iv) to (x)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 205, G.A.D., 5-6-1998]
(both inclusive) of Rule 9;
(h)
'minor penalty' means any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (v) (both inclusive) of Rule 9 and in Rule 10;
(i)
'Service' means a Civil Service of the State;
(j)
'State' means the State of Andhra Pradesh.
3.
Page 2/168
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Application:
(1)
These Rules shall apply to every Government Servant except-
(a)
persons in casual employment,
(b)
persons subject to discharge from service on less than one month's notice,
(c)
persons for whom special provision is made, in respect of matters covered by these rules, by or under any law for the
time being in force or in any rule or by or under any contract or agreement entered into by or with the previous approval
of the Government before or after the commencement of these rules, in regard to matters covered by such special
provisions,
(d)
members of the All India Services.
(2)
If any doubt arises -
(a)
whether these Rules apply to any person, or
(b)
whether a person to whom these rules apply belongs to a particular service, or as to which of the two or more services is
the Service to which such person belongs,
the matter shall be referred to the Government whose decision shall be final.
4.
Power to exclude from operation:
-Notwithstanding anything in Rule 3, the Governor may, by notification published in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette,
exclude, wholly or in part, from the operation of these rules, the holder of any post or, the holders of any class of posts,
in respect of whom the Governor decides that the rules cannot suitably be applied and these rules shall, thereupon to
the extent of such exclusion, cease to apply to them accordingly.
Part - II Classification
5.
Classification of Services:
(1)
The Civil Services of the State, the members of which are subject to these rules, shall be classified as follows :
(a)
the State Services; and
(b)
the Subordinate Services.
(2)
A member of the Civil Service of the State and every person holding a civil post under the State whose services are
placed at the disposal of any company, corporation, organisation or local authority by the Government or by any
competent authority shall, for the purposes of these rules, be deemed to be a member of such civil service or be
deemed to hold such civil post, notwithstanding that his salary is drawn from a source other than the Consolidated Fund
of the State.
[6. Constitution of State Services: - The State Services shall consist of the services specified in Schedule Ito these rules
and includes any other services that may be notified or as the case may be constituted by Government from time to
time]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 516, G.A.D., 16-12-1999]
.
[7. Constitution of Subordinate Services: - The Subordinate Services shall consist of the services specified in Schedule II
to these rules and include any other services that may be notified or as the case may be constituted by Government
from time to time]
Page 3/168
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 516, G.A.D., 16-12-1999]
.
Part - III Suspension
8.
Suspension:
(1)
A member of a Service may be placed under suspension from service-
(a)
where a disciplinary proceeding against him is contemplated or is pending, or
(b)
where in the opinion of the authority competent to place the Government servant under suspension, he has engaged
himself in activities prejudicial to the interest of the security of the State, or
(c)
where a case against him in respect of any criminal offence is under investigation, inquiry or trial.
[x x x x]
[Proviso omitted by G.O.Ms.No. 417, G.A.D., dated 24-8-94]
(d)
[ A member of a service may be placed under suspension from service even if the offence for which he was charged
does not have bearing on the discharge of his official duties.]
[Added by G.O.Ms. No. 27, G.A.D., dated 24-01-2002]
(2)
A Government servant shall be deemed to have been placed under suspension by an order of the authority competent
to place him under suspension-
(a)
with effect from the date of his detention, if he is detained in custody, whether on a criminal charge or otherwise for a
period exceeding forty-eight hours;
(b)
with effect from the date of his conviction if, in the event of a conviction for an offence, he is sentenced to a term of
imprisonment exceeding forty-eight hours and is not forthwith dismissed or removed or compulsorily retired consequent
to such conviction.
Explanation : - The period of forty-eight hours referred to in clause (b) of this sub-rule shall be computed from the
commencement of the imprisonment after the conviction and for this purpose, intermittent periods of imprisonment, if
any, shall be taken into account.
(c)
[ the order of suspension ceases to be operative as soon as the criminal proceedings, on the basis of which the
Government servant was arrested and released on bail, are terminated]
[Added by G.O.Ms. No. 27, G.A.D., dated 24-01-2002]
.
(3)
Where a penalty of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement from service imposed upon a Government servant
under suspension is set aside in appeal or on revision or review under these rules and the case is remitted for further
inquiry or action or with any other directions, the order of his suspension shall be deemed to have continued in force on
and from the date of the original order of dismissal, removal, or compulsory retirement and shall remain in force until
further orders.
(4)
Where a penalty of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement from service imposed upon a Government servant is
set aside or declared or rendered void, in consequence of or by a decision of a court of law and the authority competent
to impose the penalty, on a consideration of the circumstances of the case, decides to hold a further inquiry against him
on the allegations on which the penalty of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement was originally imposed, the
Government servant shall be deemed to have been placed under suspension by the authority competent to impose the
suspension from the date of the original order of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement and shall continue to
Page 4/168
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
remain under suspension until further orders :
Provided that no such further inquiry shall be ordered unless it is intended to meet a situation where the Court has
passed an order purely on technical grounds without going into the merits of the case.
(5)
(a)
An order of suspension made or deemed to have been made under this rule shall continue to remain in force until it is
modified or revoked by the authority which made or is deemed to have made the order or by an authority to which that
authority is subordinate.
(b)
Where a Government servant is suspended or is deemed to have been suspended, whether in connection with any
disciplinary proceeding or otherwise, and any other disciplinary proceeding is commenced against him during the
continuance of that suspension, the authority competent to place him under suspension may, for reasons to be recorded
by him in writing, direct that the Government servant shall continue to be under suspension until the termination of all or
any of such proceedings.
(c)
An order of suspension made or deemed to have been made under this rule may, at any time, be modified or revoked by
the authority which made or is deemed to have made the order or by any authority to which that authority is subordinate.
Executive Instructions
1. Date of effect of an order of suspension - Regarding.
(Memorandum No. 1085/Ser. C/72-3, dated 10-5-1973)
Order: - A question has often been raised as to the date from which an order of suspension pending inquiry will take
effect, i.e., whether it is the date on which the competent authority has passed the order, whether it is the date of
dispatch of the order, or whether it is the date on which the Government servant concerned has actually been served
with the order of suspension.
2. Except in cases where a Government servant is deemed to have been placed under suspension under Rule 13(2) of
the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1963 the order of suspension will
ordinarily be communicated to the Government servant immediately after it is passed. A difficulty may, however, arise in
determining the date from which the Government servant is under suspension, if the Government servant placed under
suspension is-
(a)
stationed at a place other than that where the competent authority passed the order of suspension;
(b)
on tour and it may not be possible to serve the order of suspension on him immediately;
(c)
one holding charge of stores, cash, warehouses, seized goods, bounds, etc., and he has to be relieved of the charge;
and
(d)
on leave or absent from duty without permission or availing joining time.
3. The Government have examined the question and they issue the following instructions :
(i)
In cases referred to in items (a) and (b) above, will not be feasible to give effect to an order of suspension from the date
on which it is passed, owing to the fact that during the intervening period, a Government servant may, perform certain
functions lawfully exercisable by him or may enter into contracts, etc. In such cases, the order of suspension takes effect
from the date of its service on the Government servant concerned.
(ii)
In cases referred to in item (c) above, the concerned Government servant may not be able to hand over charge
immediately on receipt of suspension order by him, without checking and verification of stores, cash etc., and the order
of suspension takes effect from the date of normal handing over the stores, cash etc., by the Government servant
concerned.
(iii)
In cases referred to in item (d) above, the order of suspension takes effect from the date of its despatch from the office
Page 5/168
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
of the authority which passes it. Where a Government servant on leave is suspended, it is not necessary to recall him
from leave, but it is sufficient if the unexpired portion of the leave is cancelled by an order to that effect.
4. It may be borne in mind that no order of suspension should be made retrospective effect, as a retrospective order of
suspension is illegal.
5. The Government also direct that the above orders will apply mutatis mutandis to an order imposing the penalty of
dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement on a Government servant.
2. Suspension of Government servants - Pending enquiry - Consolidated instructions - Issued.
(Memo. No. 1470/Ser. C/77-2,  General  Administrator  (Ser-C) Department , dated 26-12-1977)
Instructions were issued from time to time regarding suspension of Government servants pending enquiry into charges
against them, apart from the provisions contained in the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CC&A) Rules, 1963. It is
considered desirable to consolidate these instructions for information and guidance of the Departments of Secretariat,
Heads of Departments and other officers. Therefore, the instructions are incorporated in the Annexure to this Memo.
The officers concerned are requested to follow these instructions scrupulously.
Annexure
(1)
Memorandum No. 3903/64-1, G.A. (Service -C) Department, dated 2-1-1965.
The orders made by an authority other than Government placing an employee under suspension pending enquiry, may
be revoked by that authority or by the Government or by any authority to whom that authority is administratively
subordinate, even though the sanctions of Government to the extension of suspension, after the period of six months
was obtained as such order of extension does not render the original order of suspension ineffective and substitute in its
place an order of the Government suspending the employee pending enquiry.
(2)
Memorandum No. 2044/65-2, G.A. (Service-C) Department , dated 17-8-1965.
A member of a service who is deemed under sub-rule (2) of Rule 13 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CC & A)
Rules, to have been suspended by an order of the competent authority to suspend him, remains under suspension until
further orders. The further orders contemplated by the said sub-rule are those of the competent authority or of a higher
authority under sub-rule (5). The competent authority or the higher authority need not necessarily revoke the order of
suspension when the member of a service who is arrested and detained on a criminal charge or otherwise for a period
exceeding 48 hours is released on bail, but the said authority may revoke the order of suspension and admit him to duty
or grant him leave during the period if applied for by him, if the said authority thinks fit to do so having regard to the
nature of the charge and other circumstances of the case. The mere fact that the member of a service has been granted
bail, does not give him a right to be restored to duty.
(3)
Memorandum No. 1933/65-4, G.A. (Ser-C) Department , dated 28-12-1965.
Where the work and conduct of an employee who is appointed temporarily are not satisfactorily, he need not be placed
under suspension pending enquiry as it involves financial loss to Government, not should disciplinary action be initiated
against him but he should be discharged in terms of his appointment, by an innocuous order, so as to avoid
complication.
(4)
Memorandum No. 2213/Ser-C/668, G.A. (Ser-C) Department , dated 30-11-1966.
In order to ensure that suspension is not resorted to for simple reasons, the Government have decided that when the
reinstating authority held that the suspension of the employee was wholly unjustified and it made an order that for the
period of suspension the employee considered be paid full pay and allowances, proceedings should be initiated under
Rule 19 of Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CC & A) Rules, 1963, against the officer who suspended the employee and
the question of recovery from pay of such officer the whole or any part of the pecuniary loss caused to the Government
due to payment of pay and allowances under F.R. 54, should be considered.
(5)
Memorandum No. 904/Ser-C/67-1, G.A., (Ser-C), Department , dated 29-5-1967.
The necessity for continuance or otherwise of a Government employee under suspension is required to be reviewed by
the Government at intervals of not more than 6 months. The object is to ensure that Government employee placed
under suspension indefinitely and that the necessity or otherwise for his continuance is reviewed periodically by
Page 6/168
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Government so that if in any case it is felt that further continuance of the Government employee involves
undue-hardship, necessary relief may be granted, either by revoking the order of suspension and restoring him to duty
or allowing him to proceed on leave.
In cases of suspension and review the following procedure may be adopted:
(a)
Where an employee is suspended the order may be so drawn up, that he is suspended, pending enquiry, until further
orders.
(b)
When upon a review which may be ordinarily made at intervals of not more than six months, it is considered that he
should be continued under suspension, the order that may be made after such review may be as follows :
"The Government have reviewed the case of Sri............................who is under suspension pending enquiry and they
have decided that he shall continue under suspension. The next review will be taken up at the end of six months from
the date of this order."
(6)
Memorandum No. 1733/Ser-C/67-2, G.A. (Ser-C), Department , dated 3-8-1967.
Instead of placing an employee under suspension pending investigation into grave charges, the desirability of
transferring him to some other place or to allow him to go on leave may be considered.
(7)
U.O. Note No. 1742/Ser-C/68-3, G.A. (Ser-C), Department , dated 16-10-1968.
When the Anti-Corruption Bureau enquiry goes beyond six months after an officer has been placed under suspension,
the Director, Anti-Corruption Bureau should send a report to the concerned Secretary to Government intimating the
stage of enquiry and whether or not the officer should be continued under suspension furnishing the reasons therefor.
Where the suspension of an officer is to be continued beyond a period of six months prompt action should be taken in
compliance with the instructions issued by the Government in Memorandum No. 904/67, G.A. (Ser.C) Department,
dated 29-5-1967.
(8)
Memorandum No. 365/Ser-C/69-1.G.A. (Ser-C) Department , dated 11-6-1970.
The cases of all officers who are under suspension for six months irrespective of the fact, whether the cases are under
investigation by the Anti-Corruption Bureau or pending enq1uiry be the Anti-Corruption Bureau or pending enquiry
before the Tribunal for Disciplinary Proceedings or departmental authority or pending trial before the Court of Special
Judge for Special Police Establishment and Anti-Corruption Bureau cases or pending with Government will have to be
reviewed by the Government and the Government Should have adequate and sufficient material before them to judge
the necessity or otherwise of the continuance of the suspension. The Director, Anti-Corruption Bureau should send his
reports to the Government not only in respect of cases which are under investigation by the Anti-Corruption Bureau but
also in cases pending enquiry before the Tribunal for Disciplinary Proceedings and trial in the Court of the Special Judge
for Special Police Establishment and Anti-Corruption Bureau cases. He need not, however, send reports in cases where
enquiries are being conducted by Departmental authorities or in cases pending with the Government after the receipt of
the Tribunal for Disciplinary Proceedings and the Judgement of the Special Judge for the Special Police Establishments
and Anti-Corruption Bureau cases.
(9)
G.O.Ms.No. 517, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 27-7-1977.
A proforma as given below has been prescribed in order to enable the Government to take a decision on each based on
the information given by the various officers requesting for extension of suspension of officers. The Establishment
Officer will have to take a view on the question of extension of suspension and if he feels that within the extended period
or within six months, the case cannot be decided, them he has to send a report in the proforma about two months in
advance of the period.
Performa for Extension of Period of Suspension beyond Six Months
Sl. No.
Name and designation of the officer under
suspension
Date of suspension
Page 7/168
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Date of appointment of Enquiry officer
(a) Have Charges been framed, if so, date
(b) Has it been served on the other officer, if
so, when date
(c) Has it been served on the other officer, if ,
so, when date
(d) Has the case in
support of the charge been presentedbefore Enquiry officer, date
(e) has the officer
under suspension entered upon his defence.
If So, the date
Reasons for asking for extension
Expected date of completion
Paid subsistence allowance
Remarks
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
3. Prevention of corruption - Suspension of Officers involved in trap cases and with reference to the possession of
disproportionate assets.
(Memo. No. 1095/Ser. C/84-4, Gen.  Administrator  (Ser-C) Department , dated 27-4-1985)
Ref: - 1. Government Memo. No. 204/Ser.C/76-3, dated 31-5-1976.
2. Memo. 355/Ser.C/69-1, G.A.D., dated 11-6-1970,
Order: - In the references cited, instructions were issued in regard to suspension of the Government employees on the
basis of reports received from the Director, Anti-Corruption Bureau.
2. The matter regarding suspension of Government servants involved in cases of traps and possession of
disproportionate assets taken up for investigation by the Anti-Corruption Bureau has been reviewed and the following
instructions are issued:
(1)
In trap cases, the officers trapped should be placed under suspension immediately and if there is likely to be any
interregnum between the trap and the actual relief of the trapped officer consequent upon suspension, the trapped
officer should be immediately shifted out of his charge so that he will not have any opportunity to tramper or destroy
material evidence. In this connection, attention is drawn to the instruction issued in G.A. (Ser.C) Department, Memo. No.
204/Ser.C/76-3, dated 31-5-1976
(2)
As regards the cases of possession of disproportionate assets, the following will be the circumstances in which the
Government servant involved in the case should be placed under suspension :
(a)
When the disproportionate assets detected are prima facie sufficiently large taking into consideration the income from all
sources and the likely expenditure of the Government servant concerned. The Director, Anti-Corruption Bureau; should
Page 8/168
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
mention in his report, the rough estimate of income, expenditure and assets and how the disproportion was arrived at,
while recommending suspension in such cases.
(b)
If a Government servant is not placed under suspension immediately after the registration of a case of possession of
disproportionate assets and searches conducted in pursuance thereof, he may subsequently be placed under
suspension, if, -
(i)
during the course of investigation of the case, the Government servant is found to be not co-operating with the
investigating authorities in the conduct of investigation such as not furnishing the property statements and other required
information; or
(ii)
the Government servant is found, interfering with the investigation of the case of tampering with witness or documents;
or
(iii)
a charge sheet is filed against him in the said case after the completion of investigation.
3. Once a  Government , servant has been placed under suspension in an A.C.B. enquiry of the nature contemplated
supra, while revoking or continuing suspension. the disciplinary authority should have regard to the stage of
investigation and progress achieved. In respect of cases where the A.C.B. has submitted a final report and where
criminal prosecution is not envisaged, the continuation of suspension or revocation shall be considered by the
competent authority keeping in view the gravity of charges held substantiated. (Para 3 as amended by
Memo.No.638/Ser.C/86-3  General Administrator (Ser.C) Department , dated 16-8-1986)
4. All the Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments and District Collectors are requested to follow the above
instructions scrupulously and also communicated the above instructions to the concerned disciplinary authorities for their
guidance while dealing with the above type of cases.
4. Instructions on Suspension of Government Employees involved in cases of Traps and Possession of Disproportionate
Assets taken-up for Investigation by the ACB.
(G.O.Ms.No. 220/Ser.C/89-I, Gent.  Administrator  (Services-C) Department , dated 8-3-1989)
Order: - (a) In trap cases, the Government servant should be suspended immediately after the trap basing on the
preliminary report of the A.C.B.
(b)
In disproportionate assets cases, the accused Officer need not be suspended immediately following the registration of
the case. But he may be transferred to a far off non-local post to avoid likelihood of his tampering with the records and
influencing the witness,. Attention is invited to Government Memo. No. 1733/Ser.C/67-2, General Administration
Department , dated 3-8-1967.
(c)
If, however, the ACB finds during investigation that there is reasonable ground for believing that the accused officer has
deliberately failed to co-operate with the Investigating Agency or that he is trying to tamper with the official records or
influencing the witnesses or bringing pressure on the Investigating Officers, it is open to the Disciplinary Authority to
place the accused Officer under suspension at that stage, based on the recommendation of the ACB to that effect.
(d)
In case other than those mentioned above, the accused officer should be suspended when a charge-sheet is filed
against him in the Court.
(e)
Where after investigation, it is decided to initiate Regular departmental action for imposing any of the major penalties
and charge memo is served or the delinquent Government servant, alleging specific acts of corruption or gross
misconduct involving moral turpitude, he may be suspended immediately after the charge memo is served on him.
5. Payment of Subsistence Allowance during the period of suspension.
(Circle Memo. No. 13431-160-AF.R.II/93, Fin. & Plg., dated 1-4-1993)
Order: - It has come to the notice of Government that the employees who are kept under suspension beyond 6 months
are not receiving subsistence allowance beyond 6 months on the ground that the suspension has to be reviewed by the
competent authorities. In this connection, the following instructions are issued for implementation by all the competent
Page 9/168
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
authorities who place a Government servant under suspension in public interest.
2. According to Rule 18 (c) (i) of A.P. Civil Services (CC &A) Rules, 1963, an officer should not be kept under
suspension for a period exceeding 6 months normally and the disciplinary proceedings should be finalised within that
period. The cases of Officers who are placed under suspension should be reviewed by the authorities higher or by the
Government themselves every six months, in order to ensure that suspensions are not continued indefinitely without
justification.
3. According to F.R. 53 (i) (ii) (a), subsistence allowance at an amount equal to the leave salary which the Government
Servant would have drawn, if he had been on leave on behalf average pay, or half pay has to be paid, apart from the
admissible allowances as per Rules. In terms of provision thereto, the amount of subsistence allowance can be
enhanced or reduced by an amount not exceeding 50% of the subsistence allowance already admissible under the
circumstances mentioned at (i)/(ii) under the above provision. Under Fundamental Rules, there is no bar or restriction
limiting payment of subsistence allowance upto a period of six months in cases when the period of suspension is to be
reviewed. In other words, the subsistence allowance according to F.R. 53(i)(ii)(a) and in terms of proviso thereto,
depending upon the situation of the case specified in item Nos. (i) and (ii) under the proviso, as the case may be, has to
be paid, as long as a person is continued under suspension even if the period is extended by undertaking a review or
not.
4. Thus, the subsistence allowance shall not be denied to the suspended employee on any ground unless the
suspended employee is unable to furnish a certificate that he is not engaged in any other employment etc., during the
period to which the claim relates.
5. According to the instructions, revision of subsistence in terms of proviso to Clause (ii) (a) of Sub-rule (i) of F.R. 53
should not be given retrospective effect.
6. It is observed that payment of subsistence allowance is being delayed on the ground that the suspension is being
reviewed. In this connection, the attention of the Departments of Secretariat, and the heads of Departments is invited to
the orders issued in G.O.Ms.No. 205, G.A. (Ser.C) Department, dated 17-3-1990. There is no need for withholding the
subsistence allowance pending review as, even if the higher authority decides, that it would no longer be necessary to
continue the employee under suspension, the reinstatement will be only with prospective effect. In view of this, even if a
review is pending with a higher authority, which is a non-statutory review it is not necessary to withhold the payment of
subsistence allowance.
6. Orders of suspension - Prescription of format.
(G.O.Ms.No. 411, G.A.D., dated 20-7-1993)
Ref : - G.O.Ms.No. 487, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 14-9-1992.
Order: - Under Rule 8(1) of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1991, a member of service may be placed
under suspension from service -
(a)
Where a disciplinary proceedings against him is contemplated or is pending; or
(b)
Where in the opinion of the authority competent to place the Government servant under suspension, he has engaged
himself in activities prejudicial to the interest of the security of the State; or
(c)
Where a case against him in respect of any criminal offence is under investigation, inquiry or trial.
2. The authority competent to order a Government Servant to be placed under suspension should apply his mind before
passing such order and the order of suspension should be in the legally correct format. If the orders of suspension
issued are defective and not in the correct format such orders are liable to be challenged in courts merely on technical
grounds.
3. With a view to avoiding such situations and to bring uniformity in the forms of orders of suspension having regard to
the provisions contained in the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1991, it has been considered desirable to
prescribe model formats of order for the guidance of the competent authorities who are empowered to pass suspension
orders against the delinquent officers.
4. Government accordingly direct that the competent authority should issue order of suspension after due consideration,
in the relevant proforma annexed to this order as indicated below :
(a)
Page 10/168
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Where charge sheet has been issued, the form in Annexure-I to this order may be considered for adoption;
(b)
Where disciplinary proceedings are contemplated, the form in Annexure II to this order may be considered for adoption;
and
(c)
Where a case has been registered and it is under investigation, the Form in Annexure III to this order may be considered
for adoption.
5. All Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments etc., are requested to bring these orders to the notice of all
competent authorities.
Annexure - I
Form of order of suspension (where charge sheet has been issued) under Rule 8 (1) of the Andhra Pradesh Civil
Service (CCA) Rules, 1991
Sub : - Public Services - Sri/Smt.................... Suspension from service - Orders - Issued.
And whereas the Government of Andhra Pradesh/undersigned being the competent authority (appointing authority/any
other competent authority) consider it necessary to place Sri/Smt........................... under suspension pending enquiry
into grave charge or charges aforementioned.
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (1) of Rule 8 of Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CCA)
Rules, 1991, the Government of Andhra Pradesh/undersigned (appointing authority/any other competent authority)
hereby place(s) the said Sri/Smt.............................. under suspension from the date of communication of this order and
he/she shall continue to be under suspension in public interest until the conclusion of the disciplinary
proceedings/termination of all proceedings relating to the criminal charge(s).
It is further ordered that during the period this order remains in force the headquarters of Sri/Smt.......................... (name
and designation of Government servant) shall be (name of the place) and the said Sri/Smt............................ shall not
leave the headquarters without obtaining the previous permission of the undersigned.
[It is further ordered that during the period of suspension, Sri/Smt................................. (Name and designation of the
Government servant) shall be paid subsistence allowance equivalent to the leave salary on half pay leave. The D.A. and
other compensatory allowances shall be paid along with subsistence allowance. The quantum of subsistence allowance
will be reviewed and revised in terms of FR-53(i) after 3 months. Pending review he shall continue to draw the
subsistence allowance now sanctioned.]
[Added by G.O. Ms. No. 296, Fin. & Plg. (FW.FR.II), dated 14-10- 1996]
Signature
Name and Designation of the Suspending authority.
Annexure - II
Form of order of suspension (where disciplinary proceedings are contemplated) under Rule 8(1) of the Andhra Pradesh
Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1991
Sub : - Public Service - Sri/Smt........................... Suspension from service - Orders - Issued.
Whereas it has come to the notice of the Government of Andhra Pradesh/ Undersigned who is the competent authority
(Appointing authority/any other competent authority) alleging that -
And whereas disciplinary proceedings against Sri...................................... are contemplated;
And whereas the Government of Andhra Pradesh/undersigned (appointing authority/any other competent authority) after
careful consideration of the available material and having due regard to the circumstances of the case, are satisfied that
it is necessary to place Sri/Smt................................ under suspension.
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (1) of Rule 8 of Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CCA)
Rules, 1991 the Government of Andhra Pradesh/undersigned (appointing authority/any other competent authority)
hereby place(s) the said Sri/Smt...................................... under suspension from the date of communication of this order
and he/she shall continue to be under suspension until the conclusion of the disciplinary proceedings/termination of all
proceedings relating to the criminal charge(s).
It is further ordered that during the period this order remains in force, the headquarters of Sri/Smt............................
(name and designation of the Government servant) shall be........................ (name of the place) and the said
Sri/Smt................................. shall not leave the headquarters without obtaining the previous permission of the
undersigned.
Page 11/168
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Signature
Name and designation of the Suspending authority.
Annexure - III
Form of order of suspension (where a case has been registered and it is under investigation) under Rule 8(1) of the A.P.
Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1991
Sub : - Public Services - Sri/Smt............................... Suspension from service - Orders - Issued.
Whereas it has come to the notice of the Government of Andhra Pradesh/ Undersigned who is the Competent authority
(appointing authority or any other competent authority) alleging that-
And whereas a case has been registered by the Anti-Corruption Bureau/Officer incharge of the Police
Station............................. in Crime No............................... under Section........................ of..............................
And whereas it is considered that his/her continuance in Office will prejudice the investigation;
And whereas the Government of Andhra Pradesh/undersigned (appointing authority or any other competent authority)
after careful consideration of the available material and having due regard to the circumstances of the case, are satisfied
that the Criminal charge under investigation is connected with his official position as a Government servant and involved
moral turpitude and therefore consider it necessary to place Sri/Smt............................. under suspension.
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (1) of Rule 8 of Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CCA)
Rules, 1991 the Government of Andhra Pradesh/undersigned) appointing authority/any other under competent authority)
hereby place(s) the said Sri/Smt..................................... under suspension from the date of communication of this order
and he/she shall continue to be under suspension until the conclusion of the disciplinary proceedings/termination of all
proceedings relating to the criminal charge(s).
It is further ordered that during the period this order remains in force, the headquarters of Sri/Smt.................................
(name and designation of the Government servant) shall be..................... (name of the place) and the said
Sri/Smt........................................ shall not leave the headquarters without obtaining the previous permission of the
undersigned.
Signature
Name and designation of the Suspending authority.
7. Review of orders of suspension for continuance beyond the period of six months - Authorities empowered to
undertake review.
(G.O. Ms. No. 480, G.A.D., dated 7-9-1993)
Ref : - 1. G.O. Ms. No. 205,  General  Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 17-3-1990.
2. G.O. Ms.No. 487,  General  Administrator  (Ser.C) Department . dated 12-9-1992.
Order: - Sub-rule (1) of Rule 8 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991,
lays down that a member of a service may be placed under suspension from service :
(a)
Where disciplinary proceedings against him are contemplated, or pending;
(b)
Where in the opinion of the authority competent to place the Government Servant under suspension, he has engaged
himself in activities prejudicial to the interest of the security of the State; or
(c)
Where a case against him in respect of any criminal offence is under investigation, inquiry or trial.
Sub-rule (5) (a) of Rule 8 of the said Rules lays down that an order of suspension made or deemed to have been made
under this rule shall continue to remain in force until it is modified or revoked by the authority which made or is deemed
to have made the order or by an authority to which that authority is subordinate. Under Sub-rule 5(b), of Rule 8, it is
specified that where a Government servant is suspended or is deemed to have been suspended, whether in connection
with any disciplinary proceedings or otherwise, and any other disciplinary proceedings is commenced against him during
the continuance of that suspension, the authority competent to place him under suspension may, for reasons to be
recorded by him in writing, direct that the Government servant shall continue to be under suspension until the
termination of all, or any of such proceedings.
2. In its order dated 10-4-1993 in O.A.No. 7109/92 the Andhra Pradesh Administrative Tribunal has observed as follows
:
"We wish to observe that the order of suspension needs to be reviewed by the authorities periodically. The criminal trial
Page 12/168
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
or disciplinary proceedings may take a long time and the Government is to review the need for continued suspension on
relevant grounds periodically. The observation in para 5 of the impugned order that the applicant shall continue under
suspension until the termination of all proceedings relating to the criminal charge does not imply that till the trial, if any, is
concluded, the order of suspension need not be reviewed or revoked. It will be for the Government to review the need
for continued suspension at reasonable periodical intervals say six months".
3. In the G.O. 1st read above, executive instructions were issued for review of suspension at periodical intervals.
Subsequently, the new Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991 have come into
force with effect from 1-10-1992 repealing the old Classification, Control and Appeal Rules, 1963. Consequently it has
been decided to issue revised instructions for review of suspensions at periodical intervals.
4. Accordingly, the following instructions are issued for review of the suspension cases :
I. Gazetted Officers :
(i)
In the case of Gazetted Officers, the first review of the order of suspension beyond a period of six months shall be
undertaken by the Head of the Department, provided the original order of suspension was not issued by Government,
and orders issued, if so decided, to continue the officer under suspension until further orders.
(ii)
The second and subsequent reviews at intervals of six months will be undertaken and orders for continuance of the
officer under suspension until further orders will be issued by the Government.
(iii)
If the original order of suspension was issued by the Government, all the reviews including the first review shall be
undertaken by the Government themselves and orders for continuance of the Officer under suspension until further
orders will be issued by the Government.
II. Non-Gazetted Officers :
(i)
In the case of non-gazetted officers first review of the orders of suspension beyond a period of six months shall be
undertaken either by the authority next above the appointing authority or by the Head of the Department as the case
may be, and orders issued, if so decided, to continue the Officer under suspension until further orders.
(ii)
The next review beyond a period of one year from the date of suspension shall be undertaken by the Head of the
Department and orders issued by him, if so decided, to continue the officer under suspension until further orders.
(iii)
Any further review for continuing or otherwise of an officer under suspension beyond a period of one and a half year
from the date of suspension at intervals of six months shall be undertaken by the Government and orders for
continuance of the officer under suspension until further orders will be issued.
III. At the end of the review as laid down above, if it is decided by the competent authority/head of the
Department/Government, as the case may be, that the member of the service need no longer be continued under
suspension, orders, should be issued forthwith revoking the order of suspension and he shall be reinstated into service
immediately.
8. Review of orders of suspension for continuance beyond the period of six months - Authorities empowered to review –
Revised Orders – Issued.
(G.O. Ms. No. 578, G.A. (Ser. C) Department , dated 31-12-1999)
Ref : - 1. G.O. Ms. No. 480, G.A. (Ser. C) Department , dated 7-9-93.
2. G.O. Ms. No. 428, G.A. (Ser. C) Department , dated 13-10-99.
Order: - In the reference first read above, orders were issued in regard to periodical review, at an interval of six months
of the order of suspension, in disciplinary cases, duly indicating the authorities empowered to undertake the review. In
the reference second read above, the disciplinary powers have been delegated to the Regional Authorities and Heads of
Departments in respect of the officers of first and second level categories in the State Service. The implementation of
the Government order first read above has been reviewed. To expedite disposal, the following revised orders are issued
for review of suspension cases, in modification of the G.O. 1st read above.
I. Member of service in Subordinate Service/Non-Gazetted Officers :
(i)
Page 13/168
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
The first review, of the order of Suspension after six months from the date of issue of orders shall be by the appointing
authority. The 2nd and subsequent reviews shall be by the Regional Authority, where it exists, at intervals of six months.
Where no Regional Authority exists, the 2nd and subsequent reviews of order of suspension, shall be by the Head of the
Department at an interval of every six months, where the appointing authority is Head of the Department itself, the
review of the order of the suspension at an interval of six months shall be by the Head of the Department only.
(ii)
Even if suspension is ordered by a higher authority, the review shall be done as ordered above except that a report on
the result of review shall be sent to the higher authority for information and record.
II. Members of Service in State Service (Gazetted Officers) :
(i)
Where the Order of Suspension is issued by the Regional Authority, the 1st review of such order after six months, shall
be by the Regional Authority. The 2nd and subsequent reviews at six monthly intervals shall be by the Head of the
Department.
(ii)
Where no Regional Authority exists, and the order of suspension on a Member of Service in initial as well as second
level Gazetted Category is issued by the Head of the Department such order shall be reviewed at an interval of every six
months by the Head of the Department.
(iii)
Even if suspension is ordered by Government, the review shall be done as ordered above except that prior approval of
the Government to the result of the review shall be obtained where the review leads to reinstatement, before orders of
reinstatement are issued.
(iv)
In respect of third level and above Gazetted Categories of Officers, the review of order of suspension, at an interval of
every six months, shall be by the Government only.
9. Review of orders of suspension against Government Servants.
(G.O.Ms.No. 86, G.A.D.., dated 8-3-1994)
Ref : - G.O.Ms.No. 480, G.A. (Ser-C) Department , dated 7-9-1993.
Order :- In the G.O. read above, instructions have been issued for review of the suspensions of Gazetted and
Non-Gazetted Officers, indicating the authorities empowered to undertake such reviews of orders of suspension for
continuance beyond the period of six months.
2. During the meeting of the Secretaries to Government held on 7-7-1992, the issue of inordinate delays in finalising
enquiries both Departmental and ACB resulting in hardship to the employees was discussed and an Officers Committee
was constituted to examine, among others, the issue of "Suspension of Public Servants" and to submit proposals for
review of the existing instructions. The Committee has accordingly made certain recommendations which have been
accepted by the standing sub-committee of Secretaries to Government in their meeting held on 6-12-1993.
3. Keeping the said recommendations in view following further orders are issued for review of suspension orders against
the Government Servants :
(i)
The order of suspension against a Government servant shall be reviewed at the end of every six months;
(ii)
The appropriate reviewing authority should take a decision regarding continuance or otherwise of the employee
concerned under suspension, with reference to the nature of charges , where delays in finalisation, of enquiry
proceedings cannot be attributed to the employee or when there is no interference from the employee in facilitating the
enquiry.
(iii)
An outer limit be provided as two years from the date of suspension, failing which the public servant may have to be
reinstated without prejudice to the proceedings being pursued. However, in exceptional cases, considering the gravity of
the charges, one could be continued under suspension even beyond a period of two years, especially in cases where
there is deliberate delay caused due to non-cooperation of the employee concerned.
(iv)
The concerned Principle Secretary/Secretary of the Department should review the suspension cases of their department
Page 14/168
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
at an interval of six months with the representative from the ACB, if the proceedings arose out of the investigations
conducted by the Anti-Corruption Bureau and make suitable recommendations as to the desirability or otherwise for the
further continuance of the officers under suspension.
4. The above benefit may be given to all existing cases as and when their half yearly review is taken up.
10.
Payment of Subsistence Allowance during Suspension period - Further instructions.
(Circular Memo. No. 29730-A/458/A2/FR.11/94, Fin. & Plg., dated 15-9-1994)
Ref: - 1. Circular Memo.No. 13431/160-A/FR.II/93, dated 1-4-1993 of the Fin. & Plg. (FW) Department .
2. Recommendation of the High Power Committee Headed by Sri A.V.S. Reddy, IAS.
Order: - In the Circular Memo. 1st cited detailed instructions were issued for prompt payment of subsistence allowance
to the employees who were placed under suspension. The Joint Action Committee of Employees, Teachers and
Workers of Andhra Pradesh, however, represented to the High Power Committee of Secretaries to Government that the
employees who were placed under suspension were not being paid subsistence allowance and were subjected to much
difficulty and harassment. The High Power Committee in their Report submitted to Government made the following
observations :
According to the existing instructions, there is no bar or restriction limiting payment of subsistence allowance upto a
period of six months. Subsistence Allowance is to be paid as long as a person is continued under suspension, even if
the period is extended. The review envisaged for every six months during the period of suspension is only to ensure that
the suspensions are not continued indefinitely without justification. There is, therefore, no need for with-holding the
subsistence allowance pending review.
The High Power Committee also recommended that instructions already issued by the Finance Department in Circular
Memo. 1st cited may be reiterated and that disciplinary action may be taken against the officials who fail to comply with
these instructions.
All the Departments of Secretariat and the Heads of Department are therefore requested to follow the instructions issued
in the Circular Memo first cited scrupulously and ensure prompt payment of subsistence allowance to the employees
who are placed under suspension. They are also informed that any failure to comply with these instructions will attract
disciplinary action against the officers concerned.
All the Departments of Secretariat and the Heads of Departments are also requested to bring these instructions to the
notice of all the concerned under their administrative control for strict compliance.
11.
Prevention of Corruption - Suspension of Officers involved in trap cases.
[Memo. No. 357/Ser.C/94-1,  General  Administrator  (Ser.-C) Department , dated 4-8-1994]
Ref: - 1. Memo. No. 220/Ser. C/89-1, dated 8-3-89.
2. Memo. No. 1419/Ser. C/89-1, dated 25-10-1989.
Order: - In the references cited, instructions were issued regarding suspension/transfer of Government servants involved
in cases of trap and possession of disproportionate assets taken up for investigations by the Anti-Corruption Bureau.
It has been brought to the notice of Government that there are abnormal delays in taking action to suspend/transfer the
Government servant concerned on receipt of advice tendered by the Vigilance Commission in cases taken up for
investigation by the A.C.B. Due to the delay, the A.C.B. is handicapped in taking up the regular enquiry.
While reiterating the instructions issued in the references cited, all the Departments of Secretariat/Heads of Departments
are once again requested to take expeditious action to place the Accused Officer under suspension or transfer them as
the case may be within a period of 15 days without fail and ensure that no delays occur in this regard.
They are also requested to bring these instructions to the notice of the disciplinary authorities under their administrative
control.
12.
Interim Relief pending revision of scales of pay - Payment of Interim Relief to those who are under suspension -
Clarification - Issued.
(Memo. No. 44113/541/PC1/1/98-1, Fin. & Plg. (FW.PC.1), dated 11-11-1998)
Ref : - 1. G.O. (P) No. 117, Fin. & Plg. (FW.PC.I) Department , dated 3-7-1998.
2. From the CAO 0/0 the DG and IGP, Lr.RC.No. P1/90/97, dated 28-10-1998.
Order: - In the G.O. first cited orders were issued sanctioning an Interim Relief of 11% to the State Government
Page 15/168
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
employees from 1-6-1998, pending revision of pay scales. In the reference 2nd cited, a clarification has been sought for
regarding admissibility of Interim Relief to those who are under suspension.
The issue has been examined. Interim Relief cannot be treated neither as pay or wage or as an allowance. Hence, it is
hereby clarified that Interim Relief is not admissible during the period of suspension.
13.
Anti-Corruption Bureau - Trap cases - Transfer of trapped officers.
(Memo. No. 2487/SC.E/984 GA(Ser.E) Department , dated 19-11-1998)
Ref.: - 1. Government Memo. No. 204/Ser.C/76-3;  General  Administrator (Ser.C) Department , Dated 31-5-1976.
2. Government Memo. No. 1095/Ser.c/84-4;  General  Administrator (Ser.C) Department , dated 27-4-1985
3. Government Memo. No. 220/Ser.C/89-11;  General  Administrator (Ser.C) Department , dated 8-3-1989
4. Government Memo. No. 853/Ser.C/90-2;  General  Administrator (Ser.C) Department  dated 23-9-1991
5. From the Director General, Anti-corruption Bureau, A.P., Hyderabad, Letter C.No.96/RPC(C)/93, dated 16-11-1993
Order: - In the reference first cited, instructions were issued among others that in 'Trap Cases' if there is likely to be any
interregnum between the trap and the actual relief of the Trapped Officer after being placed under suspension, the
competent authorities should consider whether the Officers could be transferred immediately so that the material
evidence is not destroyed and that arrangements should be made to relieve Trapped Officers forthwith. In the reference
second cited and from time to time, the said instructions were reiterated, among others.
2. The Director General, Anti-Corruption Bureau in the reference fifth cited has brought to the notice of the Government
that some Departments are not following the said instructions of the Government and are waiting till the Government
orders are received by them without shifting the Trapped Officers from the places of their work. He has stated that as it
would take about two to four weeks time for the Government to take a decision on the preliminary report of the Bureau,
the Trapped Officers tend to remain at the same posts and as a consequence, thereof, there is every likelihood of their
destroying or tampering with the records/evidence. The Director General, Anti-Corruption Bureau has further stated that
in some cases, the witnesses are not coming forward to give evidence especially when the Trapped Officer is their
immediate superior and as he/they continue to work at the same place.
3. The Director General, Anti-Corruption Bureau, has, therefore, requested to reiterate the Government instructions in
the matter and also to issue further instructions to the effect that Trapped Officers should be transferred out of their work
by the competent authorities, immediately, on receipt of Radio Message etc., by them from the Bureau so as to ensure
that there is no tampering with evidence/ destruction of records by the Trapped Officers.
4. As such, the matter has been reconsidered by the Government in the light of facts brought out by the Bureau in the
reference fifth cited and the request made therein. The Government, while reiterating the instructions issued in the
references first and second cited, also direct that the trapped officers should be transferred out from the place of their
work by the Head of the Department concerned/appointing authority/competent authority, immediately, on receipt of
intimation about the trap by them by way of Radio Messages etc., from the Anti Corruption Bureau.
5. However, a decision to place the Trapped Officers under suspension can be taken as per the instructions issued by
the Government on the subject from time to time.
14.
Disciplinary Cases – Review of orders of suspension against Government Servants - Instructions - Reiterated.
(U.O. Note. No. 2776/SC.E/98- 1, G.A.(Ser-E) Department , dated 3-12-1998)
Ref : - 1. G.O. Ms. No. 480,  General Administrator (Ser.C) Department , dated 7-9-1993.
2. G.O.Ms.No.86, General Administrator (Ser.C) Department , dated 8-3-1994.
3. From the Vigilance Commissioner, A.P. Vigilance Commission, D.O. Letter No.1974NC.F1/98-1, dated 27-11-1998.
Order: - In the G.O. 2nd cited while reiterating the instructions issued in the G.O. 1st cited, further orders were issued
with regard to review of orders of suspension against Government Servants as follows:
(i)
The order of suspension against a Government Servant shall be reviewed at the end of every six months.
(ii)
The appropriate reviewing authority should take a decision regarding continuance or otherwise of the employee
concerned under suspension, with reference to the nature of charges, where delay in finalisation of enquiry proceedings
cannot be attributed to the employees or when there is no interference from the employee in facilitating the enquiry.
(iii)
Page 16/168
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
An outer time limit be provided as two years from the date of suspension, failing which the Public Servant may have to
be reinstated without prejudice to the proceedings being pursued. However, in exceptional cases, considering the
gravity of the charges, one could be continued under suspension even beyond a period of two years, especially in cases
where there is deliberate delay caused due to non co-operation of the employee concerned.
(iv)
The concerned Principal Secretary/Secretary of the Department should review the suspension cases of their
Department at an interval of six months with the representative from the Anti-Corruption Bureau, if the proceedings
arose out of the investigations conducted by the Anti-Corruption Bureau and make suitable recommendations as to the
desirability or otherwise for the further continuance of the Officers under suspension.
2. With regard to the above mentioned orders, the A.P. Vigilance Commission have made the following observations:
(1)
That the Departments of Secretariat are referring cases for reinstatement into service of the suspended employees in a
routine manner to the Vigilance Commission;
(2)
That the Government Departments do not appear to be conducting the half yearly reviews of suspension of Government
Servants (Accused Officers) with the representatives of Anti-Corruption Bureau and that whenever such reviews are
conducted, the cases are referred to the Vigilance Commission without furnishing the following information:
(i)
Whether the delay in finalisation of enquiry Proceedings cannot be attributed to the employees;
(ii)
Whether the suspended employee is co-operating with the prosecution agency in facilitating the enquiry;
(iii)
Whether the suspended employee is attending the Court whenever summoned for hearing.
3. The matter has been carefully considered by the Government and the Government while reiterating the orders issued
in the G.O. 2nd cited also direct that all the Government Departments should obtain the information as mentioned in sub
para 2(i), (ii) and (iii) of para 2 above from the Anti-Corruption Bureau whenever necessary and then propose action as
to whether to continue the Government Servant (Accused Officer) under suspension or to reinstate him as the case may
be.
4. The Departments of Secretariat are also directed to consult the Andhra Pradesh Vigilance Commission invariably
before taking a decision in the matter as per the scheme of the Vigilance Commission.
15.
Appointment by Promotion/Transfer to higher categories of employees who are facing disciplinary cases - Guidelines -
Issued.
(G.O. Ms. No. 257, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 10-06-1999)
Ref : - 1. G.O. Ms. No. 424, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 25-05-1976.
2. G.O. Ms. No. 104, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 16-02-1990.
3. G.O. Ms. No. 66, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 30-01-1991.
4. From the Department  of Personnel & Training, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Government of
India Memo.No.22011/4/91-Estt.(A), dated 14-09-1992.
5. G.O.Ms.No.74, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 24-02-1994.
6. G.O. Ms. No. 203, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 05-05-1999.
Order: - In the G.Os. 1st to 3rd read above, orders were issued enunciating guidelines for consideration of employees
who are facing disciplinary enquiries it regard to their appointment by promotion or transfer to higher categories.
2. In the reference fourth read above, the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Government of India
have issued guidelines in regard to consideration of Government Servants against whom disciplinary or Court
proceedings are pending or whose conduct is under investigation, for promotion to next higher categories. Keeping in
view the said guidelines, orders have been issued in the G.O. fifth read above, for consideration of employees for
ad-hoc promotion where the disciplinary case/criminal prosecution against the Government employees is not concluded
even after the expiry of two years from the date of the meeting of the first Departmental Promotion Committee, in which
the employee was considered, in case the employee is not under suspension.
3. It has come to the notice of Government, that the guidelines issued in the said orders are not being strictly adhered to
Page 17/168
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
in several Departments and ad-hoc promotion is being considered on the simple ground, that two years period has
elapsed after institution of disciplinary proceedings against the employee without going into the desirability of making
ad-hoc promotion in such cases. The Government have carefully reviewed the issue and accordingly it has been
decided to cancel the orders issued in the G.O. fifth read above and issue suitable guidelines on the subject.
4. Accordingly, orders issued in the G.O.Ms.No.74,  General Administrator Ser.C) Department, dated the 24th February,
1994 are hereby cancelled with immediate effect.
5. Government also order that with immediate effect the following procedure and guidelines, be followed to consider the
employees against whom disciplinary cases or criminal prosecution are pending or whose conduct is under
investigation, for appointment by promotion or transfer, to next higher categories.
(A)
The details of employees in the zone of consideration for promotion falling under the following categories should be
specifically brought to the notice of the Departmental Promotion Committees or Screening Committees:
(i)
Officers under suspension;
(ii)
Officers in respect of whom a charge sheet has been issued and the disciplinary proceedings are pending;
(iii)
Officers in respect of whom prosecution for a criminal charge is pending.
(B)
Officers who are facing enquiry, trial or investigation can be categorised into the following groups based on the nature of
the allegations or charges pending against them or about to be instituted namely :
(i)
an Officer with a clean record, the nature of charges or allegations against who related to minor lapses having no
bearing on his integrity or efficiency, which even if held proved, would not stand in the way of his being promoted;
(ii)
an Officer whose record is such that he would not be promoted, irrespective of the allegations or charges under enquiry,
trial or investigation; and
(iii)
an Officer whose record is such that he would have been promoted had he not been facing enquiry, trial or investigation,
in respect of charges which, if held proved, would be sufficient to supersede him.
(C)
The suitability of the Officers for inclusion in the panel should be considered on an overall assessment based on the
record which should include namely:
(i)
Adverse remarks recorded in the Annual Confidential Reports, the penalties awarded and the bad reputation of the
Officer as vouchsafed by the Head of the Department and the Secretary to Government of the Department concerned;
The above cases should be considered as falling under category (ii) of item (B) above.
(ii)
The Officers who do not have any adverse entry in the Annual Confidential Report and who have no penalties awarded
against them in the entire duration of the post and not merely in the past five years and whose reputation is vouchsafed
by the Head of the Department and the Secretary to Government of the Department concerned should be considered as
falling under category (iii) of item (B) above.
The Officers categorised as under item (iii) of G.O. Ms. No. 424, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 25-5-1976 as
mentioned above only should be considered for ad-hoc promotion after completion of two years from the date of the
Departmental Promotion Committee or Screening Committee Meeting in which their cases were considered for the first
time.
(6)
The Appointing Authority should consider and decide that it would not be against public interest to allow ad-hoc
promotion to the Officer concerned and this shall be decided with reference to the charge under enquiry. If the charge is
one of moral turpitude, misappropriation, embezzlement and grave dereliction of duty then the appointing authority
should consider as not in the public interest to consider ad-hoc promotion to such Charged Officer. But, however, if the
Page 18/168
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
charge is not a grave one but is a minor one, not involving moral turpitude, embezzlement and grave dereliction of duty
then only in such cases the Appointing Authority should consider that it would not be against public interest to allow
ad-hoc promotion because till then his record is clean with reference to ACRs, past punishment and reputation in the
Department as vouchsafed by the Head of the Department and Secretary to Government. The Appointing Authorities
should strive to finalise the disciplinary cases pursuing them vigorously so that within two years the proceedings are
concluded and final orders issued.
(7)
If the Officer concerned is acquitted, in the criminal prosecution on the merits of the case or is fully exonerated in the
Departmental Proceedings, the ad-hoc promotion already made may be confirmed and the promotion treated as a
regular one from the date of the ad-hoc promotion with all attendant benefits. In case the Officer could have normally got
his regular promotion from a date prior to the date of his ad-hoc promotion with reference to his placement in the
Departmental Promotion Committee proceedings and the actual date of promotion of the person ranked immediately
junior to him by the Departmental Promotion Committee, he would also be allowed his due seniority and benefit of
national promotion.
(8)
If the Officer is not acquitted on merits in the criminal prosecution but purely on technical grounds and Government
either proposes to take up the matter to a higher Court or to proceed against him departmentally or if the Officer is not
exonerated in the departmental proceedings, the ad-hoc promotion granted to him should be brought to an end.
16.
Acquittal by the Courts of ACB and SPE, based on the judgement of the Supreme Court in Raj Deo Sharma vs State of
Bihar - Instructions regarding revocation of suspension, regularisation of suspension period, etc. - Issued.
(U.O. Note No. 2715/SC.E3/98-9,  General  Administrator  (Ser.E) Department , dated 28-6-99)
Order: - It has been brought to the notice of the Government that following the decision of the Supreme Court in Raj Deo
Sharma Vs. State of Bihar, certain Special Courts for ACB & SPE Cases are dismissing pending ACB cases in a routine
manner on technical grounds without deciding the case on merits, solely on the ground that two years period has
elapsed within which prosecution evidence has not been completed. Consequent on such acquittals by the trial Courts,
on technical grounds, the Accused Officers are representing, and that the Departments are referring files to Vigilance
Commission for (i) revocation of suspension orders, if they are under suspension and reinstatement in service; (ii)
regularisation of the suspension period if they have already been reinstated into service, etc.
2. All the Departments of Secretariat are informed that the Government have decided that, in cases of judicial acquittal
based on the Supreme Court decision in the Bihar case, appeals should be filed in the High Court and Special Leave
Petitions/ Review Petitions should be filed in Supreme Court. All Departments of Secretariat are requested that, pending
outcome of the Appeals/Special Leave Petition/ Review Petition, no action to revoke suspension or regularise the period
of suspension to close the case or to confer consequential reliefs etc., should be taken up.
3. All the Departments of Secretariat are requested to comply with the above instructions in the matter.
17.
Subsistence Allowance Pending Consideration of Appeal - Regarding.
(Cir. Memo. No. 39071/471/A2/FR.II/99, Fin. & Plg., (FW-F.R.II) dated 28-02-2000)
Ref : - 1. Cir. Memo.No.13431/1160-A/FR.II/93, dated 01-04-1993.
2. Cir. Memo.No.29730-A/458/A2/FR.II/94, dated 15-09-1994.
Order: - In the Circular Memos 1st and 2nd cited, detailed instructions were issued for prompt payment of subsistence
allowance to the employees who were under suspension.
2. The Supreme Court of India in a case of the State of Maharastra Vs. Chandrabhan, 1983 (2) SLR 493, while allowing
the Writ Petition, dismissed the Civil Appeal has clarified that on payment of subsistence allowance during the period of
suspension when the Government Servant is lodged in prison on conviction by Trial Court. The observations of the
Supreme Court is as follows:
"If the Civil Servant under suspension pending Departmental Enquiry on a criminal trial started against him, is entitled to
subsistence allowance at the normal rate which is a bare minimum required for the maintenance of the Civil Servant and
his family, he should undoubtedly get it even pending his appeal filed against his conviction by the Trial Court, and his
right to get the normal subsistence allowance pending consideration of his appeal against his conviction should not
depend upon the chance of his being released on bail and not being lodged in prison on conviction by the Trial Court.
Page 19/168
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Whether he is lodged in prison or released on bail on his conviction pending consideration of his appeal, his family
requires the bare minimum by way of subsistence allowance".
3. Keeping in view the above judgment of the Apex Court, Government hereby order that a Government Servant under
suspension whether he is lodged in prison or released on bail on his conviction pending consideration of his appeal, be
paid subsistence allowance.
4. All the Departments of Secretariat and the Heads of Departments are requested to bring the aforesaid rulings of the
Supreme Court to the notice of all the Officers under their administrative control for strict compliance.
18.
Payment of Compensatory Allowance to the Government Servants under suspension - Further Clarificatory Instructions
- Issued
(Cir. Memo. No. 40986/489/A2/FR.II/99-2, F & P (FW), dated 1-4-2000)
Order: - It has been brought to the notice of the Government that the Government Servants under suspension in some
cases, are allowed Compensatory Allowances proportionate to the Subsistence Allowance sanctioned to them.
2. It is hereby clarified that as per the provisions under FR-53(1)(ii)(b), a Government Servant under suspension is
entitled for Compensatory Allowance, such as House Rent Allowance and other allowances admissible from time to time
on the basis of Pay of which the Government Servant was in receipt on the date of Suspension, subject to fulfilment of
other conditions laid down for drawal of such allowances.
3. The above Rule position shall be followed scrupulously, while sanctioning Compensatory Allowances to the
Government Servants under suspension.
19.
Suspension - Guidelines for placing Accused Officers under suspension in Trap Cases - Classification of trap cases -
Instructions - Issued.
(U.O. Note No. 1818/SPL.B/2000-2, G.A.D. (Spl. B), dated 21-11-2001)
Ref: 1. U.O. Note No.240/SC.D/93-3, GA(SC.D) Department, dated 5-10-1993
2. U.O. Note No.1595/SC.D/93-6, GA(SC.D) Department, dated 16-11-1994
3. Memo No. 554/Ser. C/93-6, GA(Ser.C)Department, dated 26-12-1994.
Order: - Instructions were issued in the references first and second cited for suspension of government servants
involved in traps laid by the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) as follows:
Trap Cases
(i)
Where the accused officer is caught red-handed in the act of accepting bribe and where the phenolphthalein test has
yielded positive result (and) such cases can be classified as successful traps and the charged officer has to be placed
under suspension based on the preliminary report received from the Anti Corruption Bureau.
(ii)
In other cases, where the accused officer is not caught red handed and where the phenolphthalein test has not yielded
positive result and the case depends mostly on circumstantial evidence leaving room for benefit of doubt, decision for
suspension or otherwise of the accused officer may be taken taking into account the advice tendered by the Vigilance
Commissioner.
(iii)
The departments of Secretariat are further instructed to suspend the Accused Officer even without waiting for
recommendations of the Vigilance Commissioner in cases where the Accused officer is caught red handed and the
phenolphthalein test yielding positive result.
Government have reviewed these instructions in the light of advice of the Andhra Pradesh Vigilance Commission
(APVC) and issue the following instructions in supersession of the references cited.
It is well known that trap is the most effective and successful way of catching corrupt officers in the act of receiving bribe
where the rate of conviction also is high. Corrupt officers habituated to receiving bribes have become cautious and alert
and have devised methods of avoiding trap while continuing to receive bribes. Such methods include engaging private
persons to receive bribe on one's behalf, engaging personal servants to do so while at home requiring subordinates to
accept the bribe, requiring complainant to place the bribe amount in or around the scene of offence unobtrusively
without the officer having to accept the bribe directly thereby avoiding physical contact with the notes and the
phenolphthalein powder.
Page 20/168
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
It would not be in the public interest not to suspend or to delay the suspension of such corrupt officers who receive
bribes indirectly in the manner indicated above. It should be open to the disciplinary authority to suspend such an officer
pending investigation without waiting for the advice of the Vigilance Commission in the matter. Government therefore,
direct that immediately upon receipt of preliminary report against an officer who is caught directly or indirectly in the act
of accepting bribe, irrespective of whether the phenolphthalein test yielded positive results or not, the accused officer
may be immediately placed under suspension pending investigation based on the preliminary report received from the
ACB.
20.
Combating corruption in public services. Suspension of corrupt officers on whom criminal misconduct cases -
Instructions - Issued.
(Memo. No. I9179/Ser.C/2003, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , Dated 18-12-2003)
Ref : - 1. U.O. Note No. 240/SC.D/93-3, G.A. (Ser.D) Department , dated 05-10-1993.
2. U.O. Note No.1595/SC.D/93-6, G.A.(SC.D) Department , dated 16-11-1994.
3. Memo. No. 554/Ser.C/93-6, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 26-12-1994.
4. Government U.O. Note No. 1818/Spl.B/2000-2, dated 21-11-2001.
5. Government Memo. No. 596/Spl.B/2000-6, dated 10-06-2002.
Order: - To eliminate the long delays occurring in the matter of prompt suspension of corrupt officers both pending
enquiry / trail and dismissal as contemplated in APCS (CC&A) Rules, 1991, Government have issued instructions from
time to time in the references cited. To bring clarity, the Government instructions are summarized as below :–
Suspension of officers involved in Trap cases of the ACB:
Officers involved in trap cases shall be suspended immediately upon receipt of preliminary report from the ACB -
irrespective of the fact whether the officer is involved directly or indirectly in the act of accepting bribe and irrespective of
the fact whether the phenolphthalein test yielded positive result or not.
Suspension of officers involved in Disproportionate Assets cases:
Based on the preliminary report and recommendation of the DG, ACB, Hyd., for suspension of officers involved in
disproportionate assets cases, orders of suspension shall be issued promptly. Further based on the recommendation of
the DG., ACB., Hyd., properties of officers against whom disproportionate cases are initiated, should be permitted to be
attached under relevant sections of Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1944.
The Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments and District Collectors are requested to follow the above
instructions strictly without any deviation in placing the employees under suspension in the above referred cases. They
are further requested to bring the same to the notice of all concerned for strict compliance.
21.
Review of orders of suspension of Government Servants - Existing orders reiterated - Further instructions - Issued.
(G.O. Ms. No. 526, G. A. (Ser-C) Department , dated 19-08-2008)
Ref : - 1. G.O. Ms. No. 86, G. A. (Ser-C) Department , dated 08-03-1994.
2. G.O. Ms. No. 578, G. A. (Ser-C) Department , dated 31-12-1999.
Order: - In the G.O.s read above comprehensive instructions were issued on review of orders of suspension of
Government employees at an interval of every six months and also to undertake specific review by the secretary to
Government of the department at Government level when the employees are continued under suspension beyond two
years, so as to consider such employees for reinstatement pending finalization of the disciplinary cases against them. It
is brought to the notice of the government by the employees associations that the above orders inforce are not properly
implemented and in several cases the employees are under suspension beyond two years and also the disciplinary
cases are not concluded for several years.
2. After careful consideration, Government direct that, all concerned authorities to strictly implement the policy decision
enunciated in the G.O.s read above. It is the responsibility of the competent authority to review each and every case of
suspension as per the orders in-force and consider the reinstatement of the employees. The objective is to complete the
disciplinary cases against the employees as expeditiously as possible and to punish the guilty. This is the specific policy
of the Government for efficient and smooth functioning of the administration.
3. Accordingly, Government, hereby, direct that the employees who are under suspension for a period exceeding two
years shall be reinstated pending finalization of the disciplinary cases/criminal cases against them. However, in
exceptional cases, for example, where the charged Officers are not co-operating for completion of investigation / inquiry
Page 21/168
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
or when the inquiry / investigation could not be completed due to pendency of litigation, a Committee headed by the
Secretary of the administrative Department, Head of the Department concerned and an Official from the Anti Corruption
Bureau (where the cases are emanated from Anti Corruption Bureau investigation), shall review the orders of
suspension against the employees who are continued under suspension well before completion of two years of
suspension and take a decision to continue such employees under suspension beyond two years, duly recording the
reasons for such a decision.
4. All the Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments and District Collectors should follow the above instructions
scrupulously and bring it to the notice of all the concerned for strict implementation of the above orders.
Part - IV Penalties And Disciplinary Authorities
9. Penalties:
- The following penalties may, for good and sufficient reasons and as hereinafter provided, be imposed on a
Government servant, namely-
Minor Penalties :
(i)
censure;
(ii)
withholding of promotion;
(iii)
[ Omitted by G.O.Ms. No. 335, G.A.D., dated 4-8-2005]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 205, G.A.D., 5-6-1998]
(iv)
[ withholding of increments of pay without cumulative effect]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 205, G.A.D., 5-6-1998]
;
(v)
(a)
suspension, where a person has already been suspended under Rule 8 to the extent considered necessary;
(b)
[ reduction to a lower stage in the time scale of pay for a period not exceeding three years, without cumulative effect and
not adversely affecting his pension.]
[Clause (v) renumbered as (v) (a) and clause (b) added by G.O.Ms. No. 373, G.A.D., dated 6-12-2003]
Major Penalties :
(vi)
[ withholding of increments of pay with cumulative effect]
[Inserted by G.O.Ms. No. 205, G.A.D., 5-6-1998 and earlier clauses (vi) to (ix) renumbered as (vii) to (x)]
.
(vii)
[ (a) save as provided for in clause (v)(a), reduction to a lower stage in the time-scale of pay for a specified period, with
further directions as to whether or not the Government servant will earn increments of pay during the period of such
reduction and whether on the expiry of such period, the reduction will or will not have the effect of postponing the future
increments of his pay;
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 373, G.A.D., dated 6-12-2003]
(b)
reduction to lower time-scale of pay, grade, post or service which shall ordinarily be a bar to the promotion of the
Government servant to the time-scale of pay, grade, post or service from which he was reduced, with or without further
directions, regarding conditions of restoration to the grade or post or Service from which the Government servant was
reduced and his seniority and pay on such restoration to that grade, post or service.]
(viii)
compulsory retirement;
(ix)
removal from service which shall not be a disqualification for future employment under the Government;
Page 22/168
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
[Provided that a Government Servant shall be deemed to have been removed from services, if he/she:
(a)
id absent from duty without authorization for a period exceeding one year; or
(b)
remains absent from duty for a continuous period exceeding 5 years with or without leave; or
(c)
continues on foreign service beyond the period approved by the State Government.
Provided further that a show-cause notice to explain the reasons for such absence from duty or continuation on foreign
service shall be given to Government Servant and his/her reply shall be considered before invoking the above said
proviso]
[Incorporated by Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 127, dated 15.9.2017 (w.e.f. 14.9.1992).]
;
(x)
dismissal from service which shall ordinarily be a disqualification for future employment under the Government :
[Provided that in all proved cases of misappropriation, bribery, bigamy, corruption, moral turpitude, forgery and outraging
the modesty of women, the penalty of dismissal from service shall be imposed]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 458, G.A.D., dated 22-09-2009]
.
Explanation : - The following shall not amount to a penalty within the meaning of this rule namely :
(i)
non-promotion whether in a substantive or officiating capacity, of a Government servant in a class, category or grade of
the service, after consideration of his case on merit, to a higher class, category or grade in the same Service to which he
is eligible;
(ii)
reversion of a Government servant from a department in which he is on deputation to his parent department or to a post
not lower than the post on which he holds a lien or a suspended lien, for administrative reasons unconnected with his
work or conduct;
(iii)
replacement of the services of a Government servant, whose services had been borrowed from the Government of
another State or Central Government or an authority under the control of the Government of another State or the Central
Government or the authority from which the services of such Government servant had been borrowed;
(iv)
stoppage or postponement of increment of a Government servant on account of extension of probation under Rule 26 in
Part-II of the Andhra Pradesh State and Subordinate Services Rules;
(v)
reversion of a Government Servant, appointed on probation to any other Service, grade or post, to his permanent
Service, grade or post during or at the end of the period of probation in accordance with the terms of his appointment or
the rules and orders governing such probation;
(vi)
reversion of a Government Servant officiating in a higher service, grade or post to a lower service, grade or post, on the
ground that he is considered to be unsuitable for such higher service, grade or post or on any administrative ground
unconnected with his conduct;
(vii)
withholding of increments pay of a Government Servant for his failure to pass any departmental examination in
accordance with the rules or orders governing the service to which he belongs or post which he holds or the terms of his
appointment;
(viii)
termination of the services of a Government servant appointed on probation, during or at the end of the period of his
probation, in accordance with the terms of his appointment or the rules and orders governing such probation;
(ix)
discharge of a Government Servant engaged under contract, in accordance with the terms of his contract;
Page 23/168
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(x)
discharge of a Government Servant appointed otherwise than under contract, to hold a temporary appointment, on the
period of appointment;
(xi)
compulsory retirement of a Government Servant in accordance with the provisions relating to his superannuation or
retirement under sub-rules (2) and (2A) of Rule 3 of the Andhra Pradesh Liberalised Pension Rules, 1961 or under
Rules 292, 293 and 293-A of the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules or under the Andhra Pradesh Government Servants
Premature Retirement Rules, 1975 or under Article 465(2) or under Note 1 to Article 465-A of the Civil Services
Regulations or in the case of members of the Civil Service of the erstwhile Hyderabad Government, compulsory
retirement before completion of 30 years or 25 years of qualifying service according as the members of the service is
governed by the Revised Pension Rules, 1951 or by the rules in force before that date, as the case may be, or the
corresponding provisions thereof.
Executive Instructions
1. Imposing of penalty of reduction to the Lower Rank or Post.
(Memo. No. 928/63-3, dated 19-6-1963)
Ref: - Office Memo. No. 9/13/62, Estt. (D), dated 10-10-1962 from the Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs.
Order: - Under Rule 8 of the Andhra Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules applicable to Andhra
employees and under Rule 12 of Hyderabad Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, applicable to
Telangana Employees, it has been provided that for good and sufficient reasons, one of the penalties to be imposed
upon a Government servant is "reduction to a Lower Rank in the seniority list, or to a lower post or time scale, whether in
the same service or in another service, State or Subordinate or to a lower stage in time-scale". It has been decided that,
in future, an order imposing the penalty of reduction to a lower service grade, or post or to a lower time-scale, should
invariably specify :
(1)
The period of reduction, under this, its clear intention is that the reduction should he permanent or for an indefinite
period;
(2)
Where the period of reduction is specified, whether on the expiry of the period, the Government servant is to be
promoted automatically to the post from which he was reduced; and
(3)
Whether on such re-promotion the Government servant will regain his original seniority in the higher service, grade or
post, or higher time-scale which had been assigned to him prior to the imposition of the penalty.
2. Imposition of more than one penalty for a single lapse - Opinion of Law Department - Communicated.
(U.O. Note No. 1713/Ser. C/66-1, G.A.D., dated 1-7-1966)
A copy of the Law Department's opinion on the above subject is forwarded to all Departments of Secretariat for
information and guidance.
To
All Departments.
"true copy"
Civil Services - (Classification, Control & Appeal Rules) - Procedure To Be Followed In Cases Of Minor Penalties -
Regarding
(Copy of Extract of Law Department's opinion taken from the file bearing C.No. 3286/63-Ser. C of G.A. (Ser. C)
Department, dated 25-2-64)
The scope of the expression "any of the penalties" occurring in Rules 12 and 14 of the Andhra C.C.A. Rules and in
Rules 14 and 15 of the Hyderabad C.C.A. Rules cannot be cut down by understanding the same to mean as any one of
the penalties. When a particular expression issued in a statute or statutory rule, it has to be presumed that the
Legislature or the rule making authority, as the case may be, has used that expression in the sense in which it has been
understood or interpreted by courts of law, unless a contrary intention appears from that statute or statutory rule. The
word 'any' may have one of several meanings; according to the circumstances, may mean 'all', 'each', 'every', 'some or
one or more' out of several vide the Law Lexicon by Ramantha Iyer. If the rule makers had intended that for any single
lapse of which a Government servant has been found guilty in any disciplinary proceeding only one, but not more than
Page 24/168
----- PAGE 25 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
one, of the several penalties specified in the CCA Rules should be imposed upon that Government servant that intention
should have been brought out clearly in the relevant C.C.A. Rules. There is nothing in the Andhra C.C.A. Rules or the
Hyderabad C.C.A. Rules from which such an intention can be gathered by implication, either.
It may, however, be pointed out that imposition of several penalties indiscriminately for a single lapse on the part of a
Government servant could not have been contemplated by the rule making authority. The imposition of multifarious
penalties for one and the same dereliction must not be made if the cumulative effect of those penalties is far out of
proportion to the gravity of the dereliction. The imposition of a single major penalty may be more severe in its effect than
the imposition of two or more minor penalties. In a case where a severe penalty is called for, it is open to the punishing
authority to impose two or more less severe penalties instead of severe penalty, taking a lenient view of the magnitude
of the delinquency. In a case where the delinquency on the part of a Government servant consists in, say,
misappropriation of Government funds, the penalty of recovery from the pay of that Government servant of the loss
caused to the Government may merely compensate the Government for the loss sustained by it, but that by itself may
not be a sufficient punishment for the delinquency. In such a case, the punishing authority while ordering recovery of the
loss caused to the Government, from the pay of the delinquent officer, may impose upon him some other penalty. While
the former may be intended to compensate the Government, the latter may be intended to make the delinquent suffer
the consequences of his misdemeanour. As the rules stand at present, there does not seem to be any objection to the
imposition of some penalty, in addition to the recovery from pay of the loss caused to the Government, upon a
Government servant who is found in disciplinary proceedings to have caused loss to the Government as a result of his
negligence or misconduct.
3. Censure - Further Classification.
[G.O.Ms.No. 53, G.A.D. (Ser.C), dated 4-2-1997]
Ref: - 1. G.O.Ms. No. 187, G.A. (Ser.B), Department , dated 25-4-1985.
2. Memo.No. 322/Ser. B./87-6, GAD, dated 8-2-88.
Order: - According to sub-rule (i) of Rule 9 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal)
Rules, 1991. "Censure" is declared as a minor penalty para 11 of the G.O. first read above provided that an individual,
who is undergoing punishment, should not be recommended for promotion and where the period of punishment imposed
is already over, each case has to be evaluated by Department Promotion Committee on merits. In the Government
Memo. Second read above instructions were issued to the effect that solitary instance of minor punishment such as
censure, fine, withholding of increments or recovery from pay of the pecuniary loss caused to the State Government or
Central Government employee by itself does not automatically render a person unfit for promotion to a non selection
post.
2. The Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs, in its instructions issued O.M.No. 39/21/56 Ests. (A) dated
13-12-1956 has clarified that an order of "Censure" is formal and public act intended to convey that the person
concerned has been guilty of some blameworthy act or omission for which it has been found necessary to award him a
formal punishment and nothing can amount to a censure unless it is intended to be such a formal punishment and
imposed for good and sufficient reason after following the prescribed procedure and that a record of the punishment so
imposed is kept on the officers confidential roll and the fact that he has been censured will have its bearing on the
assessment of his merit or suitability for promotion to higher posts.
3. As the penalty of censure has a bearing on the Assessment of the Government Servant about his merit or suitability
for promotion to higher posts and as the currency of punishment based on previous record stands as an impediment for
promotion, it is considered necessary to specify the time limit during which the said penalty of "Censure" is effective
besides defining the penalty.
4. Hitherto there are no specific orders in regard to definition of Censure and its implications. After careful consideration,
the Government decided to issue the following orders in regard to definition of Censure and it's implications in assessing
the "merit" and suitability of the Government Servant for his promotion/ appointment by transfer.
Definition: - "Censure" is a formal and public act intended to convey that the person concerned has been guilty of some
blameworthy act or omission for which it has been found necessary to a and him a formal Punishment, and nothing can
amount to a "Censure" unless it is intended to be such a formal punishment and imposed for "good" and sufficient
reason after following the prescribed procedure.
Effect: - Every censure awarded shall debar a Government Servant for promotion/ appointment by transfer for one year
to both Selection and Non-Section Posts.
Page 25/168
----- PAGE 26 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
4. Disciplinary action in cases of misappropriation - Instructions.
(Memo. No. 3000/Services C/76-4.  General Administrator  (Services-C) Department , dated 28-6-1977)
Order: - According to Rule 8(1) of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1963,
the penalties specified in the said rule may be imposed on a member of a service for good and sufficient reason. The
above rule also provides that the whole or any part of the pecuniary loss caused to the Government, etc., by negligence
or breach of orders may be recovered from the pay of the person concerned.
2. Instructions were issued in confidential Memo No. 1718/Ser. C/75-1, General Administration (Services-C)
Department, dated 22-11-75 that officers convicted in criminal cases should normally be dismissed from service and it is
not necessary either to await the outcome of an appeal or the expiry of the appeal time.
3. Several cases of misappropriation by Government employees of Government money have come to the notice of the
Government. In one case, the employee concerned encashed a fixed deposit receipt and instead of depositing the
amount realised by him to the Government account, he absconded from duty. Action has been taken for the recovery of
the amount from the employee. A criminal case has also been filed against him. In another case, seven drafts of the
Reserve Bank of India, for a huge amount were reportedly encashed in a sub-treasury.
The certificates of payment disclosed that the drafts had been issued by the Reserve Bank of India, Madras, for
payment at the sub-treasury to different parties. The matter was referred to the Reserve Bank of India, Madras.
According to the particulars furnished by the Bank, except for the serial numbers of the drafts and the office of the issue,
the particulars of the amounts, the dates of issue, the names of the parties and the place of the payment were different
from the particulars of drafts stated to have been encashed in the sub-treasury. The investigating officer observed,
inter-alia, that the sub-treasury officer in connivance with his subordinate staff made some fictitious entries in the
sub-treasury records and managed to withdraw the amount in two instalments. The sub-treasury officer and the staff of
the sub-treasury had been placed under suspension and the case is pending trial in the Court.
4. It was observed by the Public Accounts Committee that there is a wide discrepancy in the scales of punishment
meted out in misappropriation cases as stated in the above para. The question of prescribing uniform scale of
punishment in such cases has been considered by the Government. It has been decided that ordinarily cases of proved
misappropriation would justify dismissal from service and action should accordingly be taken. There may, however, be
rare cases where attendant circumstances, such as trivial amount, short duration, immediate payment on detection, all
of which may raise a presumption that it was an error in accounting, which may justify a different punishment. A clear
distinction should be drawn between the cases of "delayed remittance" and "misappropriation" having regard to the fact
that in proved cases of misappropriation no punishment short of dismissal is normally justified and accordingly the case
of 'delayed remittance' need not always be classified for the purpose of audit as a case of misappropriation.
5. Minor Penalties - Effect of Penalty - Orders - Issued
[G.O.Ms.No. 342,  General  Administrator  (Ser.-C) Department , dated 4-8-1997]
Ref: - 1. G.O.Ms.No. 187,  General  Administrator  (Ser.B) Department , dated 25-4-1985.
2. G.O.Ms.No. 58,  General  Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 4-2-1997.
Order: - Under Rule 9 of Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991, the following
are the minor penalties :
(i)
Censure
(ii)
Withholding of Promotion
(iii)
Recovery from pay of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused by him to the State Government or the Central
government or to a Local Authority or to a Corporation owned or controlled by the State or the Central Government by
negligence or breach of orders, while working in any department of the State or the Central Government, Local Authority
or Corporation concerned.
(iv)
Withholding of increments of pay.
(v)
Suspension, where a person has already been suspended under Rule 8 to the extent considered necessary.
2. As per para 11 of G.O.Ms.No. 187, General Administration (Services B) Department, dated 25-4-1985 the individual
Page 26/168
----- PAGE 27 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
who is undergoing punishment should not be recommended for promotion. In case, where the period of punishment
imposed is already over, each case has to be evaluated by Departmental Promotion Committee on merits.
3. The need for issue of comprehensive instructions on the currency and effect of minor penalties on Government
employees who were involved in disciplinary cases and who come up for consideration for vomotion to higher categories
has been examined and further instructions are issued as follows :
Penalty
Effect
(i) Censure
In terms of orders issued in G.O.Ms. No. 53,  General  Administrator  (Ser.
C) dated 4-2-1997 ?every Censure awarded shall debar a  Government
employee for promotion / appointment by transfer for one year to
both selection and non-selection posts.?
(ii) Withholding of Promotion.
This penalty awarded to Government employees shall debar the
individual for promotion/appointment by transfer to a higher post
during the period of subsistence of penalty which shal be
indicated in the order imposing the period of one year, both for
selection and non-selection posts.
(iii) Recovery from pay of the whole or part of any pecuniary
loss caused by him to the State Government or the Central Government or to
a Local Authority or to a Corporation owned or controlled by the
state or Central Government by negligence or breach or orders while
working in any department of the State or the Central  Government ,
Local Authority or Corporation concerned.
Whenever a Government Employee is awarded the penalty of
recovery from pay, it shall debar the individual for promotion/
appointment y transfer to a higher post during the period of
penalty which shall be indicated in the order imposing the
penalty subject to a minimum period of one year both for
selection and non-selection posts. Even if an employee remits the
amount in one lumpsum, he/she[Shall not be recommended for
promotion]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 431, G.A.D., Dated 14-10-1997.]
/appointment by transfer for a minimum period of one
year.
(iv) Withholding of increments of pay :
(i) In G.O. Ms. No. 335,  General  Administrator  (Ser.-C) Department , Dated
14-6-93 orders were issued to the effect that the penalty of
stoppage of increments with comulative effect amounts to a major
penalty under the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1991
and the elaborate procedure prescribed under Rule 20 of the said
rules is to be followed.
(a) With Cumulative effect.
(ii) In terms of G.O. Ms. No. 968,  General  Administrator (Ser.-C), Department ,
Dt. 26-10-95, whenever any Government employee is awarded the
penalty of stoppage of increment with cumulative effect, the
cases of such employees[Shall not be recommended for
promotion]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 431, G.A.D., Dated 14-10-1997.]
/appointment by transfer for twice the period for which
the increment (s) is/are stopped with cumulative effect, both for
Page 27/168
----- PAGE 28 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
selection and non-selection posts.
(iii) Whenever any Government employee is awarded the penalty of
stoppage of increment with cumulative effect, the individual[Shall not be recommended for promotion]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 431, G.A.D., Dated 14-10-1997.]
/appointment by transfer
for twice the period with a minimum of one year both for
selection and non-selection posts.
(b) Without Cumulative effect.
This penalty awarded to Government employees Shall debar him/her
for promotion/appointment by transfer to a higher post during the
period subsistence of penalty which shall be indicated in the
order subject to a minimum period of one year, both for selection
and non-selection posts.
(v) Suspension, where a person has already been suspended
under Rule 8 to the extent considered necessary.
Where suspension is revoked exonerating a person fully his/her
case may be considered for promotion with retrospective effect.
Where the disciplinary proceedings finally resulted in a penalty
he/she will be debarred during the period of one year from the
date of reinstatement. In case the suspension period itself is
treated as substantive penalty, he/she shall be debarred for
promotion/appointment by transfer for a period of minimum one
year both for selection/non-selection posts.
4. All Departments of Secretariat/Heads of Departments/all District Collectors shall follow the above orders scrupulously
and bring it to the notice of all concerned.
6. Stoppage of Increments with cumulative Effect - Consultation with Public Service Commission for Concurrence -
Orders - Issued.
(G.O. Ms. No. 536, G.A.(Ser.C) Department, dated 8-12-1997)
Ref : - 1. G.O. Ms. No. 335,  General Administrator (Ser.C) Department, dated 14-6-1993.
2. From the Vigilance Commissioner, A.P. Vigilance Commissioner, Lr. No. 124/ VC/E.II/95-7, dated 20-11-1996.
Order: - In the order first read above, it is ordered that for imposing the penalty of stoppage of increment with cumulative
effect the procedure laid down in Rule 20 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control & Appeal) Rules,
1991 shall be followed. It was also ordered therein that the penalty of stoppage of increment with cumulative effect shall
be treated as a major penalty.
2. In Rule 17 of the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission Regulations, 1963, it is mentioned that consultation
with the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission shall be necessary where the State Government propose to pass
an original order imposing any of the following penalties:
(i)
reduction to a lower rank in the seniority list or to a lower post or time-scale whether in the same service or in another
service, State or Subordinate or to a lower stage in a time scale;
(ii)
recovery from pay of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to the Government or to a local body by negligence
or breach of orders;
(iii)
compulsory retirement otherwise than under Article 165(2) or under Note 1 to Article 465-A of the Civil Service
Regulations;
(iv)
removal from service; or
(v)
dismissal.
3. Since the stoppage of increments with cumulative effect is treated as a major penalty, it is necessary to consult the
Page 28/168
----- PAGE 29 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission before imposing the said penalty.
4. Accordingly, it is ordered that where it is proposed to impose the penalty of stoppage of increments with cumulative
effect, it is necessary to consult the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission as per Rule 17 of the Andhra Pradesh
Public Service Commission Regulations, 1963.
5. The General Administration (Services.A) Department will issue suitable amendments to the Regulation 17 of the
Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission Regulations, 1963.
7. Government employees convicted in a Criminal Charge/convicted in corruption cases - Action to be taken -
Instructions - Reiterated.
(Cir. Memo. No. 3824/Ser.C/98-2, G.A.(Ser-C) Department , dated 9-2-1998)
Ref : - 1. Memo. No. 3037/Ser.C/64-3,  General Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 26-11-1964.
2. Memo. No.1017/Ser.C/66-1,  General Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 18-6-1966.
3. Memo. No.1718/Ser.C/75-1,  General Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 22-11-1975.
4. Memo No.3000/Ser.C/76-4,  General Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 28-6-1977.
5. U. 0. Note No.32/Ser.C/81-2,  General Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 9-2-1981.
6. Memo. 169/Ser.C/77-8,  General Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 10-02-1978.
7. Memo. No. 637/Ser.C/83-1,  General Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 28-06-1983.
8. Memo. No. 1317/Ser.C/88-1,  General Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 31-12-1988.
9. Cir. Memo. No. 100/Ser.C/93-22, G.A.D (Ser.C), dated 23-12-1995.
10. From Vigilance Commissioner, A.P. Vig. Comm., Lr.No.2024/VC-C2/97-2, dated 06-01-1998.
Order: - In the reference 1st cited (copy enclosed) instructions were issued, among others that, in proved cases of
bribery and corruption, no punishment other than that of dismissal should be considered adequate and if any lesser
punishment is to be awarded in such cases, adequate reasons should be given for it in writing.
It is also mentioned therein that a close watch on corrupt officials shall be maintained and there should be no reservation
in making entries in the personal files of the employees about their integrity and for expeditious disposal of the
disciplinary cases, it is suggested to pursue the cases on day to day basis. In the reference 2nd cited, in order to ensure
that the instructions on disciplinary action against Government employees involved in corruption, bribery or moral
turpitude are followed scrupulously, the Inspecting Officers were requested to review at the time of their inspecting the
offices all cases of corruption and bribery where the maximum penalty has not been awarded by the competent
authority. The Heads of Departments and District Collectors were informed in the reference 3rd cited, that officers
convicted in criminal cases should normally be dismissed from service and it is not necessary either to await the
outcome of an appeal or the expiry of the appeal time, where an appeal may have been preferred. In the reference 4th
cited it has been directed that a clear distinction should be drawn between the cases of delayed remittance and
mis-appropriation having regard to the fact that in proved cases of misappropriation no punishment short of dismissal is
normally justified and accordingly the case of delayed remittance need not always be classified for the purpose of audit
as a case of mis-appropriation.
2. To minimise the delay in investigation of cases of corruption and misappropriation, the Secretaries to Government of
the Departments of Secretariat have been directed in reference 5th cited to review every month the cases pending for
more than a year with the Police/Anti-Corruption Bureau in a meeting and write to the Director General of Police/Director
of Anti-Corruption Bureau for speeding up the investigation. It was a fact that however complicated a case may be, the
investigation should not take more than one year after it is entrusted to the Police or Anti-Corruption Bureau.
3. In the Memo. 6th cited (copy enclosed) instructions were issued regarding action to be taken in cases where
Government Servants are convicted on a criminal charge or where an appeal/revision in a High Court succeeds.
Similarly, instructions were issued in the reference 7th and 8th cited regarding action to be taken in cases where
Government servants are not convicted in a criminal case.
4. Pursuant to the recommendations of the Public Accounts Committee the following instructions have been issued in
the Circular Memo. 9th cited :
"In all cases of misappropriation, after investigation is completed by the Police and charge sheets filed, such cases
should be pursued effectively to ensure that there is no let-up in prosecuting the cases effectively and that there is no
failure on the part of Asst. Public Prosecutor, etc., in conducting the prosecution property. In cases, where the trial
ultimately ends in acquittal, immediate action may be taken to file appeals, after obtaining legal opinion. In cases, where
it is felt that the prosecution was conducted improperly and the Prosecuting Officers have not taken adequate interest,
Page 29/168
----- PAGE 30 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
responsibility must be fixed for their failure to conduct the prosecution successfully. To ensure a proper watch, the
Departments should review all such cases periodically for the half years ending 30/6 and 31/12 of every year and furnish
their reviews to the General Administration (Ser.C) Department. Even when there are no such cases, a 'Nil' report has to
be furnished."
5. In the reference 10th cited, the Vigilance Commissioner, A.P. Vigilance Commission has stated that while interpreting
Rule 19 of the Central Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1965 the Apex Court in Union of India vs Sri Ramesh Kumar (1997
(5) SCALE 660) has held that-
"a bare reading of Rule 19 shows that the Disciplinary Authority is empowered to take action against a Government
Servant on the ground of misconduct which has led to his conviction on a criminal charge." The rules, however do not
provide that on suspension of execution of sentence by the Appellate Court, the order of dismissal based on the
conviction stands obliterated and dismissed Government Servant has to be treated under suspension till disposal of
appeal by the Appellate Court. The rules also do not provide for the Disciplinary Authority to await disposal of the appeal
by the Appellate Court filed by the Government Servant for taking action against him on the ground of misconduct which
has led to his conviction by a Competent Court of Law. Having regard to the provisions of the rules, the order dismissing
the respondent from service on the ground of misconduct leading to his conviction by a Competent Court of Law has not
lost its sting merely because a criminal appeal was filed by the Respondent against his conviction and the Appellate
Court has suspended the execution of sentence and enlarged the Respondent on bail. The matter may also be
examined from another angle. Under Section 389 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Appellate Court has power to
suspend the execution of sentence and to release an accused on bail. When the Appellate Court suspends the
execution of sentence and grants bail to an accused, the effect of the order is that, sentence based on conviction is for
the time being postponed or kept in abeyance, during the pendency of the appeal. In other words, by suspension of
execution of sentence under Section 389 of Cr.P.0 an accused avoids under going sentence pending Criminal Appeal.
However, the conviction continues and it is not obliterated and if the conviction is not obliterated, any action taken
against a Government Servant for misconduct which led to his conviction by the Court of Law does not lose its efficacy
merely because Appellate Court has suspended the execution of sentence.
6. The Vigilance Commissioner has further stated that the Law Department has observed that in the light of the
Judgment of the Supreme Court of India a delinquent Government Servant who has been dismissed/removed from
service on the ground of misconduct which has led to his conviction on a criminal charge, is not entitled to reinstatement
into service merely because a Criminal Appeal was filed by the delinquent Government Servant against his conviction,
and the Appellate Court has suspended the execution of sentence and the accused has been released on bail pending
the appeal. The Vigilance Commissioner also desired to reiterate the existing instructions for the strict compliance.
7. Accordingly, the instructions issued in the reference 1st to 9th cited are reiterated for strict compliance. A book
containing the copies of the above instructions has already been made available to all Departments of Secretariat,
Heads of Departments and District Collectors for their guidance in dealing with disciplinary cases. The A.P. Civil
Services (CCA) Rules, 1963 have been reissued and the new A.P. Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1991 have come into
force with effect from 01-10-1992. Wherever it is proposed to initiate disciplinary action, the same shall be taken up
strictly as per the provision contained in the New Rules, 1991.
8. It is the earnest endeavour of the Government to root out corruption and deal sternly with the corrupt officials. The
employees convicted in criminal cases/corruption cases should be punished in the least possible time.
9. Government, therefore, direct that the above instructions shall be followed scrupulously and any lapse on the part of
the concerned authority in implementing the order shall be viewed seriously and disciplinary action initiated against such
erring officials.
8. Disciplinary cases - Awarding the Penalty to Delinquent Officers Further Orders - Issued.
(G.O.Ms.No. 2,  General  Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 04-01-99)
Ref : - 1. Cir. Memo. No. 3037/Ser.C/64-3,  General  Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 26-11-1964.
2. Government Memo. No. 1718/Ser.C/75-1,  General  Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 22-11-1975.
3. Cir. Memo. No. 3824/Ser. C/98-2,  General  Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 09-02-1998.
Order: - In the Memo. first read above, instructions were issued, among others, that in proved cases of bribery and
corruption, no punishment other than that of dismissal be considered adequate and if any lesser punishment is to be
awarded in such cases adequate reasons should be given for it in writing. In the Memo. second read above, instructions
were issued to the effect that the officers convicted in Criminal Cases should normally be dismissed from service. The
Page 30/168
----- PAGE 31 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
above instructions have been reiterated for strict compliance vide the reference third read above.
2. It is the earnest endeavour of the Government to ensure a clean and transparent administration. To have this policy
transcended to the grass root level, it is keenly felt that the officers with doubtful integrity involved in criminal offences
shall be weeded out in order to ensure efficient functioning. To ensure clean and efficient administration, the
Government direct that in all proved cases of misappropriation, bribery, bigamy, corruption, moral turpitude, forgery and
outraging the modesty of women, the penalty of dismissal from service shall be imposed.
9. Disciplinary cases against members of service - Consultation with Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission under
Regulation 17 for awarding major penalties - Clarification - Issued.
(Memo. No. 32667/Ser. C/98-8, G.A. (Ser. C) D, dated 13-05-99)
Ref : - From the Secretary, A.P. P. S. C. Letter No.1359/RT/1/1/98, dated 7-5-99.
Order: - Under sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 17 of the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission Regulations,
1963, it shall be necessary to consult the Commission, where the State Government propose to pass an original order
imposing any of the following penalties, as per Rule 9 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and
Appeal) Rules, 1991 :
(i)
reduction to lower rank in the seniority list or to a lower post or time scale whether in the same service or in another
service, State or Subordinate or to a lower stage in a time scale;
(ii)
recovery from pay of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to the Government or to a local body by negligence
or breach of orders;
(iii)
compulsory retirement otherwise than under Note 1 to Article 465-A of the Civil Service Regulations;
(iv)
removal from service ;
(v)
dismissal;
(vi)
stoppage of increment(s) with cumulative effect.
2. It has been brought to the notice of the Government that the Disciplinary Authorities/Appointing Authorities, at district
level and at the level of Heads of Departments are other addressing the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission for
concurrence to award the above mentioned penalties on the Delinquent Officers or approaching the concerned
Administrative Department to obtain the concurrence of Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission and pass it on to
them for passing final orders.
3. It is clarified that consultation with the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission under Regulation 17 of the Andhra
Pradesh Public Service Commission Regulations, 1963 shall be necessary only where the Departments of Secretariat,
at Government level propose to pass an original order of penalty against a delinquent employee as mentioned in para 1
above. Therefore, to pass an order imposing penalty as in Rule 9 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification,
Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991 by any authority other than the Departments of Secretariat at Government level, it shall
not be necessary to consult the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission, under Regulation 17 of Andhra Pradesh
Public Service Commission Regulations, 1963.
4. All the Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments and District Collectors are requested to follow the above
clarification scrupulously.
10. Pensions - Disciplinary proceedings under Rule 9 of Revised Pension Rules 1980 can continue after retirement even
in case where there is no pecuniary loss to Government - Clarification - Issued.
(Circular Memo. No. 3026/18/A2/Pen.1/99, Fin. & Plg., Department , dated 1-6-1999)
Order: - According to sub-rule (1) of Rule 9 of the Andhra Pradesh Revised Pension Rules 1980, inter-alia, empowers
the Government reserves to themselves the right of withholding a pension or gratuity or both, either in full or in part, or
withdrawing a pension in full or part whether permanently or for a specified period and of ordering recovery from a
pension or gratuity of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to the Government if in any departmental or judicial
proceedings the pensioner is found guilty of grave misconduct or negligence during the period of his service including
service rendered upon re-employment after retirement.
Page 31/168
----- PAGE 32 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
2. The Government have been receiving representations seeking clarifications whether disciplinary proceeding
pertaining to a serious or grave misconduct or negligence committed by a Government Servant can be continued or
instituted in terms of Rule 9 of Andhra Pradesh Revised Pension Rules, 1980 even if no pecuniary loss was caused to
the Government.
3. According to ruling 8 under Rule 9 of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972, action can be taken under
Rule 9 of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972 (Similar to Rule 9 of Revised Pension Rules, 1980) and as
per the clarification issued by the Government of India, Department of Pension and Training in O.M.No.
28027/3/87-Estt(A), dated: 29th June, 1990 even in the absence of any pecuniary loss to Government, the pension of
the pensioner can be withheld or withdrawn after following due procedure for an act of misconduct or negligence
committed while in service.
4. The Supreme Court of India, in the case of Union of India and others Vs. B. Dev, A.I.R. 1998, S.C. 2709, while
explaining the scope of Rule 9 of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972 observed as follows :
"Rule 9 gives to the President the right of-
(1)
withholding or withdrawing a pension or part there of,
(2)
either permanently or for a specified period, and
(3)
ordering recovery from a pension of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to the Government. This power can
be exercised, if, in any departmental or judicial proceedings, the pensioner is found guilty of grave misconduct or
negligence during the period of his service. One of the powers of the President is to recover from pension, in a case
where any pecuniary loss in caused to the Government that Loss. This is an independent power in addition to the power
of withdrawing or withholding pension. The contention of the respondent, therefore, that Rule 9 cannot be invoked even
in cases of grave misconduct unless pecuniary loss is caused to the Government, is unsustainable."
5. In view of the clarification given by the Government of India, Department of Pension and Training and the rulings of
the Supreme Court the Government hereby clarifies that disciplinary proceedings pertaining to a serious or grave act of
misconduct/negligence committed by a Government Servant can be continued or instituted in terms of Rule 9 of
R.P.Rules, 1980 or other corresponding rules, even if no pecuniary loss was caused to the Government.
11. Disciplinary cases against the Government employees - Detection of the delinquency, initiation of the disciplinary
proceedings, early completion of the enquiries and imposing adequate penalty - Instructions - Reiterated.
(Memo. No. 4439I/Ser.C/99,  General Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 21-9-1999)
Ref : - 1. Government Memo No. 2261/Ser.C/79-2, G.A. (Ser.C), Department , dated 23-10-1979.
2. U.O. Note No. 463/Ser.C/85-4, G.A. (Ser.C), Department , dated 20-12-1985.
3. Cir. Memo No. 100/Ser.C/93-22 G.A. (Ser.C), Department , dated 23-12-1995.
4. Cir. Memo No. 3824/Ser.C/98-2, G.A. (Ser.C), Department , dated 09-02-1998.
5. G.O. Ms. No. 188, G.A. (Ser.C), Department , dated 26-05-98.
6. Cir. Memo. No. 35676/Ser.C/98, G.A. (Ser.C), Department , dated 01-07-1998.
7. G.O. Ms. No. 2, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 4-1-1999.
8. Government Memo. No. 23537/Ser.C/99-5, G.A. (Ser.C), Department , dated 28-7-1999.
Order: - Instructions have been issued from time to time for detection of the delinquencies, initiation of the disciplinary
proceedings, for early completion of the enquiries and for imposing penalties on the delinquent Government employees.
Despite clear instructions, it is noticed that in several cases, there was undue delay in detecting the delinquency as well
as in completing the enquiries, thereby the accused officer went scot free on retirement from service. The Public
Accounts Committee of the State Legislature observed several times on the need for early completion of enquiries and
for imposing penalties on erring Government Servants.
2. In the reference third cited, it has been requested that the departments should review all cases of misappropriation on
half yearly basis and to ensure that the enquiries are completed at the earliest. The delinquencies generally noticed
against the Government employees may be broadly classified as cases of misappropriation, corruption, misconduct, and
dereliction of duty. As regards the corruption, the investigation is taken up by the Anti-Corruption Bureau and report
submitted to the Vigilance Commission or to the Directorate of Vigilance and Enforcement. In case of misappropriation,
the reports of the Public Accounts Committee of the State Legislature generally form the basis to detect the delinquency.
Page 32/168
----- PAGE 33 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Other agencies namely the Anti-Corruption Bureau and reports in the media are also the source of information about the
misappropriation. For the misconduct the police investigation, the Anti-Corruption Bureau or departmental authorities are
the sources for detection of the delinquency. The dereliction to duty is noticed by the Departmental Officers.
3. As and when, it comes to the notice of the disciplinary authority or any higher authority, it shall be necessary to take
immediate steps to detect the delinquency and to initiate disciplinary action. Disciplinary action initiated shall be
completed as per the time schedule prescribed in the references sixth and eighth cited. Adequate penalty should be
imposed on the employees who were found guilty. In this context, the orders issued in the reference seventh cited shall
be kept in view. To quote an instance, an officer "X" was involved in an irregularity and the case was brought to the
notice in November, 1995. The authority concerned to initiate the disciplinary action, took two long years of time and by
that time said officer retired from service. Against the retired officer no action could be taken in view of the time limit
stipulated in the Pension Rules. This resulted in allowing the officer to go scot free even though he was guilty. It is
absolutely necessary to remedy the situation and the existing instructions in force should be strictly followed for initiation
and early completion of the enquiries and disciplinary proceedings.
4. It is reiterated that the Inquiring Authorities appointed to enquire into charges shall strive to complete the enquiries as
per the time schedule indicated and however in cases where the enquiry could not be completed for various reasons in
time, the enquiry can be continued. The Secretary to Government of the department concerned shall review the cases
and submit a note to Chief Secretary and Chief Minister as per the instruction sixth cited.
5. The penalties awarded to the Delinquent Officers should not be reduced in a routine way. The gravity of charge and
the delinquency established should be kept in view. The orders issued in the reference fifth cited should be followed.
6. All the Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments and District Collectors are requested to follow the existing
instructions on detecting the delinquencies, initiation of disciplinary action and for completion of the disciplinary
proceedings as per time schedule prescribed.
12. Penalties as per Rule 9 - Stoppage of increments with or without cumulative effect - Currency of the penalty -
Clarification - Issued.
(Cir. Memo. No. 34633/Ser.C/99, GA (Ser.C) Department , dated 04-11-1999)
Ref : - G.O.Ms.No. 342, GA (Ser.C) Department , dated 4-8-97.
Order: - Rule 9 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control & Appeal) Rules, 1991 deals with
"Penalties" and its classification as minor penalties and major penalties. Item (iv) specifies withholding of increment
without cumulative effect which is a minor penalty and item (vi) specifies withholding of increment of pay with cumulative
effect which is a major penalty. The currency of these penalties and their effect on promotion was ordered in the G.O.
cited. The currency of the penalty is for a minimum period of one year during which the delinquent employee shall not be
recommended for promotion.
2. According to F.R. 24 an increment shall ordinarily be drawn as a matter of course unless it is withheld as a measure
of punishment. An increment may be withheld from a Government Servant by the State Government, or by any authority
to whom the State Government may delegate this power if his conduct has not been good or his work has not been
satisfactory. In ordering the withholding of an increment, the withholding authority shall state the period for which it is
withheld and whether the postponement shall have the effect of postponing future increments.
3. It is clarified that where the penalty of stoppage of increments with or without cumulative effect is imposed, under Rule
9 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991, the increment or increments
falling due immediately after the date of issue of the order should be withheld. It is also clarified that the employee
whose increments were withheld shall not be recommended for promotion during the period for which the increments
were ordered to be withheld with effect from the date of issue of the order imposing the penalty.
4. The District Collectors, Heads of Departments and Departments of Secretariat are requested to follow the above
clarification in dealing with disciplinary cases.
13. Imposition of warning - Permissibility - Reg.
(Cir. Memo. No. 60897/Ser.C/99, G. A. (Ser.C) D, dated 12-11-1999)
Order: - It is observed in a good number of cases that final orders are being issued by the concerned Disciplinary
Authorities with either "Warning" or "let off' or "to be more careful in future" etc. None of these is a punishment listed in
the A.P. Civil Services (C.C.A) Rules as a penalty under Rule 9 of the rules. The disciplinary proceedings cannot be
deemed to have been concluded unless they end with one of the penalties mentioned under the C.C.A. Rules if any
penalty is imposed or the Delinquent Officer is exonerated and specifically it is stated that charges are dropped. When
Page 33/168
----- PAGE 34 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
words like warning, let off etc., are used, it is to be construed that the charges and the guilt of the Officer have been
proved but a lenient view is taken and no punishment is awarded. Such action will not be in accordance with the C.C.A.
Rules.
2. In view of the above, all the Departments of Secretariat are requested to keep the above in view while issuing final
orders and suitably instruct the Officers under their control to clearly mention the penalty imposed if any under the C.C.A
Rules or state the fact of exoneration in case the Charged Officer is proved not guilty, duly dropping the charges.
14. Disciplinary cases pending at the time of retirement - Finalisation of the proceedings and payment of interest -
Orders - Issued.
(G.O. Rt. No.1034, Fin. & Plg. (FW-PEN.I) Department , dated 9-6-2000)
Order: - Generally the following two types of cases are being referred to this department for advice:
(I)
Where court directed to dispose off the disciplinary case within a specified time period.
(II)
Where charges are dropped and interest on pensionary benefits is claimed.
2. In respect of item (I) where in the disciplinary cases which are pending at the time of retirement and not concluded for
a longer period or many years, the courts are directing to conclude such cases within a specified period i.e., say within 2
or 3 months etc., but the departments are not concluding within the specified period. As a result, the final orders issued
in such cases imposing either recovery or cut in pension are being dismissed by the courts since it was not concluded
within the stipulated period as directed by the courts. As such, ultimately, the accused is being escaped from the
punishment due to administrative delay.
3. In the above circumstances, Government hereby order that the disciplinary cases against the retired Government
servant shall be concluded as quickly as possible. If court directs to conclude the same within a specified period, it
should be concluded within the said period only. If not, time may be obtained from the court to conclude the same. In
such a cases, final orders issued after the period specified by the courts and the court dismisses such final order due to
non-conclusion of the same within time specified by them, action against the concerned persons shall be taken for not
taking prompt action within the time and loss caused if any, thereto to the Government in such cases shall be recovered
from the concerned.
4. In respect of item (II) wherein the disciplinary cases which are pending at the time of retirement of the Government
servant and subsequently further action was dropped, the individual is eligible for interest on retirement Gratuity from the
date of issue of final orders thereon. In many cases, where charges and further action was dropped after retirement, the
charged officers are requesting for interest from the date of retirement, but not from the date of final orders since
charges are dropped.
5. In the above circumstances, Government hereby order that if the department decides to drop the charges, they shall
take a decision as quickly as possible and they should draft the order carefully duly indicting that the individual shall be
eligible for interest subject to the conditions specified under sub-rule (1A) of Rule 46 of the Andhra Pradesh Revised
Pension Rules, 1980, from the date of final orders only. For this purpose the following lines are prescribed for guidance
in respect of the orders proposed to be issued in this regard.
"In the circumstances stated above, the Government have taken a lenient view and further action is hereby dropped.
The individual is eligible for terminal benefits due to him from the date of issue of these orders".
15. Pensionary benefits to the Government Servants retired from service pending disciplinary action - Action against the
retired persons for their lapses - Consolidated - Orders - Issued.
(G.O. Rt. No. 1097, Fin. & Plg., dated 22-6-2000)
Ref : - 1. Memo. No. 37254/36I/A2/Pen.1/98, Fin. & Plg. (FW-Pen 1), dated 4-7-1998.
2. Memo No. 3026/18/A2/Pen.1/99, Fin. & Plg. (FW-Pen-I) Department , dated 1-6-1999.
3. Cir. Memo No. 37989-A/494/A2/Pen.I/98, Fin. & Plg., Department , dated 21-4-1999.
4. G.O. Ms. No. 11, F&P (FW-FR I) Department , dated 15-1-1997.
5. D.O. Lr. No. 368NC.A2/99, dated 17-2-2000 of Vigilance Commissioner, AP.
Order: - The Vigilance Commissioner in the reference 5th read above, has stated that references are being made to that
Commission by the departments of secretariat wanting to know the terminal benefits that can be sanctioned and those
that are necessarily to be withheld on retirement of an Officer facing charges in departmental proceedings or criminal
prosecution. Hence he has requested to issue consolidated instructions indicating the terminal benefits that can be
Page 34/168
----- PAGE 35 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
released and those that are to be withheld in the above referred cases, so that a lot of unnecessary file work, litigation in
Courts and harassment of retired Officers can be prevented. Accordingly, the following orders are hereby issued.
2. According to the existing rules, the following are the terminal benefits to be sanctioned to a retired Government
employee.
(1)
Family Benefit Fund
(2)
Andhra Pradesh Group Insurance amount
(3)
General Provident Fund amount
(4)
Andhra Pradesh Government Life Insurance amount
(5)
Encashment of Earned Leave
(6)
Retirement Gratuity
(7)
Pension/Provisional Pension
(8)
Commuted Value of Pension
3. In case of Government Employees against whom the departmental proceedings or criminal proceedings are pending
at the time of retirement, all the above terminal benefits need not be released. Proceedings pending means, there must
be proceedings already initiated and pending within the meaning of Rule 9 of the Andhra Pradesh Revised Pension
Rules, 1980. A Government Servant who attains the age of superannuation while under suspension should be allowed
to retire on the due date of superannuation. But pensionary benefits can not be settled until the conclusion of the enquiry
or disposal of charges. In such cases, the payment of terminal benefits shall be regulated as follows:
A. The following amounts shall be paid to the retired employee since no recoveries can be made from these amounts:
1. Family Benefit Fund.
2. Andhra Pradesh Group Insurance Scheme
3. General Provident Fund
4. Andhra Pradesh Government Life Insurance.
B. Encashment of Earned Leave: - As per the orders issued in G.0 fourth read above, the authority competent to grant
leave, in the above mentioned cases may with hold whole or part of cash equivalent of earned leave, if in the view of the
competent authority there is a possibility of some money becoming recoverable from him on conclusion of the
proceedings against him. On conclusion, the retired employee will become eligible to the amount so withheld after
adjustment of the Government dues, if any. As such, Encashment of Earned Leave can be regulated accordingly.
C. Retirement Gratuity: - According to clause (c) of sub-rule (1) of Rule 52 of the Andhra Pradesh Revised Pension
Rules, 1980, no Gratuity shall be paid until the conclusion of the departmental or judicial proceedings and issue of final
orders. According to the proviso to the above said rule, where depaltuiental proceedings have been instituted under
Rule 9 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991, for imposing any of the
penalties specified in clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) of Rule 9 of the said rules, except the cases falling under sub-rule (2) of
Rule 22 of the said rules, the payment of gratuity shall be authorised to be paid to the Government servant. It is also
further provided in the said rule that where a conclusion has been reached that a portion of pension only should be
withheld or withdrawn and the retirement gratuity remains unaffected in the contemplated final orders, the retirement
gratuity can be released upto 80% of the eligible retirement gratuity.
D. Provisional Pension: - 1. As per sub-rule (4) of Rule 9 of the Andhra Pradesh Revised Pension Rules, 1980, the
retired employees mentioned in the above cases shall be sanctioned provisional pension as provided in Rule 52 of the
said rules. According to Rule 52 of the said rules, the Audit Officer/Head of Office shall pay the provisional Pension not
exceeding the eligible pension. The provisional pension shall be paid from the date of retirement to the date on which,
final orders are passed by the competent authority on conclusion of the departmental or judicial proceedings pending
against the retired employee. The Provisional Pension shall not be less than 75% of the normal pension entitlement.
Page 35/168
----- PAGE 36 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
2. Pension sanctioning authorities are competent to sanction provisional pension to the Non Gazetted Officers. It shall
be sanctioned by the Government in the case of Gazetted Officers.
3. In the above mentioned cases, the department shall send pension papers to the Accountant General and it should be
mentioned in the forwarding letter that departmental/judicial proceedings are pending an.' with a request to indicate only
the quantum of pension that would be admissible which should not be released till further orders as only provisional
pension has to be released. The Accountant General may then verify the pensionary benefits admissible and indicate
the quantum of Pension, where upon, the Head of the department may intimate the quantum of provisional pension for
payment in case of Gazetted Officers, so that Government will sanction the same. The Accountant General, AP,
Hyderabad will straight way authorise the minimum provisional pension i. e., 75% of the quantum of pension verified by
his office, pending sanction by the pension sanctioning authority and that if the appropriate authority sanctions more
than 75% of the eligible pension as provisional pension, the Accountant General will issue an amendment accordingly.
E. Commuted value of Pension: - No commutation of pension shall be allowed in the above mentioned cases since
sub-rule (3) of Rule 3 of the Andhra Pradesh Commutation Rules, do not permit a Government servant against whom
judicial or departmental proceedings has been instituted or pending, to commute any part of his pension during the
pendency of such proceedings. Further, in the case of those to whom only provisional pension is granted, if after
conclusion, entire pension is withheld, the question of commutation does not arise. In the case of others to whom
pension was allowed either in full or in part, the period of one year for commutation without medical examination has to
be reckoned from the date of issue of orders on conclusion of the proceedings.
4. Action against a retired officer who commits irregularities can be taken on three counts: (1) Criminal Prosecution; (2)
Disciplinary action; and (3) Recovery of the amount ;
In case of the death of the retired officer, action on first two counts will abate but as per the orders issued in the G.O.
Ms. No. 85, Finance and Planning (FW-Pen I) Department, dated 12-7-1999, the loss or mis-appropriated amounts can
be recovered from the terminal benefits of the retired officer.
5. If any irregularity of a retired employee is noticed after his retirement and no departmental proceedings can be
instituted under sub-rule (2)(b) of Rule 9 of Andhra Pradesh Revised Pension Rules, 1980, the department can initiate
criminal action against the retired officer or action under the Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 to recover
the loss if any caused to the Government by him.
16. Dismissal of accused officers from service immediately on conviction even if the appeal filed by him is pending
before the Appellate court - Government Servants convicted are not eligible to be in service till they are honourably
acquitted by the Appellate Court.
[Memo. No. 1621/SPL.B/2001-1, G.A.(SPLB) Department , dated 26-11-2001]
Order: - The Supreme Court in its latest judgement in K.C.Sareen Vs. CBI Chandigarh, 2001(5) Supreme 437 decided
on 2-8-2001 as follows:
"Corruption by public servants has now reached a monstrous dimension in India. Its tentacles have started grappling
even the institutions created for the protection of the Republic. Unless those tentacles are intercepted and impeded from
gripping the normal and orderly functioning of the public offices, through strong legislative, executive as well as judicial
exercises the corrupt public servants could even paralyse the functioning of such institutions and thereby hinder the
democratic polity. Proliferation of corrupt public servants could gamer momentum to cripple the social order if such men
are allowed to continue to manage and operate public institutions. When a public servant was found guilty of corruption
after a judicial adjudicatory process conducted by a court of law, judiciousness demands that he should be treated as
corrupt until he is exonerated by a superior court. The mere fact that an appellate or revisional forum has decided to
entertain his challenge and to go into the issues and findings made against such public servants once again should not
even temporarily absolve him from such findings. If such a public servant becomes entitled to hold public office and to
continue to do official acts until he is judicially absolved from such findings by reason of suspension of the order of
conviction it is public interest which suffers and sometimes even irreparably. When a public servant who is convicted of
corruption is allowed to continue to hold public office it would impair the morale of the other persons manning such
office, and consequently that would erode the already shrunk confidence of the people in such public institutions besides
demoralizing the other honest public servants who would either be the colleagues or subordinates of the convicted
person. If honest public servants are compelled to take orders from proclaimed corrupt officers on account of the
suspension of the conviction the fall out would be one of shaking the system itself. Hence, it is necessary that the court
should not aid the public servant who stands convicted for corruption charges to hold only public office until he is
Page 36/168
----- PAGE 37 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
exonerated after conducting a judicial adjudication at the appellate or revisional level. The above policy can be
acknowledged as necessary for the efficacy and proper functioning of public offices. If so, the legal position can be laid
down that when conviction is on a corruption charge against a public servant the appellate court or the revisional court
should not suspend the order of conviction during the pendency of the appeal even if the sentence or imprisonment is
suspended. It would be a sublime public policy that the convicted public servant is kept under disability of the conviction
inspite of keeping the sentence of imprisonment in abeyance till the disposal of the appeal or revision".
In the light of the above categorical direction of the Supreme Court, Government hereby instructs that to take action
forthwith for dismissal of public servants convicted of corruption and criminal misconduct immediately upon such
conviction without waiting for any appeal and that the appointing/disciplinary authorities will be personally held
responsible for non-implementation of these instructions and that they will be liable for disciplinary action if inspite of
these instructions it is found convicted officers continuing in service without being dismissed immediately or continue to
receive provisional pension if they have already retired in the meantime without action to withhold pension and other
pensionary benefits or withdraw pension entirely as the case may be disregarding these instructions. It is also directed
that salary/ pension/ provisional pension paid after the judgement convicting the accused public servant shall be liable to
be recovered from the appointing authority. Consultation with Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission in such cases
has also been dispensed with.
All Departments of Secretariat and Heads of Departments are requested to oppose any application for the suspension of
conviction in such cases quoting the above judgement of the Supreme Court.
All Departments of Secretariat and Heads of Departments are requested to follow the above instructions Scrupulously
and also to communicate the above instructions to the public enterprises, autonomous bodies and other institutions
receiving grant-in-aid, etc., under their administrative control.
17. Misappropriation of funds - Procedural instructions to deal with misappropriation cases - Further orders - Issued.
(Cir. Memo. No. 51375/Ser.C/2002.-2, G.A.(Ser. C) Department , dated 28-11-2002)
Ref. : - 1. Memo. No. 3000/Ser.G/76-4, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 28-06-1977.
2. Memo. No. 2106/Ser.C/77-1, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 27-10-1977.
3. Memo. No. 2261/Ser.C/79-2, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 23-10-1979.
4. U.O. Note No. 646/Ser.C/80-1, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 21-07-1980.
5. U.O. Note No. 32/Ser.C/81-2, G.A. (Ser.C), Department , dated 09-02-1981.
6. U.O. Note No. 4637Ser.C/85-4, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 20-12-1985.
7. Circular Memo. No. 100/Ser.C/93-22, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 23-12-1995.
8. G.O.Ms. Mo. 2, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 04-01-1999.
9. Memo. No. 44391/Ser.C/99, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 21-09-1999.
Order: - Instructions were issued, time and again, for prompt action in dealing with the cases of misappropriation of
Government money.
2. A study of few major misappropriation cases in different Departments has revealed serious short comings in the
matter in which such cases are being dealt with. It is keenly felt necessary to plug the loopholes in the management of
Government money and to take stern action against the employees / persons responsible for the misuse
/misappropriation, by initiating disciplinary action, criminal action and to recover the amount. The existing instructions
have been reviewed and the following further instructions are issued:
(1)
Internal inspections /audit of the Accounts should be carried out as per a specific schedule in each Department. The
drawing officer of the Department should be -held responsible for the maintenance, inspection and audit of the
Accounts. The unit head of the Department shall review the procedure being followed in incurring the expenditure. Such
review should be submitted to the Heads of Departments concerned.
The Heads of Departments shall review the expenditure incurred with an objective whether the expenditure is strictly as
per norms prescribed, for every 4 months and shall submit the same to the Secretary to Government concerned.
As per the instructions issued in Circular Memo. No. 100/Ser.C/93-22, General Administrative (Ser.C) Department,
dated 23-12-1995, the Secretary of the Department concerned shall review all the misappropriation cases at an interval
of 6 months and shall submit such review to the General Administrative (Ser.C) Department.
(2)
As and when a misappropriation embezzlement case is noticed a Complaint shall be registered with Locals Police or the
Page 37/168
----- PAGE 38 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
case may be entrusted to the criminal investigation Department for investigation. The instructions issued in the U.O.
Note No. 32/Ser.C/81-2: General Administrative (Ser.C) Department, dated 09¬02-1981 should be scrupulously
followed.
(3)
Simultaneously disciplinary action shall be taken against those who are responsible for misappropriation and those who
failed to supervise the accounts and conducting audit as per schedule which led to the offence.
The instructions issued in the following references shall be followed:
1. Memo. No. 2261/Ser.C/79-2, GA(Ser.C) Department , dated 23-10-79.
2. U.O. Note No. 646/Ser.C/80-1, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 21-07-1980.
3. U.O. Note. No. 463/Ser.C/85-4, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 20-12-1985.
4. The policy of the Government is to impose the penalty of dismissal from service on the officers who are convicted in a
criminal case by Court of Law. In G.O. Ms. No. 2, G.A. (Ser.C) Department  dated 04.01.1999, orders have been issued
that in all proved cases of misappropriation, bribery, bigamy, corruption, moral turpitude, forgery and outraging the
modesty of women, the penalty of dismissal from services shall be imposed.
(4)
The amount misappropriated shall be recovered from the Government employees who are responsible for
misappropriation. The recovery shall be from the Pay, Pension and other retirement benefits. The attachment of the
property shall be as per law by invoking the provisions of the Revenue Recovery Act.
3. All the Departments of Secretariat, the Heads of Departments and District Collectors are requested to follow the
instructions. They are also requested to bring these instructions to the notice of their subordinates for their guidance and
compliance.
18. Maintenance of Lists of Officers of Doubtful integrity and Suspect Officers - Instructions - Issued.
(G.O. Ms. No. 232, G.A.(Spl-C) Department , dated 06-08-2003)
Order: - Government places highest importance on providing clean and corruption free administration in the State. The
Government have examined practices of the Government of India in maintaining an annual list of officers of Doubtful
Integrity and obtaining Vigilance Clearance for promotions of Senior Officers from the Central Vigilance Commission,
and decided to implement the practice of the Government of India. Accordingly, the matter has been placed before the
High Level Committee on Anti-Corruption and the Committee in its meeting held on 26-10-2002 agreed that within a time
span of three months the exercise for preparation of the following documents should be completed by all Departments in
consultation with the Director General, Anti Corruption Bureau, Hyderabad.
(a)
List of Officers of Doubtful Integrity
(b)
Agreed list of Suspect Officers
(c)
List of Points or places of corruption
(d)
List of unscrupulous contractors, suppliers and firms
(e)
List of Unscrupulous contact-men
2. After examining the recommendation of the High Level Committee on Anti Corruption, the Government hereby order
that the above lists should be maintained by the Secretaries of the Departments of Secretariat. The procedure for
maintaining lists is as follows:
List Of Public Servants Of Gazetted Status Of Doubtful Integrity:
It will include names of those Gazetted officers only who, after enquiry or during the course of enquiry, have been found
to be lacking in integrity. It will thus include the names of the officers falling under one of the following categories:
(i)
Convicted in a court of law on a charge of lack of integrity or for an offence involving moral turpitude but on whom, in
view of exceptional circumstances, a penalty other than dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement is imposed.
(ii)
Awarded departmentally a major penalty
Page 38/168
----- PAGE 39 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(a)
On Charges of lack of integrity
(b)
On charges of gross dereliction of duty in protecting the interests of Government although the corrupt motive may not be
capable of proof.
(iii)
Against whom proceedings for a major penalty or a court trial are in progress for alleged acts involving lack of integrity or
moral turpitude.
(iv)
Who were prosecuted but acquitted on technical grounds and in whose case on the basis of evidence during the trial
there remained a reasonable suspicion against their integrity.
The names of the officers of the following categories should not be included in these lists:
(a)
Officers who have been cleared or honourably acquitted as a result of disciplinary proceedings or court trial.
(b)
Officers against whom an enquiry or investigation has not brought forth sufficient evidence for recommending even a
disciplinary case.
(c)
Officers who have been convicted of offences not involving lack of integrity or moral turpitude.
(d)
Officers against whom disciplinary proceedings have been completed or are in progress in respect of administrative
lapses, minor violation of Conduct Rules and the like.
3. These lists are intended to keep the Departments/Public Undertakings concerned informed about such officers of
doubtful integrity to ensure that they are not posted to sensitive assignments and that this fact is given due consideration
when deciding administrative matters affecting the services of these officers. These lists would also help the
departments to know about the officers, whose work and conduct need both special attention and close supervision and
scrutiny.
4. The Vigilance Organization of Departments will prepare a list of public servants of Gazetted status against whom any
disciplinary proceedings for a major penalty are in progress or who have been punished in disciplinary proceedings on a
charge involving lack of integrity. A copy of these lists will be sent by the department in respect of all departments under
them to the ACB every year in the last week of February. As soon as adverse report against the officer of the nature
mentioned above is received, the Vigilance Officer should bring it to the notice of the Secretary/ Head of the Department
concerned immediately. A decision in regard to the inclusion of the name of such officer in the list should be taken as
soon as possible. The ACB will suggest addition or deletion of names on the basis of information available with them
and return the lists to Secretaries concerned, who would in turn furnish the list to the Heads of Department/Chief
Executives of Public Enterprises. The purpose of maintenance of these lists is also to enable the Departments to take
such administrative action as is necessary and feasible. The following courses of administrative action are open:
(i)
Withholding certificate of integrity.
(ii)
Transfer from "sensitive" post.
(iii)
Non-promotion after consideration of his case, to a service grade or post to which he is eligible for promotion.
(iv)
Compulsory retirement in the public interest (otherwise than as penalty) in accordance with the order issued by the
Government. This is now permissible on completion of the age of 50 with certain exceptions.
(v)
Refusal of extension of service or re-employment either under Government or in public sector undertakings.
(vi)
Non-sponsoring of names for foreign assignment/deputation.
(vii)
Page 39/168
----- PAGE 40 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Refusal of permission for commercial re-employment after retirement.
When the name of the officer has been entered in the list, it will not be removed until a period of three years has
elapsed. The period of 3 years for which the name will be current on the list will count from the date of punishment in the
disciplinary proceedings or from the date of conviction in a court trial. On the conclusion of the period, the cases of such
officers may be reviewed by the Department in consultation with ACB and if during the intervening period there has been
no further complaint against the officer touching on his integrity the name may be removed from the list. If at the time of
review, it is proposed to continue the name of the officer on the list, cogent reasons for doing so should exist. In the
event of the officer being transferred to another Department/Public Undertaking, the fact of the officer's name being on
the list, undertaking should be furnished to the Department under copy to the ACB. List of such officers once every year
i.e., in June through the Secretaries to Government. It will be the duty of the Chief Vigilance Officer Nigilance Officer of
the department/Public undertaking to maintain these lists up-to-date. The list will be treated as "SECRET" and the
Secretary/Head of the Department/Chief Executive of Public undertaking will be responsible for its safe custody.
Agreed Lists of Suspect Officer:
These lists should include officers of Gazetted status against whose integrity and honesty there are complaints, doubt or
suspicion. Lists to be finalized by mutual discussion between the department and the ACB. The following action will be
taken in respect of officers on these agreed lists by the departments or the public undertakings and by the ACB.
(i)
Closer and more frequent scrutiny and inspection of their work and performance by the departments concerned,
particularly in spheres where there is scope for discretion or for showing favours.
(ii)
Quiet check about their reputation both by the Department  tent and the ACB.
(iii)
Unobtrusive watch of their contacts, style of living etc. by the ACB
(iv)
Secret enquiry by the ACB about their assets and financial resources.
The departments will make available their property returns and other relevant records to the ACB.
(v)
Collection of information by the ACB of specific instances of bribery and corrupt practices.
5. If these secret checks and enquiries reveal positive material, open enquires will be initiated by the ACB and further
action taken in the light of the results of that enquiry and no adverse or punitive action is contemplated against any
officer on these lists unless these checks, verifications or enquiries bring forth adequate material to reasonably conclude
that he is lacking in integrity. These agreed lists will remain in force for one year from the date of preparation. At the end
of this period, the list will be reviewed and the names of those officers against whom there is not sufficient evidence to
proceed against will be deleted from the list.
List of points or places of corruption:
(a)
"Points" are those of items of work and those stages at which decisions are taken or orders are passed which provide
scope for corruption namely, processing of tenders, appraising, grant of quota certificate, etc.
(b)
"Places" would be sections, sectors, units of an office/department/Public undertakings.
It may be emphasized that these are not lists of all those points and places where there is scope or likely hood of
corruption but only of those where corruption is believed to exist in substantial measure. The preparation of these
agreed lists of points and places of corruption must necessarily be done by those in the field. The D.S.Ps of local
branches of ACB with the assistance of Bureau headquarters will settle and prepare these lists after discussion with the
Heads of Departments or Public Undertakings concerned.
The Departments and Public Undertakings can contribute substantially in the preparation of these lists.
After these lists are prepared, the following action should be taken by the departments or public undertakings and by the
ACB.
(i)
Closer and more frequent scrutiny and inspection by the department or public undertaking of the work done at these
points and places.
Page 40/168
----- PAGE 41 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(ii)
Surprise checks by the department or public undertaking.
(iii)
Quiet and unobtrusive watch by the ACB followed by raids as and when appropriate.
(iv)
Collection of information about specific instances of bribery and corrupt practices so as to initiate open enquiries.
List of unscrupulous contractors, suppliers and firms :
These lists are to be prepared by the departments and undertakings concerned as they are in best position to do so.
They need not be "agreed" lists. Copies of these lists should be sent to the ACB for its information. The ACB on its part
will pass on to the departments undertakings concerned any information regarding corrupt practices of contractors,
suppliers, firms, etc., for their information and for considering as to whether the name of such contractor should be
brought on their lists. Particular care should be exercised in the preparation of these lists. Departments concerned
should lay down the criteria on the basis of which names are to be included in these lists. In respect of Building
Contractors, the Departments concerned should appoint a committee to lay down such criteria and the Committee's
recommendations will be circulated to all departments concerned.
The Director General, Anti Corruption Bureau and the Departments should take the following action in respect of the
Contractors etc., on these lists.
(i)
The lists should be circulated by the departments/undertakings to their officer/ officers enjoining them to be careful and
cautious in all dealings with such parties.
(ii)
Closer check and scrutiny by the departments/undertakings if the requests on applications, made by such parties and of
the contracts for works or supplies awarded to, or executed by them and of any business or transaction, undertaken by
them.
(iii)
Quiet and unobtrusive watch should be kept by ACB over the contracts or such parties in official circles.
(iv)
Collection of information by the ACB of specific instances of malpractices on the part of such parties with a view to
initiating open enquiries.
List of Unscrupulous Contact men:
The ACB should prepare lists of unscrupulous contactmen who are suspected of resorting to corrupt or irregular
practices in their dealings with official agencies. The names of persons on these lists will be communicated by the ACB
to the departments and public undertakings concerned. These lists may be complied with the following objectives.
(a)
The information contained in these lists will be untilized when considering cases for accrediting or representatives of
firms, etc. Normally such unscrupulous persons should not be accepted as accredited representatives.
(b)
The departments and undertakings concerned will issue directions to their officers to be careful and cautious in dealing
with unscrupulous contactmen whose names are on these lists. They should avoid associating with them socially and
accepting entertainment and gifts from them.
(c)
The ACB will exercise an unobtrusive check on the activities of such contactmen and try to collect information about
specific instances of malpractices in which they are involved.
6. All the Departments of Secretariat and Heads of Departments and the DG ACB are requested to follow above
instructions scrupulously. These instructions will come into force with immediate effect.
19. Punishments imposed by the Disciplinary authorities should not be modified by the High Court or Tribunal - Supreme
Court Judgement - Issue of Instructions - Regarding.
(Memo. No. 107309/Ser.C/2003, G.A. (Ser-C) Department , Dated: 03-09-2003)
Order: - It has been brought to the notice of the Government that in a large number of cases in which the Andhra
Pradesh Administrative Tribunal has been setting aside or substantially reducing the penalties imposed in disciplinary
cases even though it is the settled law that the Tribunal or the High Court should not interfere with the disciplinary
Page 41/168
----- PAGE 42 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
authorities decisions unless in a specific case the punishment awarded shocks judicial conscience. Such cases will
obviously be few and far between. The Supreme Court again in Director General, RPF vs. Ch.Sai Babu case in
Supreme Today Journal 2003 (4) Supreme 313 pronounced judgement on 29-1-2002 setting aside the Division Bench
decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case and held that "Normally, the punishment imposed is grossly or
shockingly disproportionate, after examining all the relevant factors including nature of charges proved against, the past
conduct, penalty imposed earlier, the nature of duties assigned having due regard to their sensitiveness, exactness
expected of and discipline required to be maintained, and the department/ establishment in which the concerned
delinquent person works. Normally in cases where it is found that the punishment imposed is shockingly
disproportionate, high courts or Tribunals may remit the cases to the disciplinary authority for reconsideration on the
quantum of punishment".
2. A copy of the judgement is forwarded to all the Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments and the
Government Pleaders dealing with service matters in the A.P.A.T. and the High Court with a request to see that the
Tribunal and the High Court decisions are strictly in conformity with the above ruling and take immediate steps to appeal
against any such decisions and to strictly follow the above instructions. They shall also bring these instructions to the
notice of their subordinates for their guidance and compliance.
2003.
(4)
Supreme 313
SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
(From A.P. High Court)
Shivaraj V.Patil & Arijit Pasayat, JJ.
Director General R.P.F. & Ors.
Appeallants
Versus
Ch. Sai Babu
Respondent
Civil Appeal No.4622/2000
Decided on 29-01-2003
Railway Protection Force Rules, 1987 - Rule 153 - Charge sheet under framing five charges of misconduct. After
enquiry charges found proved - Punishment of removal from service awarded - High Court finding punishment
disproportionate to charges proved - Modified it to stoppage of four increments with cumulative effect - Appeal against to
Supreme Court - Whether High Court was right in modifying the punishment in the facts of the case? (No, case
remanded to D.B. for reconsideration on the quantum of punishment imposed) - Appeal allowed accordingly.
Held : Normally, the punishment imposed by disciplinary authority should not be disturbed by high court or tribunal
except in appropriate cases that too only after reaching a conclusion that the punishment imposed is grossly or
shockingly disproportionate, after examining all the relevant factors including nature of charges proved against, the past
conduct, penalty imposed earlier, the nature of duties assigned having due regard to their sensitiveness, exactness
expected of and discipline required to be maintained, and the department/establishment in which the concerned
delinquent person works. In the present case we do not find that there has been a consideration of all the relevant facts
and the learned Single Judge has not recorded reasons in order to modify the punishment imposed. The division Bench
of the High Court also did not examine the matter in proper perspective but simply concurred with the order passed by
the learned Single Judge. Normally in cases where it is found that the punishment imposed is shockingly
disproportionate, high courts or tribunals may remit the cases to the disciplinary authority for reconsideration on the
quantum of punishment. In this case the disciplinary proceedings were initiated in the year 1989 and to shorten the
litigation we think appropriate to set aside the impugned order and remit the writ appeal No. 952 of 1998 to the Division
Bench of the High Court to reconsider the case only on the quantum of punishment imposed on the respondent having
regard to all relevant factors including the facts that the respondent was a member of Railway Protection Force and in
the light of the observations made above. Since the proceedings are pending for quite some time, we request the High
Court to dispose of the writ appeal expeditiously. The impugned order is set aside and the appeal is ordered in the
above terms.
(Paras 6 and 7)
Page 42/168
----- PAGE 43 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
No costs.
Counsel for the Parties:
For the Appellants : Mukul Rohatgi, Addl. Solicitor General, S. Wasim, A. Quadri, Mrs. Anil Katyar, Ms. Sushma Suri,
Advocates.
For the Respondent : R.S. Hedge, Allam Nagabushanam, Ms.N. Annapooorni, Advocates.
IMPORTANT POINT
Normally, in cases where it is found that the punishment imposed by disciplinary authority is shockingly disproportionate,
High Court and Tribunals may remit the cases to the disciplinary authority for reconsideration the quantum of
punishment.
ORDER :
1. Heard learned counsel for the parties
2. This appeal is directed against the Order dated 15th June, 1999 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of
Andhra Pradesh. The respondent was given charge sheet under Rule 153 of the Railway Protection Force Rules, 1987
framing five charges relating to misconduct on his part. After enquiry report was submitted holding that all the charges
levelled against him were proved. The disciplinary authority agreeing with the findings as recorded by the enquiry officer
passed an order of removal of the respondent from service. He unsuccessfully challenged the said order of his removal
from service before the appellant and revisional authority. Thereafter he filed writ petition before the High Court
challenging the order of removal from service on various grounds. The learned Single Judge after hearing the learned
counsel for the parties did not found any good ground to disturb the finding of fact as to the charges which stood proved
against the respondent. However, in relation to the quantum of Punishment, the learned Single Judge held thus:
"It appears that the petitioner is a habitual offender, and due to dereliction of duties, punishment of stoppage of
increment for three years was already ordered in the year 1984. But there is no improvement in the conduct of the
petitioner. However, the present charges, though repetitive are not so serious in nature as to warrant extreme
punishment of removal from service. I want to give one more chance to him to improve his conduct. Therefore, I direct
stoppage of four increments which cumulative effect by modifying the impugned order to this effect and he is directed to
be reinstated into service with continuity of service, but he will not be eligible for any back wages except for subsistence
allowance".
3. The appellants called in question the validity and correctness of this order of the learned Single Judge before the
Division Bench of the High Court. The Division Bench of the High Court agreeing with the order passed by the learned
Single Judge dismissed the appeal. Hence, the present appeal.
4. Shri Mukul Rohtagi, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the appeallants urged that the learned Single
Judge was not right and justified in modifying the order of punishment, having observed that the respondent was a
habitual offender and due to dereliction of duties, the punishment of stoppage of increments for three years was already
ordered in 1984 and that there was no improvement in the conduct of the respondent. He alternatively submitted even if
the learned Single Judge was of the view that the punishment imposed was grossly or shockingly disproportionate,
punishment could not have been modified but the matter could be remitted to the disciplinary authority to re-examine the
issue in regard to the imposition of penalty on the respondent. He further submitted that the Division Bench of the High
Court did not go into the merits of the contentions and simply endorsed the view taken by the learned Single Judge.
5. Per contra, Shri.R.S.Hedge, learned counsel for the respondent made submissions supporting the impugned order.
He contended that even the finding of fact also was not recorded after a proper enquiry. He also contended that the
respondent was promoted even after the punishment was imposed on 13th November, 1988 before the framing of the
present charges.
6. As is evident from the order of the learned Single Judge there has been no consideration of the facts and
circumstances of the case including as to the nature of charges held proved against the respondent to say that penalty
of removal from service imposed on the respondent was extreme. Merely because it was felt that the punishment
imposed was extreme was not enough to disturb or modify the punishment imposed on the respondent was shockingly
or grossly disproportionate to the gravity of charges held proved against the respondent. It is not that in every case of
imposing a punishment of removal or dismissal from service a High Court can modify such punishment merely saying
that it is shockingly disproportionate. Normally, the punishment imposed by disciplinary authority should not be disturbed
by High Court or tribunal except in appropriate cases that too only after reaching a conclusion that the punishment
imposed is grossly or shockingly disproportionate after examining all the relevant factors including nature of charges
Page 43/168
----- PAGE 44 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
proved against the past conduct, penalty imposed earlier; the nature of duties assigned having due regard to their
sensitiveness, exactness expected of and discipline required to be maintained and the department/establishment in
which the concerned delinquent person works.
7. In the present case we do not find that there has been a consideration of all the relevant facts and the learned Single
Judge has not recorded reasons in order to modify the punishment imposed. The Division Bench of the High Court also
did not examine the matter in proper perspective but simply concurred with the order passed by the learned Single
Judge. Normally, in cases where it is found that the courts or tribunals may remit the cases to the disciplinary authority
for reconsideration on the quantum of punishment. In this case the disciplinary proceedings were initiated in the year
1989 and to shorten the litigation we think it appropriate to set aside the impugned order and remit the writ appeal No.
952 of 1998 to the Division Bench of the High Court to reconsider the case only on the quantum of punishment imposed
on the respondent having regard to all relevant facts that the respondent was a member of Railway Protection Force and
in the light of the observations made above. Since the proceedings are pending for quite some time. We request the
High Court to dispose of writ appeal expeditiously. The impugned order is set aside and the appeal is ordered in the
above terms. No costs.
Appeal is allowed accordingly.
20. Misappropriation cases - Consolidated Guidelines Issued.
(G.O. Ms. No. 25, General Administration (Ser.C) Department, dated 3-2-2004)
Ref. : - 1. Memo No.3000/Ser.C/76-4, GA (Ser.C) Department , dated 28-6-1977
2. Memo No.2106/Ser.C/77-1, G.A. (Ser.C) Department  dated 27-10-1977.
3. Memo No.2261/Ser.C/79-2, G.A. (Ser.C) Department  dated 23-10-1979
4. U.0 Note No.646/Ser.0 80/, G.A. (Ser.C) Department  dated 21-7-1980.
5. U.O.Note No.32/Ser/C/81-2, G.A (Ser.C) Department  dated 9-2-1981.
6. G.O.Ms.No. General Administrator  (Ser.C) Department  dated 24-4-1984.
7. U.O.Note, No.463/Ser.C/85-4, G.A. (Ser.C) Department  dated 20-12-1985.
8. Circular Memo.No.100/Ser./93-22, G.A.(Ser.C) Department  dated 23-12-1995.
9. G.O.Ms.No.2, G.A.(Ser.C) Department  Dated 21-9-1999.
10. Memo No.44391/Ser.C.99/G.A.(Ser.C) Department  Dated 21-9-1999.
11. U.O.Note No.1067/L&O-1/A12000-4, G.A. (L&O) Department  Dated 30-12-2000.
12. Memo No.51375/Ser.C/2002-2, G.A. (Ser.C) Department  Dated 28-1I-2002.
Order: - Apart from the instructions issued 'on the subject matter, a critical study of cases of misappropriation of
Government funds undertaken by the Andhra Pradesh Vigilance commission revealed that may of these cases are
handled ineptly and with prolonged delay without (1) being reported to the head of the Department and to the
Accountant General, (2) finalization of the total amount misappropriated through a thorough verification or audit of the
accounts, (3) earnest efforts to realize the misappropriated amount (4) immediate suspension and effective prosecution
initiation of timely disciplinary action against the accused officers, and the officers whose supervisory negligence lead to
the misappropriation. Where action has been taken attempt is often made to show the embezzlement as temporary
diversion of funds particularly where the amount has been remitted back upon detection or where the amount involved is
small thereby reducing the gravity of the offence and facilitating the culprits being let off with minor penalty. Some
departments / Head of offices have been found to address the Superintendent of Police wrongly without a formal
criminal complaint being filed before the Station House Officer having jurisdiction, as soon as the case of
misappropriation come to notice without internal audit to finalize the amount misappropriated and without identifying the
persons responsible. Such complaints lie there for want of basic information and record necessary to finalize the
quantum of misappropriation and to identify the accused officers. There are cases where those responsible for
misappropriation were not even suspended and allowed to continue in the same post giving them an opportunity to
destroy the records and evidence and to obstruct smooth conduct of investigation.
2. The Report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India for the year ended 31-3-2002 refers to 605
misappropriation cases reported to it as pending at the end of the year involving a sum of Rs. 1062.69 lakhs as pending
in different departments. According to the Vigilance commission this does not reflect the correct position of pendency of
such cases due to serious omissions in reporting of misappropriation cases to the Accountant General as provided in
the A.P. Financial Code. According to the Commission the number appear to be several times more. As a case in point,
the Commission has brought to the notice of the Government that the number of misappropriation cases shown as
Page 44/168
----- PAGE 45 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
pending in the Treasuries and Accounts Department in the above list of misappropriation cases was 12, whereas
Commission came across 10 more cases of misappropriation in that Department which had not been reported.
Information elicited form the Commissioner and Registrar of Cooperative Societies shows that there were 2314
misappropriation cases in the various cooperative institutions in the State involving a sum of Rs. 49.86 crores of which
criminal action was initiated in 945 cases. The Commissioner, Panchayat Raj has reported that there were 940 cases of
misappropriation involving a sum of Rs.15 crores in which criminal action was initiated in 517 cases where recovery
effected was Rs. 1.59 crores. The above figures indicate the magnitude of the problem of misappropriation in
Government institutions.
3. The Commission therefore, emphasized the need to lay down streamlined procedure to facilitate effective handling of
misappropriation cases with particular attention to (1) prompt reporting (2) quick finalization of amounts misappropriated
(3) immediate identification of the persons responsible for the crime (4) fool proof handling of records (5) speedy
recovery of funds misappropriated (6) prompt criminal prosecution of the accused (7) pinpointing responsibility for failure
of supervision (8) timely disciplinary action against the accused officers and those whose supervisory negligence lead to
the misappropriation (9) streamlining procedures to prevent recurrence of similar cases in future and (10) finally laying
down strict guidelines for statutory penalties to the officers found guilty of misappropriation in Government Department,
Local bodies, Cooperatives, Autonomous Grant Receiving Institutions and Public Undertakings etc.
4. Articles 5,273,294,300 301 and 302 of the Andhra Pradesh, Financial Code lays down the responsibilities of
Government Servants in dealing with Government money, the procedure to fix responsibility for any loss sustained by
the Government, the procedure to be followed and the action to be initiated for recovery. In addition to the instructions
laid down in the Andhra Pradesh Financial Code, the Government have from time to time, issued executive instructions
regarding misappropriation cases. It is now felt necessary to plug the loopholes in the management of Government
money and to give clear and comprehensive instructions on all aspects of misappropriation cases. Accordingly the
following consolidated instructions are issued.
5. Standards of Financial responsibility: - Article 5 of the A.P. Financial Code casts an obligation on every Government
servant to see that proper accounts are maintained for all Government, Financial transaction with which his concerned
and to render accurately and promptly all such accounts and returns relating to them as may have been prescribed by
Government, the Accountant General or the competent departmental authorities. He is required to check the accounts,
as frequently as possible, to see that his subordinates do not commit fraud, misappropriation or any other irregularity.
The Government holds him personally responsible for any loss that may be found to be due to any neglect of the duties
laid upon by him by the relevant provisions made by the Government. The fact that a Government servant has been
misled or deceived by a subordinate will in no way mitigate his personal responsibility.
6. Assessment of responsibility for loss of public funds: - Article 273 of A.P. Financial Code makes every Government
servant personally responsible for any loss sustained by the Government through fraud or negligence on his part and
also for any loss through fraud or negligence on the part of any other Government Servant to the extent to which it may
be shown that he contributed to the loss by his own action or negligence. The cardinal principle governing assessment
of responsibility for such losses is that every Government Servant should exercise the same diligence and care in
respect of the expenditure of his own money.
7. Reporting of loss of public money & sending factual report to Government: - When any facts indicating that defalcation
or loss of public money, stamps, stores or other movable or immovable property has occurred or that a serious account
irregularly has been committed come to the notice of any Government servant, he should in terms of Article 294 of the
Financial Code inform the head of the office immediately. If it appears to the head of the office, prima facie that there
has been any such occurrence which concerns his office or in which a Government Servant subordinate to him is
involved, he should send a preliminary report immediately to the Accountant General and though the proper channel, to
the head of the department. On receipt of the information, the head of the Department should report the matter to the
Government without delay. These reports should be sent even when the loss has been made good irrespective of the
amount involved.
8. Finalization of Quantum of loss and audit of accounts: - Article 300 of the Financial Code lays down the following
general principles in enforcing personal responsibility of the Government servant for a loss sustained by the Government
through fraud or negligence on his part and also for loss through fraud or negligence on the part of any other
Government servant to the extent to which it may be shown that the he contributed to the loss by his own action or
negligence. The head of the office or other appropriate authority should investigate the matter fully without delay. When
Page 45/168
----- PAGE 46 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
necessary, the administrative authority may ask the Accountant General to furnish all vouchers and other document in
his possession that may be relevant to the investigation. If the investigation is so complex as to require the assistance of
an expert audit officer, the administrative authority should report the facts to the Government and the audit officer, will
each be personally responsible within their respective spheres, for completing the investigation expeditiously.
9. Recovery: - Whenever an administrative authority holds that a Government servant is responsible for a loss sustained
by the  Government , it should consider both whether the whole or any part of the loss should be recovered from him in
money and whether any other form of disciplinary action should be taken. Whenever a loss is held to be due to fraud on
the part of a Government Servant or servants, every endeavor should be made to recover the whole amount lost from
the guilty persons. If the failure of a superior officer to exercise proper supervision and control has facilitated the fraud,
he should be called strictly to account and suitably dealt with after carefully assessing his personal liability in the matter.
The pension of a retiring Government Servant who is involved in any loss or irregularity which is under investigation
should on no account be sanctioned until his responsibility in the matter has been finally determined. Whenever a
competent authority orders that any amount should be recovered from the Government Servant, otherwise than by
forfeiture of his security deposit, if any, on account of a loss sustained by the Government through fraud or negligence
on his part and he is about to retire from service the amount should be recovered, as far as possible, by deduction from
the last pay or leave salary due to him. If any amount still remains to be recovered, the Government Servant should be
asked to give his written consent to the recovery of the remaining amount from his pension. When a retired Government
servant whose pension has already been sanctioned is held to have caused a loss to the Government by his fraud or
negligence while in service and it appears that the amount could be recovered by bringing a suit against him, the matter
should be reported to the Government for orders. Any fraud or negligence found to have been committed by him while in
service, should not be made an excuse for absolving any other Government servants who are also responsible for the
loss and are still in service.
10. A clear distinction should be drawn between cases of "delayed remittance" and misappropriation. The cardinal test to
prove a case as a case of misappropriation rather than temporary misappropriation would be whether the amount has
been put to use for the benefit of the person who has misappropriated it. It is the intention and purpose that should be
the criteria and not whether the amount has been put to use for the benefit of the person who has misappropriated it. It
is the intention and purpose that should be the criterion and not whether the amount has been ultimately made good
voluntarily.
11. If there is a reasonable suspicion that a loss sustained by the Government is due to the commission of a criminal
offence, the procedure prescribed in Article 301 and 302 should be followed.
12. An officer accused of misappropriation shall be suspended forthwith under Rule 8(1)(c) of the Andhra Pradesh Civil
Services (CC&A) Rules, 1991 pending investigation or trial of the offence till he is dismissed or removed from service
upon conviction or conclusion of disciplinary proceedings as the case may be.
13. Initiation of Departmental inquiries and Criminal proceedings: - Article 301 lays down that department proceedings
should be instituted at the earliest possible moment against all the Government servants involved in any loss sustained
by the Government on account of fraud, embezzlement or any similar offence and conduct with strict adherence to the
rules, up to the point at which prosecution or any one of them begINS. The Departments should ensure that charges are
framed by the disciplinary authority in accordance with the procedure prescribed under the rule 20 of Andhra Pradesh
Civil Services (CC&A) Rules, 1991 and action is competed expeditiously observing the prescribed procedure to ensure
that there are no procedural infirmities. The criminal proceedings and departmental action should be processed without
loss of time with a view to avoiding manipulations and loss of evidence. Departmental officers should obtain Photostat
copies of documents and handover the original to Police so that simultaneous action in regard to criminal proceedings
and disciplinary action can be taken. Departmental action should be completed within 3 to 4 months. At this stage it may
be specifically considered whether it is practicable to carry the departmental proceedings without waiting for the result of
the prosecution, if it is so, they should be carried out as far as possible but not as a rule, to the stage of finding and
sentence. If the accused is convicted, the departmental proceedings against him should be resumed and formally
completed. If the accused is not convicted, the authority competent to take disciplinary action should examine whether
the facts of the case disclose adequate ground for continuing departmental action against him. Simultaneous disciplinary
and criminal proceedings can be initiated by the Department against the persons responsible for misappropriation and
supervisory officers whose failure lead to the offences. Following the decision of the Himachal Pradesh High Court in
Khushiram Vs. Union of India (1973) (2) SLR.PP564-565) it is not obligatory that the departmental proceedings should
Page 46/168
----- PAGE 47 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
be stayed when the case is pending in a court of law, except when it is expedient to do so in the interest of fair play.
14. Procedure for filing of complaints with local police or the Crime Investigation Department.
Prosecution for embezzlement of public money or property is laid down in Article 302. Whenever the head of an office
finds that there is a reasonable suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed in respect of public money or
property, he should as a general rule report the matter at once to the Police and the head of his Department that he has
laid an information before the police. When the case is heard by the Court, the head of the office concerned should see
that all the witnesses serving in his department and all documentary evidence in the control of his department are
punctually produced. He should also appoint a Government servant of the Department to attend the proceedings in the
court and assist the prosecuting staff. If prosecution for an offence of this kind results in the discharge or acquittal of any
person, or in the imposition of any sentence which appears to be inadequate, the head of the office concerned should at
once send a full statement of the facts of the case. If it is considered that further proceedings should be taken in revision
or appeal, he should proceed accordingly.
15. In order to reduce the number of cases of misappropriation sent for investigation by the Police and prosecution
thereafter, a monetary limit of Rs.1000/ - is fixed below which the cases will be handled departmentally only. The
Department should ensure that all material needed for investigation is made available to the Station House Officer of the
Police Station having jurisdiction. In the event Crime Investigation Department investigation is considered essential in
view of the quantum of money involved or the complexity of the misappropriation case action should be taken by the
Secretariat Department concerned to refer the case to the criminal investigation department at Hyderabad in
consultation with Home Department in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Director General, Crime
Investigation Department. If in the course of any investigation into corruption, misappropriation is noticed by the Anti
Corruption Bureau in such a case the Anti Corruption Bureau itself will initiate action for prosecution of that case.
16. The Departments of Secretariat should consult the Home Department before entrusting any case to the Crime
Investigation Department for investigation. To establish the offence of misappropriation, cheating / forgery and use of
forged documents utilization of take certificate etc., it is essential that:
(i)
The complaint lodged by competent authority should contain specific information regarding details of crime and persons
responsible, amount involved and the matter or mode of commission of offence.
(ii)
The details of crime should contain essential ingredients of cognizable crime.
(iii)
Whenever complaint involving misappropriation of public funds is preferred, it should be mandatory to initiate
departmental audit to establish the instances and amounts of misappropriation. Steps will be taken by the concerned
officers to ensure preservation of original documents i.e., bills, vouchers etc., Requirements should be sent to the Pay
and Accounts Officer, Treasury authorities / Accountant General Office with a specific request to preserve the
documents which would prove the culpability of persons responsible for such frauds / misappropriation. Specimen
signatures and admitted handwritings of persons responsible for misappropriation, fraud etc. should be made available
to the investigating agency.
(iv)
For expeditious and proper investigation it is also imperative that relevant records of the case, like forged documents
duplicate copies of vouchers, audit report, preliminary enquiry report conducted by the respective department, note files,
registers etc., a re-handed over (in original) to the Crime Investigation Department with Xerox copies being retained by
the Department concerned for the purpose of disciplinary action and for record.
17. It should be ensured therefore that a comprehensive complaint should be lodged with Crime Investigation
Department containing details of the crime / persons responsible for the Commission of such offences that complaints
should be lodged with original signature of the officers who are fully acquainted with the facts of the case and have been
associated with the preliminary enquiry or departmental enquiry. Copies of relevant documents should also be enclosed
along with the complaint. The departments preferring complaints should also ensure collection and safe custody of
original document relating to the offence.
18. Handing over of records / sending necessary assistance to Investigating Agencies:
All Heads of Offices should hand over the records requisitioned by the local Police officers of the Bureau or the crime
Investigation Department as the case may be and render all necessary assistance to Investigating Officers in either
Page 47/168
----- PAGE 48 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
case. Senior Civil Servants who are defector complainants in Criminal cases or who are intimately acquainted with the
facts and circumstances of the cases and whose evidence is relevant and material to prove the case in a court of law
should tender their evidence when examined by the Investigating Officers of the Crime Investigation Department in a
Court of Law. The investigation should not normally take more than one year after it is entrusted to the Crime
Investigation Department / Anti Corruption Bureau however complicated the case may be.
19. The Government have decided that special cells will be created in the investigating agencies for departments where
the number of misappropriation cases are large and persons form these cells, and Investigating Agency would maintain
close liaison with the departments so that they can tender necessary guidance to expedite cases.
20. In all cases of misappropriation, after investigation is completed by the Police and charge sheets filed, such cases
should be pursued effectively to ensure that there is no letup in prosecuting the cases effectively and that there is no
failure on the part of the Assistant Public Prosecutor, etc., in conducting the prosecution properly. In case, where the trail
ultimately ends in acquittal, immediate action may be taken to file appeals, after obtaining legal opinion. In cases, where
it is felt that the prosecution was conducted improperly and the prosecuting officers have not taken adequate interest,
responsibility must be fixed for their failure to conduct the prosecution successfully. To ensure a proper watch, the
Departments should review all such cases periodically for the half years ending 30/6 and 31/12 of every year furnish
their review to the General Administration (Services) Department. Even when there are no such cases, a NIL' report has
to be furnished.
21. Attachment and confiscation of the properties of the accused: - Whenever it is believed that a scheduled offence is
committed, the concerned Departmental Officers should collect the necessary data regarding movable / immovable
property standing in the name of the person family members, relatives and friends and orders shall be issued for
attachment of the properties under Sections 3 and 4 of the Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1994 contemplates
that if any person commits any offence punishable under Section 406, 408, 409, 411, 417 and 420 of the IPC 1860 or
under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 13 of the P.0 Act, 1988, the Government may whether or not any court has
taken cognizance of offence, authorize the making of an application to the District Judge concerned for attachment of
the money or other property which the State Government believes the said person to have procured by means of the
said offence or if such money or property cannot for any reason be attached of other property of the said person of value
as nearly as may be equivalent to that of the aforesaid money or other property.
(i)
The attachment can be of the money or other property which the State Government believes the said person to have
procured by means of the offence or it such money or the property cannot for any reason be attached, of other property
of the said person of value as nearly as may be equivalent to that aforesaid money or other property.
(ii)
The District Judge has jurisdiction to issue an interim order of attachment of moneys procured by commission of a
scheduled offence and deposited in Bank. Such money in the hands of the Bank does not cease to be attachable
although its identity is lost by getting mixed up with the other money of the Bank, long as it is not converted into anything
else and remains liable to be paid back in cash to the depositor or to his order (K Satwant Singh Vs. Provincial
Government of Punjab, AIR 1946 Lah 406)
(iii)
Where the assets available for attachment are not sufficient and where he is satisfied that the transfer of the property to
the transferee was not in good faith and for consideration, the District Judge has power to order the attachment of so
much of the transferee's property equivalent to the value of the property, transferred, as per section 6 of the Ordinance.
(iv)
The court having jurisdiction to entertain the application for attachment of property under the said Ordinance is the court
of the District Judge within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the suspect ordinarily resides or carries on his business.
A Special Judge while trying an offence punishable under the said Act an exercise all the powers and functions
exercisable by a District Judge under the Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, as per sub-section (6) of section 5 of the
Prevention of Corruption Act 1988.
(v)
The District Judge is empowered under Section 4 (1) of the Ordinance, as also the Special Judge trying an offence
punishable under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 to pass an interim order of attachment of the money or other
property and to make the an interim order of attachment absolute, under Section 5 of Ordinance.
Page 48/168
----- PAGE 49 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(vi)
The order of attachment remains in force for 3 months as per clause (a) of Section 10, but the period has been raised to
one year by the Prevention of Corruption. Act, 1988 as per Clause (b) of Section 2 thereof. Where a court has taken
cognizance of the Scheduled offence, the order of attachment continues in force until order are passes by the judge, as
per Clause (b) of Section 10 of the Ordinance.
(vii)
The District Judge or a Special Judge trying an offence punishable under the P.0 Act. 1988 has power to order forfeiture
of the attached property on the termination of the criminal proceedings where the final judgement or order of the criminal
court is one of conviction as per sub-sec(3) of Section 13 of Section 13 of the Ordinance.
(viii)
The above provision should be used for attaching the properties of the Government Servant(s) who are found to have
misappropriated Government money pending the criminal proceedings and eventual confiscation of the property.
22.
Invoking provision of Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery Act: - The provisions of Revenue Recovery Act can be
invoked for recovery of the misappropriated amounts or loss caused to the Government Recovery of misappropriated
amount or loss caused to Government can be recovered as if it were an arrear of land Revenue in accordance with the
procedure laid down in the A.P. Revenue Recovery Act. Where the officer responsible fails to remit the amount to the
Government account. It is open to Government to file a civil suit for a recovery of such sum as a last resort.
23.
Punishments to be awarded in proved cases of misappropriation: -There is a wide disparity in the scales of punishment
meted out in misappropriation cases. The question of prescribing uniform scale of punishment in such cases has been
considered by Government It has been decided that ordinarily cases of proved misappropriation would justify nothing
less than dismissal from service and action should accordingly be taken. The minimum penalty to be imposed in all
proven cases of misappropriation (in addition to the recovery of amount misappropriated) is dismissal form service. In
case of a retired employees the penalty should be withholding of entire pension and gratuity permanently or withdrawal
of pension as the case may be besides recovery of the misappropriation / loss amount. There may, however, be rare
cases where in the circumstances, such as trivial amount, short duration, immediate payment on detection, all of which
may raise a presumption that it was an error in accounting, which may justify a different punishment. A clear distinction
should be drawn between the cases of "delayed remittance" and "misappropriation" having regard to the fact that in
proved cases of misappropriation no punishment short of dismissal is normally justified and accordingly the case of
'delayed remittance' need not always be classified for the purpose of audit as a case of misappropriation.
24.
An officer who is convicted by a Criminal Court for the offence of misappropriation or fraud should be dismissed from
service without waiting for failing of an appeal or its outcome. Such action would be taken not withstanding suspension
of sentence by an Appellate Court. It shall not be necessary to consult the Andhra Pradesh Public Service commission
for taking action to dismiss the officer on the grounds of conviction in a Court of Law. In the case of an officer who in the
meantime has retired, his pension and gratuity shall be withheld or where it has already been sanctioned, his pension
should be withdrawn. The officer, who fails to enforce these instructions promptly, will be held responsible for any loss to
the Government on account of avoidable payment of subsistence allowance or provisional pension as the case may be.
25.
Consultation with Vigilance Commission: - In all cases of misappropriation, the Vigilance Commissioner has to be
consulted in accordance with the procedural instructions of the Commission.
26.
Review of Cases: - There should be periodical office inspections by the Heads of Department and such inspections
should invariably cover financial aspects, accounts and cases of misappropriation of funds, if any. In the office of heads
of Department, one officer may be nominated as Vigilance Officer to keep track of cases involving misappropriation of
Government funds. The Chief Vigilance Officers of the Secretariat Departments under the Vigilance Officers of heads of
Department, Public Enterprises, Autonomous Bodies and Cooperative Institutions etc., to keep track of the cases of
misappropriation of funds by Government employees.
27.
The Finance Department will nominate an officer specially to monitor the pendency and watch progress with reference
Page 49/168
----- PAGE 50 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
to statistics that will be furnished to him by the other Departments. This officer would place the statistical data regarding
outstanding misappropriation cases for a review by Chief Secretary to Government with Secretaries Departments
periodically.
28.
The secretary of each Department should review each month all cases of misappropriation in his Department and send
a copy of the review containing full details to the officer nominated for the purpose in the Finance Department. The Chief
Secretary will review these cases with all Secretaries to Government once in 6 month to find out whether there are any
bottle necks in expediting cases of misappropriation.
29.
All the Departments of Secretariat, all the head of Department and District collectors are directed to bring these
instructions to the notice of their subordinates for their guidance and compliance and enforce strict compliance of these
instructions and any deviation in the matter will be viewed seriously.
21. Disciplinary cases referred to Commission for concurrence - Decision taken by Government without waiting for
Commission's advice/in-deviation of Commission's advice - Certain instructions - Reg.
(Cir. Memo No. 93035/Ser-C/A1/20084, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 25-6-2009)
Ref :- From the Secretary, A.P.P.S.C. Letter No. 672/RT-I/3/2006, dated 6-11-2008.
Order: - The Secretary, Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission has stated that in some disciplinary cases
punishment orders are being issued without regard to the Commission's opinion/advice. He has appended details in
certain cases in which orders are issued without waiting for Commission's advice and are in-deviation of Commission's
advice.
2. It is mandatory to consult the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission as per Regulation 17 of the Andhra
Pradesh Public Service Commission Regulations, 1963. Where the Government proposed to impose a major penalty
against a Government employee in any disciplinary case, the suggestion of the Commission shall be kept in view in
taking decision to conclude the disciplinary proceedings against the employee. If it is proposed to deviate the suggestion
of the Commission, procedure prescribed in the Business Rules shall be followed. The very objective of consulting the
Commission is, before arriving a decision in any disciplinary case either to punish the employee or otherwise, to ensure
a careful examination of the issue that the innocent should not be punished. In this context, the Commission are of the
view to keep in view the. suggestions of the Commission in the disciplinary cases and not to deviate from the
suggestions.
3. All the Departments of Secretariat are therefore requested to take into consideration the suggestion of the
Commission while taking a final decision to conclude the disciplinary proceedings.
10. Other penalties:
- In addition to the penalties specified in Rule 9 and notwithstanding anything therein, the following penalties may for
good and sufficient reasons and as hereinafter provided, be imposed, namely : -
(i)
fine, on a member of the Andhra Pradesh Last Grade Service and on a person holding any of the posts specified in
Appendix-I to these rules;
(ii)
suspension for a period not exceeding fifteen days-
(a)
on Forest Guards;
(b)
on directly recruited members of the Andhra Pradesh Police Subordinate Service and the Andhra Pradesh Special
Armed Police Service;
(c)
on Station Officers, Engineers, Sub-Officers, Leading Firemen, Driver-Mechanics, Driver-Operators,
Firemen-Mechanics, Firemen and equivalent ranks of the Andhra Pradesh Fire Subordinate Service :
Provided that the penalty may be imposed on Government Servants mentioned in sub-clauses (b) and (c) only if the
penalty of reduction to a lower grade, post or time-scale or to a lower stage in the same time-scale cannot be imposed.
11. Disciplinary Authorities in respect of State Services:
(1)
Page 50/168
----- PAGE 51 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
The High Court of Andhra Pradesh may impose on members of the Andhra Pradesh State Judicial Service, any of the
penalties specified in [clauses (i) to (vii)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 205, G.A.D., 5-6-1998]
of Rule 9 :
Provided that the High Court of Andhra Pradesh may impose on Judicial First Class Magistrates any of the penalties
specified in Rule 9.
(2)
(i)
The Commissioners concerned may impose on Tahsildars, Assistant Superintendents of Excise (including Chemical
Examiner in the cadre of Assistant Superintendent of Excise), Deputy Commercial Tax Officers and Assistant Directors
of Survey and Land Records, any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (v) of Rule 9;
(ii)
The District Collector may impose on Tahsildars the penalties of (a) censure, (b) withholding of increment for a period of
three months without cumulative effect;
(iii)
(a)
The Commissioner, Commercial Taxes may impose on Commercial Tax Officers the penalties of (a) censure, (b)
withholding of increment for a period of three months without cumulative effect;
(b)
The Deputy Commissioner, Commercial Taxes may impose on Deputy Commercial Tax Officers the penalties of (a)
censure, (b) withholding of increment for a period of three months without cumulative effect.
(iv)
[ (a) The Commissioner, Panchayat Raj and Rural Employment may impose the minor penalties as specified in clauses
(i) to (v) of Rule 9, on Chief Executive Officers, Zilla Parishad, Deputy Chief Executive Officers, Zilla Parishad, District
Panchayat Officers and Accounts Officers of Zilla Parishad.
[Added by G.O.Ms. No. 382, G.A.D., dated 15-09-2001]
(c)
The Collector and District Magistrate may impose the minor penalties as specified in clauses (i) to (v) of Rule 9, on
Mandal Parishad Development Officers, Divisional Panchayat Officers/Extension Officers (Panchayats), Extension
Officers (Rural Development), Executive Officers (Gram Panchayat).]
(3)
The Principal Secretary to Government, the Second Secretary to Government, the Special Secretary to Government, the
Secretary to Government and the Secretary to Governor may impose on Section officers working in their respective
departments, any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (v) of Rule 9.
(3A)
[ The Principal Secretary to Government, the Second Secretary to Government, Special Secretary to Government, the
Secretary to Government and the Secretary to Governor may impose on the Private Secretaries to the said Secretaries
to Government working in their respective departments, any of the penalties specified in clauses (1) to (v) of Rule 9]
[Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 199, G.A.D., 16-5-1997]
.
(4)
[ (i) The District Treasury Officer may impose on Sub-Treasury Officer the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of Rule
9.
(ii)
The Joint Directors/Regional Joint Directors, Treasuries and Accounts Department may impose on Assistant Treasury
Officer/Assistant Accounts Officer and District Treasury Officer /Accounts Officer/ Pension Payment Officer /Assistant
Director and other Officers of equivalent cadre in Treasuries and Accounts Department the penalties specified in clause
(i) of Rule 9.
(iii)
The Director of Treasuries and Accounts Department may impose on Deputy Director/ Chief Accounts Officer and other
Officers of equivalent cadre in Treasuries and Accounts Department the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of Rule
Page 51/168
----- PAGE 52 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
9].
(5)
The Director of Local Fund Audit may impose on the Audit Officers of the Andhra Pradesh Local Fund Audit Service, the
penalties specified in clauses (i) and (iv) Rule 9.
(6)
The Commissioner, Endowments Department may impose on the Deputy Commissioners and Assistant
Commissioners, Endowments Department, the penalties specified in clauses (i) and (iv) of Rule 9.
(7)
[]
[Omitted by G.O.Ms. No. 246, G.A.D., dated 13-6-1997]
(8)
The Director of Municipal Administration may impose on Municipal Commissioners of the Andhra Pradesh Municipal
Commissioners Subordinate Service any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of Rule 9.
(9)
The Director of Agriculture may impose on the Deputy Directors of Agriculture, the penalty specified in clause (i) of Rule
9.
(10)
(i)
The Director, Bureau of Economics and Statistics or the District Collector may impose on District Statistical Officer, the
penalty specified in clause (i) of Rule 9.
(ii)
The Director, Bureau of Economics and Statistics may impose on Assistant Directors, any of the penalties specified in
clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) of Rule 9;
(11)
The Director, Commerce and Export Promotion may impose on Assistant Directors and Section Officers in categories H
and III of the Andhra Pradesh Central Stores Purchase Service, any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of
Rule 9.
(12)
The Commissioner of Labour may impose on Assistant Commission of Labour, any of the penalties specified in clauses
(i), (ii) and (iv) of Rule 9.
(13)
The Inspector-General of Registration and Stamps may impose on District Registrars (including Assistant
Inspector-General), any of the penalties specified in clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) of Rule 9.
(14)
The Commissioner/Director of Fisheries may impose on Deputy Directors of Fisheries, any of the penalties specified in
clauses (i) to (iv) of Rule 9.
(15)
The State Port Officer, Andhra Pradesh may impose on Assistant Engineer for Marine Works at minor ports, the penalty
specified in clause (i) of Rule 9.
(16)
(i)
The Director of School Education may impose on Officer in Class II of the Andhra Pradesh Educational Service, any of
the penalties specified in clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) of Rule 9,
(ii)
The Director of Higher Education may impose on Deputy Directors of Higher Education, Chief Academic Guidance
Officer in the State Council for Educational Research and Training, Hyderabad and Principals of Government Degree
Colleges, any of the penalties specified in clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) of Rule 9;
(iii)
The Director of Adult Education may impose on Deputy Directors of Adult Education and District Adult Education
Officers, the penalty specified in clause (i) of Rule 9.
(17)
Page 52/168
----- PAGE 53 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(i)
The Director of Medical Education may impose on Civil Assistant Surgeons, any of the penalties specified in clauses (i)
to (iv) of Rule 9;
(ii)
The Principals of Medical Colleges may impose on Civil Assistant Surgeons of Clinical and Non-Clinical Specialities, any
of the penalties specified in clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) of Rule 9;
(iii)
The Superintendents of General Hospitals attached to Medical Colleges may impose on Civil Assistant Surgeons of
Clinical Specialities and Civil Assistant Surgeons belonging to the Specialities of Bio-Chemistry, Pathology and
Micro-Biology, any of the penalties specified in clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) of Rule 9;
(iv)
The Superintendent of the District Headquarters Hospitals may impose on Civil Assistant Surgeons working in the
District Headquarters Hospitals, any of the penalties specified in clauses (i), (ii) & (iv) of Rule 9;
(v)
The District Medical and Health Officers may impose on Civil Assistant Surgeons working in the Hospitals in the Districts
other than those working in the District Headquarters Hospitals, any of the penalties specified in clauses (i), (ii) and (iv)
of Rule 9.
(18)
(i)
The Director of Public Health may impose on Statistician and Medical Officer (Maternity and Child Health) Grade–II, any
of the penalties specified in [clauses (i) to (vii)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 205, G.A.D., 5-6-1998]
of Rule 9];
(ii)
The Director of Health and Family Welfare may impose on Civil Assistant Surgeons in the Public Health Department,
any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of Rule 9.
(19)
(i)
The Director of Animal Husbandry may impose on members in Classes III and IV of the Andhra Pradesh Animal
Husbandry Service, any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of Rule 9;
(ii)
The Regional Director or Deputy Director may impose on Veterinary Officers, any of the penalties specified in clauses (i)
to (iv) of Rule 9.
(20)
[(i) The Superintendent Engineer (Irrigation) may impose all minor penalties and major penalty of stoppage of annual
grade increments with cumulative effect on Assistant Executive Engineer and Deputy Executive Engineer (Irrigation)
(ii)
The Engineer-in-Chief (Irrigation) may impose all other major penalties as specified in Rule 9 of these Rules on
Assistant Executive Engineer and Deputy Executive Engineer (Irrigation).]
(21)
The Chief Engineer (Electricity) may impose on-
(a)
Assistant Engineers, Store Superintendents, Chief Accountants and Deputy Chief Accountants under his control, the
penalties specified in clause (i) of Rule 9; and
(b)
the Non-Technical Personal Assistant in his office, any of the penalties specified in [clauses (i) to (vii)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 205, G.A.D., 5-6-1998]
of Rule 9;
(22)
The Engineer-in-Chief (R&B) may impose on Deputy Executive Engineers (R&B), the penalties specified in clause (i) of
Rule 9.
Page 53/168
----- PAGE 54 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(23)
[(i) The Superintendent Engineer (Public Health) may impose all minor penalties and major penalty of stoppage of
annual grade increments with cumulative effect on Assistant Executive Engineer and Deputy Executive Engineer (Public
Health).
(ii)
The Engineer-in-Chief (Public Health) may impose all other major penalties specified in Rule 9 of these rules on
Assistant Executive Engineer and Deputy Executive Engineer (Public Health).]
(24)
(i)
The Chief Engineer (General and Panchayati Raj) may impose on Deputy Executive Engineers of the Panchayati Raj
Engineering Service, any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of Rule 9;
(ii)
The Superintending Engineer (Panchayati Raj) may impose on Assistant Executive Engineers of the Panchayati Raj
Engineering Service, any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) and (iv) of Rule 9;
(25)
(i)
The Deputy Inspector-General of Police or an officer of corresponding rank may impose on-
(a)
Deputy Superintendents of Police, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Assistant Commandant, Andhra Pradesh Special
Police, Deputy Superintendents, Police Communications and Technical Assistant to Police Transport Officer, any of the
penalties specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of Rule 9; and
(b)
Inspector of Police, Reserve Inspector, Armed Reserve, Reserve Inspector, Andhra Pradesh Special Police, Inspector of
Police, Shorthand Bureau, Inspector of Police, Communications, Inspector of Police, Transport Organisation, Inspector
of Women Police, any of the penalties specified in Rule 9;
(ii)
The Superintendent of Police, or an officer of corresponding rank may also impose on Inspector of Police, Reserve
Inspector of Armed Reserve, Reserve Inspector of Police, Andhra Pradesh Special Police, Inspector of Police,
Shorthand Bureau, Inspector of Police, Communications, Inspector of Police Transport Organisation, Inspector of
Women Police, any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of Rule 9.
(26)
The General Manager, District Industries Centre or an officer not lower in rank than a Joint Director of Industries, who is
the Head of the District Industries Centre may impose on a member of service holding a post included in category III of
the Andhra Pradesh Industries Service, the penalties specified in clauses (i) and (iv) of Rule 9.
(26)
[(a) The Principal Chief Conservator of Forests may impose on Assistant Conservator of Forest any of the penalties
specified in clause (i), (ii) and (iv) of Rule 9.]
[Added by G.O. Ms. No. 496, G.A.D., dated 29-11-1996]
(b)
[ The Commissioner of Industries may impose on Officers of the Industries Department upto and including the Officers of
the rank of Joint Directors of Industries, any of the penalties specified in clause (i) to (v) of Rule 9]
[Added by G.O.Ms. No. 247, G.A.D., dated 16-6-1997]
.
(c)
[ The Controller, Legal Metrology may impose on the Assistant Controllers, Legal Metrology any of the penalties
specified in clauses (i) to (v) of Rule 9.]
[Added by G.O.Ms.No. 179, G.A. (Ser.C), dated 19-5-1998]
(d)
[ The Commissioner and Director, Handlooms & Textiles may impose on the Deputy Director (Handlooms & Textiles) the
penalties specified in clauses (i) and (iv) of Rule 9.]
[G.O.Ms.No. 359, G.A. (Ser.C), dated 7-9-1998]
Page 54/168
----- PAGE 55 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(27)
Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions -
(i)
every Head of Department may impose on a member of the State Services under his control, the penalty specified in
clause (iii) of Rule 9, except in the case of such member holding a post immediately below his rank; and
(ii)
[ every Head of Department declared to be the appointing authority may impose on a member of the State Service
holding a post at first level or at second level under his control, any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (viii) of
Rule 9.]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 428, G.A.D., Di 13-10-1999]
(iii)
[ the Special Chief Secretary and Chief Commmissioner of Land Administration may impose any of the penalties
specified in clause (ix) and (x) of Rule 9 on Mandal Revenue Officers.]
[Added by G.O. Ms. No. 231, G.A.D., dated 7-06-2005]
Executive Instruction
1. Empowering the District Collectors for initiating disciplinary proceedings against the District Officials
[G.O.Ms.No. 77,  General  Administrator  (Ser.-C) Department , dated 27-2-19961
Order: - The need for effective coordination of administration of District levet and for smooth implementation of various
Programmes/Schemes is keenly felt. The District Collectors were stating that in many cases, the District Officers were
not keeping the Collectors informed when going on leave. The Collectors were also mentioning that some minimum
powers of taking disciplinary action should be given to the Collectors so that the Collectors would be able to exercise
effective control over the District Officers. Their submission was that even if they initiate action and if it is followed up by
the Head of the Department, it would still serve the desired objective.
2. The District Collector is empowered to impose on Tahsildars now called the Mandal Revenue Officers the penalties of
censure, withholding of increment for a period of three months without cumulative effect. According to the A.P. Civil
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991, the District Collector is not empowered with any disciplinary
powers on any other Departmental Official. The District Collector is the modal authority at the District level to coordinate,
monitor and supervise the activities of the different departments to ensure smooth and effective implementation of the
Government policies. To achieve the desired objective, it is considered necessary to empower the District Collector with
disciplinary powers on the Government Officials irrespective of the Department to which they belong whenever there is
serious lapse on their part.
3. Under the A.P. Civil Services (Classification Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991, "disciplinary authority" means the
authority competent under the rules to impose on a Government Servant any of the penalties specified in Rule 9 or Rule
10. While usually the appointing authority is the disciplinary authority, Rule 11 of the A.P. Civil Services (CCA) Rules,
1991, specified the various disciplinary authorities to inflict specified penalties in respect of the State Services.
According to sub-rule (27) thereunder :
(i)
every Head of Department may impose on a member of the State Service under his control, the penalty specified in
clause (iii) of rule 9, except in the case of such member holding a post immediately below his rank; and
(ii)
every Head of Department declared to be the appointing authority may impose on a member of the State Service
holding an initial Gazetted post under his control any of the penalties specified in clause (i) to (vii) of Rule 9.
4. According to Rule 12, notwithstanding anything in Rule 11, the Government may impose any of the penalties
specified on the members of the State Services. By virtue of this provision, the State Government may inflict any penalty
on a member of either a State or Sub-ordinate Service, irrespective of the fact whether it is the appointing authority or
not.
5. According to Rule 19(1) of the A.P. Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1991, the Government or any other authority
empowered by it by general or special order may institute disciplinary proceedings against any Government servant.
6. Government, therefore, hereby authorise the District Collectors to initiate disciplinary action against erring District
Officials by issuing Show Cause Notice and obtain their explanations. Thereafter, basing on the merits of the
Explanation, the District Collectors should send the material to the concerned Head of the Department or Government
Page 55/168
----- PAGE 56 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
for taking further necessary action. The District Collectors are advised to resort to the aforesaid process sparingly and in
exceptional circumstances only.
2. Delegation of Disciplinary powers to Regional Officers and Heads of Departments - Reg.
(Memo. No. 32665/Ser.C/99-2, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 27-10-1999)
Ref :- G.O. Ms. No. 428, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 13-10-1999.
Order: - In the order cited, amendments have been issued to Rule 11 of the A.P. Civil Services (Classification, Control
and Appeal) Rules, 1991, empowering the Heads of Departments to impose penalties specified in clauses (i) to (viii) of
Rule 9 on first and second level officers in the State Service. Rule 13 was also amended to confer disciplinary powers
on Regional authority, whenever it exists, to place under suspension the officer holding the post of first level category in
State service and where no such authority exists, the Head of the Department is empowered to place under suspension
the first and second level officers in the State Service.
2. The Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments and District Collectors are requested to take expeditious
action to identify and designate the authorities in the respective service and departments the disciplinary authorities in
accordance with the order cited and issue executive orders immediately. In processing the issue, they are requested to
keep in view the authorities designated as per the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Organisation of Local Cadres
and Regulation of Direct Recruitment) Order 1975 (Presidential Order) issued by the  General  Administrator  (SPF.A)
Department. The orders issued by the Departments of Secretariat shall be furnished to the  General  Administrator 
(Ser.C) Department  to take action for issue of amendments to the A.P. Civil Services (Classification, Control and
Appeal) Rules, 1991.
12. Government's power to impose penalties on members of State Services:
- Notwithstanding anything in Rule 11, the Government may impose any of the penalties specified in Rule 9 on members
of the State Services.
13. Authorities competent to suspend members of State Services:
- The authority which may place under suspension under Rule 8 on members of the State Services mentioned in column
(1) of the table below shall be the authority mentioned in column (2) thereof :
TABLE
Class of members of the State Service
Authority which may place under suspension
under Rule 8
1. Members of the State Judicial Service.
High Court of Judicature of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad.
2. Mandal Revenue Officer (Tahsildars) (including Mandal
Revenue Officers, Civil Supplies), Assistant Civil Supply
Officers (Civil Supplies), Assistant Excise Superintendents
(including Chemical Examiner) and Deputy Commercial Tax
Officers.
Commissioners concerned.[The District Collectors are
empowered to place to Mandal Revenue Officers (Tahsildar Cadre)
under suspension for a period of three months and to obtain the
approval of the Commissioner of Land Revenue, if the suspension
period has to be extended beyond the period of three months]
[Added by G.O. Ms. No. 533, G.A.D., dated 6-12-1997, w.e.f. 1-11-1997]
.
2A. [ Mandal Parishad Development Officers, Divisional
Panchayat Officers, Extension Officers (Panchayats), Extension
Officers (Rural Development), Executive Officers (Gram
Panchayats)]
[Added by G.O. Ms. No. 382, G.A.D., dated 15-09-2001]
Collector and District Magistrate
3. Section Officer in the Departments of Secretariat and
Governor's Secretariat.
Page 56/168
----- PAGE 57 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Chief Secretary to Government Principal Secretary to  Government ,
Second Secretary to  Government , Special Secretary to Government or the
Secretary to Governor, as the case my be.
[3(A) Private Secretaries to Secretaries to Government in the
Departments of Secretariat and Governor's Secretariat.]
[Inserted by G.O. Ms. No. 199, G.A.D., 16-5-1997]
Chief Secretary to Government, Principal Secretary to  Government ,
Second Secretary to  Government , Secy. to Gov., Special Secy to
Government. or the Secretary to Governor, as the case may be.
4. [(i) Assistant Executive Engineers (Irrigation)(ii)
Deputy Executive Engineer (Irrigation)]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 353 G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 18-11-2003]
Executive Engineer (Irrigation)Superintendent Engineer,
(Irrigation)]
5. Asst. Research Officers in the Engineering Research
Department.
Chief Engineer incharge Engineering Research Department .
6. (i) Deputy Executive Engineers, Roads and Buildings
Department.(ii) Non Technical Personal Asst. to the Chief
Engineer (Roads & Buildings)
(i) Engineer in Chief (R&B).(ii) Chief Engineer
concerned to whom the Non-Technical Personal Assistant is
attached.
7. [(i) Assistant Executive Engineers (Public Health)(ii)
Deputy Executive Engineer (Public Health)]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 353 G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 18-11-2003]
Executive Engineer (Public Health)Superintendent
Engineer (Public Health)
8. Deputy Executive Engineer of Panchayat Raj Engineering
Department-Non-Technical Personal Assts. to the Chief Engineer
(Gent. & P.R.)
Chief Engineer ( General & P.R.)
9. Civil Assistant Surgeons and Health Officers.
Director of Medical Education or Inspector-General of Prisons
if the misconduct relates to professional duties of Jail
discipline.
10. Statistical Officers and Medical Officers (Maternity and
Child Health), Grade-II.
Director of Medical Education
11. Lay Secretary and Treasurers in Government Medical
Institutions.
Director of Medical Education or Director of Indian Medicine
and Homeopathy as the case may be.
12. Members in Class IV of the Andhra Pradesh Animal
Husbandry Service.
Director of Animal Husbandry.
13. []
[Omitted by G.O.Ms. No. 246, G.A.D., Dated 13-6-1997]
14. Inspector or Inspectress of Factories, Inspector of
Boilers, District Inspector of Labour, Inspector of Evaluation
and Implementation and Administrative Officers (Subsidised
Page 57/168
----- PAGE 58 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Housing Scheme).
Commissioner of Labour.
15. Inspectors of Police, Reserve Inspectors, Armed Reserve,
Reserve Inspectors of Andhra Pradesh Special Police, Inspectors
of Police, Shorthand Bureau, Inspectors of Police,
Communications, Inspectors of Police, Transport Organisation,
Inspectors of Women Police.
Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Commissioner of Police or
Officer of corresponding rank concerned.
16. Deputy Director working in the Department of Printing and
in its various wings.
Director of Printing, Stationery and Stores Purchase, Hyd.
[16(a) Assistant Conservator of Forest working in the Forest
Department.]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 428, G.A.D., dated 13-10-1999]
[Principal Chief Conservator of Forests.]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 428, G.A.D., dated 13-10-1999]
(Added by G.O. Ms.
No. 496, G.A.D., dated 29-11-1996)
17. [ (a) Other members of State Services holding initial
Gazetted post.(b) Other members of State Services
holding second level Gazetted post.]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 428, G.A.D., dated 13-10-1999]
Regional authority or where no regional authority exists, the
Head of the Department.Heads of Departments concerned.
14. Disciplinary Authorities and Authorities competent to suspend, in respect of Subordinate Services:
(1)
(a)
(i)
The authority which may place a member of a Subordinate Service under suspension under Rule 8 or impose on such
member the penalties specified in clause (i) of Rule 10 and clauses (i) and (iv) of Rule 9 shall be his immediate superior
gazetted officer or where the appointing authority for such member is a non¬gazetted officer, such officer, or any
authority to which he is subordinate;
(ii)
[ The Executive Engineer (Irrigation) may place the Assistant Engineer (Irrigation) under suspension.
[Added by G.O. Ms. No. 353 G.A (Ser.C) Department , dated 18-11-2003]
(iii)
The Executive Engineer (Public Health) may place the Assistant Engineer (Public Health) under suspension.]
(b)
(i)
The authority which may impose, on a member of a Subordinate Service, the penalty specified in clause (iii) of Rule 9
shall be the officer next above the immediate superior gazetted officer :
Provided that the appointing authority or any authority to which it is subordinate may also impose the aforesaid penalty;
Provided further that the Assistant Excise Superintendent, Tahsildar, Deputy Commercial Tax Officer, Personal
Assistant to the Superintendent of Police and Deputy Superintendent of Police, except to the extent provided in the first
proviso to sub-rule (2), shall not exercise the powers vested in a gazetted officer under this sub-rule; but such powers
shall be exercised by Superintendent of Excise, Revenue Divisional Officer, Commercial Tax Officer, Superintendent of
Police or Additional Superintendent of Police, as the case may be;
Provided also that in the case of the members belonging to the categories of officers specified in Appendix II to these
rules, the authority which may impose any of the penalties specified in clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) of Rule 9 or place under
suspension under Rule 8 shall be as specified thereof against each such category.
Page 58/168
----- PAGE 59 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(ii)
[ The Executive Engineer (Irrigation) may impose minor penalties on Assistant Engineer (Irrigation), and
[Added by G.O. Ms. No. 353 G.A (Ser.C) Department , dated 18-11-2003]
(iii)
The Executive Engineer (Public Health) may impose minor penalties on Assistant Engineer (Public Health)].
(2)
(i)
The authority which may impose on a member of a Subordinate Service, the penalties specified in [clauses (ii) and (v) to
(x)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 205, G.A.D., 5-6-1998]
of Rule 9 shall be the appointing authority or any authority to which it is subordinate :
Provided that in case of the members of the Services specified in Appendix III to these rules, the authority which may
impose any of the penalties specified in Rule 9 and clause (i) of Rule 10, shall be as specified thereof against each;
Provided further that in case of a member of the Andhra Pradesh Subordinate Service or the Andhra Pradesh Special
Armed Police Service, the authority which may impose any of the penalties specified in Rule 9, shall be as specified
against each of the categories in Appendix IV;
Provided also that the Superintendent, Forest School, Yellandu, Forest Utilisation Officer, State Sylviculturist, Working
Plan Officer or District Forest Officer concerned, as the case may be, or any authority to which it is subordinate, may
impose the penalty specified in clause (ii) of Rule 10 on Government servants mentioned in sub-clause (a) thereof;
Provided also that the authority specified as competent to impose the penalty of suspension under clause (v) of Rule 9
in Appendix IV, as the case may be, or any authority to which it is subordinate may impose the penalty specified in
clause (ii) of Rule 10 on Government servants mentioned in sub-clause (b) thereof;
Provided also that the Additional Director of Fire Service or the Regional Fire Officer concerned, as the case may be, or
any authority to which it is subordinate may impose the penalty specified in clause (ii) of Rule 10 on Government
servants mentioned in sub-clause (c) thereof.
[Provided also that the Mandal Development Officer may impose the minor penalties and keep under suspension the
Superintendent, Extension Officer (Panchayat Raj & Rural Development), Senior Assistant, Panchayat Secretaries,
Junior Assistants, Typists, Class IV employees of Mandal Parishads as specified in clause (i) to (v) of Rale 9 of these
rules.]
[Added by G.O. Ms. No. 53 G.A (Ser.C) Department dated 28-02-2004 w.e.f. 20-09-2003]
(ii)
[ The Superintendent Engineer (Irrigation) may impose major penalties on Assistant Engineer (Irrigation);
[Added by G.O. Ms. No. 353 G.A (Ser.C) Department , dated 18-11-2003]
(iii)
The Superintendent Engineer (Public Health) may impose major penalties on Assistant Engineer (Public Health).]
15. Power of appointing authority etc., to suspend members of State and Subordinate Services:
- Notwithstanding anything in these rules, the appointing authority or any authority to which it is subordinate including
Government may also place under suspension under Rule 8, any member of a Service to whom these rules apply.
16. Disciplinary authority in case of promotion or transfer of a member of a Service and a reversion or reduction
therefrom:
(1)
Where, on promotion or transfer, a member of a service in a class, category or grade is holding an appointment in
another class, category or grade thereof or in another Service, State or Subordinate, no penalty shall be imposed upon
him in respect of his work or conduct before such promotion or transfer except by authority competent to impose the
penalty upon a member of the Service in the latter class, category, grade or service, as the case may be. This provision
shall apply also to cases of transfer or promotion of a person from a post under the jurisdiction of one authority to that of
another authority within the same class, category or grade:
Provided that the authority which may impose any of the penalties on a member of the Andhra Pradesh Police
Subordinate Service or the Andhra Pradesh Special Armed Police Service or the Deputy Superintendent of Police or
Assistant Commissioner of Police in Category 2 and the Inspector of Police in Category 4 of the Andhra Pradesh Police
Service in cases not involving promotion or appointment by transfer, shall be the competent authority having jurisdiction
Page 59/168
----- PAGE 60 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
over such member at the time of commission of such act or omission, as the case may be, or any authority to which it is
subordinate;
Provided further that in case of a member of the Andhra Pradesh Police Subordinate Service or the Andhra Pradesh
Special Armed Police Service, an Officer superior to the competent authority may, for reasons to be recorded in writing,
transfer a record of enquiry in a disciplinary case, from the competent authority to any other authority holding the same
rank for disposal.
(2)
Where a person has been reverted or reduced from a State Service to a Subordinate Service, or from one Service to
another or from one class, category or grade of a Service to another class, category or grade thereof, no penalty shall
be imposed upon him in respect of his work or conduct while he was a member of the service, class, category or grade,
as the case may be, from which he was reverted or reduced, except by an authority competent to impose the penalty
upon a member of such service, class, category or grade.
17. Special Provision in respect of Police Officials employed in Anti-Corruption Bureau, Vigilance and Enforcement
Department and Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta:
- No member of the Andhra Pradesh Police Subordinate Service or an Inspector of Police employed in the
Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Department of Vigilance and Enforcement, General Administration Department or under the
Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta shall be compulsorily retired, removed or dismissed from service during the period of his
employment in the Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Department of Vigilance and Enforcement, General Administration
Department or under the Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta for a period of three years from the date on which he ceased to
be employed therein, without the previous sanction of the State Government;
Provided that the previous sanction of the State Government shall not be necessary for compulsory retirement, removal
or dismissal of a member of the Andhra Pradesh Police Subordinate Service or an Inspector of Police employed in the
Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Department of Vigilance and Enforcement, General Administration Department or under the
Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta, for any act done by him prior to his employment therein.
18. Lower authority not to reopen case : Higher authority can exercise power:
(1)
Where in any case a higher authority has imposed or declined to impose a penalty under Rule 11,12 or 14, a lower
authority shall have no jurisdiction to proceed under these rules in respect of the same case.
(2)
Where in any case a lower authority has imposed a penalty or exonerated a member of a service, it shall not debar a
higher authority from exercising his powers under these rules in respect of the same case. The order of such higher
authority shall supersede any order passed by a lower authority in respect of the same case.
19. Authority to institute proceedings:
(1)
The Government or any other authority empowered by it by general or special order may-
(a)
institute disciplinary proceedings against any Government servant;
(b)
direct a disciplinary authority to institute disciplinary proceedings against any Government servant on whom that
disciplinary authority is competent to impose under these rules any of the penalties specified in Rule 9 or Rule 10.
(2)
A disciplinary authority competent under these rules to impose any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (v) of Rule
9 or in Rule 10 may institute disciplinary proceedings against any Government servant for the imposition of any of the
penalties specified in [clauses (vi) to (x)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 205, G.A.D., 5-6-1998]
of Rule 9 notwithstanding that such disciplinary authority is not competent under these rules to impose any of the latter
penalties.
Executive Instruction
District Collectors authorized to call for explanations of District Officials and intimate disciplinary action under Rule 19(1)
- Validity - Reg.
(Memo. No. 24313/Ser.C/2000, G.A. (Ser. C) Department , dated 26-07-2001)
Page 60/168
----- PAGE 61 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Ref: From Director General, Anti Corruption Bureau, Hyderabad, C.No.27/RPC(C)/2000, Dated 25-04-2000.
Order: - The attention of Director General, Anti Corruption Bureau is invited to the letter cited wherein the following two
points were raised.
Point No. 1 : The empowering of the District Collectors to institute disciplinary proceedings against district officials perse
without going into the merits of the decision, would appear to be within the power vesting in the Government in that
regard under Rule 19(1) (a) of the A.P.C.S. (CC&A) Rules, 1991. But the District Collectors so empowered to institute
disciplinary proceedings under Rule 19(1) (a) of the APCS Rules, 1991 will have to initiate proceedings as per the
procedure laid down under Rule 22 in the case minor penalty proceedings by issuing a charge memo or under Rule 20
in the case of major penalty proceedings by issuing a charge sheet. The Rule do not provide for initiation of disciplinary
action by issuing a show cause notice, obtaining explanation and sending the material to the head of the Department or
Government for taking further action.
Point No. 2 : The A.P.C.S (CC&A) Rules, 1991 apply to members of the Civil Services of the State i.e., holders of Civil
posts in connection with the affairs of the State etc., and not to the members of the All India Services, who are governed
by the All India Services (D&A) Rules, 1969 and as such, the District Collectors empowered under Rule 19 (1) (a) of the
APCS (CC&A) Rules, 1991 cannot exercise power in respect of members of an All India Service like a Superintendent of
Police, heading the police force of the district or an IAS or Indian Forest Service Official. Institution of proceedings
against members of the All India-Services is governed by the provisions of Rule 7 of the AIS (D&A) Rules, 1969 and
State Government is the authority in respect of members of an All India Service Serving in connection with the affairs of
the State, as per sub-clause (1) of Clause (b) of sub-rule (1) of Rule 7 thereof.
The State Government have no power to empower District Collectors, or any other authority to institute disciplinary
proceedings under the said Rules. The same is the position in respect of District Officials not governed by the A.P.C.S
(CC&A) Rules, 1991.
(1)
The above two points have been examined and the Director General, Anti Corruption Bureau is informed that the orders
were issued in G. 0. Ms. No, 77, General Administration (Ser.C) Department, dated 27-02-1996 empowering the District
Collector to invoke Rule 19 of A.P. Civil Services (CC&A) Rules, 1991, is limited to the issue of a show cause notice
against the erring District Officials to submit their explanation for the lapses if any, mentioned in the show-cause notice.
A show-cause notice is not a charge memo in terms of the Rule 20 or 22 of the said rules.
(2)
As regards the second point the D.G., A.C.B., is informed that the District Collectors are not competent to issue
show-cause notice to the District Officials belonging to the All India Services in terms of G. 0. Ms. No. 77, General
Administration (Ser.C) Department, dated 27-07-1996, as the A.P. Civil Services (CCA) Rules are not applicable to All
India Service Officers. The District Collectors, therefore, can initiate action against the Officers other than All India
Service Officers only.
Part - V Procedure For Imposing Penalties
20. [ Procedure for imposing major penalties: - (1) No order imposing any of the penalties specified in clauses (vi) to (x)
of Rule 9 shall be made except after an inquiry held, as far as may be, in the manner provided in this Rule and Rule 21
or in the manner provided by the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Act, 1960 or the
Andhra Pradesh Lokayukta and Upa-lokayukta Act, 1983, where such inquiry is held under the said Acts]
[Standard Forms prescribed under this rule are given at the end of these rules]
.
(2)
Whenever the Disciplinary Authority is of the opinion that there are grounds for inquiring into the truth of any imputation
of misconduct or misbehaviour against a Government Servant, it may itself inquiry into, or appoint under this Rule, as
the case may be, authority to enquire into the truth thereof.
Explanation: - Where the Disciplinary Authority itself holds the inquiry, any reference to the Inquiring Authority shall be
construed as a reference to the Disciplinary Authority.
(3)
[ Where it is proposed to hold an inquiry against a Government Servant under this Rule and Rule 21, the Disciplinary
Authority or the [x x x]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 337, G.A.D., dated 22-07-2006]
Page 61/168
----- PAGE 62 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Controlling Authority who is not designated as Disciplinary Authority and who is subordinate to the Appointing Authority
can draw up or cause to be drawn up -
(i)
The substance of the imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour into definite and distinct articles of charge.
(ii)
A statement of the imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour in support of each article of charge, which shall contain
(a)
A statement of all relevant facts including any admission or confession made by the Government Servant.
(b)
A list of documents by which and a list of witness by whom, the articles of charge are proposed to be sustained.
(4)
The Disciplinary Authority shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the Government Servant a copy of the articles of
charge, the statement of the imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour and a list of documents and witnesses by which
each article of charge is proposed to be sustained and copies of the said documents and statements of the said
witnesses and shall require the Government Servant to appear before the Disciplinary Authority on such day and at such
time not exceeding ten working days and submit a written statement of his defence and to state whether he desires to
be heard in person.
(5)
(a)
On the date fixed for appearance, the Government Servant shall submit the written statement of his defence. The
Disciplinary Authority shall ask the government servant whether he is guilty or has any defence to make and if he pleads
guilty to any of the articles of charges, the Disciplinary Authority shall record the plea, sign the record and obtain the
signature of the Government Servant thereon. The disciplinary authority shall record findings of guilty in respect of those
articles of charge to which the Government servant pleads guilty. Where the Government servant admits all the articles
of charge, the disciplinary authority shall record its findings on each article of charge after taking such evidence as it
may think fit and shall and shall act in the manner laid down in Rule 21.
(b)
Where the Government Servant appears before the Disciplinary Authority and pleads not guilty to the charges or refuses
or omits to plead, the Disciplinary Authority shall record the plea and obtain signature of the Government Servant
thereon and may decide to hold the inquiry itself or if it considers necessary to do so appoint an Inquiring Authority for
holding the inquiry into the charges and also appoint a Government Servant or a retired Government Servant or a legal
practioner as Presenting Officer to present the case in support of the articles of charge and adjourn the case to a date
not exceeding five days.
(c)
On the day so fixed, the disciplinary authority shall serve copies of the orders appointing the inquiring authority and the
Presenting Officer on the Government servant and inform him that he may take the assistance of any other Government
servant to present the case on his behalf, but he may not engage a retired Government servant or a legal practitioner for
the purpose unless the Presenting Officer appointed by the disciplinary authority is one such, or, the disciplinary
authority, having regard to the circumstances of the case, so permits.
Provided that no Government servant dealing in his official capacity with the case of inquiry relating to the person
charged or any officer to whom an appeal may be preferred shall be permitted by the inquiring authority to appear, on
behalf of the person charged before the inquiring authority.
Provided further that the Government servant may take the assistance of any other Government servant posted at any
other station, if the inquiring authority having regard to the circumstances of the case and for reasons to be recorded in
writing, so permits.
Note (1): - The Government Servant shall not take the assistance of any other Government Servant who has pending
two disciplinary cases on hand in which he has to give assistance.
Note (2): - The Government servant may also take the assistance of a retired Government servant to present the case
on his behalf, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Government from time to time by general or special
order in this behalf .
(d)
Page 62/168
----- PAGE 63 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
The Disciplinary Authority shall inform the Government Servant to submit within five days a list of documents, which he
requires to be discovered or produced by Government for the purpose of his defence indicating the relevance of the
documents so required.
(e)
The Disciplinary Authority may for reasons to be recorded in writing refuse to requisition such of the documents as are,
in its opinion, not relevant to the case.
(f)
The Disciplinary Authority shall on receipt of the notice for the discovery or production of documents, forward the same
or copies thereof to the authority in whose custody or possession the documents are kept with a requisition for the
production of the documents by such date as may be specified in such requisition.
(g)
On receipt of the requisition referred to in sub-rule (5)(f), every authority having the custody or possession of the
requisitioned documents shall produce the same before the Disciplinary Authority.
Provided that if the authority having the custody or possession of the requisitioned documents is satisfied for reasons to
be recorded by it in writing that the production of all or any such documents would be against the public interest or
security of the State, shall submit the fact to the Head of Department or to the Secretary of the Department concerned
for a decision in the matter. Such decision shall be informed to the Disciplinary Authority and where the decision is to
withhold production of all or any of such documents, the Disciplinary Authority shall on being so informed communicate
the information to the Government Servant and withdraw the requisition made by it for the production or discovery of
such documents and where the decision is against withholding the production of all or any of such documents, every
Authority having the custody or the possession or the possession of such requisition documents shall produce the same
before the disciplinary authority.
(6)
Where the Government Servant to whom a copy of the article of charge has been delivered does not submit the written
statement of defence on or before the date specified for the purpose or does not appear in person before the
Disciplinary Authority or otherwise fails or refuses to comply with the provisions of this rule, the Disciplinary Authority
may decide to hold the inquiry ex-parte or if it considers necessary so to do, appoint an Inquiry Authority for the purpose.
(7)
(a)
The Disciplinary Authority shall, where it is not the Inquiring Authority, forward to the Inquiring Authority
(i)
a copy of the articles of charge and the statement of the imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour;
(ii)
a copy of the written statement of defence, if any submitted by the Government Servant;
(iii)
copies of the Statements of Witnesses, referred to in sub-rule (3);
(iv)
copies of documents referred to in sub-rule (3);
(v)
evidence proving the delivery of copies of the documents referred to in sub-rule (3) to the Government Servant; and
(vi)
a copy of the order appointing the "Presenting Officer".
(b)
The Disciplinary Authority.shall also forward to the Inquiring Authority documents received under clause (g) of sub-rule
(5) as and when they are received.]
(8)
After receiving the documents mentioned under sub-rule (7) (a), the Inquiring Authority shall issue a notice in writing to
the Presenting Officer and also to the Government Servant to appear before him on such day and at such time and
place specified by him which shall not exceed ten days.
(9)
(a)
Page 63/168
----- PAGE 64 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
The Presenting Officer and Government and Government Servant shall appear before the Inquiring Authority on the
date fixed under sub-rule (8).
(b)
If the Government Servant informs the Inquiring Authority that he wishes to inspect the documents mentioned in sub-rule
(3) for the purpose of preparing his defence, the Inquiring Authority shall order that he may inspect the documents within
five days and the Presenting Officer shall arrange for the inspection accordingly.
(c)
The Inquiring Authority shall call upon the Government Servant whether he admits the genuineness of any of the
documents copies of which have been furnished to him and if he admits the genuineness of any document it may be
taken as evidence without any proof by the concerned witness.
(d)
The Inquiring Authority shall adjourn the case for inquiry to a date not exceeding ten days for production of evidence and
require the Presenting Officer to produce the evidence by which he proposes to prove the articles of charges.
(10)
[(a) On the dates fixed for recording the evidence, the oral and documentary evidence by which the articles of charges
are proposed to be proved shall be produced by or on behalf of the Disciplinary Authority.
(b)
The evidence shall be recorded as far as possible on day-to-day basis till the evidence on behalf of the Disciplinary
Authority is completed.
(c)
The witnesses shall be examined by or on behalf of the Presenting Officer and they may be cross examined by or on
behalf of the Government Servant.
(d)
The Presenting Officer shall be entitled to re-examine the witnesses on any points on which they have been cross
examined, but not on any new matter without the permission of the Inquiring Authority.
(e)
The Inquiring Authority may also put such questions to the witnesses as it thinks fit.]
(11)
(a)
If it appears necessary before the closure of the case on behalf of the Disciplinary Authority, the Inquiring Authority may,
in its discretion, allow the Presenting Officer to produce evidence not included in the list given to the Government
Servant or may itself call for new evidence or recall and re-examine any witness.
(b)
In such case, the Government Servant shall be entitled to have a copy of the list of further evidence proposed to be
produced and an adjournment of the inquiry for three clear days before the production of such new evidence, exclusive
of the day of adjournment and the day to which the inquiry is adjourned.
(c)
The Inquiring Authority shall give the Government Servant an opportunity of inspecting such documents before they are
taken on the record.
Note: - New evidence shall not be permitted or called for and witness shall not be recalled to fill up any gap in the
evidence. Such evidence may be called for only when there is an inherent lacuna or defect in the evidence which has
been produced originally.
(12)
[(a) When the case for the Disciplinary Authority is closed, the Government Servant shall be required to state his
defence orally or in writing as he may prefer and to submit a list of witnesses to be examined on his behalf for which
purpose the case may be adjourned to a date not exceeding five days.
(b)
If the defence is made orally, it shall be recorded and the Government Servant shall be required to sign the record. In
either case, a copy of the statement of defence and the list of defence witness may be provided to the presenting officer,
if any, appointed.
(c)
Page 64/168
----- PAGE 65 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
The case shall be adjourned to a date not exceeding ten days for production of defence evidence.]
(13)
The evidence on behalf of the Government Servant shall then be produced. The Government Servant may examine
himself in his own behalf if he so prefers. The witnesses produced by the Government Servant shall then be examined
and shall be liable to cross examination, re-examination and examination by the Inquiring Authority according to the
provisions applicable to the witnesses for the Disciplinary Authority.
(14)
The Inquiring Authority may after the Government Servant closes his case and shall, if the Government Servant has not
examined himself, generally question him on the circumstances appearing against him in the evidence for purpose of
enabling the Government Servant to explain any circumstances appearing in the evidence against him.
(15)
The Inquiring Authority may, after the completion of the production of evidence, hear the Presenting Officer, if any
appointed, and the Government Servant, or permit them to file written briefs of their respective cases, if they so desire.
(16)
(a)
Where a Disciplinary Authority competent to impose any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (v) of Rule 9 and in
Rule 10, but not competent to impose any of the penalties specified in clauses (vi) to (x) of Rule 9, has itself inquired into
or caused to be inquired into the articles of any charge and that Authority, having regard to its own findings or having
regard to its decision on any of the findings of any Inquiring Authority appointed by it is of the opinion that the penalties
specified in clauses (vi) to (x), of Rule 9 should be imposed on the Government Servant, that Authority shall forward the
records of the inquiry to such Disciplinary Authority as is competent to impose the last mentioned penalties.
(b)
The Disciplinary Authority to which the records are so forwarded may act on the evidence on the record or may if it is of
the opinion that further examination of any of the witnesses is necessary in the interests of justices, recall the witnesses
and examine, cross examine and re-examine the witnesses and may impose on the Government Servant such penalty
as it may deem fit in accordance with these Rules.
(17)
Whenever an Inquiring Authority after having heard and recorded the whole or any part of the evidence in an inquiry
ceases to exercise jurisdiction therein, and is succeeded by another Inquiring Authority which has and which exercises,
such jurisdiction, the Inquiring Authority so succeeding may act on the evidence so recorded by its predecessor, or
partly recorded by its predecessor, and partly recorded by itself.
Provided that if the succeeding Inquiring Authority is of the opinion that further examination of any of the witnesses
whose evidence has already been recorded is necessary in' the interest of justice, it may recall examine, cross examine
and re-examine any such witnesses as herein before provided.
(18)
[ (i) After the conclusion of the inquiry, a report shall be prepared and it shall contain:
(a)
the articles of charge and the statement of the imputation of misconduct or misbehaviour;
(b)
the defence of the Government Servant in respect of each article of charge;
(c)
an assessment of the evidence in respect of each article of charge;
(d)
the findings on each article of charge and the reasons therefor.
Explanation: - If in the opinion of the Inquiring Authority, the proceedings of the inquiry establish any article of charge
different from the original articles of the charge, it may record its findings on such article of charge :
Provided that the findings on such article of charge shall not be recorded unless the Government Servant has either
admitted the facts on which such article of charge is based or has had a reasonable opportunity of defending himself
against such article of charge.
(ii)
The Inquiring Authority, where it is not itself the Disciplinary Authority, shall forward to the Disciplinary Authority the
Page 65/168
----- PAGE 66 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
records of inquiry which; shall include:
(a)
the report prepared by it under clause (i);
(b)
the written statement of defence, if any, submitted by the Government Servant;
(c)
the oral and documentary evidence produced in the course of the inquiry;
(d)
written briefs, if any, filed by the Presenting Officer or Government Servant or both during the course of the inquiry; and
(e)
the orders, if any, made by the Disciplinary Authority and the Inquiring Authority in regard to the inquiry.
Explanation: - It is not necessary to have an inquiry in the manner provided for in this Rule or to hear in person in the
case of reduction of rank in seniority list (A and B lists) of Constables fit for promotion as Head Constables / in the
Andhra Pradesh Police Subordinate Service or Andhra Pradesh [x x x]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No. 383, G.A.D., dated 19-12-2003]
Special Police.]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 337, G.A.D., dated 22-07-2006]
Executive Instructions
1. Procedure for imposing major penalties - Examination of Charged Officer by the Presenting Officer - Clarification.
[Memo. No. 650/Ser.-C/94-3,  General  Administrator  (Ser.-C) Department , dated 6-1-1995]
Ref: - From the Director of Treasuries & Accounts Lr.No. K1/29602/94-3, dated 15-11-94.
Order: - With reference to the letter cited the Director of Treasuries and Accounts is informed that the departmental
enquiry is not a dispute between two parties to be decided by a third party. It is only a proceeding instituted by the
Government as employer, to satisfy itself if the employee has committed misconduct. Technicalities of Criminal Law and
the proof prescribed by Evidence Act are not applicable to departmental enquiries; but the Enquiry Officer has to follow
the Rules governing departmental enquiries and also the principles of natural justice.
Rule 20 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (C.C.A.) Rules, 1991 lays down the procedure to be followed during
departmental enquiry. Sub-rules (16) to (18) of Rule 20 of Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (C.C.A.) Rules, 1991 operate
after the "Presenting Officer" adduces the evidence in support of the charges framed against the delinquent officer. Rule
20 (16) lays down that after the case of the disciplinary authority is closed, the Government servant (i.e., delinquent)
shall be required to state his defence orally or in writing, as he may prefer. Thereafter, (as per Rule 20 (17)) evidence on
behalf of the delinquent officer should be adduced. As per rule 20 (18), if the Government servant has not examined
himself, the inquiring authority may generally question the delinquent on the circumstances appearing against him in
evidence, for the purpose of enabling the Government Servant to explain any circumstances appearing in the evidence
against him. The object of examining the delinquent is only to give him an opportunity to explain the circumstances
appearing against him in the evidence adduced against him (i.e., the delinquent).
In view of the above, the points raised in the letter cited are clarified as follows :
Point Raised
Clarification
(i)Whether the charged Officer can be examined / cross
examined by the presenting officer, to elicit truth in support of
the Articles of Charge; when the Charged Officer does not prefer
to the examination of himself as a Defence Witness and when there
are no other defence witnesses in this case.
"No."
(ii)Whether the enquiry officer can examine and cross examine,
if necessary the charged officer in detail in the absence of any
specific provision for examination of charged officer by the
Presenting Officer.
The Charged Officer cannot be examined or cross examined by
the Presenting Officer or the Inquiry Officer to elicit truth in
Page 66/168
----- PAGE 67 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
support of the articles of Charge when the charged officer does
not prefer to examine himself or examine any witnesses.
(iii)Whether the Defence Assistant for one Charged Officer can
examine/cross examine the other charged officers in the same
case, when he prefers to do so.
Defence Assistant for one Charged Officer can examine the
other Charged Officer only if the other Charged Officer
volunteers to give evidence. But a charged Officer cannot be
compelled to give evidence at the instance of the other Charged
Officer. When one Charged Officer chooses to examine himself as a
witness, the defence assistant of (or) the other Charged Officer,
can cross examine, him, especially when such Charged Officer (who
choose to examine himself) were to speak anything incriminating
against the other Charged Officer.
2. Taking the assistance of retired Government Employees - Further Instructions - Issued.
[Memo.No. 657/Ser. C/94-4, G.A. (Ser.-C), dated 9-3-1995]
Order: - Rule 20(8)(b) of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991 provides
that the Government Servant may also take the assistance of a retired Government Servant to present the case on his
behalf, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Government from time to time by general or special order
in his behalf.
2. In O.M.No. 11012/2-Estt. (A), dated 22-5-1992, the Department of Personnel and Training, Ministry of Home Affairs,
Government of India, have stipulated certain conditions for engaging retired Government Employees by the delinquent
Government Servants, to present their case in departmental disciplinary proceedings. Keeping this in view, the following
conditions are stipulated in regard to taking of assistance of retired Government employees by the delinquent
Government Servants to present their case in departmental proceedings in terms of Rule 20(8)(b) of Andhra Pradesh
Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991-
(i)
The retired Government Employee concerned should have retired from service under the Government of Andhra
Pradesh.
(ii)
If the retired Government Employee is also a legal practitioner, the restrictions on engaging a legal practitioner by a
delinquent Government Servant to present the case on his behalf, contained in Rule 20(8)(b) of Andhra Pradesh Civil
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991 would apply.
(iii)
The retired Government Employees concerned should not have, in any manner, been associated with the case at
investigation stage or otherwise, in his/ her official capacity.
(iv)
The retired Government Employee concerned should not act as Defence Assistant in more than five cases at a time.
The retired Government Employee should satisfy the Inquiry Officer that he/she does not have more than five cases at
hand including the case in question.
3. The Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments and District Collectors are requested to bring to the notice of
all concerned disciplinary authorities the above instructions and to follow them scrupulously.
3. Rule 20(5)(c) - Appointment of Legal Practitioners as the 'Presenting Officers'.
[Memo.No. 22/Ser.-C/93-3,  General  Administrator  (Ser.-C) Department , dated 1-5-1993]
Ref: - 1. G.O.Ms.No. 487, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 14-9-92.
2. U.O. Note No. 27/Ch. C01/93-1, dated 18-1-93.
Order: - According to sub-rule 5(c) of Rule 20 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal)
Rules, 1991 where the disciplinary authority itself inquiries into any article of charge or appoints an inquiring authority for
holding an inquiry into such charge, it may, by an order, appoint a Government servant or a legal practitioner to be
known as the "Presenting Officer" to present on its behalf the case in support of the articles of charge.
2. The Chairman, Commissionerate of Inquiries in his U.O. Note 2nd cited, while quoting a case where the disciplinary
Page 67/168
----- PAGE 68 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
authority has appointed a Government Servant as "Presenting Officer" who is lower in rank than the Charged Officer,
has stated that such difference between the Charged Officer and Presenting Officer might result in putting the
Presenting Officer under pressure, which would impair the effectiveness of the Presenting Officer. He has, therefore,
suggested to issue instructions to all concerned, that, whenever a disciplinary authority, under Rule 20(5)(c) of the
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991 proposed to appoint a Government
Servant as Presenting Officer, such Presenting Officer should be senior to the Charged Officer and occupying a higher
rank than the Charged Officer in the hierarchy.
3. The suggestions of the Chairman, Commissionerate of Inquiries, has been examined in consultation with Law
Department and it is decided to accept the suggestion of the Chairman, Commissionerate of Inquiries. The Departments
of Secretariat and Heads of Departments are therefore, informed that whenever a disciplinary authority, under Rule
20(5)(c) of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991, proposes to appoint a
Government servant as "Presenting Officer", it should be ensured that such Presenting Officer should be senior to the
Charged Officer and occupying a higher rank than the Charged Officer in the hierarchy. In the Departments where there
are no higher level position/ functionaries, disciplinary authority may consider to appoint a legal practitioner as
Presenting Officer, under the existing provision in Rule 20(5)(c) of the CCA Rules, 1991.
4. All the Departments of Secretariat and all the Heads of Departments are requested to adhere to the above
instructions scrupulously and bring these instructions to the notice of their subordinates.
4. Appointment of Enquiry Officer under Sub-rule (2) of Rule 20 without following the procedure set out under Sub-rule
(3) & (4) of Rule 20.
[Cir. Memo. No. 290/Ser.C/94-2,  General  Administrator  (Ser.-C) Department , dated 1-6-1994]
Order: - The Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments and Collectors are aware that the A.P. Civil Services
(CC & A) Rules, 1963 have been repealed by the A.P. Civil Services (CC & A) Rules, 1991 which came into effect from
1-10-1992.
2. The new Rule 20 of the A.P. Civil Services (CC & A) Rules, 1991 corresponds to old Rule 19(2) which deals with the
procedure for imposing a major penalty. The new Rule 20 of the A.P. Civil Services (CC & A) Rules, 1991, prescribes
entirely a new procedure for conducting an enquiry by the disciplinary authority where it is proposed to impose a major
penalty prescribed under the said Rules. Some of the salient features of the new rule are given below for immediate
guidance of the disciplinary authority/enquiry authority :
(i)
For imposition of a major penalty an enquiry should be conducted either under the CCA Rules, or the Public Servant
(Enquiry Act).
(ii)
The disciplinary authority may itself conduct the enquiry or appoint an inquiry authority to conduct the enquiry.
(iii)
The disciplinary authority itself can prepare or cause the preparation of the articles of charges, statement of imputations
of misconduct or misbehaviour.
(iv)
The articles of charges, statement of imputations of misconduct and list of witnesses and documents should be served
on the Government servant by the disciplinary authority or at its instance and the Government servant should be
required to submit the statement of defence and to state whether he desires to be heard in person.
(v)
The disciplinary authority on receipt of statement of defence or where no statement of defence is received within the
stipulated time, conduct the enquiry itself or appoint an inquiry authority to do so.
3. It may be noted from the above that as per the old rules, the inquiry officer used to be in the picture right from the start
of the disciplinary proceedings, whereas under the new rules he comes into picture only when the disciplinary authority,
after considering the statement of defence submitted by the Government servants, decides to appoint an Inquiry
Authority from conducting an inquiry.
4. It is brought to the notice of Government that the disciplinary authorities appointing the Inquiry Officers straight away
on receipt of a complaint against a Government servant without following the procedure prescribed in Rule 20(3),(4) the
new A.P. Civil Services (CC & A) Rules, 1991 in the first instance. Such a course of action evidently which is not in
accordance with the procedure prescribed under the new rules is liable to be set aside when questioned in a Court of
Page 68/168
----- PAGE 69 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Law. It is, therefore, impressed on the disciplinary authorities that they should invariably follow the procedure prescribed
under Rule 20(3),(4) of the CCA Rules, 1991 before they consider the appointment of an inquiry authority.
Non-compliance with the prescribed procedure will be viewed seriously.
5. As per the provision of the new CCA Rules articles of charges, etc., will have to be prepared or got prepared by the
disciplinary authority. Needless to say that the articles of charge form the basis of enquiry. Therefore utmost care and
diligence is required to be taken while drawing up the articles of charges, as any defect or deficiency in the articles of
charges will ultimately lead to vitiation of the entire proceedings. The disciplinary authority/inquiry authority should see
that the charges are specific without any ambiguity and are fully supported by documentary evidence.
6. All the Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments and Collectors are requested to strictly follow the above
procedure prescribed in the A.P. Civil Services (CC & A) Rules, 1991. Whenever an inquiring authority is to be
appointed for conducting enquiry under the said rules, they are also requested to bring these instructions to the notice of
their subordinates for their guidance and compliance.
5. Appointment of Enquiry Officer under sub-rule (2) of Rule 20 duly following the Procedure laid down in sub-rules (3)
and (4) of Rule 20 - Instructions - Reiterated.
(Cir. Memo. No. 95941/Ser.C/97-2, G. A..(Ser.C) Department , dated 8-1-1998)
Ref. : - Circular Memo. No. 290/Ser.C94-2, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 1-6-1994.
Order: - In the reference cited (copy enclosed) instructions were issued to the effect that the procedure laid down in
sub-rules (3) and (4) shall be followed before appointing the Enquiry Officer to conduct enquiry against any Government
Servant.
2. Instances have come to notice of the Government that the procedure detailed in sub-rules (3) and (4) of Rule 20 of
the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991 is not being followed before
appointing Enquiry Officer. In most of the cases, the Enquiry Officers are appointed even without framing and serving
articles of charge on the delinquent officer which do not stand for legal scrutiny. Consequently, the entire process is
vitiated resulting the delinquent officer scot-free due to their retirement.
3. Keeping the above in view, it is reiterated that the procedure detailed in sub-rules (3) and (4) of Rule 20 of A.P. Civil
Services (Classification, Control & Appeal) Rules, 1991 shall be followed scrupulously before taking a decision on the
appointment of Enquiry Officer and the instructions issued in the reference cited shall be followed strictly.
4. The Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments and District Collectors are requested to follow the instructions
issued in the reference cited and bring the same to the notice of all concerned for strict compliance. Any deviation/ lapse
in following the instructions shall be seriously and responsibility fixed on the erring authorities and suitable disciplinary
action initiated.
6. Departmental Enquiries/ Enquiries by Commr. of Inquiries - Fixing the time limit for early completion of inquiries.
(Cir. Memo. No. 35676/Ser.C/98-1, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 1-7-1998)
Ref : – 1. U.O. Note. No. 1755/Ser.C/87-1, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 8-11-1978.
2. U.O. Note. No.1005/SC.E/97-3, G.A.(SC.E) Department , dated 27-9-97
3. Memo No. 3037/SC.E/97-1, G.A.(SC.E) Department , dated 27-4-98.
Order: - In the reference 1st cited, instructions were issued for expeditious completion of enquiries initiated against the
Delinquent Officers. It was mentioned therein that the concerned Authorities should critically review the disciplinary
cases to watch the progress in order to ensure that the Delinquent Officers are awarded the penalty at the right time. It
was also mentioned that any undue delay on the part of the Enquiry Officers shall he viewed seriously and whenever the
delay is attributed to the Enquiry Officers, suitable action shall be initiated against them.
2. In Rule 20 of A.P. Civil Services (Classification, Control & Appeal) Rules, 1991 which deals with the procedure for
conducting the enquiry, film limit was to be prescribed to call for explanation from the Delinquent Officers on the charges
made against them and also to make available the documents sought for by the Delinquent Officer, in order to minimise
the time for completion of enquiry. Inspite of all clear instructions, it is noticed that there was "Undue Delay" in finalising
enquiries, thereby the Delinquent Officers are not awarded the penalty at appropriate time. This led to inefficiency and
also a sense of callousness is developed in administration. It was keenly felt that there is need to fix the time in normal
cases and complicated cases, so as to ensure that the enquiries are completed in time.
3. In the references 2nd & 3rd cited, comprehensive guidelines were issued on the nature of cases to be referred to
Commissionerate of Inquiries.
4. The delay in completion of inquiries is mainly attributed for non-presence of witnesses and also the relevant
Page 69/168
----- PAGE 70 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
documents required to conduct enquiry. In this context, it is brought to the notice of all concerned that the A. P.
Departmental Inquiries (Enforcement of Attendance, Witness and Production of Documents) Act, 1993, empowers the
Enquiry Officers to summon any individual to depose before Enquiry Officer and also for production of documents. The
Secretaries of Departments concerned and also the Chairman of Commissionerate of Inquiries were designated to
authorise the Inquiring Authority to summon the witnesses and also production of documents as per Section 4 of the
said Act.
5. It has been decided that in simple cases the enquiry initiated shall be completed within 3 months either by
Departmental Officers or Commissioner of Inquiries. In complicated cases, it shall be ensured that the enquiry should be
completed within 5 to 6 months.
6. The Secretaries to Government shall review the progress of the enquiries ordered in all disciplinary cases and submit
a note on the cases pending beyond the stipulated time indicated in para 5 above, to Chief Secretary to Government
and also the Chief Minister. The object is to ensure timely action in all disciplinary cases and also adhere to the time limit
prescribed.
7. Promotion/Appointment to Higher Posts of Officers who are involved in Enquires - Further Orders.
(G.O. Ms. No. 968, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 26-10-1998)
Ref : - 1. G.O. Ms. No. 187, G.A.(Ser.B) Department , dated 25-4-1985.
2. G.O. Ms. No. 335, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 14-6-1993.
Order: - In para II of the G.O. first read above, orders were issued that an individual who is undergoing punishment
should not be recommended for promotion. In cases, where the period of punishment imposed is already over, each
case has to be evaluated by the Departmental Promotion Committee on merits. In the G.O. second read above, orders
were issued to the effect that the penalty of stoppage of increments with cumulative effect amounts to a major penalty
under the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991 and the elaborate procedure
prescribed under Rule 20 of the said rules is to be followed.
2. A question arose whether the punishment of stoppage of increment with cumulative effect constitutes a permanent
bar for promotion and also whether it is with or without cumulative effect, the punishment should be deemed to be
subsisting to the extent of the number of annual grade increments stopped. There is a suggestion that if it is a case of
stoppage of increments with cumulative effect, the punishment should be deemed to run for twice the period for which
the increment is stopped for. For example, if the punishment is the stoppage of two increments with cumulative effect,
the Officer should be denied of his promotion/appointment by transfer for four years.
3. After careful consideration, it has been decided that since the fact that the stoppage of increment with cumulative
effect is a major penalty under the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control & Appeal) Rules, 1991, the
Government direct that whenever any Government servant is punished with the stoppage of increment with cumulative
effect, the cases of such Officers shall not be considered for promotion/appointment by transfer for twice the number of
years for which the increment(s) is/are stopped with cumulative effect.
8. Procedure to be followed on receipt of the Enquiry Report.
(U.O. Note No. 1107/Ser. C/99, Gent.  Administrator  (Ser.C) Department , dated 01-03-1999)
Order: - Rule 21 of Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991 lays down the
procedure, on further action to be taken on receipt of the report of the Enquiry Officer. The Disciplinary authorities shall
take an independent view based on the findings in the Enquiry Report with reference to the record after due consultation
with Andhra Pradesh Vigilance Commission/Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission wherever such consultation is
necessary.
2. It has been brought to the notice of the Government that certain Departments of Secretariat are obtaining the remarks
of the Heads of Departments on the report of the Enquiry Officer which is not contemplated in the Andhra Pradesh Civil
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991. This practice is also delaying the issue of final order on the
disciplinary case. As per rules, the Departments as a Disciplinary Authority have to examine the findings of the Enquiry
Officer independently and come to its own conclusion.
3. It is also brought to the notice that some Departments are referring the report of Enquiry Officer to the Director
General, Anti-Corruption Bureau for remarks which is also not provided for in the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services
(Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991 and therefore such action is not in order.
4. All the Departments of Secretariat are requested to ensure that in all disciplinary cases, final decision on the enquiry
report shall be taken by the concerned Disciplinary Authority alone and in consultation with the Andhra Pradesh
Page 70/168
----- PAGE 71 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Vigilance Commission/Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission, wherever it is necessary as per rules and they shall
not seek the views/remarks of the Heads of Departments on the reports of Enquiry Officer. However, after issue of final
orders on enquiry report, such order shall be communicated to the Delinquent Officers through the Heads of
Departments under intimation to the Director General, Anti-Corruption Bureau, Hyderabad.
9. Departmental Inquiries pending consideration of his appeal - Time Schedule to expedite the Inquiries - Orders -
Issued.
(Memo. No. 23537/Ser.C/99-5, G. A. (Ser.C) D, dated 28-7-1999)
Ref :- Cir. Memo. No. 35676/Ser.C/98, G. A. (Ser.C) D., dated 1-7-1998.
Order: - In the reference cited, orders were issued, fixing a time limit for completion of departmental enquiries in all
simple cases within a period of three months and in complicated cases within a period of five to six months.
2. In all departmental enquiries ordered, it has been decided by the Government that under Rule 20 of the Andhra
Pradesh Civil Services ( Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991, the following time limit shall be followed:
(a)
Fixing date of hearing, inspection of listed documents,
submission of list of defence documents and nomination of a
Defence Assistant (if not already nominated).
Within four weeks from
the date of appointment of the Enquiry Officer.
(b)
Inspection of documents or submission of list of defence
witnesses/defence documents or examination of relevancy of
documents or witnesses, procuring the additional document and
submission of certificates, confirming inspection of additional
documents by Accused Officer or Defence Assistant.
Three (3) months.
(c)
Issue of summons to witnesses, fixing the date of regular
hearing and arrangement for participation of witnesses in the
regular hearing
Three (3) months.
(d)
Regular hearing on day to day basis
Three (3) months.
(e)
Submission of written briefs by Presenting Officer
Fifteen (15) days
(f)
Submission of written briefs by Accused Officer/Defence
Assistant to Inquiry Officer.
Fifteen (15) days
(g)
Submission of Inquiry Report by the Inquiry Officer.
Thirty (30) days.
3. In all Departmental Enquiries the general norm of six months should be adhered to except in rare cases where
number of witnesses go upto 30 or 40 in which case the time limit can be longer.
4. It is noticed that one of the causes for delay in departmental enquiries is due to non-production of documents cited by
the Charged Officer as defence document during the course of enquiry. In order to ensure that the departmental
enquiries are completed in time, the document asked for by .the Charged Officer should be produced by its custodian
through Presenting Officer within a time limit fixed by Inquiry Officer failing which adverse note would be taken against
the concerned Officer (custodian of the documents).
5. The other cause for the delay in completing departmental enquiries within time limit is taking unreasonable time by the
Page 71/168
----- PAGE 72 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Disciplinary Authorities or Appellate Authority in disposing the representation of the Charged Officer alleging bias
against the Inquiry Officer. The Disciplinary Authorities or Appellate authority should therefore, decide the representation
of the Charged Officer within fifteen days after receipt of the representation of the Charged Officer failing which an
adverse view will be taken against the concerned authority.
6. Government reiterated that the Secretaries or Principal Secretaries to Government shall review the progress of the
enquiries ordered in all disciplinary cases and submit a note on the cases pending beyond the stipulated time to the
Chief Secretary to Government and also to the Chief Minister.
10. Disciplinary Cases against Government employees - Procedural aspects - Check list.
(Circular Memo. No. 20922/Ser.C/99, G.A.(Ser-C) Department , dated 28-09-1999)
Order: - Instructions have been issued from time to time on various procedural aspects in dealing with disciplinary cases
against Government employees. For better understanding, clarifications/instructions are issued on step by step
procedure to be followed from the stage of initiation of disciplinary proceedings till its conclusion. Instances have come
to notice that there are procedural infirmities in dealing with the disciplinary cases, resulting in legal angles. It is keenly
felt to remedy the situation.
2. A check list of the action at each stage to be verified on different parts namely - (1) Institution of Disciplinary
Proceedings, (2) Processing the Enquiry Report and (3) Awarding Penalties has been evolved and communicated
herewith for guidance of the Disciplinary Authorities.
3. The Departments of Secretariat, the Heads of Departments and the District Collectors are requested to follow the
check list in dealing with disciplinary cases and also bring this to the notice of all other concerned authorities.
Check List
I. Institution of Disciplinary Preoceedings :
(i) If it is proposed to hold a detailed enquiry against any
Government Servant to whom A.P. Civil Services (C.C.A.) Rules
applies, the following points shall be kept in mind:
(a) Whether specific charges are
framed as required in Government Memo.No.290/Ser.C/94-2, G.A.D. Dated
01-06-94.
Yes/No
(b) Whether the charges are framed
in the format prescribed in G.O.Ms.No.92, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , Dated
01-03-96.
Yes/No
(c) Whether explanation is
received from the Delinquent Officer within the time stipulated
Yes/No
(d) Whether the Delinquent Officer
asked for any further information/additional documents
Yes/No
(e) Whether it is decided to
impose a Minor penalty.
(f) Whether it is decided to
impose a major penalty and to conduct detailed enquiry by
appointing Enquiry Officer or through Commissioner of
Enquiries/entrust the Disciplinary case to the Tribunal for
Disciplinary Proceedings for detailed inquiry.
(ii) Whether the appointment of the Inquiring Authority is in
accordance with format IV prescribed in G.O.Ms.No.82, G.A.(Ser.C)
Department, dated 01-03-96.
Yes/No
(iii) Whether Presenting Officer is appointed as per sub-rule
5(c) of Rule 20 keeping in view the instructions in Memo. No.
Page 72/168
----- PAGE 73 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
22/Ser.C/93, G.A.(Ser.C) Department  dated 01-05-1993 and in the format
of G.O. Ms. No. 82, G.A.(Ser.C) Department dated 01-03-96.
Yes/No
(iv) In any disciplinary case where more than two members of
service are involved, whether common disciplinary proceedings are
instituted as per Rule 24 of A.P. Civil Services (CCA) Rules and
in Form VII of G.O. Ms. No. 82,  General  Administrator (Ser.C) Department , Dated
01-03-1996.
Yes/No
(v) Whether the A.P. Vigilance Commission is consulted to
refer any disciplinary case for enquiry to Tribunal for
Disciplinary Proceedings.
Yes/No
(vi) Whether exparte enquiry was conducted, in terms of orders
issued in G.O. Ms. No. 194, GA (Ser.C) Department , dated 15.03.1990.
Yes/No
(vii) Whether the time schedule prescribed in Circular Memo.
No. 35676/Ser.C/98, GA(Ser.C) Department , dated 01-07-98 and in Memo.
No. 23537/Ser.C/99-5, Dated 28.07.99 is followed to complete the
enquiry.
Yes/No
(viii) Whether the Departmental Proceedings could be delivered
in person or leave address
Yes/No
(ix) if not, whether the same is published in the A.P.
Gazette, as the case may be.
Yes/No
(x) Is the report of the Enquiry Officer as per sub-rule (23)
of Rule 20.
Yes/No
2.Whether the report of the Inquiry Officer contains
the following :
(i) An introductory para,
indicating appointment of Inquiry Officer and the dates of
hearing.
(ii) Charges that were framed.
(iii) Brief statement of the case
of disciplinary authority in respect of the charges enquired to
(iv) Brief statement of facts and
documents admitted
(v) Brief statement of the
explanation of the Government Servant.
(vi) Assessment of evidence in
respect of each point
(vii) Finding on each charge
whether the E.O. ensured that no recommendation was made about
the quantum of punishment.
3.Whether the Inquiry Officer sent the following along
with the enquiry report :?
(a) List of documents produced by
the Presenting Officer
Page 73/168
----- PAGE 74 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(b) List of documents produced by
the Government Servant
(c) List of prosecution witnesses
(d) List of defence witnesses
(e) Deposition of witnesses in the
order in which they were examined
(f) Written statement of defence.
(g) Applications if any, filed
during the course of Inquiry, and orders passed thereon, as also
orders passed on oral requests made during the inquiry.
II. Processing the Enquiry Report
(i) Whether the further action on
the enquiry report is as per Rule 21 of the CCA Rules.
Yes/No
(ii) Whether the Disciplinary
Authority after going through the inquiry report agree with the
findings and if any error is noticed, whether the point at which
it is erred is recorded and did the Disciplinary Authority ask
the same Enquiry Officer to conduct further enquiry and report as
there is no provision for denovo enquiry or to conduct fresh
enquiry.
Yes/No
(iii) Whether the Disciplinary
Authority exercise his mind in arriving at the findings on the
charges and independently arrive at the nature and quantum of
punishment.
Yes/No
(iv) Whether the Andhra Pradesh
Vigilance Commission is consulted as per the scheme of Vigilance
Commission.
Yes/No
(v) Whether the orders in
circulation are obtained in case the A.P. Vigilance
Commissioner's recommendations are not agreed to.
(vi) Whether the APPSC needs to be
consulted and if so, whether it was consulted.
(vii) Whether the final orders
issued agree with the recommendation of APPSC.
(viii) If not whether orders in
circulation obtained.
III. Awarding Penalties
(i) Whether the instructions
issued in U.O. Note. No. 28552/Ser.C/97-1, G.A.(Ser.C) Department
dated 07-05-97, are kept in view while issuing orders.
Yes/No
(ii) Whether the instructions
issued in U.O.Note.No.1713/Ser.C/66-1 G.A.(Ser.C) Department  Dated
01-07-1966 have been followed or not regarding punishment
awarded.
(iii) Whether the instructions
vide Memo. No. 1436/Ser.C/80-2 G.A.(Ser.C) Department  dated 07-02-1981
Page 74/168
----- PAGE 75 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
having been followed while imposing penalty of stoppage of Annual
Grade increment with cumulative effect.
Yes/No
(iv) Whether the order of penalty
and other papers Communicated to the Delinquent Officer as per
Rule 23
Yes/No
11. Procedure for imposing major penalties - Inquiry into the charges by disciplinary authority by itself or appointment of
Inquiring Authority.
(Memo. No. 46733/Ser.C/99,  General  Administrator  (Ser.E) Department , dated 22-10-1999)
Order: - Clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub-rule (5) of Rule 20 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control &
Appeal) Rules, 1991 provided for enquiry into the articles of charges framed either by the Disciplinary Authority itself or
by any Enquiry Officer appointed by the Disciplinary Authority. Also on receipt of the explanation from the Delinquent
Officer for the charges framed against him, wherever the Disciplinary Authority proposes to conduct a detailed enquiry in
cases, where in the opinion of such Disciplinary Authority, the charges, if proved, warrant imposing any penalty other
than the minor penalties, it shall be necessary to appoint an Enquiry Officer instead of the Disciplinary Authority itself
enquiring into such articles of charges. The Supreme Court of India in its Judgement in Manaklae Vs. Dr. Premchand
Singhvi reported in (AIR 1957) SC 425 observed that the Disciplinary Authority shall have clear application of mind and
unbiased view in dealing with the disciplinary cases against Government servants.
2. In view of these observations of the Apex Court, the Disciplinary Authority shall necessarily appoint an Enquiry Officer
under the CCA Rules when the Disciplinary Authority proposes to conduct detailed enquiry in cases where in the opinion
of such Disciplinary Authority, the charge if proved warrants imposing any major penalty instead of the Disciplinary
Authority itself taking up the enquiry, unless such appointment of the Enquiry Officer becomes impossible in view of the
non-availability of the officers in the Department. Such cases shall be very rare and generally would obtain in very small
Departments.
12. Reports of Anti-Corruption Bureau - Dealing of - Instructions - Reiterated.
(U.O. Note No. 1211/Spl.B/99-2, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 23-02-2000)
Ref : - 1. U.O. Note No. 1298/S.C.D/91-1 G.A.D. Dated: 30-08-1991.
2. U.O. Note No. 694/S.C.D/94-1 G.A.D. Dated: 31-05-1994.
3. U.O. Note No. 2782/S.C.E/96-1 G.A.D. Dated: 30-06-1997.
4. U.O. Note No. 2518/S.C.E/96-1 G.A.D. Dated: 04-07-1997.
5. U.O. Note No. 3120/61-1 G.A. (Ser.C) Department  Dated: 11-11-1961.
Order: - Instructions were issued in the references 1 to 4 cited, regarding the manner in which the reports of the
Anti-Corruption Bureau should be dealt with. In the reference 5th cited, instructions were issued to claim privilege in
Courts in respect of official records.
2. Inspite of the above instructions, it has come to the notice of the Government that, the reports of the Anti-Corruption
Bureau are furnished to the Heads of Departments, to the Accused Officer(s) and other individuals/authorities who are
not entitled for copy of the reports. In view of this Government have decided to reiterate earlier instructions in the matter.
3. While reiterating the earlier instructions issued in the references cited, the following further instructions are issued for
strict compliance : -
(i)
Part-B of the A.C.B. report should be sent only to the charge framing authority;
(ii)
The Accused Officer is entitled only copies of statement of witnesses received by Anti-Corruption Bureau, provided
those witnesses are proposed to be examined in the regular enquiry;
(iii)
The Charge Framing Authority shall not call for the remarks of Heads of Departments or any other Authority on Part-B of
the A.C.B. Report except on the procedure being followed as per the instructions issued in the U.O. Note third cited.
13. Departmental Inquiries - Further instructions - Issued.
(Circular Memo. No. 24637/Ser.C/2000-2, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 5-9-2000)
Ref : - 1. Circular Memo. No. 290/Ser.C/94-2, G.A.(Ser.C) Department , dated 01-06-1994.
Page 75/168
----- PAGE 76 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
2. Government Memo. No. 650/Ser.C/94-3, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 06-01-1995.
3. Cir. Memo. No. 56183/Ser.C/99, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 15-10-1999.
4. From the Vigilance Commr., A.P. Vigilance Commission, D.O.Lr.No.194NC.A2/ 2000-1, dated 16-5-2000.
5. From the Vigilance Commissioner, A.P. Vigilance Commission, Lr.No.194/ VC.A2/2000-2, dated 01-08-2000.
Order: - Rule 20 of A.P. Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1991 deals with procedure for conducting Departmental Inquiry.
Instructions were issued vide the reference first cited, highlighting the rule position to follow the procedure for initiating
Departmental Inquiry. In the reference second cited various points on the course of conducting Departmental Inquiry
were clarified. A check list was also communicated vide the reference third cited, on Departmental Inquiries.
In the reference 4th cited the Vigilance Commissioner, A.P. Vigilance Commission has made certain observations on the
"Role and Responsibility of the Inquiry Officers" as follows:
Inquiring officers regard themselves to be in the same position as judges or magistrates in criminal trials. They take the
view that the Presiding Office is in the position of the "Prosecutor" in criminal trials and as the prosecutor cannot also be
the judge in its own case, inquiring officers have been appointed as neutral third party Judges or Magistrates. This view
is far from correct, because it is well recognised that these departmental inquiries which are conducted under the
provisions of Rule 20 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991 applicable
to the State Government Servants are "domestic enquiries" in which the disciplinary authority is in the position of a
Master in relation to the charged Government Servant.
The Departmental inquiries also have to be held according to the principles of natural justice which are fully incorporated
in the CCA rules. It is the duty of the Inquiring Authority to the charged officers to ensure that these principles of natural
justice are observed. The distinguishing feature, however, is that the inquiring authority, being a creature, or a delegate
of the disciplinary authority, also retains, throughout the inquiry, clear responsibilities towards the disciplinary authority.
In criminal trails, the entire responsibility for producing the evidence in support of the charge is on the prosecution, and if
the prosecution fails to establish the guilt of the accused, the trial Magistrate or Judge will be entirely within his rights to
give the benefit of doubt to the accused. The functions of an inquiring authority in a departmental proceeding are,
however, more active. His duty, on behalf of the disciplinary authority is to find out all the true facts about the charge. A
presenting officer is appointed, to assist the inquiring authority in presenting the facts in support of the Charge. Inquiring
authority may summon the listed or other unlisted witnesses, if he considers that the evidence of such witnesses will
materially assist in establishing the true facts.
The inquiring authority in a departmental proceeding, has no responsibility whatever in the matter of prescribing a
penalty on the charged officer and should not in his report go into this question at all, though he may draw attention to
certain proved facts which may extenuate the guilt of the charged officer. It is not expected, therefore, of an inquiring
authority to launch forth on an analysis of legal technicalities and judicial precedents.
The only legal principles with which inquiring authorities are primarily concerned are the principles of natural justice
which basically are that (i) the charged officer should be given a reasonable opportunity to present his case; (ii) evidence
against him should be taken in his presence; (iii) he should have an opportunity to cross examine the witnesses
produced in support of the charges and (iv) he should be given an opportunity to produce his own witnesses and
documents. All other laws of procedure have been relaxed for departmental enquiries. Even the provisions of the Indian
Evidence Act and the Criminal Procedure Code, except in so far as they refer to the general principles of natural justice
already referred to, are not applicable to a departmental enquiry. The principles of natural justice are already
incorporated in the CCA Rules and as long as the Inquiring Authority follows these rules, particularly all the 23 sub-rules
of Rule 20, which lay down step by step, stage by stage procedure, neither the disciplinary authority who has appointed
him nor the law courts are likely to find fault with the Inquiry.
The Supreme Court of India, in the case of Union of India Vs. Sardar Bahadur, 1972 SLR 355 SC, has clearly held that a
disciplinary proceeding is not a criminal trial and that the standard of proof required is that of preponderance of
probability and not proof beyond reasonable doubt. It has been held by the Supreme Court in the case of Union of India
Vs. H. C. Goel, AIR 1964 SC 364 that a High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution should not go into the question
of sufficiency or adequacy of evidence in support of a particular conclusion.
The emphasis in departmental inquiries is heavily on facts as the word 'inquiry' itself signifies the main thrust of the
Inquiring Officer must be to inquire into all the facts either in favour of or against the charged officer and the quality and
excellence of his work will be judged not by his ability to deal with legal technicalities but by his ability to bring out and
assess all the facts relevant to the charge and come to findings that are based on formal logic as well as practical
Page 76/168
----- PAGE 77 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
common sense. In doing so, while he must give every opportunity to the charged officer under the principles of natural
justice and CCA Rules, he must also remember his basic responsibility to the disciplinary authority.
When the case for the disciplinary authority is closed, the Government Servant shall be required to State his defence,
orally or in writing, as he may prefer. If the defence is made orally, it shall be recorded and the Government servant shall
be required to sign the record. In a Departmental Inquiry in which the charge is to be proved on the basis of
preponderance of probability and the emphasis is on true facts, the charged officer must indicate a coherent line of
defence giving his version of what the true facts are. Thus, there is no obligation on the Inquiry Officer to examine any
and every witness that the charged officer may suggest.
Inordinate delay in conducting the inquiry and in submitting the report is the bane of administration. Hardship is caused
to a public servant by delay in dealing with a complaint against him. If an inquiry is started against a public servant on
the allegation of lack of integrity, he immediately comes under a cloud, and even if subsequently he is cleared of the
suspicion against him, the suspense and anguish which he suffers virtually amounts to punishment. It is only fair that all
possible delay is avoided in taking the final decision even in a case where the public servant is found guilty.
This over riding necessity for conducting and completing departmental inquiries within a relatively short period of time is
fully recognised and laid down in the CCA Rules. If inquiries are conducted strictly according to these Rules, an average
inquiry not involving too many witnesses and documents, should take between three (3) and four (4 ) months only. It is
deplorable that those provisions of the CCA Rules are honoured more in the breach than in observance, and
departmental inquiries even on petty charges are found to linger on for years.
14. Disciplinary Cases - Government Employees convicted by a Court of Law or Special Court for S.P.E. & A.C.B.
Cases - Consultation with A.P. Public Service Commission before imposing penalty - Procedure dispensed with -
Further instructions - Issued.
(U.O. Note No. 43946/Ser. C/2000-3, G.A.D., dated 12-10-2000)
Ref : - 1. G.O. Ms. No. 204, G.A. (Ser. A) Department , dated 13-06-2000.
2. From the Vigilance Commissioner, A.P. Vigilance Commission, Lr. No. 325/ VC. A2/99-6, dated 28-08-2000.
Order: - In the reference 1st cited, an amendment was issued to Regulation 17(2) of the Andhra Pradesh Public Service
Commission Regulations, 1963, dispensing with the procedure of consultation with the Andhra Pradesh Public Service
Commission before a major penalty is imposed on Government Employees who are convicted in a Court of Law or
Special Courts for Special Police Establishment and Anti-Corruption Bureau cases.
2. The Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments and  District Collectors are requested to bring the above
orders to the notice of all Disciplinary Authorities for prompt action to impose appropriate penalty on Government
Employees who are convicted by Court of Law or Spl. Courts for Special Police Establishment and Anti-Corruption
Bureau cases. In this context, the orders issued in G.O.Ms.No. 2, G.A. (Ser. C) Department , dated 04.01.1999, shall be
kept in view.
3. The disciplinary cases wherein Government employees are convicted by Court of Law or Special Courts for Special
Police Establishment and Anti-Corruption Bureau cases, pending for want of concurrence from the Andhra Pradesh
Public Service Commission shall be finalised immediately. The disciplinary cases which will arise in future and wherein
Government employees are convicted shall be concluded promptly soon after receipt of the judgment of the Court.
15. Disciplinary Cases against Government Employees - Appointment of Departmental Enquiry Officer - Instructions -
Issued.
(Circular Memo. No. 58414/Ser. C/2000-4, G.A.D., dated 07-02-2001)
Ref : - 1. G.O. Ms.No. 82, General Administration (Ser. C) Department , dated 01-03-1996.
2. Government Circular Memo. No. 56183/Ser. C/99, dated 15-10-1999.
3. Government Memo. No. 46733/Ser. C/99, dated 22-10-1999.
Order: - In the reference 1st cited, certain formats were prescribed under the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (C.C.A.)
Rules, 1991, among others, a format for appointment of Enquiry Officer under Rule 20 of the said Rules was prescribed.
In the reference 2nd cited, a check list was prescribed on submission of Inquiry Report.
2. In the reference 3rd cited, instructions were issued, on the need for appointment of an Enquiry Officer under Rule 20
of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (C.C.A.) Rules, 1991 for imposing major penalty, instead of the Disciplinary
Authority itself conducting inquiry into the charges. The Supreme Court of India in its judgment in Manaklae vs. Dr.
Premchand Singh, A.I.R. 1957 S.C. 425 observed that the Disciplinary Authority shall have clear application of mind and
unbiased view in dealing with the disciplinary cases against Government Servants. In the light of observations of the
Page 77/168
----- PAGE 78 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Apex Court, the Disciplinary Authority shall necessarily appoint an Enquiry Officer under the Andhra Pradesh Civil
Services (C.C.A.) Rules, 1991, when the Disciplinary Authority proposes to conduct detailed enquiry in cases wherein
the opinion of such Disciplinary Authority, the charge if proved warrants imposing any major penalty, instead of
Disciplinary Authority itself taking up the enquiry, unless such appointment of the Enquiry Officer becomes impossible in
view of the non-availability of the Officers in the Department. Such cases shall be very rare and generally would obtain
in very small Departments.
3. Many a time clarification is being sought for on the status of the Enquiry Officer, whether the Inquiring Authority
should be above the rank of Accused Officer or otherwise.
4. It is clarified that whenever it is decided to appoint an Inquiring Authority under Rule 20 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil
Services (C.C.A.) Rules, 1991 such Inquiring Authority should be above the rank of the Accused Officer.
5. The Departments in Secretariat, the Heads of Departments and District Collectors are requested to follow the above
instructions scrupulously.
16. Disciplinary cases against Government employees - Procedural aspects - Comprehensive Check list for use of the
disciplinary and inquiry authorities - Communicated.
(Cir. Memo. No. 13673/Ser.C/2002-2, G.A.(Ser-C) Department , dated 05-07-2002)
Order: - Instructions have been issued from time to time on various procedural aspects in dealing with disciplinary cases
against Government employees. For better understanding clarifications/instructions are issued on step by procedure to
be followed from the stage of initiation of disciplinary proceedings till its conclusion. Instances have come to the notice
that there are procedural infirmities in dealing with the disciplinary cases, resulting in legal tangle. Adoption of the check
list by the disciplinary authorities and the enquiry officer would help them commence and conclude disciplinary
proceedings strictly in accordance with the provisions of these rules and instructions, avoiding errors and illegalities
likely to the challenged before the Appellate Authority or the Tribunal. It is keenly felt to remedy the situation with the
above objective in view, a check-list has been designed.
2. The Check list is divided into two parts namely, Part-I, dealing with service particulars and Part-II dealing with stages
of disciplinary case has been evolved and communicated here with for guidance of the disciplinary authority and enquiry
officers where major penalty proceedings have been initiated.
3. The Departments of Secretariat, the Heads of Departments and the District Collectors are requested to follow the
Check List in dealing with disciplinary cases and also bring this to the notice of all other concerned authorities.
Check List for Disciplinary Cases
Part-I - Service Particulars
1. Name of the Charged Officer
2. Status
(A Gazetted Officer/NGO/PS Undertaking employee or other category)
Service to which he belongs :
The Rules applicable :
3. Whether permanent or temporary or Contact employee
4. Post held
(a)
Designation
(b)
Scale of Pay with Stages, Efficiency Bar, etc.
(c)
Pay drawn
(d)
Date from which present pay is drawn
(e)
Date of next increment
(i)
in the post held substantively
(ii)
in the post in which officiating at present
Page 78/168
----- PAGE 79 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
5. Post next below which the officer would have held but for his appointment to the present post (specify name of the
post & scale of pay)
6. Post if any in which the service of the officer has been regularised.
7. Date of birth
8. Date of joining Government service
9. Due date of retirement
10. (a) Actual date of retirement, if retired already
(b)
Amount of monthly pension admissible.
(c)
Amount of monthly pension sanctioned.
(d)
Amount of gratuity admissible/sanctioned.
(e)
Whether pensionary benefits are withheld pending finalisation of disciplinary case/criminal case if so, whether
Provisional Pension is sanctioned?
(Required only in cases of recovery or withholding from pensionary benefits)
11. (a) Appointing authority in respect of the post held at present or the Authority which actually appointed the person if
that authority is higher.
(b)
Authority competent to impose the penalty in respect of post held now.
(c)
Appellate authority at present.
Part-II Details Of Case
A.
1. Indicate advice of VC in the first stage through
Major Penalty Proceedings.
Minor Penalty Proceedings.
TDPCOIDept.I.O.
2. Whether common or individual inquiry?
3. In case of common disciplinary proceedings indicate order of competent authority under Rule 24 of the CCA Rules in
the format VII, of G.O.Ms.No.82, GA (Ser.C) Department , dated 01-03-1996.
5. Whether definite charges have been framed as per rules applicable to the officer with the statement of imputations
along with enclosures viz., list of witnesses, list of documents etc., in terms of Government Memo. No.
290/Ser.C/94-C/94-2, GAD dated 1-6-1994 and G.O.Ms.No.82, GA (Ser.C), dated 1-3-96 (References of VC/ACB
should not be quoted in charge memo.)
6. Record of delivering charge sheet to the charged officer whether available and date of service
7. Whether reply of the charged officer if any received. If not reasons
8. Whether it is decided to impose a minor penalty if so details thereon.
9. In case of decision to conduct major penalty proceedings the inquiry authority
(a)
Suggested by Vigilance Commission
(b)
Appointed by department
10. Date of appointment of inquiry authority in terms of format-IV prescribed in G.O.Ms.No.82, GA (Ser.C) Department,
dated 1-3-96 [In case of Department . I.O.. the I.O. should be an officer of higher rank to that of charged officer(s)]
11. Whether any presenting officer was appointed as per sub-rule 5(c) of Rule 20 keeping in view the instructions in
Memo. No. 22/Ser.C/93, GA (Ser.C) Department, dated 1-5-1993 and in the format of G.O.Ms.No.82, GA (Ser.C)
Department , dated 1-3-96 [Presenting Officer should be of higher rank to that of charged officer(s)]
12. (i) Whether the I.O. has maintained a daily order sheet indicating progress of oral inquiry?
(ii)
Page 79/168
----- PAGE 80 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Whether depositions of prosecution/defence witnesses recorded?
(iii)
Whether statement of defence of charged officer(s) obtained.
(iv)
Whether copies of relevant documents supplied to charged officer?
(v)
Whether exhibits are marked as-
(a)
Prosecution
(b)
Defence
(vi)
Whether presenting officer submitted any written brief?
(vii)
Whether a copy of the same if any was supplied to charged officer?
(viii)
Whether written brief submitted by charged officer ?
13. Was the inquiry exparte ? If so, was it in accordance with G.O.No.194, GA (Ser-C) Department , dated 15-3-1990.
Whether the departmental proceedings could be delivered in person or leave address?
If not, whether the same is published in the A.P.Gazette/ District Gazette, as the case may be?
14. Is the I.O's report available and as per sub-rule 23 of Rule 20.
15. Whether the report of the I.O. contains the following as required under sub-rule 23 of Rule 20 of CCA Rules:
(i)
An introductory para, indicating appointment of I.O. and the dates of hearing.
(ii)
Charges that were framed.
(iii)
Brief statement of the case of disciplinary authority in respect of the charges enquired into.
(iv)
Brief statement of facts and documents admitted.
(v)
Brief statement of the explanation of the Government servant.
(vi)
Assessment of evidence in respect of each point.
(vii)
Finding on each charge
(the inquiry officer to ensure that recommendation is made about the quantum of punishment)
16. Whether the inquiry officer sent the following along with the enquiry report.
(i)
List of documents produced by the presenting officer.
(ii)
List of documents produced by the Government servant.
(iii)
List of prosecution witnesses.
(iv)
List of defence witnesses.
(v)
Deposition of witnesses in the order in which they were examined.
(vi)
Written statement of defence.
(vii)
Page 80/168
----- PAGE 81 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Applications if any, filed during the course of inquiry, and orders passed thereon, as also order passed on oral requests
made during the inquiry.
17. (i) Whether the further action on the inquiry report is as per rule 21 of the CCA Rules?
(ii)
(a)
Whether the disciplinary authority after going through the inquiry report agrees with the findings.
(b)
If any error is noticed, whether the point in which it erred is recorded and did the disciplinary authority ask the same
inquiry officer to conduct further inquiry? (there is no provision for denovo enquiry or to conduct fresh enquiry)
(iii)
Whether disciplinary authority exercised its mind in arriving at the findings on the charges and independently arrived at
the nature and quantum of punishment?
(iv)
Whether the Andhra Pradesh Vigilance Commission in consulted as per the Scheme of Vigilance Commission ?
18. (i) Whether the report of the inquiry officer communicated to the charged officer?
(ii)
In case of disagreement with the findings of the Inquiry Authority whether grounds for the same communicated to the
charged officer along with the Inquiry Report.
(iii)
Whether representation of the Charged Officer on the findings of the inquiry officer received ?
(iv)
Parawise comments of the disciplinary authority on the representation of the charged officer, if any.
(v)
Whether disciplinary authority has considered the merits of the case and come to the conclusion that a formal penalty is
called for.
(vi)
Whether the Andhra Pradesh Vigilance Commission consulted as per the scheme of the Vigilance Commission and
advice tendered.
(vii)
Whether orders in circulation to CM obtained in case the Andhra Pradesh Vigilance Commissioner's recommendations
were not agreed to.
(viii)
Whether Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission net,d be consulted and if so, whether it was consulted and advice
of the APPSC thereon.
(ix)
Whether the final orders issued agreed with the recommendation of APPSC.
(x)
If not whether orders in circulation obtained in consultation with Andhra Pradesh Vigilance Commission.
19. Awarding penalties
(a)
Whether the instructions issued in U.O.Note No.28552/Ser.C/97- 1, GA (Ser.C) Department , dated 7-5-1997, are kept
in view while issuing orders.
(b)
Whether the instructions issued in U.O.Note 1713/Ser.C/66-1, dated 1-5-1993 have been following or not regarding
punishment awarded.
(c)
Whether the instructions vide Memo. No. 1436/Ser.C/80-2, dated 1-5-1993 have been followed while imposing penalty
and other papers communicated to the delinquent as per Rule 23.
(d)
Whether the order of penalty and other papers communicated to the delinquent as per Rule 23.
B. Penalty Under The A.P. Revised Pension Rules, 1980
Page 81/168
----- PAGE 82 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(where it is proposed to withhold or withdraw pension otherwise admissible to the officer as a result of disciplinary
proceedings instituted/deemed to continue in respect of an officer who has retired from service)
(a)
Whether order was issued in the prescribed proforma to the effect that disciplinary proceedings should be
instituted/continued under the Revised Pension Rules vide Memo. No. 17757-A/216/Pen.I/94, dated: 24-05-1994 of
Fin.Pen.I) Department
(b)
Whether the charge is within the limitation of 4 years as per Rule 9(2)(b)(ii) of R.P.Rs.
(c)
Whether show cause notice issued to the officer indicating precisely the quantum of cut proposed to be made in his
operative. (As per note under Rule 9(2) of RPRs)
(d)
Reply of the officer to the aforesaid notice
(e)
Comments on factual or procedural points raised by the officer in his reply.
(f)
Whether APPSC was consulted on the penalty?
C. In Case Of Disciplinary Inquiry By Tribunal For Disciplinary Proceedings:
In case of T.D.P. inquiry date of furnishing of records of T.D.P. Whether orders are issued in the prescribed format in
terms of U.O.Note No. 58414/Ser.C/2000-3, dated 1-5-1993 [refer topic-B for further course of action under APCS (DPT)
Rules]
1. (a) Date of order placing the CO(s) on their defence before Tribunal for disciplinary proceedings:
(b)
Date of receipt of report from TDP.
2. Ref. No.
3. Findings of the T.D.P.
4. Whether tribunal proved the charges and in case of exoneration whether it is stated that the C.Os are fully exonerated
(if no specific recommendation is made it should be construed that the C.O(s) are not fully exonerated as per Rule 6(2)
(a) of APCS (DPT) Rules.
5. Whether findings of the TDP are agreed to if not
(i)
Whether further inquiry by TDP is sought under Rule6 (2)(c) of APCS(DPT) Rules
(ii)
Whether it is proposed to disagree with the findings of the T.D.P.
6. Whether Vigilance Commission is consulted as per instructions issued in G.O.Ms.No.514, GA (Ser.C) Department,
dated 15-10-1994, if so the advice of V.C.
7. Whether enquiry report of the TDP is communicating to C.O. calling for his repn. If any (within one month).
(i)
agreeing with the findings.
(ii)
disagreeing with findings duly communicating the points of disagreement together with a brief statement of the grounds
therefor along with enquiry report.
8. Whether any repn. of the delinquent officer received if so his contentions.
9. Comments of the Government on the repn, of delinquent officer.
10. Provisional decision of the Government on penalty to be imposed.
11. Advice of the Commission on the quantum of penalty to be imposed
12. Whether Department issued orders as advised above (If the CO is retired after the case is entrusted to TDP a show
cause notice may be issued as per note to Rule 9 (2) of R.P.Rs, 1980, before imposing penalty)
13. If not whether orders in circulation to CM are obtained for deviation.
14. Final orders issued by the Government, with ref. no. and date.
D. Disciplinary Action For Penalty In Pursuance Of Conviction In Court Under Rule 25(I) Of C.C.A. Rules.
Page 82/168
----- PAGE 83 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(Mere suspension of sentence no bar to levy of penalty under Rule 25(i) of CCA Rules)
1. Name of the Court which convicted the accused officer(s) with C.C. No./date of judgement
2. Date of receipt of copy of judgement
3. Sentence
4. Nature of offence held proved viz., misappropriation, corruption, acceptance of illegal gratification, forgery, possession
of disproportionate assets, causing wilfull loss to Government for pecuniary gain of private persons
5. Penalty proposed
(Penalty of dismissal from service in terms of orders issued in U.O. Note. No. 1700/SC.D/92-4, GA (Sc.D) Department ,
dated 9-3-1994, proviso to Rule 9 of C.C.A. Rules and G.O.Ms.No. 2, GA (Ser.C) Department , dated 4-1¬99 to be
imposed originally in the above cases)
6. If a lesser punishment is proposed, reasons therefor
7. Whether properties of accused officer was attached and forfeited under Crl. Law Amendment Ordinance, in the
disproportionate/misappropriation etc., cases. Action taken thereon.
8. In case of acquittal whether competent authority has examined the judgement whether there are grounds for appeal
9. Whether appealed?
10. Whether proposed to initiate Department . action in case of acquittal on benefit of doubt/technical grounds
11. Provisional decision of the disciplinary authority
12. Whether APVC is consulted in the matter
13. Advice of V.0 in the case
14. Whether orders are proposed as advised by Andhra Pradesh Vigilance Commission
15. If not whether orders is circulation to CM have been obtained
16. Final orders of the Government in the disciplinary action consequent on conviction of accused officer(s) and penalty
imposed on delinquent(s)
Note: - In case of penalty other than pension cut in pursuance of conviction Department need not consult the APPSC.
17. Disciplinary cases against Government employees – Departmental Inquiries – Time Schedule to expedite the
inquiries - Orders - Reiterated - Issued.
(Memo. No. 51883/Ser.C/2002-2 , G.A..(Ser-D) Department , dated 19-12-2002)
Ref: - 1. Circular Memo. No. 35676/Ser.C/98, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 01-07-1998.
2. Government Memo. No. 23537/Ser.C/99-5, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 28-07-1999.
3. U.O.Note No.1992/Ser.C/2000, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 27-04-2000.
4. From Dy.A.G.(P), 0/o. The A.G., A.P., Hyd., D.O. Lr.No.PM/I-1(12-A)2002- 2003/33, Dated 12-08-2002.
5. From Fin. (PSC) Department , U.O. Note No.28535/C/333/PSC/01, dated 21-10-2002.
Order: - In the reference first cited instructions were issued that in all simple cases the enquiry initiated shall be
completed within three months either by Departmental Officers or Commissioner of Inquiries. In complicated cases, it
shall be ensured that the enquiry should be completed within five to six months. Further it has been requested therein
that the Secretaries to Government shall review the progress of the enquiries ordered in all disciplinary cases and
submit a note on the cases pending beyond the stipulated time to Chief Secretary to Government and also the Chief
Minister. The object is to ensure timely action in all disciplinary cases and also to adhere to the time limit prescribed.
2. In the references 2nd and 3rd cited, a time schedule was prescribed to expedite the Departmental enquiries as
detailed below:
(a) Fixing date of hearing, inspection of listed documents,
submission of list of defence documents and nomination of the a
defence asst. (if not already nominated).
Within two weeks from the date of appointment of the Enquiry
Officer
(b) Inspection of documents or submission of list of defence
witnesses/defence of documents or examination of relevancy of
documents or witnesses, procuring the additional documents and
submission certificates, confirming inspection of additional
documents by accused officer or defence assistant.
Two Weeks
Page 83/168
----- PAGE 84 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(c) Issue of summons to witnesses, fixing the date of regular
hearing and arrangements for participation of witnesses in the
regular hearing.
Two Weeks
(d) Regular hearing on day to day basis.
Two Weeks
(e) Submission of written briefs by Presenting Officer and
submission of written briefs by Accused Officer/Defence Asst. to
Inquiry Officer.
Two Weeks
(f) Submission of Inquiry Report by the Inquiry Officer.
Two Weeks
In the case of Departmental proceedings instituted against the retired Government employees, it is noticed that there is
abnormal delay in completing the enquiries, thereby, the pensionary benefits could not be finalized in such cases.
Keeping this a view, it is clarified that the time scheduled prescribed to complete the enquiries against Government
employees, as detailed above, shall also apply to the Departmental Proceedings instituted against the retired
Government employees. The procedure laid down in Rule 20 of Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (C.0 &A) Rules, 1991
shall be followed in case of Departmental Proceedings against the retired Government employees as laid down in Rule
9 of Andhra Pradesh Revised Pension Rules, 1980.
Accordingly, Government reiterate the instructions issued on time schedule prescribed to complete the enquires and that
the Secretaries or Principal Secretaries to Government shall review the progress of the enquiries of cases pending
beyond the stipulated time to the Chief Secretary to Government and also to the Chief Minister.
The Department of Secretariat, the Heads of Departments and the District Collectors are requested to follow the above
instructions and also bring this to the notice of all concerned for strict compliance.
18. Recast of Rule 20 - Instructions for easy and quick understanding of the procedure for imposing major penalties -
Regarding.
(Memo. No. 8388/Ser., C/2004, G. A. (Ser. C) Department, dated 12-03-2004)
Ref : - G.O. Ms. No. 383, General Administration (Ser. C) Department , dated 19-12-2003.
Order: - Rule 20 of A.P. Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991, which prescribes the procedure
of imposing major penalties was recast in G. 0. Ms. No. 383, General administration (Ser. C) Department, dated
19-12-2003, after taking into account several practical problems, brought to the notice of Government and also the
earlier amendments made to Rule 20. Some of the salient features of the new Rule 20 are as follows :
(a)
Copies or relevant extracts of the documents are furnished to the Government servant, along with articles of charges.
Additional documents are also furnished to him, as and when they are received. He is also furnished, without asking, a
copy of the list of further evidence, proposed to be produced. This will facilitate speedy conduct of disciplinary
proceedings.
(b)
Discretions and time limits to the disciplinary authorities, presenting officers, charged government servants etc. are
minimized and specified.
(c)
Only Head of the Department or Secretary of the Department concerned will decide whether production of all or any of
the documents requisitioned by the Government servant would be against the public interest or security of the State, and
not by the lower level officials.
(d)
Government servant can admit the genuineness or otherwise of any of the documents, copies of which have been
furnished to him
(e)
Oral and documentary evidence shall not only be produced, but also be recorded, thereby cognizance of the evidence is
taken note of and it becomes a part of I he record.
2. Old Rule, New Rule and the changes made in Rule 20 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Service (CC&A) Rules, 1991 is
Page 84/168
----- PAGE 85 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
shown in the Annexure for easy and quick understanding of the procedure for imposing major penalties.
3. The Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments and District Collectors are requested to follow the instructions
and bring the same to the notice of all concerned.
Annexure
(To Memo. No. 8388/Ser., C/2004, G. A. (Ser. C) Department, dated 12-03-2004)
Old Rule
New Rule
Change in Rule
20.(1) No order imposing any of the penalties
specified in clauses (vi) to (x) of Rule 9 shall be made except
after an enquiry held, as far as may be in the manner provided
in this rule and Rule 21 or in the manner provided by the
PublicServants (Inquiries) Act, 1850 (Central Act 37 of 1850) or
the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings
Tribunal) Act, 1960 or the Andhra Pradesh Lokayukta and
Upa-Lokayukta Act, 1983, where such inquiry is held under the
said Acts.
20.(1) No order imposing any of the penalties
specified in clauses (vi) to (x) of Rule 9 shall be made except
after an inquiry held, as far as may be, in the manner provided
in this Rule and Rule 21 or in the manner provided by the Andhra
Pradesh Civil Services (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Act,
1960 or the Andhra Pradesh Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta Act,
1983, where such inquiry is held under the said Acts.
In old rule, Public Servants
(Inquiries) Act, 1850 is quoted.
In new rule, A.P. Civil Services (Classification, Control and
Appeal) Rules, 1991 are quoted, as they are quite exhaustive.
(2) Whenever the disciplinary authority is of the opinion
that there are grounds for inquiring into the truth of any
imputation of misconduct or misbehaviour against a Government
servant, it may itself inquire into, or appoint under this rule
or under the provisions of the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act,
1850, as the case may be, an authority to inquire into the truth
thereof.
(2) Whenever the Disciplinary Authority is of the opinion
that there are grounds for inquiring into the truth of any
imputation of misconduct or misbehaviour against a Government
Servant, it may itself inquiry into, or appoint under this Rule,
as the case may be, authority to inquire into the truth thereof.
In old rule, Public Servants
(Inquiries) Act, 1850 is quoted.
In new rule, A.P. Civil Services (Classification, Control and
Appeal) Rules, 1991 are quoted, as they are quite exhaustive.
Explanation:? Where the disciplinary authority
itself holds the inquiry, any reference in sub-rule (7) to
sub-rule (20) and in sub-rule (22) to the inquiring authority
shall be construed as a reference to the disciplinary authority.
Explanation:? Where the Disciplinary Authority
itself holds the inquiry, any reference to the Inquiring
Authority shall be construed as a reference to the Disciplinary
Page 85/168
----- PAGE 86 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Authority.
(3) Where it is proposed to hold
an inquiry against a Government servant under this rule and Rule
21, the disciplinary authority or the cadre controlling
authority who is not designated as disciplinary authority and
who is subordinate to the appointing authority can draw up or
cause to be drawn up-
(i) the
substance of the imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour into
definite and distinct articles of charge;
(ii) a
statement of the imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour in
support of each article of charge, which shall contain :
(a) a
statement of all relevant acts including any admission or
confession made by the Government servant;
(b) a list of documents by which,
and a list of witnesses by whom, the articles of charge are
proposed to be sustained.
(3) Where it is proposed to hold
an inquiry against a Government Servant under this Rule and Rule
21, the Disciplinary Authority or the Cadre Controlling
Authority who is not designated as Disciplinary Authority and
who is subordinate to the Appointing Authority can draw up or
cause to be drawn up-
(i) The substance of the
imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour into definite and
distinct articles of charge.
(ii) A statement of the
imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour in support of each
article of charge, which shall contain
(a) A statement of all relevant
facts including any; admission or confession made by the
Government Servant.
(b) Copies of documents by which and copies of statements of
witnesses by whom, the articles of charge are proposed to be
sustained.
In old rule, only list of
documents are furnished to the Government Servant.
In new rule, copies of relevant extracts of the documents are
furnished to the Government Servant, along with articles of
charges, so as to facilitate speedy conduct of disciplinary
proceedings.
Note:? Where the documents are voluminous,
relevant extracts of the documents may be furnished to the
Government Servant.
(4) The disciplinary authority shall deliver or cause to be
delivered by the Government servant a copy of the articles of
charge, the statement of the imputations of misconduct or
misbehaviour and a list of documents and witnesses by which each
article of charges is proposed to be sustained and shall require
Page 86/168
----- PAGE 87 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
the Government servant to submit, within such time as may be
specified, a written statement of his defence and to state
whether he desires to be heard in person.
(4) The Disciplinary Authority shall deliver or cause to be
delivered to the Government Servant a copy of the articles of
charge, the statement of the imputations of misconduct or
misbehaviour and copies of the statements of witnesses by which
each article of charge is proposed to be sustained and shall
require the Government Servant to appear before the Disciplinary
Authority on such day and at such time NOT EXCEEDING TEN WORKING
DAYS and submit a written statement of his defence and to state
whether he desires to be heard in person.
In old rule, the time limit,
within which, a charged officer has to submit his written
statement of defence, was left to the discretion of the
Disciplinary Authority.
In new rule, the Disciplinary Authority cannot give more than
then working days to the charged officer to submit a written
statement in his defence.
(5) (a) On receipt of the written statement of defence, the
disciplinary authority may itself inquire into such of the
articles of charge as are not admitted, or, if it considers it
necessary so to do, appoint under sub-rule (2), an inquiring
authority for the purpose, and where all the articles of charge
have been admitted by the Government servant in his written
statement of defence, the disciplinary authority shall record
its findings on each charge after taking such evidence as it may
think fit and shall act in the manner laid down in Rule 21;
(5) (a) On the date fixed for appearance, the Government
Servant shall submit the written statement of his defence. He
shall be questioned whether he pleads guilty to the charges or
not and if he pleads guilty to all or any of the articles of
charges, the Disciplinary Authority shall record the plea and
obtain the signature of the Government Servant thereon.
In old rule, the Government
Servant shall appear in person before the Inquiring Authority
within fifteen working days to submit whether he pleads guilty
to the charges or not and also the written statement of defence,
etc.
In new rule, the time limit is reduced and the Disciplinary
Authority gives not exceeding ten working days for submission of
written statement of defence.
(7) The Government Servant shall appear in person before the
inquiring authority on such day and at such time within fifteen
working days from the date of receipt by him of the articles of
charge and the statement of the imputations of misconduct or
misbehaviour, as the inquiring authority may, by a notice in
writing, specify in this behalf or within such further time, not
exceeding fifteen days, as the inquiring authority may allow.
(9) If the Government Servant who has not admitted any of the
articles of charge in his written statement of defence or has
Page 87/168
----- PAGE 88 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
not submitted any written statement of defence, appears before
the inquiring authority, such authority shall ask him whether he
is guilty or has any defence to make and if he pleads guilty to
any of the articles of charge, the inquiring authority shall
record the plea, sign the record and obtain the signature of the
Government Servant thereon.
(10)The inquiring authority shall return a findings of guilty
in respect of these articles of charge to which the Government
Servant pleads guilty.
(5) (b) If no written statement
of defence is submitted by the Government servant, the
disciplinary authority may itself inquire into the articles of
charge or may, if it considers it necessary to do so, appoint,
under sub-rule (2) an inquiring authority for the purpose;
(5) (c) Where the disciplinary
authority itself inquires into any article of charge or appoints
a inquiring authority for holding an inquiry into such charge,
it may, by an order, appoint a Government servant or a legal
practitioner, to be known as the "Presenting Officer"
to present on its behalf the case in support of the articles of
charge.
(7) The Government Servant shall
appear in person before the inquiring authority on such day and
at such time within fifteen working days from the date of
receipt by him of the articles of charge and the statement of
the imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour, as the inquiring
authority may, by a notice in writing, specify in this behalf or
within such further time, not exceeding fifteen days, as the
inquiring authority may allow.
(9) If the Government Servant who has not admitted any of the
articles of charge in his written statement of defence or has
not submitted any written statement of defence, appears before
the inquiring authority, such authority shall ask him whether he
is guilty or has any defence to make and if he pleads guilty to
any of the articles of charge, the inquiring authority shall
record the plea, sign the record and obtain the signature of the
Government Servant thereon.
(5) (b) Where the Government Servant appears before the
Disciplinary Authority and pleads not guilty to the charges or
refuses or omits to plead, the Disciplinary Authority shall
record the plea and obtain signature of the Government Servant
thereon may decide to hold the inquiry itself or if it consider
necessary to do so appoint a serving or retired Government
Servant as Inquiring Authority for holding the inquiry into the
charges and also appoint a Government Servant as Presenting
Officer to present the case in support of the articles of charge
and adjourn the case to a date not exceeding five days for the
said purpose.
In old rule, the Disciplinary
Authority appoints an Inquiring Authority.
In new rule, the Disciplinary
Page 88/168
----- PAGE 89 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Authority appoints a serving or retired Government Servant as
Inquiring Authority.
In old rule, the Inquiring
Authority may give further time not exceeding fifteen days to
the Government Servant to appear in person before the Inquiring
Authority to submit whether he pleads guilty to the charges or
not and also the written statement of defence, etc.
In New Rule, the time limit is reduced and the Inquiring
Authority can give to a Government Servant a further time not
exceeding five days.
(5) (b) If no written statement of defence is submitted by
the Government servant, the disciplinary authority may itself
inquire into the articles of charge or may, if it considers it
necessary to do so, appoint, under sub-rule (2) an inquiring
authority for the purpose;
(5)(c) On the date so fixed, the
Disciplinary Authority shall by an order appoint the Inquiring
Authority and shall also appoint a Government Servant as
Presenting Officer to present the case in support of the
articles of charge.
Provided that the Disciplinary Authority may if it considers
necessary having regard to the facts and circumstances of the
case, appoint a Legal Practitioner or a legally trained
Government Servant as Presenting Officer.
In Old Rule, the Disciplinary
Authority appoints a Government Servant or a Legal Practitioner
to be known as Presenting Officer to present on its behalf the
case in support of the articles of charge.
In New Rule, Disciplinary Authority can appoint a Government
Servant or a Legal Practitioner or a legally trained Government
Servant as Presenting Officer.
(5) (c) Where the disciplinary authority itself inquires into
any article of charge or appoints a inquiring authority for
holding an inquiry into such charge, it may, by an order,
appoint a Government servant or a legal practitioner, to be
known as the "Presenting Officer" to present on its
behalf the case in support of the articles of charge.
(8)(a) The Government Servant may take the assistance of any
other Government Servant to present the case on his behalf, but
my not engage a legal practitioner for the purpose unless the
Presenting Officer appointed by the disciplinary authority is a
legal practitioner, or, the disciplinary authority, having
regard to the circumstances of the case so permits.
Provided further that the Government Servant may take the
assistance of any other Government Servant posted at any other
station, if the inquiring authority having regard to the
circumstances of the case, and for reasons to be recorded in
writing, so permits.
Note (1):? The Government Servant shall
not take the assistance of any other Government Servant who has
pending two disciplinary cases on hand in which he has to give
Page 89/168
----- PAGE 90 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
assistance.
Note (2):? The Government Servant shall
not take the assistance of any other Government Servant who is
dealing in his official capacity with the case of inquiry
relating to the Government Servant charged.
(8)(a) The Government Servant may take the assistance
of any other Government Servant to present the case on his
behalf, but may not engage a legal practitioner for the purpose
unless the Presenting Officer appointed by the disciplinary
authority is a legal practitioner, or, the disciplinary
authority, having regard to the circumstances of the case so
permits :
(5)(d) The Disciplinary Authority shall serve copies of the
orders appointing the Inquiring Authority and the Presenting
Officer on the Government Servant and inform him that he may
take the assistance of any other Government Servant to present
the case on his behalf, but he may not engage a Legal
Practitioner for the purpose unless the Presenting Officer
appointed by the Disciplinary Authority is a Legal Practitioner
or a legally trained Government Servant.
In Old Rule, no Government Servant dealing in his official
capacity with the case of inquiry relating to the person
charged, shall be permitted by the Inquiry Officer to appear on
behalf of the person charged before the Inquiry Officer.
Provided that no member of service dealing in his official
capacity with the case of inquiry relating to the person charged
shall be permitted by the inquiry officer or by any officer to
whom an appeal may be preferred to appear on behalf of the
person charged before the enquiry officer;
Provided that no Government Servant dealing in his official
capacity with the case of inquiry relating to the person charged
or any Officer to whom an appeal may be preferred shall be
permitted by the Inquiring Authority to appear on behalf of the
person charged before the Inquiry Authority.
In New Rule, neither the Government Servant, who in his
official capacity dealing with the case of inquiry relating to
the person charged, nor an Officer, to whom an appeal may be
preferred, shall be permitted by the Inquiry Officer to appear
on behalf of the person charged before the Inquiry Officer.
Provided further that the Government Servant may take the
assistance of any other Government Servant posted at any other
station, if the inquiring authority having regard to the
circumstances of the case, and for reasons to be recorded in
writing, so permits.
Provided further that the Government Servant may take the
assistance of any other Government Servant posted at any other
station, if the Inquiring Authority having regard to the
circumstances of the case, and for reasons to be recorded in
writing so permits.
Note (1):- The Government Servant shall not
take the assistance of any other Government Servant who has
Page 90/168
----- PAGE 91 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
pending two disciplinary cases on hand in which he has to give
assistance.
Note (1):- The Government Servant shall not
take the assistance of any other Government Servant who has
pending two disciplinary cases on hand in which he has to give
assistance.
Note (2):- The Government Servant shall not
take the assistance of any other Government Servant who is
dealing in his official capacity with the case of inquiry
relating to the Government Servant charged.
Note (2):- The Government Servant shall not
take the assistance of any other Government Servant who is
dealing in his official capacity with the case of inquiry
relating to the Government Servant charged.
(b) The Government Servant may also take the assistance of a
retired Government Servant to present the case on his behalf,
subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Government
from time to time by general or special order in this behalf.
The Government Servant may also take the assistance of a
Retired Government Servant to present the case on his behalf,
subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Government
from time to time by general or special order in his behalf.
(11) The inquiring authority shall, if the government Servant
fails to appear within the specified time or refuses or omits to
plead, require the Presenting Officer to produce the evidence by
which he proposes to prove the articles of charge, and shall
adjourn the case to a later date not exceeding thirty days,
after recording an order that the Government Servant may, for
the purpose of preparing his defence :
(5)(e) The Disciplinary Authority shall inform the Government
Servant to submit within five days a list of documents, which he
requires to be discovered or produced by Government Servant for
the purpose of his defence indicating the relevance of the
documents so required.
In Old Rule, the Inquiring
Authority can give a time not exceeding ten days to the
Government Servant, to furnish a list of documents, which he
requires to be discovered or produced, for the purpose of
preparing his defence.
In New Rule, the time limit is reduced and the Disciplinary
Authority shall inform the Government Servant to submit within
five days a list documents.
(i) inspect within five days of
the order or within such further time not exceeding five days as
the inquiring authority may allow, the documents specified in
the list referred to sub-rule (3),
(ii) submit a list of witnesses
to be examined on his behalf,
Note:- If the Government Servant applies
orally or in writing for the supply of copies of the Statement
of witnesses mentioned in the list referred to in sub-rule (3),
Page 91/168
----- PAGE 92 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
the inquiring authority shall furnish him with such copies as
early as possible and in any case not later than three days
before the commencement of the examination of the witnesses on
behalf of the disciplinary authority.
(iii) give a notice within ten
days of the order or within such further time not exceeding ten
days as the inquiring authority may allow for the discovery or
production of any documents which are in the possession of
Government but not mentioned in the list referred to in sub-rule
(3).
Note:- The Government servant shall indicate
the relevance of the documents required by him to be discovered
or produced by the Government.
(12) The inquiring authority
shall, on receipt of the notice for the discovery or production
of documents, forward the same or copies thereof to the
authority in whose custody or possession the documents are kept,
with a requisition for the production of the documents by such
date as may be specified in such requisition :
Provided that the inquiring authority may, for reasons to be
recorded by it in writing, refuse to requisition such of the
documents as are, in its opinion, not relevant to the case.
(5)(f) The Disciplinary Authority may for reasons to be
recorded in writing refuse to requisition such of the documents
as are, in its opinion, not relevant to the case.
In Old Rule, the Inquiring
Authority may refuse to requisition such of the documents not
relevant to the case.
In New Rule, instead of the inquiring Authority, it is now
confined to the Disciplinary Authority to refuse to requisition
such of the documents not relevant to thecase.
(12)The inquiring authority shall, on receipt of the notice
for the discovery or production of documents, forward the same
or copies thereof to the authority in whose custody or
possession the documents are kept, with a requisition for the
production of the documents by such date as may be specified in
such requisition :
(5)(g) The Disciplinary Authority shall on receipt of the
notice for the discovery or production of documents, forward the
same or copies thereof to the authority in whose custody or
possession the documents are kept with a requisition for the
production of the documents by such date as may be specified in
such requisition.
In old rule, the Inquiring
Authority can requisition for the production of the documents.
In new rule, only the Disciplinary Authority on receipt of
the notice can requisition for the production of the documents.
Provided that the inquiring authority may, for reasons to be
recorded by it in writing, refuse to requisition such of the
documents as are, in its opinion, not relevant to the case.
(13) On receipt of the requisition preferred to in sub-rule
Page 92/168
----- PAGE 93 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(12) every authority having the custody or possession of the
requisitioned documents, shall produce the same before the
inquiring authority, and the requisitioning of the documents can
be done either on the instance of the member of service or by
the inquiring authoritysuo motu:
(5)(h) On receipt of the requisition referred to in sub rule
(5)(g), every authority having the custody or possession of the
requisitioned documents shall produce the same before the
Disciplinary Authority.
In old rule, the custodian or
any authority produces the requisitioned documents before the
Inquiring Authority.
In new rule, the custodian or any authority produces the
requisitioned documents only before the Disciplinary Authority.
Provided that if the authority having the custody or
possession of the requisitioned documents is satisfied for
reasons to be recorded by it in writing that the production of
all or any of such documents would be against the public
interest or security of the State, shall submit the fact to the
Head of Department, or to the Secretary of the Department
concerned for a decision in the matter. Such decision shall be
informed to the inquiring authority, and the inquiring authority
shall on being so informed, communicate the information to the
Government servant and withdraw the requisition made by it for
the production or discovery of such documents.
Provided that if the authority having the custody or
possession of the requisitioned documents is satisfied for
reasons to be recorded by it in writing that the production of
all or any such documents would be against the public interest
or security of the State, shall submit the fact to the Head of
Department or to the Secretary of the Department concerned for a
decision in the matter. Such decision shall be informed to the
Disciplinary Authority and the Disciplinary Authority shall on
being so informed, communicate the information to the Government
Servant and withdraw the requisition made by it for the
production or discovery of such documents.
In old rule, a custodian or any
authority can inform the Inquiring Authority that the production
of all or any of the requisitioned documents would be against
the public interest of security
In new rule, a custodian or any authority can submit that the
production of all or any such requisitioned documents would be
against the public interest or security of the State, to the
Head of the Department or to the Secretary of the Department
concerned for a dedsion in the matter. The Disciplinary
Authority, in turn communicates the information to the
Government Servant to withdraw the requisition for production or
discovery of the documents.
(20) If the Government (6) servant to whom a copy of the
articles of charge has been delivered, does not submit the
written statement of defence on or before the date specified for
Page 93/168
----- PAGE 94 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
the purpose or does not appear in person before the inquiring
authority otherwise fails or refuses to comply with the
provisions of this rule, the inquiring authority may hold the
inquiryex-parte.
6. Where the Government Servant to whom a copy of the article
of charge has been delivered does not submit the written
statement of defence on or before the date specified for the
purpose or does not appear in person before the Disciplinary
Authority, the Disciplinary Authority may decide to hold the
inquiryex-parteor if it considers necessary so to do,
appoint an Inquiry Authority for die purpose.
In old rule, if the Government
Servant does not submit or dies not appear or refuses to comply
with these rules, the Inquiring Authority may hold the inquiryex-parte.
In new rule, the Disciplinary Authority may decide to hold
the inquiry ex-parte or if it considers necessary so to do,
appoint an Inquiring Authority for the purpose.
(6) The disciplinary authority
(7) shall, where it is not the inquiring authority, forward to
the inquiring authority-
(i) a copy
of the articles of charge and the statement of the imputations
of misconduct or misbehaviour;
(ii) a copy
of the written statement of defence, if any submitted by the
Government Servant;
(iii) a
copy of the statements of witnesses, if any, referred to in
sub-rule (3).
(iv)
evidence proving the delivery of the documents referred to in
sub-rule (3) to the Government Servant; and
(v) A copy of the order
appointing the "Presenting Officer".
7. (a) The Disciplinary
Authority shall, where it is not the Inquiring Authority,
forward to the Inquiring Authority.
(i) a copy
of the articles of charge and the statement of the imputations
of misconduct or misbehaviour;
(ii) a copy
of the written statement of defence, if any submitted by the
Government Servant;
(iii)
Copies of the Statements of Witnesses, referred to in sub-rule
(3);
(iv) Copies
of documents referred to in sub-rule (3);
(v)
Evidence proving the delivery of copies of the documents
referred to in sub-rule (3) to the Government Servant; and
Page 94/168
----- PAGE 95 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(vi)A copy of the order
appointing the "Presenting Officer".
In old rule, the Disciplinary
Authority, where it is not the Inquiry Authority, was not
forwarding to the Inquiring Authority copies of documents
referred to in sub-rule (3).
In new rule, the Disciplinary Authority shall, where it is
not the Inquiry Authority, forward to the Inquiring Authority
copies of documents referred to in sub-rule (3).
(6) The disciplinary authority
shall, where it is not the inquiring authority, forward to the
inquiring authority-
(i) a copy
of the articles of charge and the statement of the imputations
of misconduct or misbehaviour;
(ii) a copy
of the written statement of defence, if any submitted by the
Government Servant;
(iii) a
copy of the statements of witnesses, if any, referred to in
sub-rule (3).
(iv)
evidence proving the delivery of the documents referred to in
sub-rule (3) to the Government Servant; and
(v) a copy of the order
appointing the "Presenting Officer".
(7)(b) The Disciplinary Authority shall also forward to the
Inquiring Authority documents received under sub-rule (5)(h) as
and when they are received.
In old rule the Disciplinary
Authority shall, where it is not the Inquiring Authority, was
not forwarding to the Inquiring Authority, copies of further
documents requisitioned.
In new rule, the Disciplinary Authority shall, where it is
not the inquiry authority, forward to the Inquiring Authority,
not only copies of documents referred to in sub-rule (3), but
also further documents received under sub-rule (5)(h), as and
when they are received.
(7) The Government Servant shall
appear in person before the inquiring authority on such day and
at such time within fifteen working days from the date of
receipt by him of the articles of charge and the statement of
the imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour, as the inquiring
authority may, by a notice in writing, specify in this behalf or
within such further time, not exceeding fifteen days, as the
inquiring authority may allow.
(7) The Government Servant shall appear in person before the
inquiring authority on such day and at such time within fifteen
working days from the date of receipt by him of the articles of
charge and the statement of the imputations of misconduct or
misbehaviour, as the inquiring authority may, by a notice in
Page 95/168
----- PAGE 96 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
writing, specify in this behalf or within such further time, not
exceeding fifteen days, as the inquiring authority may allow.
(8) After receiving the documents mentioned under sub-rule
(7) (a), the Inquiring Authority shall issue a notice in writing
to the Presenting Officer and also to the Government Servant to
appear before him on such day and at such time and place
specified by him which shall not exceed ten days.
In old rule, the Inquiring
Authority may require the Presenting Officer to produce the
evidence, by which he proposes to prove the articles of charges
and may adjourn the case to a later date not exceeding thirty
days.
In new rule, the time limit is reduced and the Inquiring
Authority may adjourn the case to a date not exceeding ten days.
(9) (a) The Presenting Officer and Government and Government
Servant shall appear before the Inquiring Authority on the date
fixed under sub-rule (8).
In old rule, the Government Servant shall appear in person
before the Inquiring Authority within not exceeding thirty days.
In new rule, the time limit is reduced; and, not only the
Government Servant but also the Presenting Officer shall appear
before the Inquiring Authority, in not exceeding ten days.
(11) The inquiring authority
shall, if the government Servant fails to appear within the
specified time or refuses or omits to plead, require the
Presenting Officer to produce the evidence by which he proposes
to prove the articles of charge, and shall adjourn the case to a
later date not exceeding thirty days, after recording an order
that the Government Servant may, for the purpose of preparing
his defence :
(i) inspect
within five days of the order or within such further time not
exceeding five days as the inquiring authority may allow, the
documents specified in the list referred to sub-rule (3).
(ii) submit
a list of witnesses to be examined on his behalf,
Note :- If the Government
Servant applies orally or in writing for the supply of copies of
the Statement of witnesses mentioned in the list referred to in
sub-rule (3), the inquiring authority shall furnish him with
such copies as early as possible and in any case not later than
three days before the commencement of the examination of the
witnesses on behalf of the disciplinary authority.
(iii) give
a notice within ten days of the order or within such further
time not exceeding ten days as the inquiring authority may allow
for the discovery or production of any documents which are in
the possession of Government but not mentioned in the list
referred to in sub-rule (3).
Note:- The Government servant shall indicate
the relevance of the documents required by him to be discovered
Page 96/168
----- PAGE 97 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
or produced by the Government.
(9) (b) If the Government Servant informs the Inquiring
Authority that he wishes to inspect the documents mentioned
sub-rule (3) for the purpose of preparing his defence, the
Inquiring Authority shall order that he may inspect the
documents within five days and the Presenting Officer shall
arrange for the inspection accordingly.
In old rule, the Inquiring
Authority may allow the Government Servant to inspect within not
exceeding ten days to inspect the documents for the purpose of
preparing his defence.
In new rule, the time limit is reduced and the Inquiring
Authority shall order that the Government Servant may inspect
the documents within five days; and, the Presenting Officer
shall arrange for the inspection accordingly.
(11) The inquiring authority shall, if the government Servant
fails to appear within the specified time or refuses or omits to
plead, require the Presenting Officer to produce the evidence by
which he proposes to prove the articles of charge, and shall
adjourn the case to a later date not exceeding thirty days,
after recording an order that the Government Servant may, for
the purpose of preparing his defence :
(9)(c) The Inquiring Authority shall call upon the Government
Servant whether he admits the genuineness of any of the
documents copies of which have been furnished to him and if he
admits the genuineness of any document it may be taken as
evidence without any proof by the concerned witness.
In old rule, there was no
provision for the Government Servant whether he admits the
genuineness or not of any of the documents, copies of which have
been furnished to him.
In new rule, the Government Servant can say whether he admits
the genuineness of any of the documents, copies of which have
been furnished to him; and, if he admits, the genuineness of any
document, it may be taken as evidence without any proof by the
concerned witness.
(i) inspect within five days of
the order or within such further time not exceeding five days as
the inquiring authority may allow, the documents specified in
the list referred to sub-rule (3),
(ii) submit a list of witnesses
to be examined on his behalf,
Note:- If the Government Servant applies
orally or in writing for the supply of copies of the Statement
of witnesses mentioned in the list referred to in sub-rule (3),
the inquiring authority shall furnish him with such copies as
early as possible and in any case not later than three days
before the commencement of the examination of the witnesses on
behalf of the disciplinary authority.
(iii) give a notice within ten
days of the order or within such further time not exceeding ten
Page 97/168
----- PAGE 98 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
days as the inquiring authority may allow for the discovery or
production of any documents which are in the possession of
Government but not mentioned in the list referred to in sub-rule
(3).
Note:- The Government servant shall indicate the
relevance of the documents required by him to be discovered or
produced by the Government.
(11) The inquiring authority shall, if the government Servant
fails to appear within the specified time or refuses or omits to
plead, require the Presenting Officer to produce the evidence by
which he proposes to prove the articles of charge, and shall
adjourn the case to a later date not exceeding thirty days,
after recording an order that the Government Servant may, for
the purpose of preparing his defence :
(9)(d) The Inquiring Authority shall adjourn the case for
inquiry to a date not exceeding ten days for production of
evidence and require the Presenting Officer to produce the
evidence by which he proposes to prove the article of charges.
In old rule, the Inquiring
Authority may require the Presenting Officer to produce the
evidence, by which he proposes to prove the articles of charges
and may adjourn the case to a later date not exceeding thirty
days.
In new rule, the time limit is reduced and the Inquiring
Authority may adjourn the case to a date not exceeding ten days.
(i) inspect within five days of
the order or within such further time not exceeding five days as
the inquiring authority may allow, the documents specified in
the list referred to sub-rule (3),
(ii) submit a list of witnesses
to be examined on his behalf,
Note:- If the Government Servant applies
orally or in writing for the supply of copies of the Statement
of witnesses mentioned in the list referred to in sub-rule (3),
the inquiring authority shall furnish him with such copies as
early as possible and in any case not later than three days
before the commencement of the examination of the witnesses on
behalf of the disciplinary authority.
(iii) give a notice within ten
days of the order or within such further time not exceeding ten
days as the inquiring authority may allow for the discovery or
production of any documents which are in the possession of
Government but not mentioned in the list referred to in sub-rule
(3).
Note:- The Government servant shall indicate
the relevance of the documents required by him to be discovered
or produced by the Government.
(14) On the date fixed for the inquiry, the oral and
documentary evidence by which the articles of charge are
proposed to be proved shall be produced by or on behalf of the
disciplinary authority. The witnesses shall be examined by or on
Page 98/168
----- PAGE 99 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
behalf of the Presenting Officer and may be cross-examined by or
on behalf of the Government servant. The Presenting Officer
shall be entitled to re-examine the witnesses on any points on
which they have been cross-examined, but not on any new matter,
without the leave of the inquiring authority. The inquiring
authority may also put such questions to the witnesses as it
thinks fit.
(10) (a) On the dates fixed for recording the evidence, the
oral and documentary evidence by which the articles of charges
are proposed to be proved shall be produced by or on behalf of
the Disciplinary Authority.
In old rule, the date was fixed
for the inquiry and the oral and documentary evidence shall be
produced by or on behalf of the Disciplinary Authority.
In new rule, it is clearly specified that the dates are fixed
for inquiry for the purpose of recording the evidence, and the
oral and documentary evidence shall be produced by or on behalf
of the Disciplinary Authority.
(14) On the date fixed for the inquiry, the oral and
documentary evidence by which the articles of charge are
proposed to be proved shall be produced by or on behalf of the
disciplinary authority. The witnesses shall be examined by or on
behalf of the Presenting Officer and may be cross-examined by or
on behalf of the Government servant. The Presenting Officer
shall be entitled to re-examine the witnesses on any points on
which they have been cross-examined, but not on any new matter,
without the leave of the inquiring authority. The inquiring
authority may also put such questions to the witnesses as it
thinks fit.
(10) (b) The evidence shall be recorded as far as possible on
day-to-day basis till the evidence on behalf of the Disciplinary
Authority is completed.
In old rule, the oral and
documentary evidence shall be produced by or on behalf of the
Disciplinary Authority.
In new rule, the evidence, the oral and documentary evidence,
shall not only be produced, but also recorded, thereby
cognizance is taken of the evidence, so that it becomes a part
of the record, on day to day basis, till the evidence by or on
behalf of the Disciplinary Authority is completed.
(14) On the date fixed for the inquiry, the oral and
documentary evidence by which the articles of charge are
proposed to be proved shall be produced by or on behalf of the
disciplinary authority. The witnesses shall be examined by or on
behalf of the Presenting Officer and may be cross-examined by or
on behalf of the Government servant. The Presenting Officer
shall be entitled to re-examine the witnesses on any points on
which they have been cross-examined, but not on any new matter,
without the leave of the inquiring authority. The inquiring
authority may also put such questions to the witnesses as it
thinks fit.
Page 99/168
----- PAGE 100 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(10) (c) The witnesses shall be examined by the Presenting
Officer and they may be cross examined by or on behalf of the
Government Servant.
In old rule, the witnesses shall
be examined by or on behalf of the Presenting Officer.
In new rule, the witnesses shall be examined by the
Presenting Officer only.
(14) On the date fixed for the inquiry, the oral and
documentary evidence by which the articles of charge are
proposed to be proved shall be produced by or on behalf of the
disciplinary authority. The witnesses shall be examined by or on
behalf of the Presenting Officer and may be cross-examined by or
on behalf of the Government servant. The Presenting Officer
shall be entitled to re-examine the witnesses on any points on
which they have been cross-examined, but not on any new matter,
without the leave of the inquiring authority. The inquiring
authority may also put such questions to the witnesses as it
thinks fit.
(10) (d) The Presenting Officer shall be entitled to
re-examine the witnesses on any points on which they have been
cross examined, but not on any new matter without the permission
of the Inquiring Authority.
In old rule, the Presenting
Officer shall be entitled to re-examine the witnesses, etc.,
without the leave of the Inquiring Authority.
In new rule, the Presenting Officer shall be entitled to
re-examine the witnesses, etc., without the permission of the
Inquiring Authority.
(14) On the date fixed for the inquiry, the oral and
documentary evidence by which the articles of charge are
proposed to be proved shall be produced by or on behalf of the
disciplinary authority. The witnesses shall be examined by or on
behalf of the Presenting Officer and may be cross-examined by or
on behalf of the Government servant. The Presenting Officer
shall be entitled to re-examine the witnesses on any points on
which they have been cross-examined, but not on any new matter,
without the leave of the inquiring authority. The inquiring
authority may also put such questions to the witnesses as it
thinks fit.
10 (e) The Inquiring Authority may also put such question to
the witnesses as it thinks fit.
There is no change between the old rule and the new rule.
(15) If it shall appear necessary before the closure of the
case on behalf of the disciplinary authority, the inquiring
authority may, in its discretion, allow the Presenting Officer
to produce evidence not included in the list given to the
Government Servant or may itself call for new evidence or recall
and re-examine any witness and in such case the Government
Servant shall be entitled to have, if he demands it, a copy of
the list of further evidence proposed to be produced and an
adjournment of the inquiry for three clear days before the
Page 100/168
----- PAGE 101 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
production of such new evidence, exclusive of the day of
adjournment and the day to which the inquiry is adjourned. The
inquiring authority shall give the Government servant an
opportunity of inspecting such documents before they are taken
on the record. The inquiring authority may also allow the
Government Servant to produce new evidence, if it so of the
opinion that the production of such evidence is necessary in the
interest of justice.
(11) (a) If it appears necessary before the closure of the
case on behalf of the Disciplinary Authority, the Inquiring
Authority may, in its discretion, allow the Presenting Officer
to produce evidence not included in the list given to the
Government Servant or may itself call for new evidence or recall
and re-examine any witness.
There is no change between the old rule and the new rule.
Note :- New evidence shall not be permitted or
called for and witness shall not be recalled to fill up any gap
in the evidence. Such evidence may be called for only when there
is an inherent lacuna or defect in the evidence which has been
produced originally.
(15) If it shall appear necessary before the closure of the
case on behalf of the disciplinary authority, the inquiring
authority may, in its discretion, allow the Presenting Officer
to produce evidence not included in the list given to the
Government Servant or may itself call for new evidence or recall
and re-examine any witness and in such case the Government
Servant shall be entitled to have, if he demands it, a copy of
the list of further evidence proposed to be produced and an
adjournment of the inquiry for three clear days before the
production of such new evidence, exclusive of the day of
adjournment and the day to which the inquiry is adjourned. The
inquiring authority shall give the Government servant an
opportunity of inspecting such documents before they are taken
on the record. The inquiring authority may also allow the
Government Servant to produce new evidence, if it so of the
opinion that the production of such evidence is necessary in the
interest of justice.
(11)(b) In such case, the Government Servant shall be
entitled to have a copy of the list of further evidence proposed
to be produced and an adjournment of the inquiry for three clear
days before the production of such new evidence, exclusive of
the day of adjournment and the day to which the inquiry is
adjourned.
In old rule, the Government
Servant, is entitled to have a copy of the list of further
evidence, proposed to be produced, if he demands.
In the New Rule, the Government Servant, without any asking,
shall be entitled to have a copy of the list of further
evidence, proposed to be produced.
Note :- New evidence shall not be permitted or
called for and witness shall not be recalled to fill up any gap
Page 101/168
----- PAGE 102 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
in the evidence. Such evidence may be called for only when there
is an inherent lacuna or defect in the evidence which has been
produced originally.
(15) If it shall appear necessary before the closure of the
case on behalf of the disciplinary authority, the inquiring
authority may, in its discretion, allow the Presenting Officer
to produce evidence not included in the list given to the
Government Servant or may itself call for new evidence or recall
and re-examine any witness and in such case the Government
Servant shall be entitled to have, if he demands it, a copy of
the list of further evidence proposed to be produced and an
adjournment of the inquiry for three clear days before the
production of such new evidence, exclusive of the day of
adjournment and the day to which the inquiry is adjourned. The
inquiring authority shall give the Government servant an
opportunity of inspecting such documents before they are taken
on the record. The inquiring authority may also allow the
Government Servant to produce new evidence, if it so of the
opinion that the production of such evidence is necessary in the
interest of justice.
(11)(c) The Inquiring Authority shall give the Government
Servant an opportunity of inspecting such documents before they
are taken on the record.
There is no change between the old rule and the new rule.such
documents before they are taken on the record.
Note:- New evidence shall not be permitted or
called for and witness shall not be recalled to fill up any gap
in the evidence. Such evidence may be called for only when there
is an inherent lacuna or defect in the evidence which has been
produced originally.
Note:- New evidence shall not be permitted or
called for and witness shall not be recalled to fill up any gap
in the evidence. Such evidence my be called for only when there
is an inherent lacuna or defect in the evidence which has been
produced originally.
(16) When the case for the disciplinary authority is closed,
the Government servant shall be required to state his defence,
orally or in writing, as he may prefer. If the defence is made
orally, it shall be recorded and the Government Servant shall be
required to sign the record. In either case, a copy of the
statement of defence shall be given to the Presenting Officer,
if any, appointed.
(12) (a) When the case for the Disciplinary Authority is
closed, the Government Servant shall be required to state his
defence orally or in writing as he may prefer and to submit a
list of witnesses to be examined on his behalf for which purpose
the case may be adjourned to a date not exceeding five days.
In old rule, when the case for
the Disciplinary Authority is closed, there was no provision for
the Government Servant to submit a list of witnesses to be
examined on his behalf, for which purpose the case may be
Page 102/168
----- PAGE 103 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
adjourned.
In new rule, when the case for the Disciplinary Authority is
closed, the Government Servant can still submit a list of
witnesses to be examined on his behalf, for which purpose the
case may be adjourned to a date not exceeding five days.
(16) When the case for the disciplinary authority is closed,
the Government servant shall be required to state his defence,
orally or in writing, as he may prefer. If the defence is made
orally, it shall be recorded and the Government Servant shall be
required to sign the record. In either case, a copy of the
statement of defence shall be given to the Presenting Officer,
if any, appointed.
(12) (b) If the defence is made orally, it shall be recorded
and the Government Servant shall be required to sign the record.
In either case, a copy of the statement of defence and the list
of defence witness may be provided.
In old rule, a copy of the
statement of the defence is given to the Presenting Officer and
not to the Government Servant.
In new rule, a copy of the statement of the defence and the
list of defence witnesses is provided to the Government Servant.
(16) When the case for the disciplinary authority is closed,
the Government servant shall be required to state his defence,
orally or in writing, as he may prefer. If the defence is made
orally, it shall be recorded and the Government Servant shall be
required to sign the record. In either case, a copy of the
statement of defence shall be given to the Presenting Officer,
if any, appointed.
(12) (c) The case shall be adjourned to a date not exceeding
ten days for production of defence evidence.
In old rule, there was no
provision for the adjournment for production of defence
evidence.
In new rule, the case can be adjourned to a date not
exceeding ten days for production of defence evidence.
(17) The evidence on behalf of the Government Servant shall
then be produced. The Government Servant may examine himself in
his own behalf if he so prefers. The witnesses produced by the
Government Servant shall then be examined and shall be liable to
cross-examination, re examination and examination by the
inquiring authority according to the provisions applicable to
the witnesses for the disciplinary authority.
(13) The evidence on behalf of the Government Servant shall
then be produced. The Government Servant may examine himself in
his own behalf if he so prefers. The witnesses produced by the
Government Servant shall then be examined and shall be liable to
cross examination, re examination and examination by the
Inquiring Authority according to the provisions applicable to
the witnesses for the Disciplinary Authority.
There is no change between the old rule and the new rule.
(18)The inquiring authority may, after the Government Servant
Page 103/168
----- PAGE 104 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
closes his case, and shall, if the Government Servant has not
examined himself, generally question him on the circumstances
appearing against him in the evidence for purpose of enabling
the Government Servant to explain any circumstances appearing in
the evidence against him.
(I4) The Inquiring Authority There is no change between may
after the the old rule and the new rule. Government Servant
closes his case and shall, if the Government Servant has not
examined himself, generally question him on the circumstances
appearing against him in the evidence for purpose of enabling
the Government Servant to explain any circumstances appearing in
the evidence against him.
There is no change between the old rule and the new rule.
(19)The inquiring authority may, after the completion of the
production of evidence, hear the presenting officer, if any
appointed, and the Government Servant, or permit them to file
written briefs of their respective cases, if they so desire.
(15) The Inquiring Authority There is no change between may,
after the completion the old rule and the new rule. of the
production of evidence, hear the Presenting Officer, if any
appointed, and the Government Servant, or permit them to file
written briefs of their respective cases, if they so desire.
There is no change between the old rule and the new rule.
(21) (a) Where a disciplinary authority competent to impose
any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (v) of Rule 9
and in Rule 10 but not competent to impose any of the penalties
specified in [clauses (vi) to (x)] of Rule 9, has itself
inquired into or caused to be inquired into the articles of any
charge and that authority, having regard to its own findings or
having regard to its decision on any of the findings of any
inquiring authority appointed by it, is of the opinion that the
penalties specified in [clauses (vi) to (x)] of Rule 9 should be
imposed on the Government servant, that authority shall forward
the records of the inquiry to such disciplinary authority as is
competent to impose the last mentioned penalties.
(16) (a) Where a Disciplinary Authority competent to impose
any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (v) of Rule 9
and in Rule 10, but not competent to impose any of the penalties
specified in clauses (vi) to (x) of Rule 9, has itself inquired
into or caused to be inquired into the articles of any charge
and that Authority, having regard to its own findings or having
regard to its decision on any of the findings of any Inquiring
Authority appointed by it is of the opinion that the penalties
specified in clauses (vi) to (x), of Rule 9 should be imposed on
the Government Servant, that Authority shall forward the records
of the inquiry to such Disciplinary Authority as is competent to
impose the last mentioned penalties.
There is no change between the old rule and the new rule.
(21)(b) The disciplinary authority to which the records are
so forwarded may act on the evidence on the record or may, if it
is of the opinion that further examination of any of the
Page 104/168
----- PAGE 105 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
witnesses is necessary in the interests of justice, recall the
witnesses and examine, cross-examine and re-examine the
witnesses and may impose on the Government servant such penalty
as it may deem fit in accordance with these rules.
(16)(b) The Disciplinary Authority to which the records are
so forwarded may act on the evidence on the record or may if it
is of the opinion that further examination of any of the
witnesses is necessary in the interests of justice, recall the
witnesses and examine, cross-examine and re-examine the
witnesses and may impose on the Government Servant such penalty
as it may deem fit in accordance with these Rules.
There is no change between the old rule and the new rule.
(22) Whenever an inquiring authority, after having heard and
recorded the whole or any part of the evidence in an inquiry
ceases to exercise jurisdiction therein, and is succeeded by
another inquiring authority which has and which exercises, such
jurisdiction, the inquiring authority so succeeding may act on
the evidence so recorded by its predecessor, or partly recorded
by its predecessor, and partly recorded by itself :
(17) Whenever an Inquiring Authority after having heard and
recorded the whole or any part of the evidence in an inquiry
ceases to exercise jurisdiction therein, and is succeeded by
another Inquiring Authority which has and which exercises, such
jurisdiction, the Inquiring Authority so succeeding may act on
the evidence so recorded by its predecessor, or partly recorded
by its predecessor, and partly recorded by itself :
There is no change between the old rule and the new rule.
Provided that if the succeeding inquiring authority is of the
opinion that further examination of any of the witnesses whose
evidence has already been recorded is necessary in the interest
of justice, it may recall, examine, cross-examine and re-examine
any such witnesses hereinbefore provided.
Provided that if the such ceding Inquiring Authority is of
the opinion that further examination of any of the witnesses
whose evidence has already been recorded is necessary in the
interest of justice, it may recall examine, cross-examine and
re-examine any such witnesses as herein before provided.
(23) (i) After the conclusion of
the inquiry, a report shall be prepared and it shall contain-
(a) the
articles of charge and the statement of the imputations of
misconduct or misbehaviour,
(b) the
defence of the Government Servant in respect of each article of
charge;
(c) an
assessment of the evidence in respect of each article of charge;
(d) the
findings on each article of charge and the reasons therefor.
(e) [ x x x ]
[Omitted by G.O.Ms.No. 454,  General  Administrator  (Ser.C), dated 7-11-2002]
Page 105/168
----- PAGE 106 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
.
(18)(i) After the conclusion of
the inquiry, a report shall be prepared and it shall contain:
(a) the
articles of charge and the statement of the imputation of
misconduct or misbehaviour;
(b) the
defence of the Government Servant in respect of each article of
charge;
(c) an
assessment of the evidence in respect of each article of charge;
(d) the findings on each article
of charge and the reasons therefor.
There is no change between the old rule and the new rule.
Explanation:? If in the opinion of the
inquiring authority the proceedings of the inquiry establish any
article of charge different from the original articles of the
charge, it may record its findings on such article of charge :
Explanation:? If in the opinion of the
Inquiring Authority, the proceedings of the inquiry establish
any article of charge different from the original articles of
the charge, it may record its findings on such article of charge
:
Provided that the findings on
such article of charge shall not be recorded unless the
Government servant has either admitted the facts on which such
article of charge is based or has had a reasonable opportunity
of defending himself against such article of charge.
Provided that the findings on
such article of charge shall not be recorded unless the
Government Servant has either admitted the facts on which such
article of charge is based or has had a reasonable opportunity
of defending himself against such article of charge.
(ii) The inquiring authority,
where it is not itself the disciplinary authority, shall forward
to the disciplinary authority the records of inquiry which shall
include-
(ii) The Inquiring Authority,
where it is not itself the Disciplinary Authority, shall forward
to the Disciplinary Authority the records of inquiry which;
shall include:
(a) the report prepared by it
under clause (i);
(a) the report prepared by it
under clause (i);
(b) the written statement of
defence, if any, submitted by the Government Servant;
(b) the written statement of
defence, if any, submitted by the Government Servant;
(c) the oral and documentary
evidence produced in the course of the inquiry;
Page 106/168
----- PAGE 107 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(c) the oral and documentary
evidence produced in the course of the inquiry;
(d) written briefs, if any, filed
by the Presenting Officer or the Government Servant or both
during the course of the inquiry; and
(d) written briefs, if any, filed
by the Presenting Officer or the Government Servant or both
during the course of the inquiry; and
(e) the orders, if any, made by
the disciplinary authority and the inquiring authority in regard
to the inquiry.
(e) the orders, if any, made by
the Disciplinary Authority and the Inquiring Authority in regard
to the inquiry.
Explanation:? It is not necessary to have
an inquiry in the manner provided for in this rule or to hear in
person in the case of reduction of rank in seniority list (A and
B lists) of Constables fit for promotion as Head Constables in
the Andhra Pradesh Police Subordinate Service or Andhra Pradesh
Special Police Service.
Explanation:? It is not necessary to have
an inquiry in the manner provided for in this Rule or to hear in
person in the case of reduction of rank in seniority list (A and
B lists) of Constables fit for promotion as Head Constables in
the Andhra Pradesh Police Subordinate Service or Andhra Pradesh
Special Armed Police Service.
19. Payment of honorarium to the retired Government Servants appointed as Inquiry Officer - Orders - Issued.
(G.O. Ms. No. 229, G.A. (Ser. C) Department , dated 12-08-2004)
Order: - It was brought to notice of the Government that as per Office Memorandum No. 134/4/99/AVD I, dated
29-06-2001 issued by the Department of Personnel and Training, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and
Pensions, Government of India, contains the rates of honorarium payable to retired Government officer. There is a need
to rationalize the procedure for identification and selection of retired officers of proven integrity. The Heads of
Departments may have to be authorized to handle this function and the disciplinary authorities at the Regional Level and
at the District level, should be made to pick up such of the officers who have empanelled by the Heads of Departments
concerned.
2. Rule 20 of Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1991 has been amended in G.O.Ms. No. 383 G.A.(Ser.C)
Department , dated 19-12-2003 and a provision has been made for the appointment of retired Government servants as
Inquiry Officer.
3. The payment of honorarium to the retired Government servants appointed as an Inquiry officers has been examined
in detail and proposed for providing lump sum remuneration of Rs. 5,000/- for every Inquiry report with an additional
amount of Rs. 1,000/- for every additional charged officer where more than one charged officer is involved.
4. After careful consideration, it has been decided for appointment of retired Government officers as Inquiry Officer at
the level of Deputy Collectors etc. to enquire into cases mainly of serious in nature in respect of Gazetted and
non-gazetted officers, duly providing lump sum remuneration of Rs.5,000/- for every Inquiry report with an additional
amount of Rs. 1000/- for every additional charged officer where more than one charged officer is involved.
5. The grant of honorarium and lumpsum remuneration to retired Government Servants appointed as Inquiry Officers as
Officers as mentioned in para (4) above will be subject to the following conditions : -
(i)
The competent authority should exercise its utmost care in the matter of grant of honorarium and may do so only in
absolutely deserving cases. The honorarium in such cases may normally be regulated under the financial powers
delegated to the Departments and taking into account the quantum of work involved in individual disciplinary cases.
Page 107/168
----- PAGE 108 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(ii)
The number of disciplinary cases may be restricted to 20 cases with not more than 4 cases at a time, for retired
Government servants.
(iii)
The full amount of honorarium should be paid only when the inquiry is completed within a period of six months. If there is
a delay in completion of the inquiry which is not due to non-cooperation of the charged officer or due to stay orders, etc.,
the honorarium should be reduced by 50 %.
(iv)
Before the honorarium payment is made to Inquiry Officer all case records and inquiry report may be handed over to the
Disciplinary Authority by the Inquiry Officer.
16. Disciplinary Cases - Violation of Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Conduct) Rules - Initiation of disciplinary action as
per Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CCA) Rules - Orders - Issued.
(G.O. Ms. No. 680, G.A. (Ser-C) Department , dated 1-11-2008)
Order: - All Government Employees are governed by the provisions of Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Conduct) Rules,
1964. Any violation of the said rules amounts to misconduct and for such misconduct disciplinary action shall be initiated
as per the procedure laid down in Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1991.
2. According to Rule 3 (1) of A.P.Civil Services (Conduct) Rules 1964, 'every Government employee shall be devoted to
his duty and shall maintain absolute integrity, discipline, impartiality and a sense of propriety'.
3. It is noticed that while initiating the disciplinary action against any erring employee the above rule position is not
strictly adhered to. The charges against any erring employee shall be framed by the Competent Authority duly indicating
the specific misconduct. Such articles of charge should not be vague and general in nature i.e., the words like slack
supervision, irregular way of processing the issues etc., The Courts of Law are taking a view that there is no clear
application of mind by the Competent Authority while initiating the disciplinary action against erring employee. The
Division Bench of the A.P.High Court in K. David Wilson Vs. Secretary to Government, Law Department, (2001 (5) ALT
65) held that "the charged official ought to be informed of the charges leveled against him as also the grounds upon
which they are based. Charge of misconduct should not be vague. The charge-sheet must be specific and must set out
all the necessary particulars and details irrespective of the fact whether the delinquent knows it or not, he must be told
about the charges and it was not his duty to connect the charge sheet with his alleged understanding or knowledge of
the charge. However, it is true that the charge need not be framed with the precision of a charge in criminal proceedings.
But, at the same time, it must not be vague or so general as to make it impossible of being traversed. Therefore, the test
is whether the charge conveys to the delinquent employee, the exact nature of the alleged misconduct in a way that
would enable him to meet the charge effectively. It is well established that if a vague charge is given to a delinquent, it is
a fatal defect, which vitiates the entire proceedings. It is also relevant to notice that the vagueness in the charge is not
excused on the plea that the employee concerned should be deemed to have known the facts correctly. It should not be
left to the delinquent official to find out or imagine what the charges against him are and it is for the employer to frame
specific charges with full particulars."
4. Thus, there is need to keep in mind the provisions contained in the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Conduct) Rules
1964, to check the misconduct of the Government employees to ensure that the system of administration functions
smoothly.
5. Government direct that wherever connivance, negligence, dereliction of duty of the Government employee is noticed,
the Competent Authority shall take prompt action for such misconduct in accordance with the procedure laid down in the
Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1991.
6. It is the earnest endeavour of the Government to ensure clean and efficient administration at all levels.
7. All Departments of Secretariat, all Heads of Departments and all District Collectors are requested to take prompt
necessary action as per the above order.
21. [ Action on the inquiry report:
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. 22, G.A.D., dated 30-01-2004]
(1)
The disciplinary authority, if it is not itself the inquiring authority may, for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, remit the
case to the inquiring authority for further inquiry and report and the inquiring authority shall thereupon proceed to hold
the further inquiry according to the provisions of Rule 20 as far as may be.
Page 108/168
----- PAGE 109 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(2)
The disciplinary authority shall forward or cause to be forwarded a copy of the report of the inquiry, if any, held by the
disciplinary authority or where the disciplinary authority is not the inquiring authority a copy of the report of the inquiring
authority together with its own tentative reasons for disagreement, if any, with the findings of inquiring authority on any
article of charge to the Government servant who shall be required to submit, if he so desires, his written representation
of submission to the disciplinary authority within fifteen days, irrespective of whether the report is favorable or not to the
Government servant.
(3)
The disciplinary authority shall consider the representation, if any, submitted by the Government servant and record its
findings before proceeding further in the matter as specified in the sub-rules (4) and (5) below.
(4)
If the disciplinary authority having regard to its findings on all or any of the articles of charge is of the opinion that any of
the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (v) of Rule 9 should be imposed on the Government servant, it shall,
notwithstanding anything contained in Rule 22, make an order imposing such penalty:
Provided that in every case where it is necessary to consult the Commission, the record of the inquiry shall be forwarded
by the disciplinary authority to the Commission for its advice and such advice shall be taken into consideration before
making any order imposing any penalty on the Government servant.
(5)
If the disciplinary authority having regard to its findings on all or any of the articles of charge and on the basis of the
evidence adduced during the inquiry is of the opinion that any of the penalties specified in clauses (vi) to (x) of Rule 9
should be imposed on the Government servant, it shall make an order imposing such penalty and it shall not be
necessary to give the Government servant any opportunity of making representation on the penalty proposed to be
imposed:
Provided that in every case where it is necessary to consult the Commission, the record of the inquiry shall be forwarded
by the disciplinary authority to the Commission for its advice and such advice shall be taken into consideration before
making an order imposing any such penalty on the Government servant.]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 337, G.A.D., dated 22-07-2006]
22. [ Procedure for imposing minor penalties]
[Standard prescribed forms given at the end of these rules]
: - (1) Subject to the provisions of [sub-rule (4)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 22, G.A.D., dated 30-01-2004]
of Rule 21, an order imposing on a Government Servant any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (v) of Rule 9 and
in Rule 10 shall be made except after :
(a)
informing the Government Servant in writing of the proposal to take action against him and of the imputations of
misconduct or misbehaviour on which it is proposed to be taken, and giving him a reasonable opportunity of making
such representation as he may wish to make against the proposal;
(b)
holding an inquiry in the manner laid down in sub-rules [(3) to (18)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 552, G.A.D., dated 5-10-2006]
of Rule 20, in every case in which the disciplinary authority is of the opinion that such inquiry is necessary;
(c)
taking the representation, if any, submitted by the Government Servant under clause (a) and the record of inquiry, if any,
held under clause (b) into consideration;
(d)
recording a finding on each imputation of misconduct or misbehaviour; and
(e)
consulting the Commission where such consultation is necessary.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (b) of sub-rule (1), if in a case it is proposed, after considering
representation, if any, made by the Government under clause (a) of that sub-rule, to withhold increments of pay and
Page 109/168
----- PAGE 110 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
such withholding of increments is likely to affect adversely the amount of pension payable to the Government servant or
to withhold increments of pay for a period exceeding three years [x x x]
[Omitted by G.O.Ms. 205, G.A.D., 5-6-1998]
, an inquiry shall be held in the manner laid down in sub-rules [(3) to (18)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 552, G.A.D., dated 5-10-2006]
of Rule 20, before making any order imposing on the Government servant any such penalty.
(3)
The record of the proceedings in such cases shall include :
(i)
a copy of the intimation to the Government servant of the proposal to take action against him;
(ii)
a copy of the statement of imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour delivered to him;
(iii)
his representation, if any;
(iv)
the evidence produced during the inquiry, if any;
(v)
the advice of the Commission, if any;
(vi)
the findings on each imputation of misconduct or misbehaviour; and
(vii)
the orders on the case together with the reasons therefor.
Executive Instruction
Stoppage of increments with cumulative effect – Following the procedure under Rule 22(2), treating it as Major Penalty.
(G.O.Ms.No. 335, G.A.D. dated 14-6-1993)
Ref: - G.O.Ms.No. 487, G.A.D. (Ser. C). Department , dated 14-9-1992.
Order: - In 'Kulwant Singh Gill vs. State of Punjab' (1990 (3) (SLJ-135) the Supreme Court held, "withholding of
increments" of pay simpliciter without any hedge over it certainly comes within the meaning of Rule 5 (iv) of the Rules
(corresponding to sub-clause (iv) of Rule 9 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal)
Rules, 1991. But when penalty was imposed withholding two increments i.e., for two years with cumulative effect it
would indisputably mean that the two increments earned by the employee was as cut off measure of penalty forever in
his upward march of earning higher scale of pay. In other words the clock is put back to lower stage in this time scale of
pay and on expiry of two years the clock starts working that stage afresh. The insidious effect of the impugned order by
necessary implication, is that the appellant employee is reduced in his time-scale by two places and it is imperpetutity
during the rest of tenure of his service with a direction that two years increments would not be counted in his time-scale
of pay as a measure of penalty. Considering from this angle we have no hesitation to hold that the impugned order
would come with the meaning of Rule 5(v) of the said rules; (corresponding to sub-clause (iv) of Rule 9 of the Andhra
Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991; it is major penalty and imposition of the
impugned penalty without enquiry is per se illegal".
2. The Andhra Pradesh Administrative Tribunal in O.A. No. 8527/1991, dated 4-6-1991, while relying on the above
judgement, of the Supreme Court, has set-aside the orders issued by the Government in G.O.Rt.No. 73, HM & FW
Department , dated 11-1-1990 on the ground that Rule 9(1)(iii) of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1963
does not empower the disciplinary authority to impose penalty of withholding increments of pay with cumulative effect
except after holding an inquiry and following the prescribed procedure and considered that the said order issued by the
Government is without jurisdiction or authority of Law.
3. The A. P. Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1991, have been issued through G.O.Ms.No. 487, dated 14-9-1992. The said
rules came into force with effect from 1-10-1992. Rule 22 of the said Rules deals with the procedure for imposition of
Minor penalties. Among others, according to sub-rule (2) of Rule 22, notwithstanding anything contained in Clause (b),
sub-rule (1), if in a case it is proposed, after considering representation, if any made by the Government servant under
clause (a) of that sub-rule, to withhold increments of pay and such withholding of increments is likely to affect adversely
the amount of pension payable to the Government servant or to withhold increments of pay for a period exceeding three
Page 110/168
----- PAGE 111 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
years or to withhold increments of pay with cumulative effect for any period, an inquiry shall be held in the manner laid
down in sub-rules (3) to (23) of Rule 20, before making any order imposing on the Government servant any such
penalty.
In other words, for imposing the penalty of withholding of increments of pay with cumulative effect for any period, the
elaborate procedure prescribed under Rule 20 of the said Rules, for imposition of a major penalty, have to be followed.
The penalty of stoppage of increments with cumulative effect, therefore amounts to a major penalty under the APCS
(CCA) Rules, 1991, and the procedure for imposition of major penalty prescribed in these rules will have to be followed.
4. All the Departments of Secretariat and Heads of Departments are requested to keep in view the above rule position
while dealing with cases where it is proposed to impose the punishment of stoppage of increments, keeping in view the
provisions of sub-rule (2) of Rule 22 of Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CC&A) Rules, 1991.
23. Communication of orders:
- Orders made by the disciplinary authority shall be communicated to the Government servant who shall also be
supplied with a copy of the report of the inquiry, if any, held by the disciplinary authority and a copy of its findings on
each article of charge, or, where the disciplinary authority is not the inquiring authority, a copy of the report of the
inquiring authority and a statement of the findings of the disciplinary authority together with brief reasons for its
disagreement, if any, with the findings of the inquiring authority (unless they have already been supplied to him) and also
a copy of the advice, if any, given by the Commission and, where the disciplinary authority has not accepted the advice
of the Commission, a brief statement of the reasons for such non-acceptance.
24. [ Common proceedings: - (1) Where two or more Government Servants of the same service or different services are
concerned in any case the Government or any other authority competent to impose the penalty of dismissal from service
on all such Government servants may make an order directing that disciplinary action against all of them may be taken
in a common proceedings :
Provided that if the authorities competent to impose the penalty of dismissal on such Government servants are different,
such authorities not being the Government, an order for holding such inquiry in a common proceeding may be made by
the highest of such authorities with the consent of the other authorities competent to impose the said penalty on the
others.
(2)
Subject to the other provisions of these rules, every such order shall specify
(i)
the authority which may function as the disciplinary authority for the purpose of such common proceedings ;
(ii)
the penalties specified in Rule 9 and Rule 10 which such disciplinary authority shall be competent to impose ;
(iii)
whether the procedure laid down in Rule 20 and Rule 21 or Rule 22 shall be followed in the proceedings.]
Executive Instructions
1. Joint Enquiry - Instructions - Issued
[U.O. Note No. 732/Ser. C/90-2, G.A.D., dated 18-12-1990]
Order: - It has been brought to the notice of the Government that when employees of different departments were
involved in disciplinary cases for certain lapses which were common to all of them it is possible that one of the
departments may inflict a punishment on the delinquent officers, while the other Departments may let off the officers
involved with a warning by taking a lenient view.
2. In this context, the feasibility or otherwise to prescribe a yardstick/guidelines in awarding penalties uniformly on all the
persons involved in a joint enquiry, has been examined.
3. According to clause (a) of sub-rule (5) of Rule 19 of the A.P. Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules,
1963 where two or more members of the same service or different services are concerned in any case, the Government
or any other authority competent to impose the penalty of dismissal from service on all such members may make an
order directing that disciplinary action against all of them may be taken in a common proceeding. If the authorities
competent to impose the penalty of dismissal on such members are different, such authorities not being the Government
order for holding such enquiry in common proceeding may be made by the highest of such authorities with the consent
of the other authorities competent to impose the said penalty on others.
4. In view of the above rule, it is for the highest authority that orders joint enquiry to see that the penalty imposed is
Page 111/168
----- PAGE 112 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
proportionate to the seriousness of the charges held proved, keeping in view their degree of culpability/seriousness of
lapses held proved while imposing the penalty in such cases.
5. When two or more persons are involved in one case, the magnitude of involvement of all the delinquent officers may
not be the same and the degree of culpability may also vary from person to person. As such it may not be possible to
impose the same penalty uniformly on all the charged officers, irrespective of the degree of their involvement. If the
same penalty is imposed on all such delinquent Officers involved on in a case, ignoring their degree of culpability and
magnitude of involvement, such action is liable to be questioned. As such, it is considered that it may not be legally valid
to prescribe any guidelines or yard sticks for imposing penalty in such cases. In view of the above, the competent
authority who orders such a joint enquiry should ensure that the members of service involved in disciplinary cases are
imposed the penalties keeping in view their degree of culpability/seriousness of lapses/charges held proved.
6. In view of the above position and also sub-rule (5) of Rule 19 of the A.P. Civil Services (CC&A) Rules, 1963 the
Disciplinary Authority should take a comprehensive view by taking into account the totality of the circumstances and the
extent of involvement of such of the delinquent officers while inflicting the punishment.
2. Joint Enquiries in Disciplinary cases
[Memo.No. 510/Ser.-C/93-2,  General  Administrator  (Ser.-C) Department , dated 18-11-1993]
Ref: - 1. U.O.Note No. 732/Ser.C/90-2, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 18-12-1990.
2. G.O.Ms.No. 487, G.A. (Ser.C) Department , dated 14-9-1992.
Order: - In the U.O. Note 1st cited, instructions were issued under Clause (a) of sub-rule (5) of Rule 19 of the Andhra
Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1963 for holding inquiry in a common proceedings,
when two or more persons are involved in one case and when employees of different Departments are involved in
disciplinary cases for certain lapses which were common to all of them. The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services
(Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1963 are repealed by the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification,
Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991 which came into force with effect from 1-10-1992 necessitating the reissue of the said
instructions under the new CCA Rules.
2. According to sub-rule (1) of Rule 24 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules,
1991, where two or more Government servants of the same service or different service concerned are involved in any
case, the Government or any other authority competent to impose the penalty of dismissal from service on all such
Government Servants may make an order directing that disciplinary action against all of them may be taken in a
common proceeding. Provided that if the authorities competent to impose the penalty of dismissal on such Government
Servants are different, such authorities not being the Government, an order for holding such inquiry in a common
proceeding may be made by the highest of such authorities with the consent of the other authorities competent to
impose the said penalty on the others.
3. In view of the above rule, the following instructions are issued :
(i)
When two or more Government Servants of the same service or different service concerned are involved in one case,
the highest authority competent to impose the penalty of dismissal from service on all such Government servants may
make an order for holding regular inquiry against them in a common proceedings, with the consent of the other
disciplinary authorities/authority.
(ii)
Having regard to the findings in the inquiry report in the common proceedings, it is for the disciplinary authority
concerned to issue final orders inflicting the punishment duly following the procedure.
4. When two or more persons are involved in one case, the magnitude of involvement of all the delinquent officers may
not be the same and the degree of culpability may also vary from person to person. As such it may not be possible to
impose the same penalty uniformly on all the charged officers, irrespective of the degree of their involvement. As such it
may not be legally valid to prescribe any guidelines or yardsticks for imposing penalty in such cases. Therefore, the
competent authority who orders such a joint inquiry should ensure that the members of service involved in disciplinary
cases are imposed the penalties keeping in view their degree of culpability/seriousness of lapse/charges held proved.
5. All the Departments of Secretariat and all Heads of Departments are requested to keep the above in view and also
bring the same to the notice of all concerned for the guidance, while dealing with such cases.
3. Common proceedings - Further instructions issued.
[Memo. No. 59391/Ser.C/2000-2, G.A.D. (Ser. C), dated 11-01-2001]
Page 112/168
----- PAGE 113 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Ref :- 1. Government Memo. No. 510/Ser. C/93-2.G.A. (Ser. C) Department , dated 18-11-1993.
2. G.O. Ms. No. 82, G.A. (Ser. C) Department , dated 01-03-1996.
3. From the Vigilance Commissioner, A.P. Vigilance Commission,
Lr. No. 524NC. A2/2000-1, dated: 06-12-2000.
Order: - According to sub-rule (1) of Rule 24 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control & Appeal)
Rules, 1991 where two or more Government Servants of the same service or different services are involved in any case,
disciplinary action against all of them may be taken in a common proceedings.
2. In the reference first cited, guidelines were issued regarding imposition of penalties.
3. It is noticed that the above rule and the instructions are not being properly complied with and the Departments
concerned are ordering the inquiries separately for each category of Officer, even though the irregularities are
committed jointly in a particular case or event. Further different disciplinary proceedings without the consent of the other
authorities, which is contrary to the provisions of Rule 24 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control
and Appeal) Rules, 1991 and therefore uniformity is lost. This has resulted in discrimination.
4. The Government reiterates that when two or more Officers are involved in a disciplinary case, it shall be invariably
necessary to order common disciplinary proceedings as per Rule 24 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services
(Classification, Control & Appeal) Rules, 1991 irrespective of whether they belong to the same service or different
services or Departments if their services are covered under Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control &
Appeal) Rules 1991. The Departments should first consider the entrustment of such disciplinary cases to the Tribunal for
Disciplinary Proceedings or the Commissioner of Inquiries, having regard to the Class and Category of Officer or nature
of the issue involved. On the findings of inquiry, the Disciplinary Authority designated as per Rule 24 of the Andhra
Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control & Appeal) Rules, 1991 shall take a decision on the penalty to be imposed
or otherwise to conclude disciplinary proceedings.
5. The Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments and all District Collectors are requested to follow the above
rule and instructions scrupulously.
4. Inquires - Conduct of common enquiry into the charges against more than one charged Officer in common
Proceedings - Instructions - Regarding.
(Memo. No. 91715/Ser.C/2003, G.A. (Ser-C) Department , dated 25-08-2003)
Ref :- U.O.Note No.439/COLR/2002-1, G.A. (COLR) Department ., dated 05-07-2003.
Order: - It has been brought to the notice of the Government that several deficiencies were noticed during the course of
conduct of inquiries into the charges against more than one officer in a common proceedings. Though the Rule 24 of
APCS (CCA) Rules, 1991, provide for ordering a common inquiry into charges against more than one charged officer of
the same or of different services, the disciplinary authorities are not mentioning the above rule position or even the
expression Common Inquiry/Common Proceedings in the order of appointment of Inquiry Authority while ordering
inquiry. The proper course of action to be taken under each contingency is indicated as shown below:
Contingency
Action To Be Taken
(i)
Among all the Charged Officers there may not be a Uniform line
of defence and each one will try to implicate other Charged
Officer to save his own skin.
In a such a case the other Charged Officers if they so desire
may be allowed to have a copy of the written defence statement(s)
or Written brief (s) submitted by the other Charged Officer for
the purpose of rebutting such of the incriminating statement made
by the Charged Officer.
(ii)
During the course of cross-examination of prosecution witness,
one charged officer may elicit certain information,which is going
against the interest of the other Charged Officer.
A fair chance will have to be given to the other Charged
Officer to cross-examine the witness on that matter.
Page 113/168
----- PAGE 114 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(iii)
During the course of inquiry defence witnesses cited by one
Charged Officer may state something incriminatory against any
other Charged Officer.
In such a case the other Charged Officers will have the right
to cross-examine the Defence witness cited by the first Charged
Officer.
(iv)
When one Charged Officer while examining himself as his own
witness deposes something incriminating against any other/all
other Charged Officer.
In such a case the other charged Officer/their defence
Assistants will have a chance to cross-examine that Charged
Officer who is examining himself as his own witness.
(v)
When one of the Charged Officer is cited as defence witness by
the other Charged Officer, whether he shall be allowed to examine
the Charged Officer as his witness ?
In such a case the Charged Officer who is cited as defence
witness by the other charged officer, it is voluntary charged
officer, it is voluntary for him to give evidence, but he cannot
be compelled to give evidence against his wishes.
(vi)
When in a common proceeding, on the directions of a Court of
Law if the inquiry against anyone or few of the Charged Officers
is separated and asked to complete it before the other Charged
Officer, particularly when the other Charged Officer go stay
order on the proceedings.
In such a case action on the inquiry report in respect of
those Charged Officers may be taken along with other Charged
Officers. Other-wise, there is a possibility that the Charged
Officers in whose case inquiry is not completed may seek a relief
under the guise of outcome the inquiry report in respect of first
Charged Officer.
All the Departments of Secretariat, Heads of Departments and District Collectors are requested to follow the above
suggestions. They may bring these instructions to the notice of all concerned disciplinary authorities for their guidance
and compliance.
25. Special procedure in certain cases:
- Notwithstanding anything contained in Rule 20 to Rule 24-
(i)
where penalty is imposed on a Government servant on the ground of conduct which has led to his conviction on a
criminal charge, or
[Misconduct leads to a penalty imposed as per 1st proviso under Rule 9(ix) of these rules, or]
[Incorporated by Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 127, dated 15.9.2017 (w.e.f. 14.9.1992)]
(ii)
here the disciplinary authority is satisfied for reasons to be recorded by it in writing that it is not reasonably practicable to
hold an inquiry in the manner provided in these rules, or
(iii)
where the Governor is satisfied that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient to hold any inquiry in
the manner provided in these Rules,
the disciplinary authority may consider the circumstances of the case and make such orders thereon as it deems fit :
Page 114/168
----- PAGE 115 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
[ x x x ]
[Proviso deleted by G.O.Rt.No. 6421,  General  Administrator  (Ser.-C), dated 29-12-93]
Provided that the Commission shall be consulted, where such consultation is necessary, before any orders are made in
any case under this rule.
[Provided further that no such consultation with the Commission is necessary before any orders are made under clause
(i) of this rule.]
[Added by G.O.Ms.No.240, G.A. (Ser-C) Department , dated 14-8-2003]
Executive Instructions
1. Departmental action and Prosecution in a Criminal Court - Question whether orders of penalty should be reviewed
consequent on acquittal in a Criminal Court - Clarification - Issued.
(Memorandum No. 2598/65-2, (Service-C), dated 25-9-1965)
Order: - A question has been raised whether an order passed imposing any major penalty on a Government employee
after following the procedure prescribed in Rule 19(2) of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and
Appeal) Rules, 1963, need be reviewed consequent on his acquittal in a Criminal Court, if he was prosecuted in addition
to the departmental action taken against him. It is clarified that in a case where Government employee is removed or
dismissed or reduced in rank after complying with the requirements of Article 311(2) of the Constitution of India or of
provisions of Rule 19(2) of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, then the order
of removal, dismissal or reduction in rank, is not affected by his acquittal in a Criminal Court, if he is prosecuted in
addition to the departmental action taken against him. If however, a Government employee is removed or dismissed or
reduced in rank, solely on the ground of conduct which held to his conviction on a criminal charge, without complying
with the requirements of the aforesaid article or rule and if his conviction is eventually set aside by the Appellate Court,
or by the High Court, in revision, then the order of removal, dismissal or reduction in rank as the case may be, cannot
stand and that order will have to be reviewed.
2. Sanction of prosecution against Government Servants involved in corruption charges - Regarding.
(U.O. Note No. 2498/SCD/75-4.  General  Administrator  (SCD) Department , dated 25-11-1975)
Order: - The committee of the Secretaries to the Government in its meeting held on 2-9-1975 observed that prosecution
in trap cases was being sanctioned in time. The delay, it was pointed out, had been occurring on account of Government
referring the mater to the Heads of Departments. A point was therefore made whether prosecutions could not straight
away be sanctioned by the Government themselves. Clause (1) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India prohibits the
removal or dismissal of a Government servant by an authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed and, under
Rule 12 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, the Government may impose
the penalty of removal and dismissal specified in clauses (vii) and (viii) of Rule 8 of the said rules, on members of the
State Services. Rule 15(b) of the said rule also provides that the authority which may impose on a member of the
Subordinate Service the penalties of removal and dismissal from service shall be the appointing authority or any higher
authority.
It is, therefore, competent for the State Government to remove or dismiss any member of a State Service or Subordinate
Service. Thus sanction for prosecution required under Section 6(1)(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, may be
accorded by the State Government in the case of any member of a service, State or Subordinate even though in the
case of certain Government servants the authority to accord sanction under the said Act may be the authority
subordinate to Government. In the circumstances, the Departments of Secretariat are informed that in future in cases
where the reports of the Anti-Corruption Bureau together with the advice of the Vigilance Commission for criminal
prosecution of Government servants are received by them, they may themselves issue sanction order for prosecution
instead of sending the case to the concerned subordinate authorities.
Similarly in the cases of employees of Zilla Parishads, Panchayat Samithis and Municipalities, sanction for prosecution
under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, may be accorded by the Government in respect of public servant who
cannot be removed or dismissed except by or with the sanction of the Government. But in the case of those employees
who may be removed or dismissed from service only by an authority other than the Government, it is only that authority
that can accord sanction for prosecution under the said Act. Therefore the Departments of Secretariat may take action in
such cases.
3. Government Servants involved in criminal misconduct – Departmental Proceedings and prosecution – Further
instructions issued.
Page 115/168
----- PAGE 116 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(Memo. No. 4845/59-2, Genf.  Administrator  (Ser.-A) Department , dated 13-2-1960)
Ref: - 1. G.O.Ms.No. 910, Home (Ser-A), dated 11-4-1956.
2. G.O.Ms.No. 1730, G.A. (Ser-A), dated 7-11-1958.
Order: - According to the G.O. first cited, as soon as sufficient evidence is available in cases of misconduct by
Government servant, whether such investigation is conducted departmentally or through the Police (including the
Special Police Establishment), action should be taken under the Civil Services (C.C.&A.) Rules or other appropriate
rules, and disciplinary proceedings should be initiated forthwith. Such departmental proceedings need not interfere with
the police investigation, which may be continued where necessary. After the departmental proceedings are concluded
and the penalty, if any, imposed as a result thereof, the question of prosecution should be considered in the light of such
material as may have become available as a result of the investigation.
According to the G.O. second cited, where the police of their own accord have taken cognizance of an offence and
initiated criminal prosecution in a Court of law, the departmental proceedings if any undertaken, should be kept in
abeyance till the case is disposed of by the Court.
The Inspector-General of Police, in his letter third cited, has stated that in cases of misappropriation or embezzlement by
Government servants, different departments of Government are often reporting the matter to the police, upon which a
case is registered and investigation is taken up by the police. Subsequently the reporting department requests the police
repeatedly to defer laying charge sheet in the cases as the departmental proceedings against the delinquent
Government servant are not completed. He has, therefore, requested Government to issue instructions whether laying
charge sheet could be differed in such cases. When a Government servant is being tried in a Criminal Court in respect
of certain allegations of misconduct which amount to a criminal offence, no parallel enquiry can be held by a
departmental authority in respect of the same allegations. To hold such a parallel enquiry amounts to contempt of Court.
There is no legal objection, however to a departmental enquiry being conducted while the police are making an
investigation; but when once a Criminal Court has taken cognizance of a criminal case, the departmental authority
should stop all further proceedings. As Section 173 Cr.P.C. requires the officer in charge of a police station to lay a
charge sheet as soon as the investigation is completed, the laying of a charge sheet cannot be deferred to suit the
convenience of the departmental authority in completing the proceedings before him. To avoid such situations, the
departments concerned should decide first whether departmental proceedings should be taken in the first instance
leaving the question of criminal prosecution to be considered after the termination of the departmental proceedings or
whether the matter should be straight away referred to the police for investigation and prosecution in a court of law. In
case they decide upon the latter course of - action, they cannot ask the police to defer the laying of the charge sheet
until after the completion of the departmental proceedings. The competent authorities are directed to take action
accordingly.
4. Appointment of Ex-Convicts - Instructions.
[Memo No. 4375/55-8,  Administrator  (Ser-A) Department , dated 21-5-1967]
Order: - It has been represented to the Government that the cases of appointment of ex-convicts to posts to which they
are eligible to be appointed, should be considered favourably provided their present conduct is certified to be good by
the welfare officers.
2. According to General Rule 12(b)(ii) of Part II of the State and Sub ordinate Services, no person shall be eligible for
appointment to any service by direct recruitment unless he satisfied the Commission. Cases where appointment has to
be made in consultation with it or the appointing authorities in other cases, that his character and antecedents are such
as to qualify him for such service. The Government therefore, consider that persons convicted for offences involving
moral turpitude should be deemed to be of bad characters under General Rule I 2(b)(ii) and should be ineligible for entry
into Government service. But in the case of persons convicted for other offences (i.e.), offences not involving moral
turpitude like driving a vehicle or possessing arms without renewing the licence when the period of licence has expired,
causing disturbance to the neighbour by playing instruments during the dead hour of the night, for failure to submit
income tax returns etc., there is no need to impose such a bar for entry into Government service and each case may,
however, be decided on merits.
5. Appointment of Ex-Convicts and Disciplinary action on grounds of conduct which led to Employees' conviction on a
criminal charge - Clarification - Reg.
[Memo. No. 2253/Ser-A/79-2, Gent  Administrator  (Ser-A) Department , dated 17-12-1979]
Ref: - Memo. No. 4375/Ser-AJ56-8. G.A. (Ser-A), dated 31-5-1957.
Page 116/168
----- PAGE 117 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Order: - In the Memo. cited, the Government referred to General Rule 12(b)(ii) of Part II of the State and Subordinate
Services, which provides that no person shall be appointed to any service by direct recruitment, unless he satisfies the
Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission or the appointing authority that his character and antecedents are such as
to qualify him for such service and clarified that persons convicted of offences involving moral turpitude should be
deemed to be of bad-character and that they should, under the said rule, be ineligible for entry into Government service
but in the case of persons convicted for other offences not involving 'moral turpitude' like driving a vehicle or possessing
arms without renewing the licence when the period of licence has expired, causing disturbance to the neighbours by
playing instruments or failure to submit Income Tax returns etc., there is no need to impose such a bar for entry into
Government Service and each case may, however, be decided on merits.
Sub-rule (3) of Rule 19 of the Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules provides that the provisions
relating to the procedure to be followed before inflicting a penalty shall not apply where it is proposed to impose on a
member of a service any of the penalties on grounds of conduct which led to his conviction on a criminal charge.
2. In the above context, a question has arisen as to determination of 'moral turpitude' involved in a case of conviction on
a criminal charge. The term 'moral turpitude' has not been defined in the Service Rules. In Ramanatha Ayyar Law
Lexicon it is noted that it is not 'moral turpitude', when no wrong is contemplated, but is unintentionally committed
through error of judgment. According to Webster's dictionary 'moral turpitude', means a quality of crime involving grave
infringement of the moral sentiments of the community.
3. In Mangilal vs. Chekkilal, (AIR 1963, Allahabad 527 at page 528) the Court considered the scope of the expression
'moral turpitude' at length, as below :
"From consideration of the dictionary meaning of the words 'moral' and 'turpitude' as well as the real ratio decidendi of
the cases, the principle which emerges, appears to be that the question whether a certain offence involves moral
turpitude or not will necessarily depend on the circumstances in which offence was committed. It is not every punishable
act that can be considered to be an offence involving moral turpitude . Had that been so, the qualification involving
'moral turpitude' would not have been used by the legislature and would have disqualified every person who had been
convicted of any offence.
The tests which should ordinarily be applied for judging whether a certain offence does or does not involve moral
turpitude appear to be (1) whether the act leading to a conviction was such a could shock the moral conscience of the
society in general, (2) whether the motive which led to the act was a base one, and (3) whether on account of the act
having been committed the perpetrator could be considered to be a depraved character or a person who was to be
looked down by the society.
No absolute standard can be laid down for deciding whether a particular act is to be considered as one involving moral
turpitude but the above are the general tests which should be applied and which should in most cases be a correct
conclusion on the question".
4. The Heads of Departments are requested to keep in mind the above guidelines while dealing with cases of persons
for entry into Government service and in dealing with the cases of Government employees convicted on any criminal
charge under the Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules.
6. Action to be taken in cases where Government servants are convicted on a criminal charge - Instructions of the
Government of India - Adopted.
[Memo. No. l69/Ser.C, 77-8,  Administrator , (Ser-C) Department , dated 10-2-1978]
Ref: - Lr. No. 11018/7/75-1-AS(III), dated 8-3-1976 from the Government of India, Cabinet Secretariat Department of
P&AR, New Delhi.
Order: - Sub-rule (3) of Rule 19 of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1963, provides that the provisions of
sub-rules (1) and (2) shall not apply where it is proposed to impose on a member of a service any of the penalties
mentioned in Rule 8 or Rule 9 on the ground of conduct which has led to his conviction on a criminal charge. Instructions
were issued in Memo. No 2598/65-2, General Administration (Services-C) Department, dated 25-9-1965, that if a
Government employee is removed or dismissed or reduced in rank after complying with the requirements of Article 3 1
1(2) of the Constitution of India or of the provisions of Rule 19(2) of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CCA) Rules,
then the order of removal, dismissal or reduction in rank is not affected by his acquittal in a Criminal Court, if he is
prosecuted in addition to the departmental action that has been taken against him. If however, a Government employee
is removed or dismissed, reduced in rank, solely on the ground of conduct which led to his conviction or criminal charge,
without complying with the requirements of the aforesaid article or rule and if his conviction is eventually set aside by the
Page 117/168
----- PAGE 118 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Appellate Court, or by the High Court, in revision, then, the order of removal, dismissal or reduction in rank as the case
may be, cannot stand, and that order will have to be reviewed. According to Rule 13(4) of the Andhra Pradesh Civil
Services (CCA) Rules, 1963, where a penalty of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement, from service imposed
upon a member of a service is set aside, or declared or rendered void, in consequence of or by a decision of a court of
law, and the authority competent to impose the penalty on a consideration of the circumstances of the case, decides
immediately thereafter to hold a further inquiry against him on the allegation on which the penalty of dismissal, removal
or compulsory retirement was originally imposed, the member of the service shall be deemed to have been placed under
suspension by the authority competent to impose suspension from the date of the original order of dismissal, removal or
compulsory retirement shall continue to remain under suspension until further orders.
2. The Government of India have issued self-contained instructions regarding action to be taken in cases where
Government servants are convicted on a criminal charge or where an appeal/revision in a higher Court succeeds.
Keeping them in view, the following instructions are issued :
(1)
The disciplinary authority may, if it comes to the conclusion that an order imposing a penalty on a Government servant
on the ground of conduct which had led to his conviction on a criminal charge should be issued, pass such an order
without waiting for the filing of an appeal, or, if an appeal has been filed, without waiting for the decision in the first court
of appeal. Before such an order is passed, the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission should be consulted,
where-the consultation is necessary.
(2)
(a)
Where an appeal or revision in a Higher Court i.e., the Court higher than the first Court of appeal, against conviction,
succeeds and the Government servant is acquitted, the order imposing a penalty on him on the basis of conviction,
which nor longer stands, becomes liable to be set aside. A copy of the judgment of a higher Court should, therefore, be
immediately procured and examined with a view to decide.
(i)
Where acqittal should be challenged is a still higher court; or
(ii)
Whether, despite the acquittal, the facts and the circumstances of the case are such as to call for a departmental action
against the Government servant on the basis of the misconduct on which he was previously convicted.
(b)
If it is decided to take the matter to a still higher Court under item (i) above, action to institute proper proceedings should
be taken with the least possible delay, and the order imposing penalty need not be set aside during the pendency of
such proceedings. If, however, it is considered expedient that the Government servant should not be allowed to
discharge his duties during the pendency of such proceedings, he may be placed under suspension as soon as he
reports to duty after his acquittal by the first Court of appeal.
(c)
If, on the other hand, it is decided that departmental action may be taken under item (ii) above, a formal order should be
made :
(i)
Setting aside the order imposing the penalty on basis of conviction; and
(ii)
Ordering such departmental enquiry.
In case where the penalty imposed on the basis of the conviction was dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement from
service, the order should also state, that under Rule 13(4) of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CCA) Rules, 1963, the
Government servant is deemed to be under suspension with effect from the date of dismissal, removal or compulsory
retirement from service.
(3)
For appreciating properly the scope and implication of the term on the basis of the misconduct on which he was
previously convicted occurring in sub-para (2)(a)(ii) above, the point to be taken note of is, that one identical set of facts
and allegations may be sufficient to constitute a criminal offence as well as the misconduct not amounting to criminal
offence, but punishable under the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (CCA) Rules, or similar other rules. If the facts or
Page 118/168
----- PAGE 119 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
allegations had come to be examined by a Court of competent jurisdiction and the Court has given a finding that the
allegations are not true, then it is not permissible to hold a departmental inquiry in respect of a charge based on the
same allegations. If on the other hand, the Court had merely expressed a doubt as to the correctness of the allegations,
then there may be no objection to hold a departmental inquiry on the same allegations, if better proof than what was
produced before the Court or was then available is forthcoming. Then again, if the Court has held that the allegations
are proved but do not constitute the criminal offence with which the Government servant is charged, then also there
would be no objection to hold a departmental inquiry on the basis of the said allegations if such proved allegations are
considered good and sufficient reasons for taking disciplinary action. So also, it is permissible to hold a departmental
inquiry after the acquittal, in respect 'of charge which is not identical with or similar to the charge in the criminal case,
and is not based on any allegations, which have been negatived by the Criminal Court. Further more, where an
allegation has not been examined by a Court of law, but it is considered good and sufficient reason for taking disciplinary
action, there is no bar to taking such action.
(4)
In case, where neither of the courses mentioned in sub-para (2) is followed, a formal order should be issued setting
aside the previous order imposing the penalty.
3. The Departments of Secretariat and the Heads of Departments are requested to follow the above instructions while
dealing with disciplinary cases against the State Government employees.
7. Payment of Subsistence Allowances - Further Instructions Issued - Regarding.
(Cir. Memo. No. 145/A2/FR.II/2001, dated 07-05-2002)
Ref : - 1. Cir.Memo.No.39071/A2/407/FR.II/99, Fin. (FR.II) Department , dated 28-02-00.
2. From Vigilance Commissioner, Lr.No.171NC,A2/2000-2, dated 26-06-2001.
Order: - In the reference 1st cited instructions were issued for payment of subsistence allowance to the Government
servants under suspension whether they are lodged in prison or released on a bail on their conviction pending
consideration of his appeal, based on the judgement of Supreme Court of India in case of the State of Maharastra Vs.
Chandrabhan, 1983(2) SLR.493.
2. In the reference 2nd cited the Vigilance Commissioner has stated that according to the policy adopted in Government
Memo.No.17181Ser.C/75-1, G.A.(Ser.C) Department, dated 22.11.1975, officers convicted in criminal cases should
normally be dismissed form service and that it is not necessary either to await outcome of an appeal or the expiry of
appeal time where an appeal has been preferred. The Vigilance Commissioner has further mentioned that above policy
was reiterated in subsequent U.O.Note No.1418/SC.D/90-2 G.A. Department, dated 05.11.1990 and in U.O. Note No.
1700/SC.D/92-4, dated 09.03.1994. Therefore, the Vigilance Commissioner has suggested to amend the Circular Memo
No.39071/471/A2/FR.I1/ 01, of this Department dated 28.02.2000 duly indicating the policy as laid down in the aforesaid
above (3) references of G.A. Department and also they say that officers convicted in criminal cases be ordinarily
dismissed from service forthwith in terms of the provisions of Article 311(2) of the Constitution of India and Rule 25 of
the APCS(CCA) Rules, 1991 and that it is not necessary to await an appeal or expiry of appeal time or the outcome of
the appeal where an appeal has been preferred. Even if there is a stay of the sentence in an appeal, it is not necessary
to delay the dismissal. Only in the event of both the conviction and sentence being suspended pending appeal before
the appellate authority then the question of payment of subsistence allowance arise. Officers acting contrary to this
policy should be made liable for recovery of avoidable payment of subsistence allowance in those cases where they
ought to have been dismissed.
3. In the circumstances stated above and in supersession of the instructions issued in the reference 1st cited, it is
instructed that officers convicted in criminal cases ordinarily be dismissed from service forthwith in terms of the provision
of Article 311(2) of the Constitution of India and rule 25 of the APCS(CCA) Rules, 1991 and that it is not necessary to
await an appeal or expiry of appeal time or the outcome of the appeal where an appeal has been preferred. Even if there
is a stay of the sentence in an appeal, it is not necessary to delay the dismissal. Only in the event of both the conviction
and sentence being suspended pending appeal before the appellate authority then the question of payment of
subsistence allowance arise. Officers acting contrary to this policy should be made liable for recovery of avoidable
payment of subsistence allowance in those cases where they they ought to have been dismissed.
4. All the departments of Secretariat and Head of Departments are requested to follow the above instructions
scrupulously.
26. Waiver procedure to certain cases:
Page 119/168
----- PAGE 120 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(1)
All or any of the provisions of Rules 20 to 24 may, in exceptional cases and for special and sufficient reasons to be
recorded by the disciplinary authority in writing, be waived where there is a difficulty in observing fully the requirements
of these rules and those requirements can be waived without causing any injustice to the Government servant charged.
(2)
If, in respect of any Government servant charged, a question arises whether it is reasonably practicable to hold such
inquiry or give such opportunity as is referred to in Rules 20 to 24, the decision thereon of the disciplinary authority
competent to impose any of the penalties specified in [clauses (vii) to (x)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 205, G.A.D., 5-6-1998]
of rule 9 on the Government servant concerned shall be final.
[27. Action on report of Lokayukta and Upa-lokayukta: - (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Rules 20 or 22, where
it is proposed to impose on a Government servant any of the penalties specified in Rule 9 or Rule 10 on the basis of the
recommendation contained in a report mentioned in sub-section (1) of Section 12 of the Andhra Pradesh Lokayukta and
Upa¬lokayukta Act, 1983, the disciplinary authority shall take action on the basis of the recommendation contained in
the report, after furnishing a copy of the report to the charged Government Servant to make a representation, if any,
within a reasonable time fixed and after taking into consideration such representation, and impose any of the penalties
specified in Rule 9 or 10:
Provided that the disciplinary authority for the purpose of this rule shall be the authority under Rule 2(c) or as specified
under clause (c) of Section 2 of the Andhra Pradesh Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta Act, 1983.]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. 350, G.A.D., dated 8-08-2002]
(2)
[ The Complaints Committee Report on allegations of sexual harassment and atrocities on women shall be deemed to
be an inquiry report under these Rules.
Notwithstanding anything contained in Rule 20 or Rule 22 where it is proposed to impose on Government Servant any of
the penalties specified in Rule 9 or Rule 10 on the basis of the inquiry report of the Complaints Committee, the
Disciplinary Authority shall take action on the basis of recommendations contained in the inquiry report after furnishing a
copy of the report to the Charged Government Servant to make a representation, if any, within a reasonable time fixed
and after taking into consideration such representation, and impose any of the penalties specified in Rule 9 or Rule 10.]
[Added by G.O. Ms. No. 557, G.A. (Ser. C) Department, dated 14 -12 - 2005]
28. Rule not to affect provisions relating to Andhra Pradesh Survey and Land Records Subordinate Service:
- Nothing in these rules shall affect the rule or regulation of the pay of the members of the Andhra Pradesh Survey and
Land Records Subordinate Service in the following categories according to their monthly outrun of work :
Class I
Category 3
Town Surveyor
Panchayat Surveyor
Category 4
Deputy Surveyor
Taluk Surveyor
Category 5
Field Surveyor
CLASS II
Category 7
Junior Computor
Category 8
Junior Draughtsman
29. Rules not to affect provisions in Andhra Pradesh Stationery Manual:
- Nothing in these rules shall affect the operation of the instructions contained in the Andhra Pradesh Stationery Manual,
Volume I relating to the recovery from the pay of warehousemen, packers in the office of the Director of Stationery of the
value of the short receipts reported by the indenting officers.
30.
Page 120/168
----- PAGE 121 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Provisions regarding officers lent to Government of India, etc.:
(1)
Where the services of a Government servant are lent by one department to another department or to the Government of
India or the Government of another State (hereinafter in this rule referred to as "the borrowing authority"), the borrowing
authority shall have the powers of the appointing authority for the purpose of placing such Government servant under
suspension and of the disciplinary authority for the purpose of conducting a disciplinary proceeding against him :
Provided that the borrowing authority shall forthwith inform the authority which lent the services of the Government
servant (hereinafter in this rule referred to as "lending authority") of the circumstances leading to the order of suspension
of such Government servant or the commencement of the disciplinary proceeding as the case may be.
(2)
In the light of the findings in the disciplinary proceeding conducted against the Government servant
(i)
[ If the borrowing authority is of the opinion that any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (v) of Rule 9 or in Rule 10,
should be imposed on the Government servant, it may make such orders as it deem necessary.
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 20, G.A.D., 20-1-2000]
(ii)
If the borrowing authority is of the opinion that the penalty specified in clause (vi) of Rule 9 should be imposed on
Government Servant, it may pass such orders as it may deem necessary, duly following the procedure prescribed in
Rule 20 :
Provided that the borrowing authority shall inform the lending ..authority which lent the services of the Government
servant the circumstances leading to the imposition of the penalty specified in clause (vi) of Rule 9 :
Provided further that if the borrowing authority is of the opinion that any of the penalties specified in clauses (vii) to (x) of
Rule 9 should be imposed on such Government servant, it shall replace his services at the disposal of the lending
authority and transmit to it the proceedings of the enquiry and thereupon the lending authority may, if it is disciplinary
authority, pass such orders thereon as it may deem necessary or if it is not disciplinary authority, submit the case to the
disciplinary authority which shall pass such orders on the case as it may deem necessary]
[Standard Forms prescribed under this rule are given at the end of these rules]
.
(3)
For the purpose of this rule, an Assistant or an Assistant Section Officer of the Secretariat or an Assistant or a Senior
Asst., of the Office of the Commissioner for Land Revenue deputed for training as Revenue Inspector, in the Andhra
Pradesh Ministerial Service or a Section Officer of the Secretariat or a Superintendent of the Office of the Commissioner
for Land Revenue deputed for training as Tahsildar in the districts, shall be deemed to be a Government servant lent.
(4)
[(i) Where the borrowing authority is a Company or Corporation or Organization or local or other authority, such
borrowing authority may, subject to such specific conditions or limitations, if any, that may be made in the terms of
deputation, suspend or impose any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (vi) of Rule 9 or clause (i) of Rule 10, on
the Government servant, duly following the procedure prescribed in CCA Rules :
Provided that the borrowing authority shall intimate the fact of placing the Government servant under suspension or
imposing on him/her the penalty as the case may be to the lending authority :
Provided further that if the borrowing authority is of the opinion that any of the penalties specified in clauses (vii) to (x) of
Rule 9 should be imposed on the Government servant, it shall replace his services at the disposal of the lending
authority and transmit to it the proceedings of the enquiry and thereupon, the lending authority may, if it is disciplinary
authority, pass such orders thereon as it may deem necessary or if it is not disciplinary authority, submit the case to the
disciplinary authority which shall pass such orders on the case as it may deem necessary]
[Substituted for Clause (i) and (ii) by G.O.Ms. 20, G.A.D., 20-1-2000]
.
(iii)
Where a Government servant whose services are placed at the disposal of any company, corporation, organisation or a
local or ot! authority has, at any time before his services were so placed, committed are act or omission which renders
him liable to any penalty specified in Rule or Rule 10, the authority competent to impose any such penalty on such
Page 121/168
----- PAGE 122 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Government servant shall alone be complent to institute disciplinary proceeding against him and to impose on him such
penalty specified in Rule 9 or Rule 10 as it thinks fit and the borrowing authority under whom he is serving at the time of
the institution of such proceeding, shall be bound to render all reasonable facilities to such competent authority
instituting and conducting such proceeding.
31.
Provisions regarding officers borrowed from Government of India, etc.:
(1)
Where an order of suspension is made or a disciplinary proceeding is conducted against a Government servant whose
services have been borrowed by one department from another department or from the Government of India or the
Government of another State or a Company or Corporation or Organisation or a Local or other Authority lending the
services (hereinafter in this rule referred to as "the lending authority") shall forthwith be informed of the circumstances
leading to the order of the suspension of the Government servant or of the commencement of the disciplinary
proceeding, as the case may be.
(2)
In the light of the findings in the disciplinary proceeding conducted against the Government servant :
(i)
[ If the disciplinary authority is of the opinion that any of the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (v) of Rule 9 or in rule 10
should be imposed on him / her it may, subject to the provisions of sub-rule (3) of Rule 21 pass such order as it may
deem necessary :
[Substituted for Clause (i) and (ii) by G.O.Ms. 20, G.A.D., 20-1-2000]
Provided that the borrowing authority shall intimate the fact of imposing the penalty on Government Servant, to the
lending authority.
(ii)
If the borrowing authority is of the opinion that the penalty specified in clause (vi) of Rule 9 should be imposed on
Government Servant, it may pass such orders as it may deem necessary, duly following the procedure prescribed in
Rule 20:
Provided that the borrowing authority is of the opinion that any of the penalties specified in clauses (vii) to (x) of Rule 9
should be imposed on the Government servant, it shall replace his services at the disposal of the lending authority and
transmit to it the proceedings of the enquiry and thereupon the lending authority may, if it is disciplinary authority, pass
such orders thereon as it may deem necessary or if it is not disciplinary authority, submit the case to the disciplinary
authority which shall pass such orders on the case as it may deem necessary]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 353 G.A (Ser.C) Department , dated 18-11-2003]
Part - VI Appeals
32.
Orders against which no appeal lies:
- Notwithstanding anything contained in this part, no appeal shall lie against
(i)
any order made by the Governor;
(ii)
any order of an interlocutory nature or of the nature of a step-in-aid of the final disposal of a disciplinary proceeding,
other than an order of suspension;
(iii)
any cider passed by an inquiring authority in the course of an inquiry under Rule 20.
33.
Orders against which appeal lies:
(1)
Subject to the provisions of Rule 32 a Government servant may prefer an appeal, as hereinafter provided against all or
any of the following orders, namely :
(i)
an order of suspension made or deemed to have been made under Rule 8;
(ii)
Page 122/168
----- PAGE 123 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
an order imposing any of the penalties specified in Rule 9 or Rule 10 whether made by the disciplinary authority or by an
appellate or revising authority;
(iii)
an order enhancing any penalty imposed under Rule 9 or Rule 10;
(iv)
an order discharging him in accordance with the terms of his contract, if he has been engaged on a contract for a fixed
or for an indefinite period and has rendered under either form of contract, continuous service for a period exceeding five
years at the time when his services are so discharged; and
(v)
an order reducing or withholding the maximum pension, including an additional pension, admissible to him under the
rules governing pension.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of Rule 32, a member of a subordinate service may, as here-in-after provided, prefer an appeal
against an order passed by an authority subordinate to the Government (i) varying to his disadvantage his conditions of
service, pay, allowances or pension as regulated in rules or in a contract of service, and (ii) interpreting to his
disadvantage the provisions of any rules or contract of service whereby his conditions of service, pay, allowance or
pension are regulated.
Explanation : - In this rule, the expressions 'Government Servant' and 'Member of a Subordinate Service' include a
person who has ceased to be in Government Service.
34.
Appellate Authorities:
(1)
A Government servant, including a person who has ceased to be in Government service, may prefer an appeal against
all or any of the orders specified in Rule 33 to the authorities as follows :
(i)
An appeal from an order passed by the High Court shall lie to the Governor.
(ii)
An appeal from an order imposing on a member of a State any of the penalties specified in Rule 9 or placing such
member under suspension under Rule 8 passed by the Head of the Department shall lie to the Government and an
appeal from an order passed by a lower authority shall lie to the Head of the Department :
Provided that an appeal from an order imposing the penalties specified in clauses (i) to (iv) of Rule 9 on all types of
Inspectors of Police by the Superintendent of Police or an officer of the corresponding rank shall lie to the Special
Inspector-General of Police (Law and Order).
(iii)
An appeal from an order imposing on a member of a Subordinate Service any of the penalties specified in Rule 9 or
Rule 10 or placing such member under suspension under Rule 8 passed by any authority lower than the Government
shall lie to the next higher authority to whom the former authority is administratively subordinate :
Provided that in respect of the members of Subordinate Services working in the Habitual Offenders Settlements in the
Police Department, the appellate authority shall be the Superintendent of Police concerned in respect of orders passed
by the Manager of the Settlement;
Provided further that in the case of a member of the Andhra Pradesh Police Subordinate Service or the Andhra Pradesh
Special Armed Police Service, the appellate authority shall be as specified against each of the categories in Appendix
IV;
Provided also that in the case of a member of the Andhra Pradesh Police Subordinate Service or the Andhra Pradesh
Special Armed Police Service, an officer superior to the competent authority may, for reasons to be recorded in writing,
transfer an appeal from the competent authority to any other authority holding the same rank for disposal.
(iv)
An appeal against an order referred to in sub-rule (2) of Rule 33 shall lie to the Government.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1)
(i)
Page 123/168
----- PAGE 124 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
an appeal against an order in a common proceeding held under Rule 24 shall lie to the authority to which the authority
functioning as the disciplinary authority for the purpose of that proceeding is immediately subordinate ;
(ii)
where the person who made the order appealed against becomes, by virtue of his subsequent appointment or
otherwise, the appellate authority in respect of such order, an appeal against such order shall lie to the authority to
which such person is immediately subordinate and, if there is no such authority, by an authority appointed by the
Government.
Executive Instruction
Appellate Authorities - Clarification on the appellate authorities
[Circular Memo. No. 7486/CRP/E2/86, dated 11-4-1992]
Order: - All the District Development Officer of the Z.P.Ps. in the State are informed that consequent on the
provincialisation of services of Panchayat Raj Employees the District Development Officer is made the appointing
authority.
As appointing authority the District Development Officers are issuing orders on the disciplinary cases. A question was
raised as to whether the Chairman Z.P.P. who was earlier appointing authority continues to receive appeals on the
orders and disciplinary cases decided by the District Development Officers.
The CCA Rules applicable to State Government Employees are applicable to Panchayati Raj Employees also. As per
the provision contained in CCA Rules the first appeal on the orders of the District Development Officer in disciplinary
cases shall be to the Head of the Department, who is the Commissioner, Panchayat Raj & Rural Development in the
case of Panchayat Raj Bodies.
All the District Development Officers are requested to forward the appeals on their orders in disciplinary cases to the
Commissioner, P.R. & R.D. Necessary amendments to Statutory Rules are being issued separately by Government.
35.
Period of limitation for appeals:
- No appeal preferred under these rules shall be entertained unless such appeal is preferred within a period of three
months from the date on which a copy of the order appealed against is delivered to the appellant :
[Proviso Omitted by G.O.Ms.No. 64 Gent.  Administrator  (Ser. C), dated 27-2-1998]
36.
Form and contents of appeal:
(1)
Every person preferring an appeal shall do so separately and in his own name.
(2)
The appeal shall contain all material statements and arguments relied on by the appellant and shall be complete in itself,
and shall not contain any disrespectful or improper language, It shall be presented to the authority to whom the appeal
lies, a copy being forwarded by the appellant to the authority which made the order appealed against.
(3)
The authority which made the order appealed against shall, on receipt of a copy of the appeal, forward the same with its
comments thereon together with the relevant records to the appellate authority, without any avoidable delay and without
waiting for any direction from the appellate authority.
37.
Consideration of appeal:
- In the case of an appeal against an order of suspension, the appellate authority shall consider whether in the light of
the provisions of Rule 8 and having regard to the circumstances of the case, the order of suspension is justified or not
and confirm or revoke the order accordingly.
(2)
In the case of an appeal against an order imposing any of the penalties specified in Rule 9 or Rule 10 or enhancing any
penalty imposed under the said rules, the appellate authority shall consider : -
(a)
whether the procedure laid down in these rules has been compiled with and if not, whether such non-compliance has
resulted in the violation of any provisions of the Constitution of India or in failure of justice :
(b)
Page 124/168
----- PAGE 125 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
whether the findings of the disciplinary authority are warranted by the evidence on the record; and
(c)
whether the penalty or the enhanced penalty imposed is adequate, inadequate or severe and pass orders :
(i)
confirming, enhancing, reducing or setting aside the penalty; or
(ii)
remitting the case to the authority which imposed or enhanced the penalty or to any other authority with such direction
as it may deem fit in the circumstances of the case :
Provided that -
(i)
the Commission shall be consulted in all cases where such consultation is necessary ;
(ii)
if the enhanced penalty which the appellate authority proposed to impose is one of the penalties specified in [clauses (vi)
to (x)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 205, G.A.D., dated 5-6-1998]
Rule 9 and an inquiry under rule 20 has not already been held in the case, the appellate authority shall, subject to the
provisions of rule 25, itself hold such inquiry or direct that such inquiry be held in accordance with the provisions of Rule
20 and, thereafter, on consideration of the proceedings of such inquiry, make such orders as it may deem fit.
(iii)
if the enhanced penalty which the appellate authority proposes to impose is one of the penalties specified in [clauses (vi)
to (x)]
[Added by G.O. Ms. 480, G.A.D. dated 20-12-2001]
Rule 9 and an inquiry under rule 20 has already been held in the case, the appellate authority shall make such orders as
it may deemed fit, [after the appellant has been given a reasonable oppurtunity of making a representation]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 205, G.A.D., dated 5-6-1998]
;
(iv)
subject to the provisions of Rule 25, the appellate authority
(a)
where the enhanced penalty which the appellate authority proposes to impose, is the one specified in clause (iv) of Rule
9 and falls within the scope of the provisions contained in sub-rule (2) of Rule 22; and
(b)
where an inquiry in the manner laid down in Rule 20 has not already been held in the case.
itself hold such inquiry or direct that such inquiry be held in accordance with the provisions of Rule 20 and thereafter on
a consideration of the proceedings of such inquiry, pass such order a sit may deem fit; and
(v)
no order imposing an enhanced penalty shall be made in any other case unless the appellant has been given a
reasonable opportunity, as far as may be, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 22, of making a representation
against such enhanced penalty.
(3)
In an appeal against any other order specified in Rule 33 the appellate authority shall consider all the circumstances of
the case the make such orders as it may deem just and equitable.
38.
Review of original orders passed by Government, in lieu of appeal:
(a)
Every member of a State Service, or a member of a Subordinate Service in whose case the Government have passed
original orders, shall not be entitled to appeal but shall be entitled to make separately and in his own name, within a
period of three months from the date on which the order was communicated to him, a petition to the Government for
review of the order passed by them on any of the following grounds, namely
(i)
that the order against which the petition for review is made was not passed by the competent authority;
Page 125/168
----- PAGE 126 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(ii)
that a reasonable opportunity was not given to the petitioner for defending himself;
(iii)
that the punishment is excessive or unjust;
(iv)
that the petitioner has made a discovery of new matter or evidence which he proves to the satisfaction of the
Government, was not within his knowledge or could not be adduced by him before the order imposing the penalty was
passed; and
(v)
that there is an evident error or omission in the order such as failure to apply the law of limitation or an error of
procedure apparent on the face of record.
(b)
Any petition for review which does not satisfy any of the above grounds shall be summarily rejected.
(c)
The Government shall pass such orders as they think proper in respect of any petition for review that has been admitted
under this rule.
39.
Implementation of orders in appeal:
- The authority which made the order appealed against shall give effect to the orders passed by the appellate authority.
Part - VII Revision And Review
40.
[ Revision:
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 455, G.A.D., 5-12-2001]
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules
(i)
the Government, or
(ii)
in the case of a Government servant serving in a depart. office under the control of a head of department such head of
the directly under the Government; or
(iii)
any appellate authority, or
(iv)
any other authority specified in this behalf by the Government by a general or special order and within such time as may
be prescribed in such general or special order, may where a revision petition is preferred by the Government servant
within one year of the date of receipt by him of the order sought to be revised, and in cases where no such revision
petition is preferred within four years of the date of the order proposed to be revised, either suo motu or otherwise and
after calling for the records of any inquiry and examination, revise and order of penalty made under these rules or under
the rules repealed by Rule 45, after consultation with Commission where such consultation is necessary. The said
authority may exercise the power suo motu within four years from the date of issue of order of penalty by the competent
authority or within one year of the date of receipt of the petition either confirm or reduce or set aside the order of penalty
or any other order already issued, and where it is proposed to enhance the penalty, such authority may exercise the
power within four years from the date of receipt of the petition and revise any order made under Rule 45 after
consultation with the Commission where such consultation is necessary, and
(a)
confirm, modify or set aside the order; or
(b)
confirm, reduce, enhance or set aside the penalty imposed by the order, or impose any penalty where no penalty has
been imposed, or
(c)
remit the case to the authority which made the order or to any other authority directing such authority to make such
Page 126/168
----- PAGE 127 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
further inquiry as it may consider proper in the circumstances of the case; or
(d)
pass such other orders as it may deem fit :
Provided that the Special Inspector General of Police (Law and Order) or the Deputy Inspector General of Police or an
officer of the corresponding rank may, of his own motion or otherwise, revise an order passed on appeal by the authority
subordinate to him;
Provided further that no order imposing or enhancing any penalty shall be made by any revising authority unless the
Government servant concerned has been given a reasonable opportunity of making a representation against the penalty
proposed and where it is proposed to impose any of the major penalties specified in Rule 9 or to enhance the minor
penalty imposed by the order sought to be revised to any of the major penalties and if an inquiry under Rule 20 has not
already been held in the case, no such penalty shall be imposed except after inquiring in the manner laid down in Rule
20, subject to the provisions of Rule 25 and except after consultation with the Commission, where such consultation is
necessary:
Provided also that subject to the provisions of Rule 25, the revising authority shall:
(a)
where the enhanced penalty which the revising authority propose to impose, is the one specified in clause (iv) of Rule 9
and falls within the scope of the provisions contained in sub-rule (2) of the Rule 22; and
(b)
where an inquiry in the manner laid down in Rule 20 has not already been held in the case.
Itself hold such inquiry or direct that such inquiry be held in accordance with the provisions of Rule 20, and thereafter, on
a consideration of the proceedings of such inquiry, pass such orders as it may deem fit;
Provided further that no power of revision shall be exercised by the head of department, unless
(i)
the authority which made the order in appeal, or
(ii)
the authority to which an appeal would lie, where no appeal has been preferred, is subordinate to him.
(2)
No proceeding for revision shall be initiated or commenced until after
(i)
the expiry of the period of limitation for preferring an appeal, or
(ii)
the disposal of the appeal, where any such appeal has been preferred; the Government Servant may however prefer a
revision petition for revising the order or penalty within a period of one year after the appeal petition to the prescribed
appellate authority is disposed off.
(3)
An application for revision shall be dealtwith in the same manner as if it were an appeal under these rules.]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 353 G.A (Ser.C) Department , dated 18-11-2003]
41.
[ Review:
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 64, G.A.D., dated 27-2-1998]
- The Government may exercise the power to review any order passed under these rules only on the reference made by
the Head of the Department when any new material or evidence which could not be produced or was not available at the
time of passing the order under review and which has the effect of changing the nature of the case, has come, or has
been brought, to its notice :
Provided that no order imposing or enhancing any penalty shall be made by the Government unless the Government
servant concerned has been given reasonable opportunity of making a representation against the penalty proposed or
where it is proposed to impose any of the major penalties specified in Rule 9 or to enhance the minor penalty imposed
by the order sought to be reviewed to any of the major penalties and if an inquiry under Rule 20 has not already been
held in the case, no such penalty shall be imposed except after inquiring in the manner laid down in Rule 20, subject to
the provisions of Rule 25 and except after consultation with the Commission where such consultation is necessary]
[G.O.Ms. No. 335, G.A.D.,Dt. 26-10-1998]
Page 127/168
----- PAGE 128 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
.
[Provided further that the Government shall exercise the power of review within a period of three years.]
[G.O.Ms. 23. G.A.D., dated 23-I-1999w.e.f. 20/7/96]
Part - VIII Miscellaneous
42.
Service of orders, notices etc.:
- Every order, notice and other process made or issued under these rules shall
(i)
if he is on duty, be served on the Government servant by delivering or tendering it in person;
(ii)
if he is on leave or under suspension or otherwise absent be communicated to him by registered post to the address
given by him, if any, or of his usual place of residence;
(iii)
if it cannot be so served or communicated, be published in Andhra Pradesh Gazette.
43.
Power to relax time-limit and to condone delay:
- Save as otherwise expressly provided in these rules, the authority competent under these rules to make any order
may, for good and sufficient reasons or if sufficient cause is shown, extend the time specified in these rules for anything
required to be done under the rules or condone any delay.
44.
Supply of copy of Commission's advice:
- Whenever the Commission is consulted as provided in these rules, a copy of the advice by the Commission and,
where such advice has not been accepted, also a brief statement of the reasons for such non-acceptance, shall be
furnished to the Government servant concerned along with a copy of the order passed in the case, by the authority
making the order.
45.
Repeal and Saving:
(1)
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1963, issued in G.O.Ms.No. 1376,
General Administration (Rules) Department, dated the 28th November, 1963, in so far as they relate to the services
specified in these rules, are hereby repealed :
Provided that :
(a)
such repeal shall not affect the previous operation of the said rules, or any notification or order made, or anything done,
or any action taken, thereunder;
(b)
any proceedings under the said rules, pending at the commencement of these rules shall be continued and disposed of
as far as may be, in accordance with the provisions of these rules, as if such proceedings were proceedings under these
rules.
(2)
Nothing in these rules shall operate to deprive any person of any right of appeal, which he would have had if these rules
had not been made, in respect of any order passed before the commencement of these rules. An appeal pending at the
time when, or preferred after these rules came into force shall be deemed to be an appeal under these rules, and Rule
37 shall apply as if the appeal were against an order appealable under these rules.
(3)
As from the commencement of these rules any appeal or application for revision or review against any orders made
before such commencement shall be preferred or made under these rules, as if such orders were made under these
rules :
Provided that nothing in these rules shall be construed as reducing any period of limitation for any appeal, revision or
review provided by any rule in force before the commencement of these rules.
46.
Page 128/168
----- PAGE 129 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Removal of Doubts:
- If any doubt arises as to the interpretation of any of the provisions of these rules, the matter shall be referred to the
Government, whose decision shall be final.
I
1. The Andhra Pradesh Administrative Service.
2. The Andhra Pradesh Agriculture Service.
3. The Andhra Pradesh Animal Husbandry Service.
4. The Andhra Pradesh Boiler Service.
5. The Andhra Pradesh Central Stores Purchase Service.
6. The Andhra Pradesh Civil Service (Executive Branch).
7. The Andhra Pradesh Commercial Taxes Service.
8. The Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Service.
9. The Andhra Pradesh Economic and Statistical Service.
10. The Andhra Pradesh Educational Service.
11. The Andhra Pradesh Electrical Service.
12. The Andhra Pradesh Employment Service.
13. The Andhra Pradesh Engineering Service.
14. The Andhra Pradesh Excise Service.
15. The Andhra Pradesh Factory Service.
16. The Andhra Pradesh Fire Service.
17. The Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Service.
18. The Andhra Pradesh Forest Service.
19. The Andhra Pradesh General Service.
20. The Andhra Pradesh Government Life Insurance Service.
21. The Andhra Pradesh (R & B) Engineering Service.
22. The A.P. Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments (Administration) Service.
23. The Andhra Pradesh Homeopathic Service.
24. The Andhra Pradesh Indian Medicine Service.
25. The Andhra Pradesh Industries Service.
26. The Andhra Pradesh Information Service.
27. The Andhra Pradesh Jail Service.
28. The Andhra Pradesh Labour Service.
29. The Andhra Pradesh Marketing Service.
30. The Andhra Pradesh Medical Service.
31. The Andhra Pradesh Mining Service.
32. The Andhra Pradesh Municipal Commissioners Service.
33. The Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Service.
34. The Andhra Pradesh Panchayati Raj Engineering Service.
35. The Andhra Pradesh Panchayati Raj Service. (Executive Branch)
36. The Andhra Pradesh Pay and Accounts Service.
37. The Andhra Pradesh Police Service.
38. The Andhra Pradesh Port Service.
39. The Andhra Pradesh Public Health Service.
40. The Andhra Pradesh Public Health and Municipal Engineering Service.
41. The Andhra Pradesh Printing Service.
42. The Andhra Pradesh Registration Service.
43. The Andhra Pradesh State Higher Judicial Service.
44. The Andhra Pradesh State Judicial Service.
45. The Andhra Pradesh State Legal Service.
46. The Andhra Pradesh Survey and Land Records Service.
47.
Page 129/168
----- PAGE 130 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
The Andhra Pradesh Technical Education Service.
48.
The Andhra Pradesh Town Planning Service.
49.
The Andhra Pradesh Transport Service.
50.
The Andhra Pradesh Treasury and Accounts Service.
51.
The Andhra Pradesh Weights and Measures Service.
52.
The Andhra Pradesh Backward Classes Welfare Service.
53.
The Andhra Pradesh Horticulture Service.
54.
The Andhra Pradesh Handlooms & Textiles Service.
55.
The Andhra Pradesh Insurance Medical Service.
56.
The Andhra Pradesh Tribal Welfare Engineering Service
[G.O.Ms.No. 315, G.A.D., dated 5-09-2000]
58.
The Andhra Pradesh State Audit Service.
[G.O.Ms.No. 71, G.A.D., dated 17-02-2009].
II
(Rule 7)
1. The Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Subordinate Service.
2. The Andhra Pradesh Animal Husbandry Subordinate Service.
3. The Andhra Pradesh Certified Schools Subordinate Service.
4. The Andhra Pradesh Commercial Taxes Subordinate Service.
5. The Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Service.
6. The Andhra Pradesh Economics and Statistical Subordinate Service.
7. The Andhra Pradesh School Educational Subordinate Service.
8. The Andhra Pradesh Electrical Subordinate Service.
9. The Andhra Pradesh Engineering Subordinate Service.
10. The Andhra Pradesh Excise Subordinate Service.
11. The Andhra Pradesh Fire Subordinate Service.
12. The Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Subordinate Service.
13. The Andhra Pradesh Forest Subordinate Service.
14. The Andhra Pradesh General Subordinate Service.
15. The Andhra Pradesh Government Press Subordinate Service.
16. The Andhra Pradesh (R & B) Engineering Subordinate Service.
17. The Andhra Pradesh Homeopathic Subordinate Service.
18. The Andhra Pradesh Indian Medicine Subordinate Service.
19. The Andhra Pradesh Industries Subordinate Service.
20. The Andhra Pradesh Information Subordinate Service.
21. The Andhra Pradesh Jail Subordinate Service.
22. The Andhra Pradesh Judicial Ministerial Service.
23. The Andhra Pradesh Last Grade Service.
24. The Andhra Pradesh Labour Subordinate Service.
25. The Andhra Pradesh Marketing Subordinate Service.
26. The Andhra Pradesh Medical Subordinate Service.
Page 130/168
----- PAGE 131 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
27. The Andhra Pradesh Ministerial Service.
28. The Andhra Pradesh Mining Subordinate Service.
29. The Andhra Pradesh Minor Irrigation Subordinate Service.
30. The Andhra Pradesh Municipal Commissioners Subordinate Service.
31. The Andhra Pradesh Panchayati Raj Executive Subordinate Service.
32. The Andhra Pradesh Panchayati Raj Subordinate Engineering Service.
33. The Andhra Pradesh Pay and Accounts Subordinate Service.
34. The Andhra Pradesh Police Subordinate Service.
35. The Andhra Pradesh Port Subordinate Service.
36. The Andhra Pradesh Public Health Subordinate Service.
37. The Andhra Pradesh Public Health & Municipal Engg.Subordinate Service.
38. The Andhra Pradesh Registration Subordinate Service.
39. The Andhra Pradesh Revenue Subordinate Service.
40. The Andhra Pradesh Secretariat Subordinate Service.
41. The Andhra Pradesh Special Armed Police Service.
42. The Andhra Pradesh Survey and Land Records Subordinate Service.
43. The Andhra Pradesh Survey & Land Records Subordinate (Temporary)
44. The Andhra Pradesh Technical Education Subordinate Service.
45. The Andhra Pradesh Town Planning Subordinate Service.
46. The Andhra Pradesh Treasury and Accounts Subordinate Service.
47. The Andhra Pradesh Sericulture Subordinate Service.
48. The Andhra Pradesh Backward Classes Subordinate Service.
49. The Andhra Pradesh Horticulture Subordinate Service.
50. The Andhra Pradesh Endowments Executive Officers Service.
51. The Andhra Pradesh Handlooms & Textiles Subordinate Service.
52. The Andhra Pradesh Insurance Medical Subordinate Service.
53. The Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Subordinate Service.
54. The Andhra Pradesh Tribal Welfare Engineering Subordinate
[G.O.Ms.No. 315, G.A.D., dated 5-09-2000]
55. The Andhra Pradesh State Audit Sub-ordinate Service.
[G.O.Ms.No. 71, G.A.D., dated 17-02-2009]
Appendix I
[Rule 10(i)]
Government Guest House Department
Members of the Andhra Pradesh General Subordinate Service.
(a)
Government House Department, Hyderabad: - Stewards, Grades I and II, Butlers, Carpenters, Painters, Head Cooks,
Assistant Cooks, Drivers, Tailor and Electrician.
(b)
Hyderabad House, New Delhi: - Sanitary Fitter, Electrician, Drivers, Cooks and Butlers.
(c)
Jubilee Hall, Hyderabad: - Daroga.
Government Press
I. Office Establishment at Kurnool - Attenders
II. Members of the Andhra Pradesh Government Press Subordinate Service.
Jail Department
Andhra Pradesh Jail Subordinate Service
Branch II
CLASS I
1. Jailors in Sub-jails
2. Gate-keepers (including Chief Head Warders, Jamedars, Grades I and II, Head Warders, and Dafedars).
Page 131/168
----- PAGE 132 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
3. Warders (including Jawans) in Jails - Grades I and II
CLASS II
Woman Warders - Grades I and II
Branch II
CLASS I
1. Special Grade Prison Teachers and Instructors.
2. Higher Elementary Grade Teachers and Instructors.
CLASS II
1. Carpenter Instructors - Grades II and III
2. Blacksmith Instructors
3. Tailor Instructors - Grade II
4. Weaving Instructors - Grade II and III
5. Durrie-making Instructors - Grades II and III
6. Carpet-making Instructors.
7. Dyeing Instructors- Grades II and III
8. Polisher.
9. Fitter-Grades II and HI
10. Shoe-making Instructors,
CLASS III
Jamedar, Chauffers
Temporary Posts.
Branch IV
1. Wiremen.
2. Packer clerks and Packers.
Port Department
I. Andhra Pradesh Port Subordinate Service : -
1. Assistant Light Keepers and Signallers.
2. Flag Lascars.
3. Tindals - Grade II.
4. Boatmen.
II. Andhra Pradesh General Subordinate Service : -
1. Serangs - Grade H
2. Firemen - Grades I and II
3. Welders
4. Greasers.
5. Lascars.
6. Store Attender.
7. Hammermen.
Public Health And Municipal Engineering Department
1. Andhra Pradesh General Subordinate Service : -
Attenders employed in the office of the Sanitary Engineer.
Appendix II
[Rule 14(1)(b) Third Proviso]
Authority Which May Impose The
Penalty Of
Categories of Officers
Censure u/r. 9(i)
Recovery from pay u/r. 9(iii)
Withholding of increments u/r.
9(iv)
Authority which may place under
Page 132/168
----- PAGE 133 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
suspension u/r. 8
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
Jailors in Central or District Jails.
Appointing Authority
Appointing Authority
Appointing Authority
Appointing Authority
School Assistants, Dy. Inspector of
Schools, Assistant Lecturers, Tutors, Demonstrators, Upper
Division Clerks, Head Clerks, Managers, etc.
Appointing Authority
Appointing Authority
Appointing Authority
Appointing Authority
Staff of Public Works Department
(excluding Secretariat staff)
Immediate Superior Gazetted Officer
Authority next above the immediate
superior Gazetted Officer
Authority next above the immediate
superior Gazetted Officer
Authority next above the immediate
superior Gazetted Officer
Supervisors in Engineering Department . Head
Clerks and Managers in the Offices of Superintending Engineers.
Executive Engineer
Executive Engineer
Executive Engineer
Executive Engineer
Staff working under the administrative
control of the Director, Industries and Commerce.
Immediate Superior Gazetted Officer
Immediate Superior Gazetted Officer
Immediate Superior Gazetted Officer
Appointing authority
Assistant Inspectors of Labour,
Welfare Organisers, Health Visitors, Craft Instuctress, Audio
Visual Incharge, Upper Division Clerks.
Industrial Relations Officers and
Labour Enforcement Officer concerned
Industrial Relations Officers and
Labour Enforcement Officer concerned
Industrial Relations Officers and
Labour Enforcement Officer concerned
Deputy Commissioner of Labour
concerned.
[x x x]
Page 133/168
----- PAGE 134 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
[The entry partaining to Cooperative
Sub-registrars omitted vide G.O.Ms.No. 321, G.A.D., dated 24-7-97]
Dairy Assistants
Immediate Superior Gazetted Officer.
Do.
Additional Joint Registrar
Additional Joint Registrar
Appendix III
[See 14(2) First Proviso]
Authority Which May Impose The Penalty Of
Class of Subordinates
Fine u/r. 10(i)
Censure u/r. 9(i)
Withholding of promotion u/r. 9(ii)
Recovery from pay u/r. 9(iii)
Withholding of increments u/r. 9(iv)
Suspension u/r. 9(v)
Reduction[u/r. 9(vii)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 205, G.A.D., 5-6-1998]
Compulsory retirement or removal or dismissal[u/r. 9(viii), (ix), & (x)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 205, G.A.D., 5-6-1998]
.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Bureau Of Economics And Statistics
I.Members of the A.P. Economics and Statistical
Subordinate Service :
Taluk Statistical Assistants.
-
Tahsildar or District Statistical Officer
Director, Bureau of Economics & Statistics
Director, Bureau of Economics & Statistics
Tahsildar or District Statistical Officer
Director, Bureau of Economics Statistical
Director, Bureau of Economics Statistical
Director, Bureau of Economics Statistical
Commercial Taxes Department
I.Members of the A.P. Commercial Taxes Subordinate
Service
Asst. Commercial Tax Officer-
-
-
-
Dy. Commn. of Commercial Taxes
Page 134/168
----- PAGE 135 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
-
Dy. Commn. of Commercial Taxes
-
-
II.Members of the A.P. Ministerial Service in the
Office of the-
(1) Dy. Commercial Tax Officer.-
-
Deputy Commercial Tax Officer.
-
-
-
-
-
-
(2) Asst. Commercial Tax Officer-
-
Assistant Commercial Tax Officer.
-
-
-
-
-
-
III.Members of the A.P. General Subordinate Service -
Bill Collectors
-
Dy. Commercial Tax Officer or
-
-
-
-
-
-
Assistant
Commercial Tax Officer, as the case may be.
CO-OPERTATIVE DEPARTMENT
I. Members of the A.P. Co-operative Subordinate Service :
1.Co-operative Sub-Registrars
(i) Working in O/o. the Addl.
Commr. for Co-op. & Regr. of Co-op. Societies.
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Regr.I
(ii) Elsewhere
(a) In  Administrator  wing of Department . other
than in officer of[District Co-operative Officer]
Page 135/168
----- PAGE 136 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
[Amended by G.O.Ms.No. 195, G.A.D., dated 30-5-1998]
.
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Addl Regr. I
[District Co-op. Officer]
[Amended by G.O.Ms.No. 195, G.A.D., dated 30-5-1998]
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I.
Addl. Regr. I
(b) Working in Officer of[District Co-op. Officer]
[Amended by G.O.Ms.No. 195, G.A.D., dated 30-5-1998]
.
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Add. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
(iii) Working in Audit Wing.
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. REgr. I/Cheif Auditor
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
2. Senior Inspector :
(i) Working in O/o the Commr. for
Co-op. & Regr. of Co-op. Societies.
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
(ii) "Elsewhere
(a) In  Administrator  wing other than in
office of[District Co-operative Officer]
[Amended by G.O.Ms.No. 195, G.A.D., dated 30-5-1998]
.
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Addl. Regr. I
[District Co-op. Officer]
[Amended by G.O.Ms.No. 195, G.A.D., dated 30-5-1998]
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Page 136/168
----- PAGE 137 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(b) "those working in[District Co-op. Officer.]
[Amended by G.O.Ms.No. 195, G.A.D., dated 30-5-1998]
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I/Chief Auditor
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
(iii) in Audit Wing.
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Addl. Regr.I
Addl. Regr. I/Chief Auditor
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr.I
Addl. Regr. I
3. Junior Inspectors :
(i) Working in O/o. the Commr. for
Co-op. & Regr. of Co-op. Societies.
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
(ii) "Elsewhere in
(a)  Administrator  wing other than in
office of[District Co-operative Officer]
[Amended by G.O.Ms.No. 195, G.A.D., dated 30-5-1998]
.
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Addl. Regr. I
[District Co-op. Officer]
[Amended by G.O.Ms.No. 195, G.A.D., dated 30-5-1998]
.
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
(b) Working in O/o. the[District
Co-op. Officer]
[Amended by G.O.Ms.No. 195, G.A.D., dated 30-5-1998]
.
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Page 137/168
----- PAGE 138 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Addl. Regr. I
(iii) in Audit Wing
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I/Chief Auditor
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
II. A.P. Ministerial ServiceJr.Assistants
Typists :
(i) Working in O/o. the Addl.
Commr. for Co-op. & Regr. of Co-op. Societies.
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Addl. Regr. I
Regr.I
(ii) "Elsewhere in  Administrator
Wing.[District Co-op. Officer]
[Amended by G.O.Ms.No. 195, G.A.D., dated 30-5-1998]
.
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Collector (Co.-opn)
Collector (Co.-opn)
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Collector (Co-opn.)
Collector (Co.-opn.)
Collector (Co.-opn.)
(iii) in Audit Wing
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Collector (Co.-opn)
Collector (Co.-opn)
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Collector (Co-opn.)
Collector (Co.-opn.)
Collector (Co.-opn.)
III. Members of A.P. Last Grade Service :
(i) Attenders working in O/o. Commr. for Co-op. & Regr. of
Co-op. Societies.
Joint Regr. ( Administrator )
Joint Regr. ( Administrator )
Joint Regr. ( Administrator )
Joint Regr. ( Administrator )
Joint Regr. ( Administrator )
Joint Regr. ( Administrator )
Joint Regr. ( Administrator )
(ii) Working elsewhere
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Page 138/168
----- PAGE 139 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Collector (Co.-opn.)
[District Co-operative Officer]
[Amended by G.O.Ms.No. 195, G.A.D., dated 30-5-1998]
Immediate superior Gazetted Officer.
Collector (Co.-opn.)
Collector (Co.-opn.)
Collector (Co.-opn.)
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT
I.Members of the A.P. General Subordinate Service :
(1) Attenders in the offices in the Agency area.
-
Head Master or Deputy Inspector of Schools
concerned.
-
-
-
-
-
II.Members working in the office of the Director,
N.C.C., A.P., N.C.C., Group Head Quarters and N.C.C. Units.
1. Superintendents2. Accountants3. U.D.Cs.4.
L.D.Cs.5. Steno-grapher6. Steno Typist7. Typists8.
Ship-Modelling Mechanic-cum-Store Keepers9.Agro-Modelling
Instructor-cum-Store Keepers.10. Saddlers11. Farriers12.
Drivers13. Record Assistants14. Attenders15.
Lascars16. Chowkidars
Group and Unit Commander for civilian staff
working in NCC Group Head-quarters and in N.C.C. Unit Offices
respectively, Establishment Officer for the Civilian staff
working in N.C.C. Directorate.
Director, N.C.C. in respect of the posts at S1.
Nos. 1 to 11 under Column (1) Establishment officer in respect of
the posts at SI.No. 12 to 16 under column (I)
Commander, N.C.C. Group Headquarters for the
Civilian staff working in N.C.C. Unit Offices. Dy. Director,
N.C.C. for the civilian staff working in N.C.C. Group
Headquarters in the N.C.C. Directorate.
Group and Unit Commander for civilian staff
working in NCC Group Head-quarters and in N.C.C. Unit Offices
respectively, Establishment Officer for the Civilian staff
working in N.C.C. Directorate.
Establishment Officer in the case of Drivers,
Record Asst. Attenders, Lascars & Chowkidars. Director,
N.C.C. in respect of all members of the categories in Ministerial
Service and members of the other categories of General
Sub-ordinate Service.
Director, N.C.C. in respect of the posts at S1.
Nos. 1 to 11 under Column (1). Establishment officer in respect
of the posts at Sl.No. 12 to 16 under column (1)
Establishment Officer in the case of Drivers,
Page 139/168
----- PAGE 140 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Record Assts. Attenders, Lascars and Chowkidars. Direct or,
N.C.C. in respect of all members of the categories in Ministerial
Service and members of the other categories of General
Sub¬ordinate Service.
EXCISE DEPARTMENT
I.A.P. Excise Subordinate Service :
1. Circle Inspectors and Sub-Inspectors of Excise.
-
Excise Superintendent
Deputy Commnr. of Excise.
Deputy Commnr. of Excise.
Excise Superintendent
Deputy Commnr. of Excise.
Deputy Commnr. of Excise.
Deputy Commnr. of Excise.
FISHERIES DEPARTMENT
I.Motor Drivers, Electricians and Fieldmen attached to
the Head Office.
-
-
Deputy Director of Fisheries
Deputy Director of Fisheries
-
Deputy Director of Fisheries
-
-
-
II.Members of the Last Grade Service-
Under the members of the Fisheries Subordinate Service
Pisciculturist, Botanist, Research Assistant,
Inspector of Fisheries or Laboratory Assistant, as the case my be
Pisciculturist, Botanist, Research Assistant,
Inspector of Fisheries or Laboratory Assistant, as the case my
be.
Pisciculturist, Botanist, Research Assistant,
Inspector of Fisheries or Laboratory Assistant, as the case my
be.
Pisciculturist, Botanist, Research Assistant,
Inspector of Fisheries or Laboratory Assistant, as the case my
be.
Pisciculturist, Botanist, Research Assistant,
Inspector of Fisheries or Laboratory Assistant, as the case my
be.
Pisciculturist, Botanist, Research Assistant,
Inspector of Fisheries or Laboratory Assistant, as the case my
be.
Pisciculturist, Botanist, Research Assistant,
Inspector of Fisheries or Laboratory Assistant, as the case my
be.
-
FOREST DEPARTMENT
Page 140/168
----- PAGE 141 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
I.A.P. Forest Sub-ordinate Service
1. Artist Photographer-
-
-
Conservator of Forests in the case of those under
State Silviculturist and Forest Utilisation Officer and
Conservator of Forests in the case of other.
Divisional Forest Officer/State
Silviculturist/Forest Utilisation Officer.
Conservator of Forests in the case in the case of
those under State silviculturist and Forest Utilisation officer
and Conservator of Forests in the case of others.
Conservator of Forests in the case in the case of
those under State silviculturist and Forest Utilisation officer
and Conservator of Forests in the case of others.
Conservator of Forests in the case in the case of
those under State silviculturist and Forest Utilisation officer
and Conservator of Forests in the case of others.
-
2. Dy. Range Officers (those appointed by Chief Conservator of
Forests upto 31-8-76 (inclusive)
-
-
Divisional Forest Officer
Divisional Forest Officer
Divisional Forest Officer
Divisional Forest Officer
Divisional Forest Officer
-
3. Dy. Range Officers (those appointed by Conservator of
Forests on or after 1-9-1976).
-
-
Divisional Forest Officer
Divisional Forest Officer
-
-
Divisional Forest Officer
-
4. Forester
-
Forest Range Officer.
-
-
-
-
-
-
5. Forest Guards
-
Forest Range
Page 141/168
----- PAGE 142 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
-
-
-
-
-
-
6. Draughtman-I
-
-
Conservator of Forests
Conservator of Forests in the case of those under
Conservator of Forests and Divisional Forest Officer in the case
of those under Divisional Forest Officer.
-
-
Conservator of Forests.
-
7. Draughtman-II
-
-
Divisional Forest Officer
Divisional Forest Officer
-
-
Divisional Forest Officer
-
8. Categories of Class I, II and III under A.P. Subordinate
Establishment Rules as Approved in G.O.Ms.No. 1518, Food and
Agriculture, dated 9-8-1969.
-
Forest Range Officer
-
-
-
-
-
-
[Sl.No. 1 and 2 Omitted and Sl.Nos. 3 to 10 renumbered as 1 to
8 by G.O.Ms.No. 250,  General  Administrator  (Ser.-C), dated 23-6-1995].
II.Andhra Pradesh Sub-ordinate Service :
Zoological Park Establishment
Service.
Category of Class A.
1. Assistant Curator
-
-
Conservator of Forests
Curator
Conservator of Forests
Conservator of Forests
Conservator of Forests
Page 142/168
----- PAGE 143 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
-
2. Artist-cum-Curator of Museum.
Category of Class B.
III.A.P. Subordinate Service (As Approved in
G.O.Ms.No. 157, Food and Agriculture Department , dated 5-3-1973).
-
-
Curator
Curator
-
-
-
Curator
Categories 1 to 12 for those the Conservator of Forests are
the appointing authorities.
-
-
Divisional Forest Officer
Divisional Forest Officer
-
-
Divisional Forest Officer
-
IV.The A.P. Ministerial Service :
1. Managers
-
-
Conservator of Forests
Conservator of Forests
-
-
Conservator of Forests
-
2. Circle Accountants
3. Superintendents working in Divisional Officers.
-
-
Do.
Divisional Forest Officer.
-
-
Do.
-
4. Head Clerks working in Circle Offices.
-
-
Do.
Conservator of Forests.
-
-
Do.
Page 143/168
----- PAGE 144 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
-
5. Head Clerks working in Divisional Offices.
-
-
Divisional Forest Officer (in case of those
working under Divl. Forest Officer).
Divisional Forest Officer (in case of those
working under Divl. Forest Officer).
-
-
Divisional Forest Officer (in case of those
working under Divl. Forest Officer).
-
6. U.D. Clerks
-
-
Do.
Do.
-
-
Do.
-
GOVERNMENT HOUSE DEPARTMENT
Head Office :
Clerks, Accountants, Stenographers, Typists, Assistant
Accountant, Store Clerks, Stewards, Grade I and II, Butlers,
Carpenters, Painters, Head Cooks,Cooks and Electrician.
Assistant Comptroller.
Assistant Comptroller.
Assistant Comptroller.
Assistant Comptroller.
Assistant Comptroller.
Assistant Comptroller.
-
-
A.P. Government Guest House, New Delhi:
(1) Members of A.P. Ministerial Service and A.P. Genl.
Subordinate Service exclusively attached to the A.P. Government Guest
House, New Delhi.
Agent to Government of A.P. at New Delhi.
Agent to Government of A.P. at New Delhi.
Agent to Government of A.P. at New Delhi.
Agent to Government of A.P. at New Delhi.
Agent to Government of A.P. at New Delhi.
Agent to Government of A.P. at New Delhi.
-
-
(2) Members of A.P. Ministerial Service and A.P. Genl.
Subordinate Service exclusively attached to the Hyderabad Palace,
Delhi.
Do.
Page 144/168
----- PAGE 145 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
-
-
(2) Members of A.P. Ministerial Service and A.P. Genl.
Subordinate Service common to Hyderabad Palace and A.P.  Government
Guest House at New Delhi.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
-
-
INDIAN MEDICINE DEPARTMENT
I.A.P. Indian Medicine Subordinate Service :
(I) Inspector (Tabeeb) Board of Indian Medicine and Inspecting
Medical Officer.
-
Head of the Department.
Head of the Department.
Head of the Department.
Head of the Department.
Head of the Department.
Head of the Department.
Head of the Department.
(2) Tabeebs, Vaids, Asst. Professors, Lecturers, Supdt., for
Lady Students, Dentists, Demonstrators, Senior Nurses, Junior
Nurses and Staff Nurses.
-
Head of the Office or Institution.
Gazetted Head of the Office or Institution, if no
Gazetted Head, then Head of the Department.
Do.
Head of the Officer or Institution.
Do.
Do.
Do.
(3) Technicians, Chemist, Compounders,Asst. Compounders,
Jarrahas, Dayas, Register Writers, Stewards.
-
Do.
Do.
Head of the Department.
Head of the Office or Institution.
Head of the Department.
Head of the Department.
Page 145/168
----- PAGE 146 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Head of the Department
II.A.P. Ministerial Service
(1) Suptds. in the Office of the Spl. Officer, Indian
Medicine.
-
Head of the Department.
Head of the Department.
Do.
Head of the Department.
Do.
Do.
Do.
(2) Accountants, Clerks, Steno-Typists, Typists in the offices
under the control of Special Officer, Indian Medicine.
-
Head of the Office or Institution
Gazetted Head of the Office or Inst. if no
Gazetted Head, then Head of the Department.
Do.
Head of the Office or Institution
Do.
Do.
Do.
(3) Accountants Clerks Steno-Typists, Typists in the Office of
Spl. Officer, Indian Medicine.
-
Head of Department.
Head of the Department.
Do.
Head of the Department
Do.
Do.
Do.
(4) Daftardars Books-Keepers, Field Men, Oil Engine Driver
-
Head of the Office or Institution
Gazetted head of the Office or Inst., if no
Gazetted Head, then Head of the DepartmentDo.
Head of the Office or Institution
Do.
Do.
Do.
III.A.P. Last Grade Service :
(1) Last Grade Service in the offices under the control of the
Special Officer, Indian Medicine.
Head of the Office or Institution.
Head of the Officer or Institution.
Gazetted Head for the Office or Inst., if no
Gazetted Head then Head of the Department.
Head of the Department.
Head of the Department.
Page 146/168
----- PAGE 147 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Head of the Department.
Gazetted head of the Office or Inst., if no
Gazetted Head then Head of the Department.
Head of the Department.
(2) Last Grade Servants in the Office of the Special Officer
Indian Medicine.
Head of the Department.
Head of the Department.
Head of the Department.
Do.
Head of the Department.
Do.
Head of the Department.
Do.
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
I.A.P. Minor Irrigation Subordinate Service :
Special Overseers in the Districts.
-
District Welfare Officer.
-
-
-
-
-
-
II.A.P. Ministerial Service :
Clerks and Typists in  District Welfare Offices.
-
Do.
-
-
-
-
-
-
MEDICAL DEPARTMENT
I.Members of the A.P. Ministerial Service holding
posts in the scale of Rs. 80-110 and above in offices and
institutions other than the office of the Director of Medical
Service.
-
Head of the Office or Institution concerned not
below the rank of a Civil Surgeon.
Head of the Office or Institution concerned not
below the rank of a Civil Surgeon.
Head of the Office or Institution concerned not
below the rank of a Civil Surgeon.
Head of the Office or Institution concerned not
below the rank of a Civil Surgeon.
Head of the Office or Institution concerned not
below the rank of a Civil Surgeon.
Page 147/168
----- PAGE 148 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
-
-
POLICE DEPARTMENT
I.A.P. Ministerial Service :
Clerks & Accountants in Habitual Offenders
Settlement
-
Manager concerned
Suptd. of Police concerned.
Suptd. of Police concerned.
Suptd. of Police concerned.
Suptd. of Police concerned.
Suptd. of Police concerned.
-
PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT
I. A.P. Public Health Subordinate Service
(1) Staff in the City :
(i)
Statistical Asst.
(ii) Laboratory Assts., Field
Assts. & Research Laboratory Attendents.
-
Director of Public Health, Health Officer
in-charge of the Central Malaria Laboratory, Research Health
Officer or Assistant Director of Public Health as the case may
be.
Health Officer in-charge of the Central Malaria
Laboratory, Research Health Officer or Assistant Director of
Public Heath as the case may be.
Director of Public Health, Health Officer
in-charge of the Central Malaria Laboratory, Research Health
Officer or Assistant Director of Public Health as the case may
be.
Director of Public Health, Health Officer
in-charge of the Central Malaria Laboratory, Research Health
Officer or Assistant Director of Public Health as the case may
be.
Director of Public Health, Health Officer
in-charge of the Central Malaria Laboratory, Research Health
Officer or Assistant Director of Public Health as the case may
be.
-
-
(iii) Other members.
-
Assistant Director of Public Health
(Establishment)
-
Assistant Director of Public Health
(Establishment)
Assistant Director of Public Health
Page 148/168
----- PAGE 149 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(Establishment)
Assistant Director of Public Health
(Establishment)
-
-
(2) Staff in the office of the Regional Asst. Director of
Public Health.
-
Regional Assistant Director of Public Health
Regional Assistant Director of Public Health
Director of Public Health
Regional Assistant Director of Public Health
Director of Public
Health Director of Public Health
-
(3) Staff in Moffusil
-
Health Officer.
Health Officer.
Health Officer.
Health Officer.
Health Officer.
-
-
II.Members of the A.P. Ministerial Service employed in
:
(1) Office of the Director of Public Health
-
Director of Public Health
-
Director of Public Health.
Director of Public Health.
Director of Public Health.
-
-
(2) Other Offices
-
Health Officer concerned.
Health Officer concerned.
Health Officer concerned.
Health Officer concerned.
Health Officer concerned.
-
-
III.A.P. General Sub-ordinate Service :
(1) Attenders employed in the office of the Director of Public
Health.
-
Director of Public Health.
-
Director of Public Health.
Page 149/168
----- PAGE 150 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Director of Public Health.
Director of Public Health.
-
-
(2) Attenders employed in the Office of the Regional Asst.
Director of Public Health.
-
Regional Assistant Director of Public Health.
Regional Assistant Director of Public Health.
Regional Assistant Director of Public Health.
Regional Assistant Director of Public Health.
Regional Assistant Director of Public Health.
Regional Assistant Director of Public Health.
Regional Assistant Director of Public Health.
REGISTRATION DEPARTMENT
I.Members of the A.P. Registration Subordinate
Service.
-
-
-
-
Inspector
-
-
-
II.A.P. Ministerial Service and Last Grade Service :
(1) Establishment in the Office of  District Registrars :
(i) Upper Division Clerks Lower
Division Clerks and Copyists.
-
Joint Registrar or where there are more than one
Joint Sub-Registrar, the Senor of them.
-
-
-
-
-
-
(ii) Member of Last Grade Service.
Joint Sub-Registrar or where there are more than
one Joint Sub-Registrar, the Senior of them (upto a limit of one
day's pay).
Joint Sub-Registrar or where there are more than
one Joint Sub-Registrar, the Senor of them.
-
-
-
-
-
-
(2) Establishment in the Office of the Sub-Registrars :
Page 150/168
----- PAGE 151 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(i) Lower Division Clerks &
Copyists.
-
Sub-Registrar
-
-
-
-
-
-
(ii) Member of Last Grade Service
Sub-Registrar (upto a limit of one day's pay)
Sub-Registrar
-
-
-
-
-
-
REVENUE DEPARTMENT
I.A.P. Ministerial Service :
(1) (a) Staff employed in the offices in division other than
those in the offices of the Revenue Divl. Officers.
-
Head of the Office.
-
-
-
-
-
-
(b) Staff except Dy. Tahsildars employed in offices of
Tahsildars
-
Tahsildar
-
Secretary Board of Revenue
Tahsildar (upto a period of 3 months without
cumulative effect).
-
-
-
(2) Members of the service in the Office of the Board of
Revenue.
-
-
-
-
Secretary,  Joint Secretary or Assistant Secretary,
Board of Revenue as the case may be.
|
Page 151/168
----- PAGE 152 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
(3) Members of the Service in the Office of the Board of
Revenue (C.T. Branch).
-
-
-
Additional or Joint SEcretary, Board of Revenue
(CT Branch).
Additional or  Joint Secretary, Board of Revenue (CT
Branch).
-
-
-
(4) Members of the Service in the office of the Board of
Revenue (Excise Branch).
-
-
-
Additionla or Joint Secretary, Board of Revenue
Excise Branch).
Additional or  Joint Secretary Board of Revenue
(Excise Branch)
-
-
-
II.A.P. General Subordinate Service :
Attenders in the offices in divisions excluding offices of the
Revenue Divl. Officers.
-
Head of the office.
-
-
-
-
-
-
TECHNICAL EDUCATION DEPARTMENT
A.P. Technical Education Sub-ordinate Service :
Assistant Lecturers, Instructors, Draughtsmen &
Draughtsmen Instructors in Polytechnics and Mining Institutes.
-
Principal of the Institution.
Principal of the Institution.
-
Principal of the Institution.
-
-
-
TREASURY AND ACCOUNTS DEPARTMENT
I.Treasury & Accounts Subordinate Service Staff
working n the Sub-Treasuries.
-
Page 152/168
----- PAGE 153 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Sub-Treasury Officer.
[Sub-Treasury Officer.
Sub-Treasury Officer.
Sub-Treasury Officer.]
-
-
Inserted by G.O.Ms.No. 335, G.A.D., dated 4-8-1995]
II.Last Grade Service :
(1) Members workings in the Sub-Treasuries.
Sub-Treasury Officer.
Sub-Treasury Officer.
-
-
Sub-Treasury Officer.
-
-
-
(2) Members working under the  Administrator  control of the Dist.
Inspectors of Local Fund Accounts.
District Inspector of Local Fund Accounts.
District Inspector of Local Fund Accounts.
-
-
District Inspector of Local Fund Accounts.
-
-
-
TRIBUNAL FOR DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS
I.Members of the A.P. Ministerial Service employed in
the Office of the Tribunal for Disciplinary Proceedings.
-
Chairman
-
Chairman
Chairman
Chairman
-
-
II.Members of the A.P.  General Subordinate Serv ice3
employed in the Office of the Tribunal for Disciplinary
Proceeding (Attenders).
-
Chairman
-
Chairman
Chairman
Chairman
-
-
Appendix IV
[Appendix IV Substituted by G.O.Ms.,No. 284, GAD (Ser.-C), dated 7-7-97. Printed in A.P. Gazette, Part I, dated 4-9-97]
Page 153/168
----- PAGE 154 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
[Rule 14(2) Second Proviso : Rule 34(i), (iii) Second Proviso]
Competent Authority Which May Impose Penalties On Members Of The Andhra Pradesh Police Subordinate Service
And Andhra Pradesh Special Armed Police Service
Sl. No.
Class of Subordinates
Censure u/r. 9(i)
Withholding of increments or promotion u/r.
9(ii), (iv)
Recovery from pay u/r. 9(iii)
Suspension u/r. 9(v)
Reduction[u/r. 9(vii)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 205, G.A.D., 5-6-1998]
Compulsory retirement or removal or dismissal[u/r. 9(viii), (ix) & (x)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. 205, G.A.D., 5-6-1998]
Appellate Authority
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
ANDHRA PRADESH POLICE SUBORDINATE SERVICE
1. Sub-Inspectors of Police (including women
S.Is.) :
(a) Mofussil
(i) Districts
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P.
DI.G. concerned or an officer of equivalent
rand/higher rank.
DI.G. concerned or an officer of equivalent
rand/higher rank.
[All Deputy Inspec-General/ Inspector General of
Police.]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 193, GAD Ser. C), Dated  26/06/2003]
(ii) Police Training College/ Andhra Pradesh Police
Academy
Vice-Principal Faculty Mem (Dy. Supdt. of Police)
or Asst. Director (Addl. Supdt. of Police)
Vice-Principal Faculty Mem (Dy. Supdt. of Police)
or Asst. Director (Addl. Supdt. of Police)
Vice-Principal Faculty Mem-(Dy. Supdt. of Police)
or Asst. Director (Addl. Supdt. of Police)
Vice-Principal Faculty Mem (Dy. Supdt. of Police)
or Asst. Director (Addl. Supdt. of Police)
D.I.G. (Training) Joint Director (Dy. Inspector
Genl.) or an Officer of Equivalent Rank/Higher rank.
Page 154/168
----- PAGE 155 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
D.I.G. (Training) Joint Director (Dy. Inspector
Genl.) or an Officer of Equivalent Rank/Higher rank.
[All Deputy Inspector General/Inspector General
of police of all ranges now in existance]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No. 519, GAD Ser. C), dated 30/12/2002, w.e.f. 11-08-2002.]
(b) (i) Intelligence Branch, Hyd.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned.
D.I.G. Intelligence Hyderabad
D.I.G. Intelligence Hyderabad
-do-
(ii) Crime Branch C.I.D., Hyd.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned.
I.G.P. C.I.D. Hyderabad.
I.G.P. C.I.D. Hyderabad.
[All Deputy Inspector General/Inspector General
of police of all ranges now in existance]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No. 519, GAD Ser. C), dated 30/12/2002, w.e.f. ]
(i) State Crime Records Bureau Finger Print Bureau
(Including Sub-Inspt. Photographer).
Director or Dy. Supdt. of Police.
Director or Dy. Supdt. of Police.
Director or Dy. Supdt. of Police.
Director or Dy. Supdt. of Police.
Director S.C.R.B. an Officer of equivalent higher
rank.
Director S.C.R.B. and Officer of equivalent
higher rank.
-do-
(i) Police Computers
Supdt. of Police.
Supdt. of Police.
Supdt. of Police.
Supdt. of Police.
Director S.C.R.B. or Officer of equivalent/higher
rank.
Director S.C.R.B. or Officer of equivalent/higher
rank.
-do-
(c) (i) Hyderabad.
Addl. D.C.P. or Assistant Commissioner of Police
concerned
Addl. D.C.P. or Assistant Commissioner of Police
concerned
Addl. D.C.P. or Assistant Commissioner of Police
concerned
Page 155/168
----- PAGE 156 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Addl. D.C.P. or Assistant Commissioner of Police
concerned
Commissioner of Police
Commissioner of Police
-do-
(ii) Vijayawada City Police & Visakhapatnam
City Police.
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police in the rank of Dy. Supdt. of
Police concerned.
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police in the rank of Dy. Supdt. of
Police concerned.
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police in the rank of Dy. Supdt. of
Police concerned.
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police in the rank of Dy. Supdt. of
Police concerned.
Commr. of Police.
Commr. of Police.
-do-
2. Reserve Sub-Inspector :
(a) Mofussil
(i) Districts Addl.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned or an officer of
the corresponding rank.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned or an officer of
the corresponding rank.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned or an officer of
the corresponding rank.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned or an officer of
the corresponding rank.
DI.G. or Officer of equivalent/higher rank.
DI.G. or Officer of equivalent/higher rank.
The S.P. concerned
in respect of orders passed by the D.S.P. The D.I.G. or an
Officer of equivalent/higher rank in respect of orders passed by
the Addl. S.P. or S.P.
The Special IGP or an Officer of equivalent/
higher rank dealing with administrative matters in respect of
orders passed by the DIG or an Officer of equivalent/higher rank.
(ii) S.A.R., C.P.L.
Asst. Comdt.
Asst. Comdt.
Asst. Comdt.
Asst. Comdt.
Spl. I.G.P. APSP Bns.
Spl. I.G.P. APSP Bns.
The Commandant
S.A.R., C.P.L. in respect of orders passed by the Asst. Comdt.
Page 156/168
----- PAGE 157 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
The D.G.P. in respect of orders passed by the
Spl. Insp- General of Police, APSP, Bns.
(iii)[Police Training Colleges]
[Errata Issued vide G.O.Ms.No. 125, G.A.D., dated I-4-1998]
Vice-Principal
Vice-Principal
Vice-Principal
Vice-Principal
D.I.G., Training
D.I.G., Training
The principal in respect of orders passed by the
Vice-Principal, the Dir., A.P. Police Academy and Inspr.  General of
Police, Training in respect of orders passed by the Dy. Inspr.
General Training/Joint Director, Dy. Inspt.  General or an officer of
equivalent/higher rank.
(b) (i) Hyderabad City Police
Addl. D.C.P. or Assistant Commissioner of Police
concerned
Addl. D.C.P. or Assistant Commissioner of Police
concerned
Addl. D.C.P. or Assistant Commissioner of Police
concerned
Addl. D.C.P. or Assistant Commissioner of Police
concerned
Commissioner of Police
Commissioner of Police
The D.C.P., CAR., Hqrs. Hyd. in respect of the
orders passed by the A.C.P. and the D.G.P., A.P., Hyderabad in
respect of the orders passed by the C.P., Hyd.
(ii) Vijayawada City Police
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy. Supdt.
of Police) concerned.
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy. Supdt.
of Police) concerned.
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy. Supdt.
of Police) concerned.
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy. Supdt.
of Police) concerned.
Commr. of Police
Commr. of Police
The Addl. Commr. of
Police (in the rank of S.P.) in respcct of orders passed by the
ACP (in the rank of D.S.P.).
The Spl. IGP or an Officer of equivalent/ higher
rank dealing with administrative matters in respect of orders
passed by Commr. of Police, Vijayawada.
(iii) Visakhapatnam City Police.
Page 157/168
----- PAGE 158 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy. Supdt.
of Police) concerned.
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy. Supdt.
of Police) concerned.
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy. Supdt.
of Police) concerned.
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy. Supdt.
of Police) concerned.
Commr. of Police
Commr. of Police
The Addl. Commr. of
Police (in the rank of S.P.) in respect of orders passed by the
ACP (in the rank of D.S.P.).
The Spl. IGP or an Officer of equivalent/higher
rank dealing with administrative matters in respect of orders
passed by Commr. of Police, Visakhapatnam.
3.(i) Asst. Reserve Sub-Inspts, Armed
Reserve.
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned
Addl. S.P. or D.S.P. concerned
DI.G. or and Officer equivalent/higher rank.
D.I.G. or an Officer equivalent/higher rank.
The S.P. concerned in respect of the orders
passed by the D.S.P. The DIG or an Officer of equivalent/higher
rank in respect of orders passed by the Addl. Supdt. of
Police/SP. The Spl. Inspr.  General or an Officer of
equivalent/higher rank dealing with administrative matters in
respect of orders passed by the Dy. Inspr.  General or an Officer of
equivalent/higher rank.
(ii) Hyderabad City Police
Addl. D.C.P. or Assistant Commissioner of Police
concerned.
Addl. D.C.P. or Assistant Commissioner of Police
concerned.
Addl. D.C.P. or Assistant Commissioner of Police
concerned.
Addl. D.C.P. or Assistant Commissioner of Police
concerned.
Commissioner of Police
Commissioner of Police
The D.C.P., H.Q.,
Hyd. in respect of the orders passed by the A.C.P.
The Dy.  General Police in respect of the orders
passed by the C.P., Hyderabad.
(iii) Vijayawada City Police
Page 158/168
----- PAGE 159 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy. Supdt.
of Police) concerned.
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy. Supdt.
of Police) concerned.
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy. Supdt.
of Police) concerned.
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy. Supdt.
of Police) concerned.
Commr. of Police.
Commr. of Police.
The Addl. Commr. of
Police (in the rank of S.P.) in respect of orders passed by the
ACP (in the rank of D.S.P.).
The Spl. IGP or an Officer of equivalent/ higher
rank dealing with administrative matters in respect of orders
passed by Commr. of Police, Vijayawada.
(v) Visakhapatnam City Police.
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy. Supdt.
of Police) concerned.
Dy. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Addl. Supdt.
of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy. Supdt.
of Police) concerned.
Dy. Cornmr. of Police (in the rank of Addl.
Supdt. of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy.
Supdt. of Police) concerned.
Dy. Cornmr. of Police (in the rank of Addl.
Supdt. of Police) or Asst. Commr. of Police (in the rank of Dy.
Supdt. of Police) concerned.
Commr. of Police.
Commr. of Police.
The Addl. Commr. of
Police (in the rank of S.P.) in respect of orders passed by the
ACP (in the rank of D.S.P.).
The Spl. IGP or an Officer of equivalent higher
rank dealing with administrative matters in respect of orders
passed by Commr. of Police, Visakhapatnam.
(v) Spl. Armed Reserve Central Police Lines
Asst. Comdt.
Asst. Comdt.
Asst. Comdt.
Asst. Comdt.
Sp. I.G.P. APSP, Bns.
Sp. I.G.P. APSP, Bns.
The Comdt. S.A.R., CPL, Amberpet in respect of
orders passed by the Asst. Comdt. The D.G.P. in respect of orders
passed by the Spl. I.G.P., APSP, Bns.
Page 159/168
----- PAGE 160 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
4. Head Constables :
(a) Mufussil :
(i) Districts.
Inspector of Police concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Inspector of Police concerned.
Supdt. of Police.
Supdt. of Police.
The D.S.P. concerned in respect of orders passed
by the Inspr. The D.I.G. or an Officer of equivalent/higher rank
in respect of orders passed by the S.P.
(ii) S.A.R., C.P.L.
Reserve Inspector of Police.
Reserve Inspector of Police.
Reserve Inspector of Police.
Reserve Inspector of Police.
Commandant
Commandant
The Asst. Comdt. SAR, C.P.L., in respect of
orders passed by the R.Is. The Special I.G.P., APSP, Bns, in
respect of orders passed by the Comdt.
(iii)[Police Training Colleges]
[Errata Issued vide G.O.Ms.No. 125, G.A.G., dated 1-4-1998]
.
Chief Law Inspr./C.D.I.
Chief Law Inspr./C.D.I.
Chief Law Inspr./C.D.I.
Chief Law Inspr./C.D.I.
Principle
Principle
The Vice-Principle P.T.C. in respect of orders
passed by the Chief Law Inspector/C.D.I. The D.I.G. (Training) in
respect of the orders passed by the Principle.
(b) (i) Intelligence Branch Hyderabad.
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Supdt. of Police Intelligence.
Supdt. of Police Intelligence.
The D.S.P. concerned in respect of orders passed
by the Inspr. The D.I.G. Int. in respect of orders passed by the
S.P. Intelligence.
(ii) Crime Branch C.I.D., Hyd.
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector
Inspector
S.P., C.I.D.
S.P., C.I.D.
Page 160/168
----- PAGE 161 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
The D.S.P. concerned in respect of orders passed
by the Inspr. The D.I.G., C.I.D. in respect of orders passed by
the S.P. C.I.D.
(iii)(a) S.C.R.B. Finger Print Bureau : ASIS
(including ASI, Photographers) :
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Director, SCRB or an Officer of equivalent,
higher rank.
Director, SCRB or an Officer of equivalent,
higher rank.
The Director Finger
Print Bureau in respect of orders passed by the Inspector.
The Director General of Police in respect of
orders passed by the Dir., SCRB or an Officer of
equivalent/higher rank.
(b) Police Computer
[Police Computer]
[Errata Issued vide G.O.Ms.No. 125, G.A.D., dated 1-4-1998]
[Inspector concerned]
[Errata Issued vide G.O.Ms.No. 125, G.A.D., dated 1-4-1998]
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Supdt. of Police Computers
[Supdt. of Police Computers]
[Errata Issued vide G.O.Ms.No. 125, G.A.D., dated 1-4-1998]
The S.P. Computers
in respect of orders passed by the Director.
The Dir. SCRB or an Officer of equivalent/higher
rank in respect of orders passed by the Supdt. of Police
Computers.
(iv) Vijayawada City Police
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned Addl. Commnr. of Police in
the rank of Supdt. of Police
Addl. Commnr. of Police in the rank of Supdt. of
Police
The A.C.P. (in the
rank of DSP) concerned in respect of orders passed by the
Inspector.
The Commr. of Police Vijayawada in respect of
orders passed by the Addl. Commr. of Police (in the rank of
Supdt. of Police).
(v) Hyderabad City Police
Do.
Do.
Page 161/168
----- PAGE 162 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Do.
Do.
Dy. Commr. of Police concerned.
Dy. Commr. of Police concerned.
The A.C.P. concerned
in respect of the orders passed by the Inspr.
The C.P., Hyd. in respect of orders passed by the
D.C.P.
(vi) Visakhapatnam City Police
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Addl. Commr. of Police in the rank of Supdt. of
Police
Addl. Commr. of Police in the rank of Supdt. of
Police
The A.C.P. (in the
rank of DSP) concerned in respect of orders passed by the
Inspector.
The Commissioner of Police, Visakhapatnam in
respect of orders passed by the Addl. Commr. of Police (in the
rank of Supdt. of Police)
5. Constables (including Women PCs) :
(a) Mofussil :
(i) District.
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Supdt. of Police.
Supdt. of Police.
The D.S.P. concerned
in respect of orders passed by the Inspr.
The D.I.G. or an Officer of equivalent/ higher
rank in respect of orders passed by the S.P.
(ii) S.A.R., C.P.L.
Reserve Inspector.
Reserve Inspector.
Reserve Inspector.
Reserve Inspector.
Commandant
Commandant
The Asst. Comdt. SAR, C.P.L., in respect of
orders passed by the R.I. The Special IGP., APSP in respect of
orders passed by the Comdt., SAR, CPL.
(iii) P.T.Cs.
Chief Law Inspr./C.D.I.
Chief Law Inspr./C.D.I.
Chief Law Inspr./C.D.I.
Chief Law Inspr./C.D.I.
Page 162/168
----- PAGE 163 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Principal
Principal
The Vice-Principal
in respect of orders passed by the Chief Law Inspector/C.D.I.
The Dy, Insp.  General Training in respect of the
orders passed by the Principle.
(b) (i) Intelligence Branch, Hyderabad.
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Supdt. of Police Intelligence.
Supdt. of Police Intelligence.
The D.S.P. concerned in respect of orders passed
by the Inspr. The D.I.G. Intelligence in respect of orders passed
by the S.P. Intelligence.
(ii) Crime Branch Hyderabad.
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
S.P., C.I.D.
S.P., C.I.D.
The D.S.P. concerned in respect of orders passed
by the Inspr. The DIG., CID., in respect of orders passed by the
S.P., C.I.D.
(iii) S.C.R.B., Police Computers.
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Supdt. of Police Computers Supdt. of Police
Computers
Supdt. of Police Computers Supdt. of Police
Computers
The S.P. Computers in respect of orders passed by
the Insp. The Dir., SCRB in respect of orders passed by the
Supdt. of Police Computers.
(v) Vijayawada City Police
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Addl. Commnr. of Police in the rank of Supdt. of
Police
Addl. Commnr. of Police in the rank of Supdt. of
Police
The A.C.P. (in the
rank of DSP) concerned in respect of orders passed by the
Inspector.
The Commr. of Police (in the rank of D.IG.)
Page 163/168
----- PAGE 164 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Vijayawada in respect of orders passed by the Addl. Commr. of
Police (in the rank of Supdt. of Police).
(vi) Visakhapatnam City Police
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Inspector concerned
Addl. Commnr. of Police in the rank of Supdt. of
Police
Addl. Commnr. of Police in the rank of Supdt. of
Police.
The A.C.P. (in the
rank of DSP) concerned in respect of orders passed by the
Inspector.
The Commr. of Police (in the rank of D.I.G.)
Visakhapatnam in respect of orders passed by the Addl. Commr. of
Police (in the rank of Supdt. of Police).
ANDHRA PRADESH POLICE RADIO BRANCH
(i) (a) Radio Supervisors S.I. (Technical)
Dy. Supdt. of Police Communications.
Dy. Supdt. of Police Communications.
Dy. Supdt. of Police Communications.
Dy. Supdt. of Police Communications.
Addl. Director Police Communications. or and
Officer of equivalent or higher rank.
Addl. Director Police Communications. or and
Officer of equivalent or higher rank.
The S.P. Communications in respect of orders
passed by the Dy. Superintendent of Police Communications and the
D.G.P., in respect of orders passed by the Director, Police
Communications or by an Officer of higher rank.
(b) Draftsman.
(ii) Radio Technical A.S.I. (Technical)
Dy. Supdt. of Police Communications.
Dy. Supdt. of Police Communications.
Dy. Supdt. of Police Communications.
Dy. Supdt. of Police Communications.
Addl. Director Police, Communications. or an
Officer of equivalent or higher rank.
Addl. Director Police, Communications. or an
Officer of equivalent or higher rank.
The S.P. Communications in respect of orders
passed by the Dy. Superintendent of Police Communications and the
D.G.P., in respect of orders passed by the Director, Police
Communications or by an Officer of higher rank.
(iii) (a) Grade-I
Operators (HO Operators)
(b) Painter(c)
Carpenter(d) Blacksmith(e) FitterElectrician
Inspector, Police Communications concerned.
Inspector, Police Communications concerned.
Page 164/168
----- PAGE 165 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Inspector, Police Communications concerned.
Inspector, Police Communications concerned.
Supdt., Police Communications Hyderabad.
Supdt., Police Communications Hyderabad.
The Dy. Supdt. Police Communications concerned in
respect of orders passed by the Inspector and the Addl. Director
or an Officedr of higher rank Police Commi. in respect of orders
passed by the Supdt. Police Communications, Hyderabad.
(iv) (a) Grade-II Operators. (PC Commns.)
Inspector, Police Communications concerned.
Inspector, Police Communications concerned.
Inspector, Police Communications concerned.
Inspector, Police Communications concerned.
Supdt., Police Communications Hyderabad.
Supdt., Police Communications Hyderabad.
The Dy. Supdt. Police, Communications concerned
in respect of orders passed by the Inspector and the Addl.
Director or an Officer of higher rank Police Commi. in respect of
orders pased by the Supdt. Police Communications Hyderabad.
POLICE TRANSPORT ORGANISATION
(i) Sub-Inspectors
Technical Assistant.
Technical Assistant.
Technical Assistant.
Technical Assistant.
Dir. P.T.O. or any Officer of equivalent or
higher rank holding rank charge of Police Transport Organisation.
Dir. P.T.O. or any Officer of equivalent or
higher rank holding rank charge of Police Transport Organisation.
Dir., Police Transport Organisation or any
Officer of equivalent or higher rank holding Charge of Police
Transport organisation in respect of orders passed by the
Technical Asst. and the Dir.  General of Police in respect of orders
passed by any Officer of Higher rank than the Director Police
Training Organisation holding charge of Police Transport
Organisation.
(ii) Head Constables
Inspector of Police
Inspector of Police
Inspector of Police
Inspector of Police
Director, PTO or any Officer of equivalent or
higher rank holding charge of Police Transport Organisation.
Director, PTO or any Officer of equivalent or
higher rank holding charge of Police Transport Organisation.
The Technical Asst. in respect of orders passed
by the Inspr. and the Dy.  General of Police in respect of orders
passed by the Director, PTO or an Officer or equivalent or higher
rank holding additional charge of Police Transport Organisation.
(iii) Police Constables
Do.
Page 165/168
----- PAGE 166 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
ANDHRA PRADESH SPECIAL ARMED POLICE SERVICE
(i) Reserve Sub-Inspectors
Addl. Comdt. or Assistant Commandant
Addl. Comdt. or Assistant Commandant
Addl. Comdt. or Assistant Commandant
Addl. Comdt. or Assistant Commandant
D.I.G. concerned.
D.I.G. concerned.
The Comdt. in respect of the orders passed by the
Asst. Comdt. DIG concerned in respect of orders passed by the
Commndt. and the Inspector  General of Police, APSP Bns., in respect
of orders passed by the Dy. Inspts.  General of Police, APSP
Battallions.
(ii) Assistant Reserve
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
(iii) Head Constables
Reserve Inspector
Reserve Inspector
Reserve Inspector
Reserve Inspector
Commandant
Commandant
The Asst. Comdts. in respect of the orders passed
by the R.I. and the D.I.G. of Police concerned in respect of the
orders passed by the Comdt.
(iv) Constables
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
GREY HOUNDS (SPECIAL SECURITY FORCE)
I. Asst. Assault Commanders (including Women Asst.
Assault Commanders) (S.Is./L.S.Is.)
Squadron Commanders (Addl. SP) or Assault
Commander (DSP) concerned.
Squadron Commanders (Addl. SP) or Assault
Page 166/168
----- PAGE 167 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
Commander (DSP) concerned.
Squadron Commanders (Addl. SP) or Assault
Commander (DSP) concerned.
Squadron Commanders (Addl. SP) or Assault
Commander (DSP) concerned.
Dy. Inspr.  General of Police or an Officer of
equivalent/higher rank.
Dy. Inspr.  General of Police or an Officer of
equivalent/higher rank.
The Group Commdnt. (SP) in respect of orders
passed by the Assault Commander and the Spl. IGP or an Officer of
equivalent/higher rank dealing with administrative matters in
respect of orders passed by the Dy. Inspr. Genl of Police.
II. Senior Commandos (Head Constables)
Dy. Assault Commander (Inspr./RI) concerned.
Dy. Assault Commander (Inspr./RI) concerned.
Dy. Assault Commander (Inspr./RI) concerned.
Dy. Assault Commander (Inspr./RI) concerned.
Group Commander (Supdt. of Police)
Group Commander (Supdt. of Police)
The Assault Commanders in respect of orders
passed by the Dy. Assault Commanders and the Dy. Inspector
General or an Officer of equivalent/higher rank in respect of
orders passed by the group Commanders.
III. Junior Commandos (Police Constables)
Dy. Assault Commander (Inspr./RI) concerned.
Dy. Assault Commander (Inspr./RI) concerned.
Dy. Assault Commander (Inspr./RI) concerned.
Dy. Assault Commander (Inspr./RI) concerned.
Group Commander (Suplt. of Police)
Group Commander (Suplt. of Police)
The Assault Commanders in respect of orders
passed by the Dy. Assault Commanders and the Dy. Inspector
General or an Officer of equivalent/higher rank in respect of
orders passed by the group Commanders.
RAILWAY POLICE
I. Sub-Inspector/Reserve Sub-Inspector.
Addl. Supdt. of Police or Dy. Supdt. of Police
concerned.
Addl. Supdt. of Police or Dy. Supdt. of Police
concerned.
Addl. Supdt. of Police or Dy. Supdt. of Police
concerned.
Addl. Supdt. of Police or Dy. Supdt. of Police
concerned.
DIG, Rlys. or an Officer of equivalent/higher
rank.
DIG, Rlys. or an Officer of equivalent/higher
rank.
[The Supdt.of Police Railways in respect of
orders passed by the Dy. Supdt. of Police]
Page 167/168
----- PAGE 168 -----
The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991
[Errata Issued vide G.O.Ms.No. 125, G.A.D., dated 1-4-1998]
.
II. Head Constables
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Supdt. of Police Railways.
Supdt. of Police Railways.
The Dy. Supdt. of Police concerned in respect of
orders passed by the  Inspector  and the Supdt. of Police in respect
of orders passed by the Dy. Supdt. of Police and DIG., Railway in
respect of orders passed by the Supdt. of Police, Railways.
III. Constables
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Inspector concerned.
Supdt. of Police Railways.
Supdt. of Police Railways.
The Dy. Supdt. of Police concerned in respect of
orders passed by the  Inspector  and the Supdt. of Police in respect
of orders passed by the Dy. Supdt. of police and DIG., Railways
in respect of orders passed by the Supdt. of Police, Railways.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 168/168