
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Advocates Welfare Fund and The Andhra Pradesh Clerks Welfare Fund Acts (Ame...
Andhra Pradesh Advocates Welfare Fund and The Andhra Pradesh
Clerks Welfare Fund Acts (Amendment) Act, 1992
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/53599551/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Advocates Welfare Fund and The Andhra Pradesh Clerks Welfare Fund Acts (Amendment) Act, 1992
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Advocates Welfare Fund and The Andhra Pradesh Clerks Welfare Fund Acts (Amendment) Act, 1992
Act 19 of 1992
Published on 30 September 1992
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 30 September 1992.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Welfare Fund Act, 1987 and the Andhra Pradesh Advocates'
Clerks' Welfare Fund Act, 1992.
Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-third Year of the Republic of India,
as follows:-
* Received the assent of the Governor od the 27th September, 1992. For statement objects and Reasons Please
Section the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, Extraordinary dated the 3rd Sept., 1992. Part-IV-A at Page 4.
1.
Short title.-
This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Welfare Fund and the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Clerks'
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Advocates Welfare Fund and The Andhra Pradesh Clerks Welfare Fund Acts (Ame...
Welfare Fund Acts (Amendment) Act, 1992.
2.
Amendment of Act 33 of 1987.-
In the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Welfare Fund. Act, 1987,-
(1)
after section 12, the following section shall be inserted, namely:-
12.
-A. Combined stamp for Advocates' Welfare Fund and Advocate' Clerks' Welfare Fund.- Notwithstanding anything
contained section 12, it shall be competent for the Government to priut or caused to be printed a combined stamp
superscribed in Telugu language as ?Nyaya Vadula Mariya Vari gumsthala Samkshema Nidhi for the Andhra Pradesh
Advocates Welfare Fund and for the Andhra Pradesh Advocates Clerks Welfare Fund constituted under the Andhra
Pradesh Advocates Clerks, Welfare Fund Act, 1992 (Act 13 of 1992) of the value of rupees eight out of which a sum of
rupees six shall be credited to the Andhra Pradesh Advocates, Welfare-Fund and rupees two shall be credited to the
Andhra Pradesh Advocates ?Clerks? Welfare Fund and where such combined stamp is affixed on the vakalat the
provisions of sub-section (2) of section 12 shall be deemed to have been complied with.
(2)
In Section 15, after sub-section (11) the following sub-section shall be inserted namely:-
"(12) Where on receipt of a complaint or otherwise the Committee has reason to believe that any advocate secured
admission as a member of the Fund by misrepresentation, fraud or under influence, it shall be competent for the
Committee to remove the name of such Advocate from the membership of the Fund:
Provided that no order under this sub-section shall be passed unless the person likely to be adversely affected has had
an opportunity os being heard"-
3.
Amendment of Act 13 of 1992.-
In the Andhra Pradesh Advocates Clerks, Welfare Fund Act, 1992,-
(1)
after section 12, the following sections shall be inserted, namely:
"12-A. Combined stamp for Advocates' Welfare Fund and Advocates' Clerks' Welfare Fund.- Notwithstanding anything
contained in section 12, it shall be competent for the Government to print or earned to be printed combined stamp
superscribed in Telugu language as "Nyayavadula Mariyu Vari "gumasthala Samkshema Nidhi, for the Andhra Pradesh
Advocate' Clerks, Welfare Fund and for the Andhra Pradesh Advocates Welfare Fund constituted under the Andhra
Pradesh Advocates, Welfare Fund Act, 1987 of the value of Act 33 of 1987 rupees eight out of which a sum of rupees
two shall be credited to the Andhra Pradesh Advocates, Clerks, Welfare Fund and rupees six shall be credited to the
Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Welfare Fund, and where such a combined stamp is affixed on the vakalat the provisions of
sub-section (2) of section 12 shall be deemed to have been, complied with."
(2)
in section 15, after sub-section (9), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:
"(10) Where on receipt of a complaint or otherwise the Committee has reason to believe that any Advocates' Clerk
secured admission as a member of the Fund by misrepresentation, fraud or undue influence, it shall be competent for
the Committee to remove the name of such Advocates' Clerk from the membership of the Fund;
Provided that no order under this sub-section shall be passed unless the person likely to be adversely affected has had
an opportunity of being heard."
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2