
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes) Regulation of Iss...
Andhra Pradesh (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward
Classes) Regulation of Issue of Community Certificates Act, 1993
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/54411854/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
84
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes) Regulation of Issue of Community
Certificates Act, 1993
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes) Regulation of Issue of Community
Certificates Act, 1993
Act 16 of 1993
Published on 28 January 1993
Commenced on 28 January 1993
[This is the version of this document from 28 January 1993.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes) Regulation of Issue of Community
Certificates Act, 1993
Act
No. 16 of 1993
The following Act of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly which was reserved by the Governor on the 28th
January, 1993 for the consideration and assent of the President, received the assent of the President on the 4th
September, 1993 and the said assent is hereby first published on the 8th September, 1993 in the A.P. Gazette Part IV-B
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes) Regulation of Iss...
(Extraordinary) for general information:-
An Act to consolidate the issue of Community Certificates relating to persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes and matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Whereas, it has been brought to the notice of the Government that candidates who seek employment in Government
Departments, Public Sector Undertakings and such other organisations and candidates seeking admission into
educational institutions, against the vacancies or, as the case may be, the seats reserved for the Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes are producing false community certificates and securing employment or seats,
as the case may be;
And whereas, by securing such employment or admission on the basis of false community certificates the benefits of
special provisions made for the advancement of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes in the
matter of public employment and educational opportunities are not reaching such Castes, Tribes and Classes;
And whereas, the Government have decided to curb effectively the evil practice of producing false community
certificates by devising a strict procedure for the issue of such certificates and prescribing deterrent punishment to those
who produce false community certificates;
Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-Third year of the Republic of
India, as follows:-
1.
Short title extent and commencement:
(1)
This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes) Regulation of
Issue of Community Certificates Act, 1993.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Andhra Pradesh.
(3)
It shall come into force on such date  [as the Government may, by notification, appoint.]
[w.e.f. 15-5-1997 (Vide G.O.Ms. No. 57, S.w W.(J), dated 8-5-1997).]
2.
Definitions:
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"backward classes" means any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens recognised by the Government
for purposes of Clause (4) of Article 15 of the Constitution of India;
(b)
"community certificate" means the certificate issued by the competent authority indicating therein the Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes and Backward Class, as the case may be, to which the person belongs;
(c)
"competent authority" means, any officer or authority authorised by the Government by notification to perform the
functions of the competent authority under this Act, for such area or for such purposes as may be specified in the
notification;
(d)
"educational institutions" means any School, Junior College, Degree College, College of Education, Polytechnic College,
Industrial Training Institute, College of Fine Arts and Architecture, College of Music and Dance, Engineering College,
Medical College, Ayurvedic College, Homeopathic College, Unani College, Dental College, College of Nursing, Nurses
Training School, Health Visitors Training School, Colleges under the control of Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University
and various colleges under the control of any University established by an Act of the State Legislature and such other
institutions imparting education as may be notified from time to time;
(e)
"Government" means the State Government of Andhra Pradesh;
(f)
"local authority" means in relation to local areas comprised within the jurisdiction of a Municipal Corporation, the
concerned Municipal Corporation and in relation to any other local area in the State, the concerned Municipal Council,
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes) Regulation of Iss...
Zilla Parishad, Mandal Parishad, Gram Panchayat or township having jurisdiction over such local area;
(g)
"notification" means, a notification published in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette and the word "notified" shall be construed
accordingly;
(h)
"prescribed" means, prescribed by rules made by the Government under this Act;
(i)
"scheduled castes and scheduled tribes" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in Clause (24) and
Clause (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution of India.
3.
Application for a Community Certificate:
(1)
Any person belonging to any of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes may in order to claim
the benefit of any reservation provided to such Castes, Tribes or Classes either for any public appointment or for
admission into any educational institution in the State or outside the State for the students of the State or any other
benefit under any special provisions made under Clause (4) of Article 15 of the Constitution of India or for the purpose of
contesting for elective post in any local authority or for elective posts in the Co-operative Institutions, make an
application in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed to the Competent Authority for the issue of a
Community Certificate.
(2)
Any person belonging to a Scheduled Tribe may, for the purpose of claiming any benefit or protection meant for
Scheduled Tribes under any notification, direction or regulation made under the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution of
India or under any Act, Rule, Regulation or Order for the time being in force in the Scheduled Areas, make an
application in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed to the Competent Authority for the issue of
Community Certificate.
Explanation: - For the purposes of this section and Section 13, "Scheduled Areas" means the areas as defined in
paragraph 6 to the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution.
4.
Community Certificate to be issued by Competent Authority:
(1)
The Competent Authority may, on an application made to it under Section 3, satisfy itself about the genuineness or
otherwise of the claim made therein and thereafter issue a Community Certificate within such period and in such form as
may be prescribed or reject the application for reasons to be recorded in writing. A certificate in regard to community
issued by any person, officer or authority other than the Competent Authority shall be invalid.
(2)
Before the issue or rejection of a certificate under sub-section (1) the Competent Authority shall follow such procedure
as may be prescribed.
5.
Cancellation of the false Community Certificate:
(1)
Where, before or after the commencement of this Act a person not belonging to any of the Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes has obtained a false Community Certificate to the effect that either himself or
his children belongs to such Castes, Tribes or Classes, the District Collector may either suo motu or on a written
complaint by any person, call for the record and enquire into the correctness of such certificate and if he is of the opinion
that the certificate was obtained fraudulently, he shall, by notification, cancel the certificate after giving the person
concerned an opportunity of making representation:
Provided that where an enquiry into the genuineness of a community certificate issued prior to the commencement of
this Act has commenced and is pending at such commencement, the record thereof shall be transferred by the
concerned authority to the District Collector and he shall continue the enquiry and conclude the same under this
sub-section.
(2)
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes) Regulation of Iss...
The powers of the nature referred to in sub-section (1) may also be exercised by the Government.
6.
Burden of proof:
Where an application is made to the Competent Authority under Section 3 for the issue of a Community Certificate in
respect of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes or in any enquiry conducted by the Competent
Authority or the authority empowered to cancel the Community Certificate or the Appellate Authority under this Act or in
any trial or offence under this Act, the burden of proving that he belongs to such Caste, Tribe or Class shall be on the
claimant.
7.
Appeal and review:
(1)
Any person aggrieved by an order passed under sub-section (1) of Section 4 by the Competent Authority rejecting an
application made to it under Section 3, may within thirty days from the date of receipt of such order, appeal to the District
Collector and the District Collector may after giving the appellant an opportunity of being heard either confirm the order
appealed against or set aside the said order and direct the Competent Authority to issue a Community Certificate.
(2)
Any person aggrieved by an order passed under Section 5, by the District Collector may, within thirty days from the date
of publication of such order in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, appeal to the Government and the Government may, after
giving the appellant an opportunity of being heard and subject to such rules as may be prescribed, confirm or set aside
the order appealed against.
(3)
The Government may, on an application received from any person aggrieved by an order passed by the Government
under sub-section (2) of Section 5, within thirty days of the publication of that order in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette,
review any such order if it was passed by them under any mistake, whether of fact or law or in ignorance of any material
fact.
(4)
Pending disposal of an appeal under sub-section (2) or review under sub-section (3), it shall be competent for the
Government to stay the operation of the order against which an appeal or review, as the case may' be, is filed.
8.
Power of revision by Government:
(1)
The Government may, at any time, either suo motu or on an application made to them within the prescribed period, call
for and examine the record, relating to any decision made or order passed by any person, officer or authority
subordinate to them for the purpose of satisfying themselves as to the legality, regularity or propriety of such decision or
order and if, in any case it appears to the Government that any such decision or order/should be modified, annulled,
reversed or remitted for reconsideration, they may pass orders accordingly:
Provided that the Government shall not pass any order prejudicial to any party unless such party has had an opportunity
of making a representation.
(2)
The Government may stay the execution of any such decision or order pending the exercise of their powers under
sub-section (1) in respect thereof.
9.
Competent Authority to exercise the powers of the Civil Courts:
- The competent authority shall, while holding an enquiry under this Act, have all the powers of a Civil Court while trying
a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908) in respect of the following matters, namely:-
(a)
summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath;
(b)
requiring the discovery and production of any document;
(c)
receiving evidence on affidavits;
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes) Regulation of Iss...
(d)
requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any Court or Office; and
(e)
issuing commissions for the examinations of witnesses or documents.
10.
Penalties:
- Whoever obtains a community certificate by,-
(a)
furnishing false information; or
(b)
filing a false statement; or
(c)
any other fraudulent means;
shall, on conviction, be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six months but
which may extend upto two years and with fine which shall not be less than one thousand rupees but which may extend
upto five thousand rupees:
Provided that the Court may, for adequate and special reasons to be mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of
imprisonment for a lesser term or fine.
11.
Benefits secured on the basis of false Community Certificate to be withdrawn:
(1)
Whoever not being a person belonging to any of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes secures
admission in any educational institution against a seat reserved for such Castes, Tribes or Classes or secures any
appointment in the Government, local authority or in any other company or corporation owned or controlled by the
Government or in any aided institution against post reserved for such Castes, Tribes or Classes or enjoys any other
benefit intended exclusively for such Castes, Tribes or Classes, by producing a false community certificate shall, on
cancellation of the false community certificate, be liable to be debarred from the concerned educational institution or as
the case may be, discharged from the said service forthwith and any other benefit enjoyed by him as aforesaid shall be
withdrawn forthwith.
(2)
Any amount paid to such person by the Government or any other agency by way of scholarship, grant, allowance or
other financial benefit shall be recovered as an arrear of land revenue.
(3)
Any degree, diploma or any other educational qualification acquired by such person after securing admission in any
educational institution on the basis of a false community certificate shall also stand cancelled on cancellation of the
community certificate obtained by him.
(4)
Whoever not being a person belonging to any of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes secures
any benefit reserved for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes other than those mentioned in
Section 12 by producing a false community certificate shall on conviction be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a
term which shall not be less than six months but which may extend upto two years and with fine which shall not be less
than one thousand rupees but which may extend upto five thousand rupees:
Provided that the Court may, for adequate and special reasons to be mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of
imprisonment for a lesser term or fine.
12.
Penalty for securing on appointment of election to political offices etc., on the basis of false community certificates:
(1)
Whoever not being a person belonging to any of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Backward Classes secures
an appointment in Government or other institutions referred to in Section 11 against the posts reserved for the
Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Backward Classes or is elected to any of the elective offices of any local authority
or cooperative society against the offices reserved for such Castes, Tribes or Classes on the basis of a false community
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes) Regulation of Iss...
certificate, shall on conviction be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six
months but which may extend upto two years and with fine which shall not be less than one thousand rupees but which
may extend upto five thousand rupees:
Provided that the Court may, for adequate and special reasons to be mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of
imprisonment for a lesser term or fine.
(2)
Whoever not being a person belonging to a Scheduled Tribe secures any benefit or protection intended for a member of
a Scheduled Tribe under a notification; direction or regulation made under the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution of h is
or under any other law in force in the Scheduled Areas on the basis of a false community certificate shall, on conviction
be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six months but which may extend upto
two years and with fine which shall not be less than one thousand rupees but which may extend upto five thousand
rupees.
13.
Penalty for issuing a false Community Certificate:
(1)
Any person or authority performing the functions of competent authority under this Act, who intentionally issues a false
community certificate, shall on conviction, be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less
than six months but which may extend upto two years and also with fine which shall not be less than one thousand
rupees but which may extend upto five thousand rupees:
Provided that the Court may, for adequate and special reasons to be mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of
imprisonment for a lesser term or fine.
(2)
No Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under this section except with the previous sanction of the
Government.
14.
Penalty for abettors:
- Whoever abets any offence punishable under this Act shall be punished with the punishment provided for in this Act for
such offence.
15.
Offences to be tried summarily:
- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act II of 1974), any offence
punishable under Sections 10,11 and 12 of this Act may be tried summarily by a Magistrate of the First Class.
16.
Offences under the Act to be cognizable:
- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act II of 1974), all offences
under this Act, shall be cognizable and non-bailable.
17.
Bar of Jurisdiction of Civil Courts:
- No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction in respect of any order passed by any officer or authority under this Act and no
stay or injunction shall be granted by a Court in respect of any action taken or to be taken by such officer or authority
under this Act in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act.
18.
Protection of acts done in good faith:
- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any person for anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or the Rules made thereunder.
19.
Act to override other laws:
- The provisions of this Act shall have effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law
for the time-being in force.
20.
Power to make rules:
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes) Regulation of Iss...
- The Government may by notification make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes of this Act.
(2)
Every rule made under this Act shall immediately after it is made be laid before the legislative Assembly of the State, if it
is in session and if it is not in session, in the session immediately following for a total period of fourteen days which may
be comprised in one session or in two successive sessions, and if, before the expiration of the session in which it is so
laid or the session immediately following, the Legislative Assembly agrees in making any modification in the rule or in
the annulment of the rule, the rule shall, from the date on which the modification or annulment is notified, have effect
only in such modified form or shall stand annulled, as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.
21.
Transitional Provisions:
- A community certificate issued by any authority competent to issue the same under the relevant rules or orders before
the commencement of this Act, shall, unless it is cancelled under the provisions of this Act, be valid and shall be
deemed to have been issued under the provisions of this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7