
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Gradation of Municipal Councils and Nagar Panchayats) Rules...
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Gradation of Municipal Councils and
Nagar Panchayats) Rules, 1994
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/3661816/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Gradation of Municipal Councils and Nagar Panchayats) Rules, 1994
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Gradation of Municipal Councils and Nagar Panchayats) Rules, 1994
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-MUNICIPALITIES-GRADATION-OF-MUNICIPAL-COUNCILS-AND-NAGAR-PANCHAYATS-RUL
ES-1994 of 1994
Published on 1 January 1994
Commenced on 1 January 1994
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1994.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Gradation of Municipal Councils and Nagar Panchayats) Rules, 1994
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 326 read with clause (22) of Section 2 of the Andhra
Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 (Act No.6 of 1965) and in supersession of previous orders issued on the subject, the
Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following rules for gradation of Municipal Councils and Nagar
Panchayats in the State.
1.
Short title.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Gradation of Municipal Councils and Nagar Panchayats) Rules...
- These rules may be called "The Andhra Pradesh Municipalities (Gradation of Municipal Councils and Nagar
Panchayats) Rules, 1995.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules-
(i)
"Act" means, the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965;
(ii)
"Government" means the Government of Andhra Pradesh;
(iii)
"Annual Income of the Municipality" means, the amount realised through all sources during the last financial year except
teaching grants and loans;
(iv)
The words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Andhra
Pradesh Municipality Act, 1965.
3.
The Government, from time to time, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, may, declare the grades of
Municipalities and Nagar Panchayats on the basis of annual income prescribed below :
(i)
"Nagar Panchayat" means a Nagar Panchayat with an annual income of rupees one crore or less than one crore;
(ii)
"Third Grade Municipality" means a Municipality with an annual income of rupees more than one crores and less than
two crores;
(iii)
"Second Grade Municipality" means a Municipality with an annual income of rupees more than two crores and less than
four crores;
(iv)
"First Grade Municipality" means a Municipality with an annual income of rupees more than four crores and less than six
crores;
(v)
"Special Grade Municipality" means a Municipality with an annual income of rupees more than six crores and less than
eight crores;
(vi)
"Selection Grade Municipality" means a Municipality with an annual income of rupees eight crores and above :
Provided that the Municipalities located at the District Headquarters shall normally be classified as not lower than First
Grade Municipality irrespective of its annual income.
4.
Notwithstanding anything contained in Rule 3 it shall be competent for the Government to declare by Notification any
Municipality, as of any Grade irrespective of its Annual Income for reasons to be recorded in writing.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2