
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Prohibition Of Ragging Act, 1997
Andhra Pradesh Prohibition Of Ragging Act, 1997
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/73494258/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
6
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Prohibition Of Ragging Act, 1997
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Prohibition Of Ragging Act, 1997
Act 26 of 1997
Published in Gazette 26 on 21 August 1997
Assented to on 21 August 1997
Commenced on 21 August 1997
[This is the version of this document from 21 August 1997.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Prohibition Of Ragging Act, 1997
[21st August, 1997]
[Act No. 26 of 1997]
An Act to Prohibit Ragging in Educational Institutions in the State of Andhra Pradesh.
Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-eighth Year of the Republic of
India, as follows :?
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.?
(1)
This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Prohibition of Ragging Act, 1997.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Prohibition Of Ragging Act, 1997
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Andhra Pradesh.
(3)
It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from 4th July, 1997.
2.
Definitions.?
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires :?
(a)
?Act? includes words either spoken or written or signs or sounds or gestures or visible representations;
(b)
?Educational Institution? means and includes a college, or other institution by whatever name called, carrying on the
activity or imparting education therein (either exclusively or among other activities); and includes an orphanage or
boarding home or hostel or a tutorial institution or any other premises attached thereto;
(c)
?Government? means the State Government of Andhra Pradesh;
(d)
?Notification? means the notification published in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette and the word ?notified? shall be
construed accordingly;
(e)
?Ragging? means doing an act which causes or is likely to cause insult or annoyance of fear or apprehension or threat
or intimidation or outrage of modesty or injury to a student;
(f)
?Student? means a person who is admitted to an educational institution and whose name is lawfully borne on the
attendance register thereof;
(g)
All words and expressions used but not defined in this Act shall have the meanings assigned to them under the Andhra
Pradesh Education Act, 1982 (A.P. Act 1 of 1982) or the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (Central Act 45 of 1860) respectively.
3.
Prohibition of Ragging.?
Ragging within or outside any educational institution is prohibited.
4.
Penalty for Ragging.?
Whoever, with the intention of causing ragging or with the knowledge that he is likely by such act to cause ragging,
commits or abets ragging and thereby,?
(i)
teases or embarrasses or humiliates a student shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or with both; or
(ii)
assaults or uses criminal force to or criminally intimidates a student shall be punished with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to one year or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees or with both; or
(iii)
wrongfully restrains or wrongfully confines or causes hurt to a student shall be punished with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to two years or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees or with both; or
(iv)
causes grievous hurt to or kidnaps or abducts or rapes or commits unnatural offence with a student shall be punished
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees; or
(v)
causes death or abets suicide shall be punished with imprisonment for life or with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to ten years and with a fine which may extend to fifty thousand rupees.
5.
Dismissal of student.?
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Prohibition Of Ragging Act, 1997
(1)
A student convicted of an offence under section 4 and punished with imprisonment for a term shall be dismissed from
the educational institution.
(2)
A student convicted of an offence under section 4 and punished with imprisonment for a term of more than six months
shall not be admitted in any other educational institution.
6.
Suspension of student.?
(1)
Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions, whenever any student complains of ragging to the head or manager of an
educational institution, such head or manager shall inquire into or cause an inquiry to be made into the same forthwith
and if the complaint is prima facie found true, shall suspend the student or students complained against for such period
as may be deemed necessary.
(2)
The decision of the head or manager of the educational institution under sub-section (1) shall be final.
7.
Abetment.?
(1)
If the head or the manager of an educational institution fails or neglects to take action in the manner specified in
sub-section (1) of section 6, such person shall be deemed to have abetted the offence and shall be punished with the
punishment provided for the offence.
(2)
If a student commits suicide due to or in consequence of ragging, the person who commits such ragging shall be
deemed to have abetted such suicide.
8.
Other laws not affected.?
The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not derogatory of any law for the time being in force.
9.
Power to make rules.?
(1)
The Government may by notification, make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes of this Act.
(2)
Every rule made under this Act shall immediately after it is made, be laid before the Legislative Assembly of the State, if
it is in session and if it is not in session, in the session immediately following for a total period of fourteen days which
may be comprised in one session or in two successive sessions, and if, before the expiration of the session in which it is
so laid or the session immediately following the Legislative Assembly agrees in making any modification in the rule or in
the annulment of the rule, the rule shall, from the date on which the modification or annulment is notified, have effect
only in such modified form or shall stand annulled as the case may be so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.
10.
Repeal of Ordinance 12 of 1997.?
The Andhra Pradesh Prohibition of Ordinance Ragging, 1997 is hereby repealed.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3