
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/194280169/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1092
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Act 13 of 1994
Published on 22 December 1998
Commenced on 22 December 1998
[This is the version of this document from 22 December 1998.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(Andhra Pradesh Act
No. 13 of 1994
)
Last Updated 26th October, 2019
Statement of Objects and Reasons. - In the recent past, incidents have been reported that certain stray dogs have
become furious and attacking the animals and human beings especially children and injuring them. There was one
gruesome incident where a group of dogs attacked and killed a 6 years old girl in Guntur District. Section 92 of the
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 empowers the District Magistrate to order destroying of stray pigs or dogs.
However the Animal Birth Control (Dogs) Rules, 2001 issued under the provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals Act, 1960 provide certain provisions to deal with this kind of furious and attacking dogs.
Page 1/149
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
To prevent the infliction of unnecessary pain or suffering on animals especially dogs or pigs it is proposed to delegate
the power of the District Collector to Gram Panchayat to control and administer furious stray dogs or pigs.
Therefore, the Government have decided to suitable amendment to the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 to
delegate the powers of the District Collector a respect of control and administer stray dogs or pigs to the Gram
Panchayats.
This Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.
Received the assent of the Governor on the 4th January, 2018 and the said assent is hereby first published on the 9th
January, 2018 in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette for general information:
Statement of Objects and Reasons - (Act No. 33 of 1998). - Under Article 243 K of the Constitution of India read with
sub-section (1) of Section 200 of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 (Act
No. 13 of 1994
), State Election Commission has been constituted for the superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of
electroral rolls for, and the conduct of elections to all the Panchayat Raj Institutions governed by this Act.
The Government of India, Ministry of Law & Justice have stated that the Chief Election Commissioner of India has
brought to their notice that the State Election Commissions every where as only called as ti t e Election Commission
which results in confusion amongst public and even in the press regarding the role and position of various State Election
Commission and the Election Commission of India. They have, therefore, advised to change the nomenclature of State
Election Commissions to avoid confusion between the two Election Commissions, one at national level and others at
State level. Accordingly, the Government have decided to change the nomenclature of the State Election Commission
and the State Election Commissioner as "Andhra Pradesh Election Commission for Local Bodies" and Andhra Pradesh
Election Commissioner for Local Bodies respectively by amending the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
suitably.
Further It is noticed that in some Gram Panchayats, the Ex-Sarpanches (Persons-in-Charge) have not handed over the
records of the Gram Panchayats to the newly elected Sarpanches in the Elections held during June, 1995. There is no
specific provision in the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 to lake necessary action against those who have not
handed over the records to the newly elected Sarpanches as in Section 221 of the repealed Andhra Pradesh Gram
Panchayats Act, 1964 which-empowered the Government to take action against the concerned ex-Sarpanches who
have not handed over the charge and records of the Gram Panchayats to the newly elected Sarpanches.
It has also been decided that they should handover the documents, moneys or other properties within a period of thirty
days and on failure to do so, they shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend upto six months or with fine
not exceeding two hundred and fifty rupees or with both for every such offence.
Accordingly, it has been decided to amend the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 suitably by inserting a new
Section 271-A after Section 271 on the lines of Section 221 of the repealed Andhra Pradesh Gram Panchayats Act
1964.
The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives.
Statement of Objects and Reasons - (Act No. 7 of 2000). - Article 334 of Constitution of India providing for reservation of
seats to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Anglo Indian Community in the House of people and in the
legislative Assemblies of the States ceases to have effect from 26th January, 2000 and under Article 243-D of the
Constitution, the reservation of seats to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the Panchayat Raj Institutions
shall cease to have effect on the expiration of the period specified in Article 334. Section 203 of the Andhra Pradesh
Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 accordingly provided for such reservations to cease after 25th January, 2000.
However, the Government of India have introduced a Constitution (Amendment) Bill in the Parliament for extending the
reservations for a further period of ten years. To bring the reservations for Scheduled Tribes in the Panchayat Raj
Institutions in the State, in conformity with the provisions of the Constitution, as amended from time to time, it has been
decided to amend Section 203 of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 to continue the reservations so long as
they are provided by Article 334 of the Constitution.
This Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision.
Appended to L.A.Bill No. 16 of 1999.
Statement of Objects and Reasons - (Act No. 8 of 2000). - Section 245 of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994,
provides for motion of no confidence in Upa-Sarpanch, President or Vice-President or Chair-Person or the Vice-Chair
persons of the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad] or [Zilla Praja Parishad], as the case may be, and the motion
Page 2/149
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
shall be carried with the support of not less than two-thirds of the total number oi members. According to the explanation
to Rule 6 of the Rules issued thereunder while determining two-thirds of the total number of members, any fraction
below 0.5 and above shall be taken as one.
The later part of the explanation that any fraction of more than 0.5 should be considered as one, is quite valid as it
ensures the minimum statutory requirements of two-thirds majority and the previous part of the explanation that any
fraction below 0.5 should be ignored, is considered violative of Section 245 (2) of the Act. This is creating legal
complications and unnecessary litigation's. In order to put the matter beyond any doubt, it has been decided to suitably
amend Section 245 (2) of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act with retrospective effect from 28-4-98.
As the Legislative Assembly of the State was not then in session and it has been decided to give effect to the above
decision immediately, the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2000 (A.P. Ordinance 5 of
2000) has been promulgated by the Governor on the 5th February, 2000.
This Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.
Appended to L.A.Bill 4 of 2000.
Statement of Objects and Reasons - (26 of 2000). - Section 2 of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
contemplates two qualifying dates, namely 1st January and 1st July of the year for preparation and publication of the
electoral rolls resulting in not only additional work but huge expenditure to the State Exchequer. In order to adopt the
Assembly Electoral Roll without any further exercise like draft publication and final publication, it is proposed to amend
the qualifying date as first January of the year for the purpose of Panchayat Raj Elections.
A person convicted for an election offence punishable under Chapter II of Part V of the Act shall be disqualified from
being elected at any election held under the Act for a period of six years from the date of conviction. It is felt that persons
who are convicted of any offence punishable under Chapter IX A of the IPC, persons who are guilty of corrupt practices
and those who fail to file the account of election expenses should also be brought within the purview of disqualifications.
It is, therefore, proposed that disqualification should be for contesting in the election.
It is also proposed to use Electronic Voting Machines in the Panchayat Raj Elections.
To conduct fair elections to local bodies requires the candidates to keep their expenses within the ceiling limit, maintain
proper accounts of expenditure and also to file an account of election expenses. The model Code of conduct is
non-statutory in nature and is not capable of being enforced. Therefore, it is proposed that provisions similar to those
contained in Representation of People Act, 1951 relating to maintenance of account of election expenses and also for
the lodging of account of election expenses with the District Election Authority should also be included in the Andhra
Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 in order to enforce the ceiling on election expenditure as otherwise it will not be
possible to control money power in Panchayat Raj Elections.
As the Legislate Assembly of the State was not then in session having been prorogued, and it has been felt necessary
to give effect to the above decision, immediately, the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Third Amendment) Ordinance,
2000 (A. P. Ordinance 9 of 2000) was promulgated by the Governor on the 31st July, 2000.
Appended L.A. Bill No. 30 of 2000.
This Act of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly which was reserved by the Governor on the 15th April, 1994 for
the consideration and assent of the President of India, received the assent of the President on the 21st April, 1994 and
first published in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, Part IV-B, Extraordinary No. 13, on April 22, 1994.
An Act to provide for the constitution of Gram Panchayats, [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-fifth Year of Republic of India as
follows:
Part I ? Preliminary
1.
Short title, extent, [application]
[Inserted by Act No. 7 of 1998.]
and commencement.
(1)
Page 3/149
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Andhra Pradesh, except-
(a)
the Municipal Corporations governed by any law relating to Municipal Corporations for the time being in force in the
State;
(b)
the Municipalities governed by the law relating to municipalities for the time being in force in the State;
(c)
a Notified Area declared under Section 389-A of the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 (Act
6 of 1965
);
(d)
the mining settlements governed by the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Mining Settlements Act, 1956 (Act XLIV of
1956); and
(e)
the cantonments governed by the Cantonments Act, 1924 (Central Act 2 of 1924).
(2A)
[ In their application to the Scheduled Areas in the State as referred to in clause (1) of article 244 of the Constitution of
India, the remaining provisions of this Act shall apply subject to the provisions of Part VIA of this Act.]
[Inserted by Act No. 7 of 1998.]
(3)
It shall come into force on such date and in such area as the Government may, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh
Gazette, appoint and they may appoint different dates for different areas and for different provisions.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(1)
'Andhra Area' means the territories of the State of Andhra Pradesh other than the Telangana area;
(2)
'Backward Classes' mean any socially and educationally Backward Classes of citizens recognised by the Government
for purpose of clause (4) of Article 15 of the Constitution of India;
[* * *]
[Omitted by Section 2 of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
(3)
'building' includes a house, out-house, shop, stable, latrine, shed (other than a cattle shed in an agricultural land), hut,
wall and any other such structure whether of masonry, bricks, wood, mud, metal or other material whatsoever;
(4)
'casual vacancy' means a vacancy occurring otherwise than by efflux of time, and 'casual election' means an election
held to fill a casual vacancy;
(5)
['Chairperson']
[The words Chairman and Vice-Chairman substituted with Chairperson and Vice Chairperson by Section 7(i) and (ii) of
Act. No. 37 of 2001.]
means the Chairperson of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
elected under Section 181;
(6)
'Chief [Executive Authority]
[The words executive officer substituted with the words Executive Authority through out the principal Act by Section 12 of
Act No. 22 of 2002.]
Page 4/149
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
' means the Chief Executive Authority of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
appointed under Section 186;
(7)
'Collector' means any officer incharge of a Revenue Division and includes a Deputy Collector, a Sub-Collector and an
Assistant Collector;
(8)
'Commissioner' means any officer who is authorised by the Government to exercise any of the powers or discharge any
of the duties of the Commissioner under this Act;
(9)
'Company' means a Company as defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act 1 of 1956) and includes a foreign
company within the meaning of Section 591 of that Act;
(10)
'District Munsif' means the District Munsif appointed under the Andhra Pradesh Civil Courts Act, 1972 (Act 19 of 1971);
(11)
'election authority' means such authority not being a member or office bearer of any local authority as may, by
notification, be appointed by the Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies;
(12)
[ 'executive authority' means the Panchayat Secretary appointed to each Gram Panchayat.]
[Substituted by Section 2(1) of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
(13)
[***]
[Omitted by Section 2(2) of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
(14)
'factory' means a factory as defined in the Factories Act, 1948 (Central Act 63 of 1948) and includes any premises
including the precincts thereof, wherein any industrial, manufacturing or trade process is carried on with the aid of
steam, water, oil, gas, electrical or any other form of power which is mechanically transmitted and is not generated by
human or animal agency;
(15)
'Finance Commission' means the Finance Commission constituted by the Governor under Section 235;
(16)
'Government' means the State Government;
(17)
'Gram Panchayat' means the body constituted for the local administration of a village under the Act;
(18)
'Gram Sabha' means the Gram Sabha which comes into existence under Section 6;
(19)
'house' means a building or a hut fit for human occupation, whether as a residence or otherwise and includes any shop,
factory, workshop or warehouse or any building used for garaging or parking buses or as a bus-stand, cattle shed (other
than a cattle shed in an agricultural land, poultry shed or dairy shed);
(20)
'hut' means any building which is constructed, principally of wood, mud, leaves, grass, or thatch and includes any
temporary structure of whatever size or any small building of whatever material made, which the Gram Panchayat may
declare to be a hut for the purposes of this Act;
(21)
'latrine' includes privy, water closet and urinal;
(22)
'Mandal' means such area in a district as may be declared by the Government by notification to be a Mandal under
Section 3 of the Andhra Pradesh District (Formation) Act, 1974 (Act
7 of 1974
);
Page 5/149
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(23)
'[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
' means, a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
constituted or reconstituted under Section 148;
(24)
'[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer' means, the officer appointed by that designation under Section 168;
(25)
'notification' means a notification published in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette and the word 'notified' shall be construed
accordingly;
(26)
'nuisance' includes any act, omission, place or thing which causes or is likely to cause injury, danger, annoyance or
offence to the sense of sight, smell or hearing or disturbance to rest or sleep or which is or may be dangerous to life, or
injurious to health or property;
(27)
'ordinary vacancy' means a vacancy occurring by efflux of time and 'ordinary election' means an election held to fill an
ordinary vacancy;
(28)
'owner' includes -
(a)
the person for the time being receiving or entitled to receive whether on his own account or as agent, trustee, guardian,
manager or receiver for another person or for any religious or charitable purpose, the rent or profits of the property in
connection with which the word is used; and
(b)
the person for the time being in charge of the animal or vehicle in connection with which the word is used;
[(28-A) 'Panchayat Secretary' means the "Panchayat Secretary" appointed under Section 30;]
[Inserted by Section 2(3) of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
(29)
'population' or 'population at the last census' means the population as ascertained at the last preceding census of which
the relevant figures have been published;
(30)
'prescribed' means prescribed by the Government by rules made under this Act;
(31)
'President' means the President of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
elected under Section 153;
(32)
'private road' means any street, road, square, court, alley, passage or riding path which is not a 'public road', but does
not include a pathway made by the owner of premises on his own land to secure access to, or the convenient use of
such premises;
(33)
'public road' means any street, road, square, court, alley, passage or riding path, over which the public have a right of
way whether a thoroughfare or not, and includes -
(a)
the roadway over any public bridge or cause-way;
(b)
the footway attached to any such road, public bridge or cause-way; and
(c)
Page 6/149
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
the drains attached to any such road, public bridge or cause-way, and the land, whether covered or not by any
pavement, verandah or other structure, which lies on either side of the roadway upto the boundaries of the adjacent
property, whether that property is private property or property belonging to Government;
(34)
[ 'qualifying date' in relation to the preparation and publication of every electoral roll under this Act, means the first day of
January of the year in which it is so prepared and published.]
[Substituted by Section 2 of Act No. 26 of 2000.]
[(34-A) "Recognised Political Party" and "Registered Political party" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to
them in the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968, issued by the Election Commission of India
under Article 324 of the Constitution of India and in the Registration of Political Parties and Allotment of Symbols Order,
2001, issued by the . -  under Article 243-K of the Constitution of India.]
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
(35)
'registered voter' in the '[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
' or 'registered voter in the district' means a person whose name appears in the electoral roll prepared and published
under Section 11 for any Gram Panchayat or Gram Panchayats comprised in the Mandal or as the case may be, in the
District;
(36)
'residence', 'reside' - A person is deemed to have his 'residence' or to 'reside' in any house if he sometimes uses any
portion thereof as a sleeping apartment, and a person is not deemed to cease to reside in any such house merely
because he is absent from it or has elsewhere another dwelling in which he resides, if he is at liberty to return to such
house at any time and has not abandoned his intention of returning;
(37)
'Sarpanch' means the Sarpanch of a Gram Panchayat elected under Section 14;
(38)
'Scheduled Castes' and 'Scheduled Tribes' shall have the meaning respectively assigned to them in clause (24) and
clause (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution of India;
(39)
'Andhra Pradesh Election Commission for Local Bodies' means the Andhra Pradesh Election Commission for Local
Bodies constituted under Section 200;
(40)
['Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies']
[Substituted by Section 2 of Andhra Pradesh Act No. 33 of 1998.]
means [Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies]
[Substituted by Section 2 of Andhra Pradesh Act No. 33 of 1998.]
appointed by the Governor under sub-Section (2) of Section 200;
(41)
'Telangana Area' means the territories specified in sub-Section (1) of Section 3 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956
(Central Act 37 of 1956);
(42)
'village' means any local area which is declared to be a village under this Act;
(43)
'water-course' includes, any river, stream or channel, whether natural or artificial;
(44)
'year' means the financial year;
(45)
'[Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
' means a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Page 7/149
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
constituted under Section 177.
Part II ? Gram Panchayat
Chapter I
Constitution, Administration and Control of Gram Panchayats
3.
Declaration of a village for the purposes of this Act.
(1)
The [Government]
[Substituted by Section 3(1)(i) of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
may, by notification and in accordance with the rules made [***]
[Omitted by Section 3(1)(ii) of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
in this behalf, declare any revenue village or hamlet thereof or any part of a mandal to be a village for the purpose of this
Act and specify the name of the village.
Explanation. -  For the purposes of this sub-Section the expressions 'mandal' and 'revenue village' shall mean
respectively any local area which is recognised as a mandal or village in the revenue accounts of Government after
excluding therefrom the area, if any, included in -
(a)
a municipal corporation governed by the relevant law relating to Municipal Corporations for the time being in force in the
State;
(b)
a municipality governed by the law relating to Municipalities for the time being in force in the State;
(c)
a mining settlement governed by the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Mining Settlements Act, 1956;
(d)
a cantonment governed by the Cantonments Act, 1924.
(2)
The [Government]
[Substituted by Section 3(2)(a) of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
may, by notification and in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed in this behalf -
(a)
form a new village by separation of local area from any village or by uniting two or more villages or parts of villages or by
uniting any local area to a part of any village:
[Provided that the Government shall take into consideration the financial viability of the Gram Panchayat, to be newly
created before bifurcation of the said Gram Panchayat, for the purpose of providing a Panchayat Secretary.]
[Added by Section 3(2)(b) of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
(b)
increase the local area of any village;
(c)
diminish the local area of any village;
(d)
alter the boundaries of any village;
(e)
alter the name of any village;
(f)
cancel a notification issued under sub-Section (1).
(3)
The [Government]
[Substituted by Section 3(3) of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
may pass such orders as it may deem fit -
(a)
as to the disposal of the property vested in a Gram Panchayat which has ceased to exist, and the discharge of its
Page 8/149
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
liabilities; and
(b)
as to the disposal of any part of the property vested in a Gram Panchayat which has ceased to exercise jurisdiction over
any local area, and the discharge of the liabilities of the Gram Panchayat relating to such property or arising from such
local area.
An order made under this sub-Section may contain such supplemental, incidental and consequential provisions as the
Commissioner may deem necessary, and in particular may direct -
(i)
that any tax, fee or other sum due to the Gram Panchayat or where a Gram Panchayat has ceased to exercise
jurisdiction over any local area, such tax, fee, or other sum due to the Gram Panchayat as relates to that area, shall be
payable to such authorities as may be specified in the order;and
(ii)
that appeals, petitions, or other applications with reference to any such tax, fee or sum which are pending on the date on
which the Gram Panchayat ceased to exist or, as the case may be, on the date on which the Gram Panchayat ceased to
exercise jurisdiction over the local area, shall be disposed of by such authorities as may be specified in the order.
4.
Constitution of Gram Panchayats for villages and their incorporation.
(1)
A Gram Panchayat shall be deemed to have been constituted for a village on the date of publication of the notification
under Section 3 in respect of that village and the Special Officer appointed under sub-Section (1) of Section 143 shall
make arrangements for the election of the members and of the Sarpanch of the Gram Panchayat as provided in that
Section.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the administration of the village shall vest in the Gram Panchayat, but the Gram
Panchayat shall not be entitled to exercise functions expressly assigned by or under this Act or any other law to its
Sarpanch or executive authority, or to any other local authority or other authority.
(3)
Every Gram Panchayat shall be a body corporate by the name of the village specified in the notification issued under
Section 3, shall have perpetual succession and a common seal, and subject to any restriction or qualification imposed
by or under this Act or any other law, shall be vested with the capacity of suing or being sued in its corporate name, of
acquiring, holding and transferring property, of entering into contracts, and of doing all things necessary, proper or
expedient for the purposes for which it is constituted.
5.
Township.
(1)
The Government may declare, by a notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, a village or any other area to be a
township if it is an industrial or institutional colony, a labour colony, a project area, a health resort or a place of religious
importance.
(2)
If the area declared as township under sub-Section (1) comprises a village or forms part of a village, the Commissioner
shall, under sub-Section (2) of Section 3, cancel the notification issued under sub-Section (1) of that Section in respect
of such village, or as the case may be, exclude such part from the village.
(3)
In regard to any area other than a place of religious importance declared to be a township, the Government shall, by
notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, constitute a township committee, which shall consist of a Chairperson to be
nominated by the Government and the following official and non-official members, namely:-
A. Official Members
(i)
in regard to a township constituted for an industrial or institutional colony, labour colony, project area or health resort, the
highest official representing the industry, institution, project or health resort concerned;
(ii)
Page 9/149
----- PAGE 10 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
the Chief Executive Authority of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
concerned;
(iii)
the Divisional Engineer, Electricity Board, in whose jurisdiction the township is located;
(iv)
the Executive Engineer, Panchayat Raj, of the Division in which the township is located; and
(v)
an officer of the Tourism Department wherever necessary and in other cases an official representing the management of
the industry, institution, project or health resort concerned as may be nominated by the Government; and
B. Non-Official Members
(i)
the Member of the Lok Sabha in whose constituency the township is located;
(ii)
the Member or Members of the Legislative Assembly in whose constituency the township is located;
(iii)
one woman member, who is a registered voter in the township to be nominated by the Government; and
(iv)
two persons who are registered voters in the township, other than those persons specified in items (i) to (iii) and who are
specially qualified to assist and advise the Township Committee on its various activities to be nominated by the
Government:
Provided that one of the Members to be nominated under this clause shall be a member belonging to the Scheduled
Castes or Scheduled Tribes.
(4)
The Chairperson and the non-official members of the Committee under items (iii) and
(iv)
of sub-Section (3) shall hold office during the pleasure of the Government and the official members and non-official
members under items (i) and (ii) of sub-Section (3) shall hold office so long as they hold their respective offices.
(5)
A notification issued by the Government under sub-Section (3) may direct that any functions vested in a Gram
Panchayat by or under this Act shall be transferred to and performed by the township committee and shall provide for-
(i)
the restrictions and conditions subject to which the township committee may perform its functions; and
(ii)
any other matter incidental to, or connected with, the transfer of the functions of a Gram Panchayat to the township
committee including the apportionment of the revenues between the township committee and the Gram Panchayat
concerned or any contributions or compensation that shall be paid by the township committee to the Gram Panchayat
concerned.
(6)
Every township committee shall, in regard to the conduct of its business, follow such procedure as may be prescribed.
(7)
The Government may, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette direct that any of the provisions of this Act or of the
law relating to municipalities for the time being in force or of any rules made thereunder or of any other enactment for
the time being in force elsewhere in the State but not in the village or local area or specified part thereof referred to in
sub-Section (1) shall apply to that village, local area or part to such extent and subject to such modifications, additions
and restrictions as may be specified in the notification.
6.
Gram Sabha.
(1)
There shall come into existence a Gram Sabha for every village on the date of publication of notification under Section
3.
Page 10/149
----- PAGE 11 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(2)
A Gram Sabha shall consist of all persons whose names are included in the electoral roll for the Gram Panchayat
referred to in Section 4 and such persons shall be deemed to be the members of the Gram Sabha.
(3)
The Gram Sabha shall meet at least twice in every year on such date and at such place and time as may be prescribed
to consider the following matters which shall be placed before it by the Gram Panchayat, namely:-
(i)
annual statement of accounts and audit report;
(ii)
report on the administration of the preceding year;
(iii)
programme of works for the year or any new programme not covered by the budget or the annual programme;
(iv)
proposals for fresh taxation or for enhancement of existing taxes;
(v)
selection of schemes, beneficiaries and locations; and
(vi)
such other matter as may be prescribed.
The Gram Panchayat shall give due consideration to the suggestions, if any, of the Gram Sabha.
(4)
The Gram Sabha shall observe such rules of procedure at its meetings as may be prescribed.
(5)
[ Every meeting of the Gram Sabha within 10 days from the date prescribed under sub-Section (3) shall be convened
and presided over by the Sarpanch or in his absence by the Upa Sarpanch of the Gram Panchayat.]
[Substituted by Section 4 of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
7.
Total strength of a Gram Panchayat.
- [1]
[Renumbered by Section 2 of Act No. 16 of 1996.]
A Gram Panchayat shall consist of such number of elected members inclusive of its Sarpanch as may be notified from
time to time, by the Commissioner in accordance with the following Table:-
Table
Gram Panchayat with a Population at the Last
Census
Number of Members
Upto 300
5
Exceeding 300 but not exceeding 500
7
Exceeding 500 but not exceeding 1,500
9
Exceeding 1,500 but not exceeding 3,000
11
Exceeding 3,000 but not exceeding 5,000
13
Exceeding 5,000 but not exceeding 10,000
15
Exceeding 10,000 but not exceeding 15,000
17
Exceeding 15,000
Between 19 & 21
Page 11/149
----- PAGE 12 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(2)
[ The Member of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Added by Section 2 of Act No. 16 of 1996.]
Territorial Constituency shall be permanent invitee to the meetings of Gram Panchayats and he shall have the right to
speak in and otherwise to take part in the proceedings of any meeting of the Gram Panchayat or Gram Panchayats
functioning within the local limits of the respective jurisdiction; but shall not, by virtue of this Section be entitled to vote at
any such meeting.]
(3)
[ One representative from each category of Self Help Group/Functional Group to be elected in a meeting of the Self Help
Group / Functional Group, which shall be presided over by the Sarpanch for co-option in the manner prescribed. They
shall have the right to speak in and otherwise to take part in proceedings of any meeting but they shall not be entitled to
vote at any such meeting.]
[Added by Section 5 of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
8.
Election of members.
- All members of the Gram Panchayat shall be elected by the registered voters in the ward by the method of secret ballot
and in accordance with such rules as may be made in this behalf.
9.
Reservation of seats of members of Gram Panchayats.
(1)
In every Gram Panchayat, out of the total strength of elected members determined under Section 7, the Commissioner
shall, subject to such rules as may be prescribed, by notification, reserve -
(a)
such number of seats to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as may be determined by him, subject to the
condition that the number of seats so reserved shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion to the total number
of seats to be filled by direct election to the Gram Panchayat, as the population of the Scheduled Castes, or as the case
may be, Scheduled Tribes in that village bears to the total population of that village, and such seats may be allotted by
rotation to different wards in a Gram Panchayat;
[***]
[Omitted by of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
(c)
not less than one-third of the total number of seats reserved under [clause (a) and sub-Section (1 A)]
[Substituted by Act No. 5 of 1995.]
for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or as the case may be the Backward Classes;
(d)
not less than one-third (including the number of seats reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes) of the total number of seats to be filled by direct election to every Gram
Panchayat shall be reserved for women and such seats may be allotted by rotation to different wards in a Gram
Panchayat.
(1A)
[ In addition to the reservation of seats under sub-Section (1), there shall be reserved for the Backward Classes such a
number of seats as may be allocated to them in each Gram Panchayat in the manner prescribed; so however that the
number of offices of members of Gram Panchayats in the State reserved for Backward Classes shall not be less than
thirty-four per cent of the total number of offices of the members of Gram Panchayats in the State. The number of seats
allocated to each Gram Panchayat shall be allotted by rotation to different wards in the Gram Panchayat:
Provided that it shall be competent for the Government to make special provision with regard to the manner and
quantum of seats to be reserved for Backward Classes in the Gram Panchayats situated in the Scheduled areas by
rules made in this behalf."]
[Added by Act No. 5 of 1995.]
(2)
Nothing in [sub-Sections (1) and [(1A)]
Page 12/149
----- PAGE 13 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted by Act No. 5 of 1995.]
shall be deemed to prevent women and members of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes
from standing for election to the non-reserved seats in the Gram Panchayat.
10.
Division of wards.
- For the purpose of electing members to a Gram Panchayat, the Commissioner shall, subject to such rules as may be
prescribed, divide the village into as many wards as there are seats, determined under Section 7, on a territorial basis in
such a manner that all wards shall have, as far as practicable, equal number of voters and allot not more than one seat
for each ward.
11.
Preparation and Publication of electoral roll for a Gram Panchayat.
(1)
The [
*]
[Omitted by Section 3(i)(a) of Act No. 26 of 2000.]
electoral roll for Gram Panchayat shall be prepared by the person authorised by the Andhra Pradesh Election
Commissioner for Local Bodies in such manner by reference to such qualifying date as may be prescribed and the
electoral roll for the Gram Panchayat shall come into force immediately [upon its publication]
[Substituted by of Act No. 26 of 2000.]
in accordance with the rules made by the Government in this behalf. The [
*]
[Omitted by of Act No. 26 of 2000.]
electoral roll for the Gram Panchayat shall consist of such part of the electoral roll for the Assembly Constituency
published under the Representation of the People Act, 1950 (Central Act 43 of 1950) as revised or amended under the
said Act, upto the qualifying date, as relates to the village or any portion thereof:
[Provided that any amendment, transposition or deletion of any entries in the electoral roll, or any inclusion of names in
the electoral roll of the Assembly Constituencies concerned, made by the Electoral Registration Officer under Section 22
or Section 23, as the case may be, of the Representation of the People Act, 1950, up to the date of election notification,
for any election held under this Act, shall be carried out in the electoral roll of the Gram Panchayat and any such names
included shall be added to the part relating to the last ward.]
[Inserted by Section 3(i)(c) Act No. 26 of 2000.]
Explanation. - Where in the case of any Assembly Constituency there is no distinct part of the electoral roll relating to the
village, all persons whose names are entered in such roll under the registration area comprising the village and whose
addresses as entered are situated in the village shall be entitled to be included in the electoral roll for the Gram
Panchayat prepared for the purposes of this Act.
(2)
[ The electoral roll for a Gram Panchayat:-
(a)
shall be prepared and published in the prescribed manner by reference to the qualifying date,-
(i)
before each ordinary election; and
(ii)
before each casual election to fill a casual vacancy in the office of the Sarpanch and Member of a Gram Panchayat; and
(b)
shall be prepared and published in any year, in the prescribed manner, by reference to the qualifying date, if so directed
by the Andhra Pradesh Election Commission for Local Bodies:
Provided that if the electoral roll is not prepared and published as aforesaid, the validity, or continued operation of the
said electoral roll, shall not thereby be affected.]
[Substituted by Section 3(ii) Act No. 26 of 2000.]
(3)
The [electoral roll]
Page 13/149
----- PAGE 14 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted by Section 3(iii) Act No. 26 of 2000.]
published under sub-Section (1) shall be the electoral roll for the Gram Panchayat and it shall remain in force till a fresh
electoral roll for the Gram Panchayat is published under this Section.
(4)
The electoral roll for the Gram Panchayat shall be divided into as many parts as there are wards so that each part
consists of the voters residing in the concerned ward and for this purpose the electoral roll may be rearranged if such
rearrangement is found necessary.
(5)
Every person whose name appears in the part of the electoral roll relating to a ward shall subject to the other provisions
of this Act, be entitled to vote at any election which takes place in that ward while the electoral roll remains in force and
no person whose name does not appear in such part of the electoral roll shall vote at any such election.
(6)
No person shall vote at an election under this Act in more than one ward or more than once in the same ward and if he
does so, all his votes shall be invalid.
Explanation. - In this Section, the expression 'Assembly Constituency' shall mean a constituency provided by law for the
purpose of elections to the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly.
12.
Rearrangement and republication of electoral rolls.
- Where, after the electoral roll for the Gram Panchayat has been published under sub-Section (1) of Section 11, the
village is divided into wards for the first time or the division of the village into wards is altered or the limits of the village
are varied, the person authorised by the Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies in this behalf shall, in
order to give effect to the division of the village into wards or to the alteration of the wards, or to the variation of the
limits, as the case may be, authorise a re-arrangement and republication of the electoral roll for the Gram Panchayat or
any part of such roll in such manner, as the Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies may direct.
13.
Term of Office of members.
(1)
Save as otherwise provided in this Act the term of office of members elected at ordinary elections shall be five years
from the date appointed by the Commissioner for the first meeting of the Gram Panchayat after the ordinary elections.
(2)
Ordinary vacancies in the office of elected members shall be filled at ordinary elections which shall be fixed [by the State
Election Commission]
[Substituted 'by the election authority' by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
to take place on such day or days within three months before the occurrence of the vacancies, as he thinks fit:
Provided that the Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies may, for sufficient reasons to be recorded in
writing, direct from time to time, the postponement or alteration of the date of an ordinary election or any stage thereof
within the period of three months aforesaid and the election authority shall give effect to such directions.
(3)
(a)
Every casual vacancy in the office of an elected member of a Gram Panchayat shall be reported by the executive
authority to the election authority within fifteen days from the date of occurrence of such vacancy and shall be filled
within four months from that date.
(b)
A member elected in a casual vacancy shall enter upon office forthwith but shall hold office only so long as the member
in whose place he is elected would have been entitled to hold office if the vacancy had not occurred.
(c)
No casual election shall be held to a Gram Panchayat within six months before the date on which the term of office of its
members expires by efflux of time.
14.
Election and term of office of Sarpanch.
(1)
Page 14/149
----- PAGE 15 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
There shall be a Sarpanch for every Gram Panchayat, who shall be elected in the prescribed manner by the persons
whose names appear in the electoral roll for the Gram Panchayat, from among themselves. A person shall not be
qualified to stand for election as Sarpanch, unless he is not less than twenty-one years of age:
Provided that a Member of the Legislative Assembly of the State or of either House of Parliament who is elected to the
office of Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch shall cease to hold such office unless within one month from the date of election to
such office he ceases to be a Member of the Legislative Assembly of the State or of either House of Parliament by
resignation or otherwise.
(2)
The election of the Sarpanch may be held at the same time and in the same place as the ordinary elections of the
members of the Gram Panchayat.
(3)
Save as otherwise expressly provided in, or prescribed under this Act, the term of office of the Sarpanch who is elected
at an ordinary election shall be five years from the date appointed by the election authority for the first meeting of the
Gram Panchayat after the ordinary election.
(4)
Subject to the provisions of sub-Section (5), any casual vacancy in the office of the Sarpanch shall be filled within one
hundred and twenty days from the date of occurrence of such vacancy, by a fresh election under sub-Section (1); and a
person elected as Sarpanch in any such vacancy shall hold office only so long as the person in whose place he is
elected would have been entitled to hold office if the vacancy had not occurred.
(5)
Unless the Commissioner otherwise directs, no casual vacancy in the office of the Sarpanch shall be filled within six
months before the date on which the ordinary election of the Sarpanch under sub-Section (1) is due.
(6)
The provisions of Sections 18 to 22 shall apply in relation to the office of the Sarpanch as they apply in relation to the
office of an elected member of the Gram Panchayat.
(7)
The Sarpanch shall be an ex-officio member of the Gram Panchayat and shall be entitled to vote at meetings of the
Gram Panchayat.
(8)
A person shall be disqualified for election as Sarpanch if he is in arrears of any dues, otherwise than in a fiduciary
capacity to a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, or if he is interested in a subsisting contract made with or any work being done for, the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
within whose jurisdiction the Gram Panchayat is situated or any other Gram Panchayat within the jurisdiction of that
[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
:
Provided that a person shall not be deemed to have any interest in such contract or work by reason only of his having a
share or interest in,-
(i)
a company as a mere shareholder but not as a director; or
(ii)
any lease, sale or purchase of immovable property or any agreement for the same; or
(iii)
any agreement for the loan of money or any security for the payment of money only;or
(iv)
any newspaper in which any advertisement relating to the affairs of any of the aforesaid Gram Panchayat is Inserted.
Explanation. -  For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared that where a contract is fully performed it shall not be
deemed to be subsisting merely on the ground that the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Page 15/149
----- PAGE 16 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
has not performed its part of the contractual obligation.
(9)
For every Gram Panchayat, one of the members shall be elected to be Upa-Sarpanch by the Gram Panchayat, in the
prescribed manner. If at an election held for the purpose, no Upa-Sarpanch is elected fresh election shall be held:
Provided that before an election of Upa-Sarpanch is held, every casual vacancy in the office of an elected member of a
Gram Panchayat shall be filled.
(10)
A special meeting for the election of the Upa-Sarpanch shall be called on the same date on which the results of the
ordinary elections to the Gram Panchayat have been published. The notice of the meeting for election of Upa-Sarpanch
shall be given to the members so elected by affixture of the same on the notice board at the office of the Gram
Panchayat, immediately after such publication:
Provided that if, for any reason, the election of the Upa-Sarpanch is not held on the date aforesaid the special meeting
for the election of the Upa-Sarpanch shall be held on the next day, whether or not it is a holiday observed by the Gram
Panchayat:
Provided further that the Government may, from time to time, for reasons to be recorded in writing direct or permit the
holding of the election of the Upa-Sarpanch on any other day.
15.
Reservation of Office of Sarpanch.
- [1]
[Added by Section 4 of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
Out of total number of offices of Sarpanch in the State, the Commissioner shall, subject to such rules as may be
prescribed, by notification reserve-
(a)
such number of offices to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as may be determined by him, subject to the
condition that the number of offices so reserved shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion to the total number
of offices to be filled in the State as the population of the Scheduled Castes, or as the case may be, Scheduled Tribes in
the State bears to the total population of the State; and such seats may be allotted by rotation to different Gram
Panchayats in the State;
[* * *]
[Omitted by Section 4 (i) of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
(c)
not less than one-third of the total number of offices reserved under [clause (a) and sub-Section (2)]
[Substituted by Section 4 (ii) Act No. 5 of 1995.]
for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, or as the case may be, Backward Classes; and
(d)
not less than one-third (including the number of offices reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes and the Backward Classes) of the total number of offices to be filled in the State for women; and such
offices may be allotted by rotation to different Gram Panchayats in the State.
(2)
[ In addition to the reservation of offices of Sarpanch under sub-Section (1), there shall be reserved for the Backward
Classes such number of Offices of Sarpanch as may be allocated to them in each Mandal in the manner prescribed; so,
however, that the number of Offices or Sarpanchas in the State reserved for Backward Classes shall not be less than
thirty-four per cent of the total number of offices of Sarpanchas of Gram Panchayats in the State. The number of offices
of Sarpanchas allocated for reservation to each Mandal shall be allotted by rotation to different Gram Panchayats in the
Mandal:
Provided that it shall be competent for the Government to make special provision with regard to the manner and
quantum of seats to be reserved for Backward Classes in the Gram Panchayats situated in the Scheduled areas, by
rules made in this behalf.]
[Added by Section 4 (iii) of Act No 5 of 1995.]
16.
Fresh elections in certain cases.
Page 16/149
----- PAGE 17 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(1)
If at an ordinary or casual election, no person is elected to fill a vacancy, a fresh election shall be held on such day as
the officer or authority authorised by the Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies in this behalf, may fix.
(2)
The term of office of a member of a Gram Panchayat elected under this Section shall expire at the time at which it would
have expired if he had been elected at the ordinary or casual election, as the case may be.
17.
Qualifications of candidates.
- No person shall be qualified for election as a member of a Gram Panchayat unless his name appears on its electoral
roll and he is not less than twenty-one years of age.
18.
Disqualification of certain office holders etc.
(1)
No village servant and no officer or servant of the Government of India or any State Government or of a local authority
or an employee of any institution receiving aid from the funds of the Government and no office bearer of any body
constituted under a law made by the Legislature of the State or of Parliament shall be qualified for being chosen as or
for being a member of a Gram Panchayat.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this Section, the expression "village servant" means in relation to-
(i)
the Andhra Area, any person who holds any of the village offices of neeraganti, neeradi, vetti, kawalkar toti, talayar,
tandalagar, sathsindi or any such village office by whatever designation it may be locally known;
(ii)
the Telangana Area, any person who holds any of the village offices of neeradi, kawalkar, sathsindhi or any such village
office by whatever designation it may be locally known.
(2)
A person who having held an office under the Government of India or under the Government of any State or under any
local authority has been dismissed for corruption or for disloyalty to the State or to the local authority shall be disqualified
for a period of five years from the date of such dismissal.
(3)
For the purpose of sub-Section (2), a certificate issued by the Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies
to the effect that a person having held office under the Government of India or under the Government of State or under
any local authority has or has not been dismissed for corruption or for disloyalty to the State or to the local authority shall
be conclusive proof of that fact:
Provided that no certificate to the effect that a person has been dismissed for corruption or for disloyalty to the State or
to the local authority shall be issued unless an opportunity of being heard has been given to the said person.
(4)
[ ***]
[Omitted by Section 2(1) of Act No. 37 of 2001.]
(5)
Apart from the disqualifications specified in sub-Sections [(1) and (2)]
[Substituted by Section 2(2) of Act No. 37 of 2001.]
of this Section and Sections 19 and 20, a person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, and for being, a member of a
Gram Panchayat if he is otherwise disqualified by or under any law for the time being in force for the purposes of
elections to the Legislature of the State:
Provided that no person shall be disqualified on the ground that he is less than twenty-five years of age, if he has
attained the age of twenty-one years:
Provided further that where a person is convicted for an offence specified under sub-Section (1) or sub-Section (2) of
Section 8 of the Representation of People Act, 1951 (Central Act 43 of 1951) or under Section 19 of this Act, while he is
a member or office bearer of a Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
Page 17/149
----- PAGE 18 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, the disqualification arising out of such conviction shall not take effect until the expiry of the time for filing an appeal
against such conviction and where an appeal is filed until the disposal of the appeal:
Provided also that a person convicted for an offence under sub-Section (1) of Section 8 of the Representation of People
Act, 1951 (Central Act 43 of 1951) shall be disqualified for being chosen as or for continuing as a member of a Gram
Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
for a period of six years from the date of conviction and a person convicted under sub-Section (2) thereof shall be
disqualified for a period of six years from the date of conviction and for a further period of five years from the date of
release.
19.
Disqualification of candidates.
(1)
A person who has been convicted by a Criminal Court,-
(a)
for an offence under the Protection of Civil Rights Act, 1955 (Central Act 22 of 1955); or
(b)
for an offence involving moral delinquency; shall be disqualified for election as a Member for a period of five years from
the date of conviction or where he is sentenced to imprisonment while undergoing sentence and after a period of five
years from the date of expiration thereof.
(2)
A person shall be disqualified for being chosen as a member if on the date fixed for scrutiny of nominations for election,
or on the date of nomination under sub-Section (2) of Section 16 he is -
(a)
of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent court;
(b)
a deaf-mute [* * *]
[Omitted by Section 6 of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
;
(c)
an applicant to be adjudicated an insolvent or an undischarged insolvent;
(d)
interested in a subsisting contract made with, or any work being done for, the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or any State or Central Government:
Provided that a person shall not be deemed to have any interest in such contract or work by reason only of his having a
share or interest in-
(i)
a company as a mere shareholder but not as a director;
(ii)
any lease, sale or purchase of immovable property or any agreement for the same; or
(iii)
any agreement for the loan of money or any security for the payment of money only;or
(iv)
any newspaper in which any advertisement relating to the affairs of the Gram Panchayat is Inserted;
Explanation. - For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared that where a contract is fully performed it shall not be
deemed to be subsisting merely on the ground that the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
Page 18/149
----- PAGE 19 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, the State or Central Government has not performed its part of the contractual obligation.
(dd)
[ already a member of a Nagar Panchayat or a Municipality constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act,
1965 or a member of a Municipal Corporation constituted under any law relating to Municipal Corporations for the time
being in force in the State of Andhra Pradesh;]
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
(e)
employed as paid legal practitioner on behalf of the Gram Panchayat or as legal practitioner against the Gram
Panchayat;
(f)
employed as a [***]
[Omitted by Section 5 of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
manager or Secretary of any Company or Corporation (other than a co-operative society) in which not less than
twenty-five per cent of the paid up share capital is held by the State Government;
(g)
an Honorary Magistrate under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974) with jurisdiction over any
part of the village;
(h)
already a member of the Gram Panchayat whose term of office will not expire before his fresh election can take effect or
has already been elected as a member of the Gram Panchayat whose term of office has not yet commenced;
(i)
in arrears of any dues including the sums surcharged otherwise than in a fiduciary capacity, to the Gram Panchayat upto
and inclusive of the previous year, in respect of which a bill or notice has been duly served upon him and the time, if
any, specified therein for payment has expired:
Provided that where any person has paid such dues into the Government treasury or into a bank approved by the
Government to the credit of the Gram Panchayat Fund and obtained a challan or receipt therefor in token of such
payment, he shall not be disqualified to become a member of the Gram Panchayat on and from the date of such
payment.
(3)
A person having more than two children shall be disqualified for election or for continuing as member:
Provided that the birth within one year from the date of commencement of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
hereinafter in this Section referred to as the date of such commencement, of an additional child shall not be taken into
consideration for the purposes of this Section:
Provided further that a person having more than two children (excluding the child if any born within one year from the
date of such commencement) shall not be disqualified under this Section for so long as the number of children he had
on the date of such commencement does not increase:
Provided also that the Government may direct that the disqualification in this Section shall not apply in respect of a
person for reasons to be recorded in writing.
19A.
[ Disqualification on ground of corrupt practice or election offences.
[Inserted by Section 4 of Act No. 26 of 2000.]
- Any person who is convicted of any offence punishable under Chapter IX A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, and any
person against whom a finding of having indulged in any corrupt practice is recorded in the verdict in an election petition
filed in accordance with Section 233, or any person convicted of an offence punishable under Chapter II of Part V of this
Act, for a period of six years from the date of such conviction or verdict, as the case may be.
19B.
Disqualification for failure to lodge account of election expenses.
- If the Andhra Pradesh Election Commission for Local Bodies is satisfied that a person-
Page 19/149
----- PAGE 20 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(a)
has failed to lodge an account of election expenses within the time and in the manner required by or under this Act, and
(b)
has no good reason or justification for the failure, the Andhra Pradesh Election Commission for Local Bodies shall, after
following the procedure prescribed, by order published in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, declare him:
(i)
to be ineligible for a period of three years from the date of the said order to contest any election held for any office under
this Act; and
(ii)
to have ceased to hold office; in case he is elected.]
20.
Disqualification of members.
- Subject to the provisions of Section 22, a member shall cease to hold office as such if he-
(a)
is or becomes subject to any of the disqualifications specified in Section 19;
(aa)
[ is elected as a member to a Ward/Office reserved for Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes on
the basis of a community certificate and subsequently the said community certificate is cancelled under Section 5 of the
Andhra Pradesh (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes) Regulation of issue of Community
Certificates Act, 1993.]
[Inserted by Section 3 of Act No. 37 of 2001.]
(b)
absents himself from the meetings of the Gram Panchayat for a period of ninety days, reckoned from the date of the
commencement of his term of office, or of the last meeting which he attended, or of his restoration to office as member
under sub-Section (1) of Section 21, as the case may be, or if within the said period, less than three ordinary meetings
have been held, absents himself from three consecutive ordinary meetings held after the said date:
Provided that in the case of a woman member, a period of not more than four months at a time shall be excluded in
reckoning the period of absence aforesaid, if for reasons of physical disability due to advanced stage of pregnancy and
delivery, such member absents herself from meetings after giving a written intimation to the Executive Authority of the
date from which she would be absent:
Provided further that no meeting from which a member absented himself shall be counted against him under this clause
if -
(i)
due notice of that meeting was not given to him in the prescribed manner; or
(ii)
the meeting was held on a requisition of members.
Explanation. -  For the purpose of this clause,
(i)
"ordinary meeting" shall mean a meeting held after giving a notice of at least three days before the day of the meeting;
(ii)
where a meeting other than an ordinary meeting intervenes between one ordinary meeting and another ordinary
meeting, those two ordinary meetings shall be regarded as being consecutive to each other.
20A.
[ Disqualification of Sarpanch or Upa Sarpanch for failure to convene the meetings of Gram Sabha.
[Added by Section 7 of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
(1)
Subject to the provisions of Section 22, a Sarpanch or as the case may be, a Upa-Sarpanch shall cease to hold office as
such, if he fails to convene the meetings of the Gram Sabha as required under sub-Section (5) of Section 6 and further
even on or before a date specified in a show cause notice issued on him after the expiry of ten days, requiring him to
convene the meetings of the Gram Sabha and cease to exercise the powers and perform the functions of the Sarpanch
or Upa-Sarpanch as the case may be, unless such cessation has otherwise occurred before that date and for a period of
Page 20/149
----- PAGE 21 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
one year from such date, he shall not be eligible to be elected as Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch as the case may be.
(2)
Every such cessation as is referred to in sub-Section (1) shall be intimated by the Divisional Panchayat Officer in writing
to the Sarpanch or the Upa Sarpanch as the case may be.
20B.
Disqualification of Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch for failure to close audit of the accounts.
- A Sarpanch or as the case may be, a Upa Sarpanch shall cease to hold office as such, if he fails to get the accounts of
the Gram Panchayat audited within the period as required under the proviso to sub-Section (3) of Section 266.]
21.
Restoration of members to office.
(1)
Where a person ceased to be a member under Section 18 or clause (a) of Section 20 read with Section 19, he shall be
restored to office for such portion of the period for which he was elected as may remain unexpired at the date of such
restoration, if and when the conviction or the sentence is annulled on appeal or revision or the disqualification caused by
the sentence is removed by an order of the Government; and any person elected to fill the vacancy in the interim shall,
on such restoration, vacate office.
(2)
Where a person incurs the disqualification specified under clause (b) of Section 20, the executive authority shall
forthwith send a report in that regard to the District Panchayat Officer concerned, who shall, on satisfying himself after
due verification, that the person has ex-facie ceased to be a member, intimate that fact by registered post to the member
concerned and report the same to the Gram Panchayat forthwith. If such member applies for restoration of his
membership to the Gram Panchayat within thirty days of the receipt by him of such intimation, he shall be deemed to
have been restored to his membership and the executive authority shall report the fact of such restoration to the Gram
Panchayat at its next meeting:
Provided that a member who is so restored to his membership again incurs the disqualification under the said clause (b),
the Gram Panchayat may, on his application for restoration filed within a period of thirty days of the receipt by him of the
intimation from the District Panchayat Officer regarding the disqualification restore him to his membership.
22.
Authority to decide questions of disqualifications of members.
(1)
Where an allegation is made that any person who is elected as a member of a Gram Panchayat is not qualified or has
become disqualified under Section 17, Section 18, Section 19 or Section 20 by any voter or authority to the Executive
Authority in writing and the Executive Authority has given intimation of such allegation to the member through the District
Panchayat Officer and such member disputes the correctness of the allegation so made, or where any member himself
entertain any doubt whether or not he has become disqualified under any of those Sections, such member or any other
member may, and the Executive Authority, at the direction of the Gram Panchayat or the Commissioner shall, within a
period of two months from the date on which such intimation is given or doubt is entertained, as the case may be, apply
to the [District Court]
[Substituted by Section 8 of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
having jurisdiction over the area in which the office of the Gram Panchayat is situated for decision.
(2)
Pending such decision, the member shall be entitled to act as if he is qualified or were not disqualified.
(3)
Where a person ceases to be the Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch of a Gram Panchayat as a consequence of his ceasing to
be a member of the Gram Panchayat under clause (b) of Section 20 and is restored later to his membership of the Gram
Panchayat under sub-Section (2) of Section 21, he shall with effect from the date of such restoration, be deemed to
have been restored also to the office of
Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch, as the case may be.
22A.
[ Bar of jurisdiction.
[Inserted by Section 9  of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
Page 21/149
----- PAGE 22 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
- No order passed or proceedings taken under the provisions of this Act, shall be called in question in any Court, in any
suit or application; and no injunction shall be granted by any Court except District Court in respect of any action taken or
about to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act.]
23.
Resignation of members, Upa-Sarpanch, Sarpanch.
(1)
The Sarpanch, Upa-Sarpanch or any member may resign his office in the manner prescribed.
(2)
(a)
Notwithstanding that the resignation of a person from the office of Sarpanch has taken effect under sub-Section (1), the
Commissioner may by notification record a finding, with reasons therefor, that such person is guilty of wilful omission or
refusal to carry out, or disobedience of, the provisions of the Act or any rules, bye-laws, regulations or lawful orders
made thereunder or abuse of the powers vested in him, while he held the office of Sarpanch:
Provided that the Commissioner shall, before issuing such notification give the person concerned an opportunity for
Explanation. -
Provided further that no action under this clause shall be taken after the expiration of one year from the date on which
the resignation has taken effect.
(b)
A person aggrieved by the notification issued under clause (a) may, within thirty days from the date of publication of
such notification prefer an appeal to the Government and the Government shall in case the appeal is allowed, cancel
such notification.
(c)
A person in respect of whom a notification was issued under clause (a) shall, unless the notification is cancelled under
clause (b), be ineligible for election as Sarpanch for a period of three years from the date of publication of such
notification.
24.
Cessation of Upa-Sarpanch.
- The Upa-Sarpanch shall cease to hold the office as such on the expiry of his term of office as a member of the Gram
Panchayat or on his otherwise ceasing to be such member.
25.
Powers and functions of the Sarpanch.
- Save as otherwise provided by or under this Act, the Sarpanch shall-
(a)
make arrangements for the election of the Upa-Sarpanch within one month from the date of occurrence of the Vacancy;
(b)
have full access to the records of the Gram Panchayat;
(c)
exercise administrative control over the executive authority, if there is one, for the purpose of implementation of the
resolutions of the Gram Panchayat or any committee thereof;
(d)
exercise all the powers and perform all the functions specifically conferred or imposed on the Sarpanch by this Act or the
rules made thereunder;
(e)
have power to require any [Executive Authority]
[The words executive officer substituted with the words Executive Authority through out the principal Act by Section 12 of
Act No. 22 of 2002.]
of any village within the jurisdiction of the Gram Panchayat to furnish any information on any matter falling within such
categories as may be prescribed in respect of such village or any person or property therein, required for the purpose of
this Act;
(f)
intimate to the District Panchayat Officer, every case where any member has incurred any disqualification under
Page 22/149
----- PAGE 23 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Sections 16 to 20; and
(g)
act only within the terms of sanction given in any resolution of the Gram Panchayat.
26.
Devolution and delegation of Sarpanch's powers and functions and filling up of vacancies in the office of Sarpanch.
(1)
When the office of Sarpanch is vacant, the Upa-Sarpanch shall exercise the powers and perform the functions of the
Sarpanch until a new Sarpanch is declared elected and assumes office.
(2)
If the Sarpanch has been continuously absent from jurisdiction for more than fifteen days or is restrained by an order of
a Court from exercising the powers and performing the functions of the Sarpanch, or is incapacitated for more than
fifteen days, his powers and functions during such absence, restraint or incapacity shall devolve on the Upa-Sarpanch.
(3)
When the Sarpanch is under suspension or when the office of Sarpanch is vacant or the Sarpanch has been
continuously absent from jurisdiction for more than fifteen days or is restrained by an order of a Court from exercising
the powers and performing the functions of the Sarpanch or is incapacitated for more than fifteen days and the
Upa-Sarpanch also is under suspension or there is either a vacancy in the office of Upa-Sarpanch or the Upa-Sarpanch
has been continuously absent from jurisdiction for more than fifteen days or is restrained by an order of a Court from
exercising the powers and performing the functions of the Upa-Sarpanch or is incapacitated for more than fifteen days,
the powers and functions of the Sarpanch shall devolve on a member of Gram Panchayat appointed by the
Commissioner in this behalf.
The member so appointed shall be styled as the temporary Sarpanch and he shall exercise the powers and perform the
functions of the Sarpanch until a new Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch is declared elected or either the Sarpanch or the
Upa-Sarpanch ceases to be under suspension or returns to jurisdiction or ceases to be restrained by an order of a Court
or recovers from his incapacity, as the case may be.
(4)
The Upa-Sarpanch or the temporary Sarpanch appointed under sub-Section (3) shall report to the District Panchayat
Officer, any vacancy in the office of Sarpanch within one month from the date of occurrence of such vacancy.
(5)
Subject to such rules as may be prescribed, the Sarpanch may, by an order in writing, delegate any of his powers and
functions, with such restrictions and conditions as may be specified in the order, to the Upa-Sarpanch or in case there is
a vacancy in the office of Upa-Sarpanch or the Upa-Sarpanch has been continuously absent from jurisdiction for more
than fifteen days or is restrained by an order of a Court from exercising his powers and performing his functions, to any
member.
(6)
The reference to the powers and functions of Sarpanch in sub-Sections (1), (2), (3) and (5) shall, where he is also the
executive authority, be deemed to include a reference to his powers and functions as Executive Authority.
(7)
The exercise of any powers or the performance of any functions devolving on the Upa-Sarpanch under sub-Section (2)
or delegated to the Upa-Sarpanch or any member under sub-Section (5), shall be subject to the control and revision by
the Sarpanch.
27.
Removal of temporary Sarpanch.
- The Commissioner may, by order, for sufficient cause to be specified therein, remove the temporary Sarpanch
appointed under sub-Section (3) of Section 26 after giving him an opportunity to show cause against such removal.
28.
Rights of individual members.
(1)
Any member may call the attention of the executive authority to any neglect in the execution of Gram Panchayat work, to
any waste of Gram Panchayat property or to the wants of any locality and may suggest any improvements which may
appear desirable and thereupon, the Executive Authority, shall explain at the next meeting of the Gram Panchayat, the
Page 23/149
----- PAGE 24 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
action, if any, that has been taken or is proposed to be taken with reference to the matter to which attention has been
called, or the improvements suggested by the member.
(2)
Every member shall have the right to move resolutions and to interpellate the Sarpanch on matters connected with the
administration of the Gram Panchayat, subject to such rules as may be prescribed.
(3)
Every member shall have access during office hours to the records of the Gram Panchayat after giving due notice to the
executive authority, provided that the executive authority, may, for reasons given in writing, forbid such access:
Provided that the member who has been denied such access may prefer an appeal to the Extension Officer
(Panchayats) whose decision thereon shall be final.
29.
No Sarpanch, Upa-Sarpanch or members to receive remuneration.
- No Sarpanch, Upa-Sarpanch or member shall receive, or be paid from the funds at the disposal of or under the control
of the Gram Panchayat, any salary or other remuneration for services rendered by him whether in his capacity as such
or in any other capacity. Nothing in this Section shall prevent the Sarpanch from receiving any honorarium, fixed by
order, by the Government.
30.
Appointment of Executive Authoritys for certain Gram Panchayats.
(1)
A whole time or a part-time Executive Authority shall be appointed by the Commissioner for any Gram Panchayat or for
any group of contiguous Gram Panchayats which may be notified by him in this behalf:
Provided that before notifying a group of Gram Panchayats under this sub-Section, the Commissioner shall obtain the
approval of the Government.
(2)
In the case of every Gram Panchayat not so notified and also in the case of any Gram Panchayat so notified, if there is
no Executive Authority in-charge, the Sarpanch of the Gram Panchayat shall, subject to such rules as may be
prescribed, exercise the powers and perform the functions of the Executive Authority.
(3)
Save as otherwise prescribed, no Executive Authority appointed under sub-Section (1) shall undertake any work
unconnected with his office without the sanction of the Government.
(4)
The Executive Authority shall be subordinate to the Gram Panchayat.
31.
Functions of Executive Authority.
- [(1) The Panchayat Secretary, with the approval of, or on the direction of the Sarpanch, convene the meetings of the
Gram Panchayat so that at least one meeting of the Gram Panchayat is held every month and if he fails to discharge
that duty, with the result that no meeting of the Gram Panchayat is held within a period of ninety days from the last
meeting he shall be liable to disciplinary action under the relevant rules:
Provided that where the Sarpanch fails to give his approval for convening the meeting so as to hold a meeting within the
period of ninety days aforesaid, the Panchayat Secretary shall himself convene the meeting in the manner prescribed.]
[Substituted by Section 10 of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
(2)
The Executive Authority shall ordinarily attend to the meetings of the Gram Panchayat or of any committee thereof and
shall be entitled to take part in the discussions thereat, but he shall not be entitled to vote or to move any resolution.
32.
Functions of the Executive Authority.
- The Executive Authority shall -
(a)
be responsible for implementing the resolutions of the Gram Panchayat and of the Committee thereof:
Provided that where the Executive Authority considers that a resolution has not been legally passed or is in excess of
the powers conferred by this Act or that if carried out, it is likely to endanger human life or health or the public safety, the
Page 24/149
----- PAGE 25 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Executive Authority shall:
(i)
where he is the Sarpanch directly;
(ii)
where he is not the Sarpanch, through the Sarpanch, refer the matter to the Commissioner for orders, and his decision
shall be final;
(b)
control all the officers and servants of the Gram Panchayat;
(c)
exercise all the powers and perform all the functions specifically conferred or imposed on the Executive Authority by or
under this Act and subject to all restrictions and conditions imposed by or under this Act, exercise the executive power
for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act and be directly responsible for the due fulfilment of the purpose
thereof.
33.
Emergency powers of Sarpanch.
- In case of emergency, the Sarpanch may, in consultation with the Executive Authority, if any, direct the execution of
any work or the doing of any act which requires the sanction of the Gram Panchayat or any of its committees and the
immediate execution or the doing of which is, in his opinion, necessary for the service or safety of the general public, but
he shall report the action taken under this Section and the reasons thereof to the Gram Panchayat or the concerned
committee at its next meeting:
Provided that he shall not direct the execution of any work or the doing of any act in contravention of any order of the
Government.
34.
Exercise of functions of Executive Authority by Health Officer in certain cases.
- The Commissioner may, by general or special order, authorise the Health Officer of the District to exercise such of the
functions of an Executive Authority under this Act in such area and subject to such restrictions and conditions and to
such control and revision as may be specified in such order.
35.
Delegation of functions of Executive Authority.
- Subject to such restrictions and control as may be prescribed, the Executive Authority may, by an order in writing,
delegate any of his functions as such -
(i)
if he is the Sarpanch, to the Upa-Sarpanch and in the absence of the Upa-Sarpanch, to any other member;
(ii)
if he is not the Sarpanch, to the Sarpanch; in the absence of the Sarpanch to the Upa-Sarpanch and in the absence of
both Sarpanch and Upa-Sarpanch to any other member.
The exercise or discharge of any functions so delegated shall be subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be
laid down by the Executive Authority and shall also be subject to his control and revision.
36.
Officers and other employees of Gram Panchayat.
(1)
Subject to such rules as may be made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution, the Government shall fix and
may alter the number, designations and grades of and the salaries, fees and allowances payable to such officers and
other employees of a Gram Panchayat as may be prescribed.
(2)
The Government shall pay, out of the Consolidated Fund of the State, the salaries, allowances, leave allowances,
pension and contributions, if any towards provident fund or pension-cum- provident fund of the officers and other
employees referred to in sub-Section (1).
(3)
The classification and methods of recruitment, conditions of service, pay and allowances, and discipline and conduct of
the officers and employees referred to in sub-Section (1) shall be regulated in accordance with such rules as may be
Page 25/149
----- PAGE 26 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution.
(4)
Every holder of the post specified in sub-Section (1), who is appointed immediately before the commencement of this
Act, shall, notwithstanding anything in this Act, continue to hold such post, subject to such rules as may be made under
the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution, and until provision in that behalf is so made, the law for the time being in
force regulating the recruitment and conditions of service applicable to such holder immediately before such
commencement shall continue to apply to such holder.
(5)
All officers and other employees of the Gram Panchayat shall be subordinate to the Gram Panchayat.
(6)
The Government may, from time to time by order, give such directions to any Gram Panchayat or any officer, authority
or person thereof, as may appear to them to be necessary for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this
Section and Section 30; and the Gram Panchayat, officer, authority or person shall comply with all such directions.
(7)
The provisions of this Section shall also apply to the public health establishment of Gram Panchayats, notwithstanding
anything in the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Public Health Act, 1939 (Act 3 of 1939) or any other law similar thereto
for the time being in force in the State.
(8)
Subject to such rules as may be made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution the Commissioner may
appoint such engineering and other staff as he considers necessary for the purposes of any Gram Panchayat or two or
more Gram Panchayats.
37.
Presidency at meetings.
- Save as otherwise provided by or under this Act, every meeting of a Gram Panchayat shall be presided over by the
Sarpanch, in his absence by the Upa-Sarpanch and in the absence of both Sarpanch and Upa-Sarpanch by a member
chosen by the meeting to preside for occasion.
38.
Minutes of proceedings.
- The minutes of the proceedings at every meeting of a Gram Panchayat shall be recorded and action taken thereon in
the manner prescribed.
39.
Power to call for records.
- A Gram Panchayat or a committee thereof may, at any of its meetings, require the Executive Authority to furnish any
document in his custody, in so far as such document relates to any of the subjects included in the agenda for such
meeting and the Executive Authority shall comply with every such requisition.
40.
Beneficiary committees and functional Committees.
(1)
For every Gram Panchayat there shall be a Committee by name "Beneficiary Committee" for the execution of the works
of the Gram Panchayat. The composition, including co-option of persons who are not members of the Gram Panchayat
and the powers and functions and other related matters of the Beneficiary Committee, shall be such as may be
prescribed.
(2)
For every Gram Panchayat there shall be constituted functional committees respectively for agriculture, public health,
water supply, sanitation, family planning, education and communication and for any other purposes of this Act.
(3)
The constitution including co-option of persons who are not members of the Gram Panchayat and powers of a functional
committee shall be in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed.
41.
Proceedings of Gram Panchayats and Committees.
(1)
Page 26/149
----- PAGE 27 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
The proceedings of every Gram Panchayat and of all committees thereof shall be governed by such rules as may be
prescribed and by regulations, not inconsistent with such rules or the provisions of this Act, made by the Gram
Panchayat with the approval of the Commissioner.
(2)
The Commissioner shall have power to add to, omit or alter any regulations submitted for his approval under
sub-Section (1).
(3)
The rules that may be prescribed under sub-Section (1) may provide for preventing any member or Sarpanch or any
member or Chairman of a Committee from voting on, or taking part in the discussion of any matter in which apart from
its general application to the public, he has any direct or indirect pecuniary interest whether by himself or through some
other person, or from being present or presiding at any meeting of the Gram Panchayat or of the committee during the
discussion of any such matter.
42.
Appointment of Joint Committee.
- A Gram Panchayat may, and if so required by the Government shall, join with one, or more than one, other local
authority in constituting a joint committee for any purpose in which they are interested or for any matter for which they
are jointly interested or for any matter for which they are jointly responsible. The composition, powers and functions and
other incidental and consequential matters shall be such as may be prescribed.
43.
Administration report.
- The Executive Authority of every Gram Panchayat shall prepare a report on its administration for each year, as soon as
may be after the close of such year and not later than prescribed date, in such form and with such details as may be
prescribed and place it before the Gram Panchayat for its consideration.
44.
Powers of inspecting and superintending Officers and of the Government.
(1)
The Commissioner shall supervises the administration of all Gram Panchayats in the State and shall also exercise the
powers and perform the functions vested in him by or under this Act.
(2)
(a)
The Government may appoint such other officers as they may consider necessary for the purpose of inspecting or
superintending the operations of all or any of the Gram Panchayats constituted under this Act.
(b)
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the Government may appoint District
Panchayat Officers, Divisional Panchayat Officers and Extension Officers (Panchayats) and define the territorial
jurisdiction of each such officer.
(c)
The Government shall have power to regulate the classification, methods of recruitment, conditions of service, salary
and allowances and discipline and conduct of the officers referred to in clauses (a) and (b) and of the members of their
establishment.
(3)
The cost of the officers and the members of the establishment aforesaid shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund of
the State.
(4)
The District Panchayat Officers, the Divisional Panchayat Officers and the Extension Officers (Panchayats) shall
exercise such powers and perform such functions as may be prescribed, or as may be delegated to them under this Act.
(5)
The Commissioner or the District Collector or any officer appointed under sub-Section (2) or any other officer or person
whom the Government or the Commissioner or the District Collector may empower in this behalf, may enter on and
inspect, or cause to be entered on and inspected,-
(a)
Page 27/149
----- PAGE 28 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
any immovable property or any work in progress under the control of any Gram Panchayat or Executive Authority;
(b)
any school, hospital, dispensary, vaccination station, country, or other institutions maintained, by or under the control of,
any Gram Panchayat and any records, registers or other documents kept in such institution;
(c)
the office of any Gram Panchayat and any records, registers or other documents kept therein. Gram Panchayats and
their Sarpanches, executive authorities, officers and servants shall be bound to afford to the officers and persons
aforesaid, such access, at all reasonable times, to Gram Panchayat property or premises, and all documents as may, in
the opinion of such officers or persons, subject to such rules as may be prescribed, be necessary to enable them to
discharge their duties, under this Section.
(6)
The Commissioner or any officer or person whom the Government, or the Commissioner may empower in this behalf
may,-
(a)
direct the Gram Panchayat to make provision for and to execute or provide any public work or amenity or service of the
description referred to in Section 45;
(b)
call for any record, register or other document in the possession, or under the control, of any Gram Panchayat or
Executive Authority;
(c)
require any Gram Panchayat, or Executive Authority to furnish any return, plan, estimate, statement, account or
statistics;
(d)
require any Gram Panchayat, or Executive Authority to furnish any information or report on any matter connected with
such Gram Panchayat;
(e)
record in writing for the consideration of any Gram Panchayat, or Executive Authority any observations in regard to its or
his proceedings or functions.
Chapter II
Powers, Functions and Property of Gram Panchayats
45.
Duty of Gram Panchayat to Provide for Certain Matters.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder, it shall be the duty of a Gram Panchayat within the
limits of its funds to make reasonable provisions for carrying out the requirements of the village in respect of the
following matters, namely:-
(i)
the construction, repair and maintenance of all buildings vested in the Gram Panchayat and of all public roads in the
village (other than the roads vested in the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and the roads classified by the Government as National and State Highways) and of all bridges, culverts, road dams and
causeways on such roads;
(ii)
the lighting of public roads and public places;
(iii)
the construction of drains and their maintenance and the disposal of drainage water and sullage;
(iv)
the cleaning of streets, the removal of rubbish heaps,jungle growth and prickly-pear, filling in of the disused wells,
insanitary ponds, pools, ditches, pits or hollows and other improvements of the sanitary condition of the village;
Page 28/149
----- PAGE 29 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(v)
the provision of public latrines and arrangements to clean latrines, whether public or private;
(vi)
the opening and maintenance of cremation and burial-grounds, and the disposal of unclaimed dead bodies of human
beings or of animals;
(vii)
preventive and remedial measures connected with any epidemic or with malaria;
(viii)
the sinking and repairing of wells, the excavation, repair and maintenance of ponds or tanks and the construction and
maintenance of water works, for the supply of water for washing and bathing purposes and of protected water for
drinking purposes;
(ix)
the conservation of manurial resources, preparation of compost and sale of manure;
(x)
the registration of births and deaths;
(xi)
the establishment and maintenance of cattle ponds; and
(xii)
all other matters expressly declared obligatory by or under this Act or any other law.
(2)
Apart from the matters specified in sub-Section (1), the Government may, subject to such rules as may be made in this
behalf, entrust the Gram Panchayats with any functions in relation to the subjects specified in Schedule-I.
(3)
The Gram Panchayats shall do resource planning at village level.
(4)
No suit for damages for failure or for enforcement of the duty to make provision in respect of any of the matters specified
in sub-Section (1) shall be maintainable against any Gram Panchayat, Executive Authority, officer or servant of the
Gram Panchayat.
46.
Power of Gram Panchayat to provide for certain other matters.
- Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder, a Gram Panchayat may also make such provision
as it thinks fit for carrying out the requirements of the village in respect of the following matters, namely:-
(i)
the construction and maintenance of dharmashalas, sarais and rest houses for travellers;
(ii)
the planting and preservation of groves and trees on the sides of roads and other public places;
(iii)
the promotion and development of pre-primary education, elementary education, social and health education, cottage
industries and trade;
(iv)
the establishment and maintenance of dispensaries and the payment of subsidies to rural medical practitioners;
(v)
the establishment and maintenance of wireless receiving sets, play grounds, akhadas, clubs and other centres for
recreation and physical culture;
(vi)
the laying and maintenance of parks;
(vii)
the establishment and maintenance of libraries and reading rooms;
(viii)
the provision of relief to the crippled, the destitute and the sick;
(ix)
Page 29/149
----- PAGE 30 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
the establishment and maintenance of nurseries and stores of improved seeds and agricultural implements of the
production and distribution of improved seeds, pesticides and Insecticides and the holding of agricultural shows
including cattle shows;
(x)
the propagation of improved methods of cultivation in the village including laying out of demonstration plots with a view
to increasing production;
(xi)
the encouragement of co-operative management of lands in the village and the organisation of joint co-operative
farming; and the promotion of co-operatives for the manufacture of bricks, tiles, hinges, doors, windows, rafters or other
building materials as provided in the village housing project schemes sponsored by the Central Government;
(xii)
the establishment and maintenance of ware-houses and granaries;
(xiii)
the establishment and maintenance of cattle sheds;
(xiv)
the extension of village sites;
(xv)
the improvement of cattle including purchase and maintenance of stud bulls and the provision of veterinary relief;
(xvi)
the control of fairs, jataras and festivals;
(xvii)
the organisation of voluntary labour for community development works in the village;
(xviii)
the establishment and maintenance of maternity and child welfare centres;
(xix)
the organisation of watch and ward;
(xx)
the provision of relief against famine or other calamities;
(xxi)
the destruction of stray and owner-less dogs;
(xxii)
the preparation of statistics of unemployment;
(xxiii)
the opening and maintenance of public markets;
(xxiv)
the opening and maintenance of public slaughter houses;
(xxv)
the implementation of land reform measures in the village including consolidation of holdings and soil conservations;
(xxvi)
the setting up of organisation to promote good will and social harmony between different communities, the removal or
untouchability, the provision of house sites for harijans, the eradication of corruption, the prohibition of or temperance in
the consumption of intoxicating drinks or drugs which are injurious to health and the discouragement of gambling and
litigation;
(xxvii)
other measures of public utility calculated to promote the safety, health, convenience, comfort or moral, social and
material well-being of the residents of the village.
47.
Maintenance of common dispensaries, child welfare centres etc.
- Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder, two or more Gram Panchayats may establish and
maintain common dispensaries, child welfare centres and institutions of such other kind as may be prescribed.
48.
Page 30/149
----- PAGE 31 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Transfer of management of forests to Gram Panchayat.
(1)
Subject to any law for the time being in force the Government may, by notification, transfer to any Gram Panchayat with
its consent and subject to such conditions as may be agreed upon, the management and maintenance of a forest
adjacent to the village; and they may by a like notification, withdraw management and maintenance of such forest from
the Gram Panchayat after giving an opportunity to the Gram Panchayat to make its representation.
(2)
When the management and maintenance of any forest is transferred to Gram Panchayat under sub-Section (1), the
income derived by the Gram Panchayat from the forest under its management and maintenance or the expenditure
incurred by the Gram Panchayat, for such a management and maintenance shall be apportioned between the
Government and the Gram Panchayat in such manner as the Government may, by order, determine.
49.
Transfer to Panchayats of institutions or works.
(1)
Subject to such rules as may be prescribed, the Government, the District Collector or the Revenue Divisional Officer,
[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or any person or body of persons, may transfer to the Gram Panchayat, with its consent and subject to such conditions
as may be agreed upon, the management of any institution, or the execution or maintenance of any work, or the
exercise of any power or the discharge of any duty, whether within or without the village, and whether provided for in this
Act or not.
(2)
When the management of any institution is transferred to the Gram Panchayat under sub-Section (1), all property,
endowments and funds belonging thereto, shall be held by the Gram Panchayat in trust for the purposes to which such
property, endowments and funds were lawfully applicable at the time of such transfer.
50.
Power of Commissioner of Land Revenue to transfer, resume control of endowments and inams.
(1)
(a)
Subject to the control of the Government, the Commissioner of Land Revenue may, by notification, make over to a Gram
Panchayat, with its consent, the management and superintendence of any charitable endowment in respect of which
powers and duties attached to the said Commissioner under the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Escheats and Bona
Vacantia Act, 1974 (Act
35 of 1974
) and thereupon all powers and duties attaching to the Commissioner in respect thereof shall attach to the Gram
Panchayat as if it had been specifically named in the said Regulation or law, and the Gram Panchayat shall manage and
superintend such endowment.
(b)
The Commissioner of Land Revenue may of his own motion, and shall on a direction from the Government, by
notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, resume the management and superintendence of any endowment made
over to a Gram Panchayat under clause (a) and upon such resumption, all the powers and duties attaching to the Gram
Panchayat in respect of the endowment shall cease and determine.
(2)
The Government may assign to a Gram Panchayat with its consent a charitable inam resumed by the Government or
any authority, provided that the net income from such inam can be applied exclusively to any purpose to which the funds
of such Gram Panchayat may be applied; and may revoke any assignment so made.
(3)
No order of resumption under clause (b) of sub-Section (1) or of revocation under sub-Section (2), shall be passed
unless the Gram Panchayat has had an opportunity of making its representation.
Page 31/149
----- PAGE 32 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
51.
Limitation of power to accept donations and trusts.
- A Gram Panchayat may accept donations for, or trust relating exclusively, to the furtherance of any purpose to which
its funds may be applied.
52.
Maintenance of cattle pounds.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything in the Cattle Trespass Act, 1871 (Central Act 1 of 1871) -
(i)
any cattle pound so transferred to a Gram Panchayat, or a cattle pound established by a Gram Panchayat under this
Act, shall be maintained and controlled by the Gram Panchayat;
(ii)
a pound keeper for every cattle pound referred to in clause (i), shall be appointed by the Gram Panchayat; and
(iii)
all sums on account of fines and surplus unclaimed sale proceeds realised under the Cattle Trespass Act, 1871 in
respect of any cattle pound referred to in clause (i) shall be credited to the Gram Panchayat Fund.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of sub-Section (1) the provisions of the Cattle Trespass Act, 1871 shall, as far as may be
applicable to the cattle pounds referred to in clause (i) of sub-Section (1).
53.
Vesting of public roads in Gram Panchayat.
(1)
All public roads in any village, other than National Highways, State High Ways and Roads vesting in [Zilla Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall vest in the Gram Panchayat together with all pavements, stones and other materials thereof, all works, materials
and other things provided therefor, all sewers, drains drainage works, tunnels and culverts, whether made at the cost of
the Gram Panchayat Fund or otherwise, in along side or under such roads, and all works, materials and things
appertaining thereto:
Provided that the Gram Panchayat shall take steps to remove encroachments on, and prevent, un-authorised use of,
any road other than a National Highway passing through the Gram Panchayat.
(2)
The Government may, after giving an opportunity to the Gram Panchayat of making a representation by notification,
exclude from the operation of this Act any such public road, sewer, drain, drainage work, tunnel or culvert, and may also
modify or cancel such notification.
54.
Collected sewage etc., belong to Gram Panchayat.
- All rubbish, sewage, filth and other matter collected by a Gram Panchayat under this Act shall belong to it.
55.
Vesting of Communal Property or Income in Gram Panchayat.
- Any property or income which by custom belongs to or has been administered for the benefit of the villagers in
common or the holders in common of village land generally or of lands of a particular description or of lands under a
particular source of irrigation, shall vest in the Gram Panchayat and be administered by it for the benefit of the villagers
or holders aforesaid.
56.
Maintenance of irrigation works, execution of kudimaramat etc.
(1)
(a)
Subject to such conditions and control as may be prescribed, the Government may transfer to any Gram Panchayat the
Page 32/149
----- PAGE 33 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
protection and maintenance of any village irrigation work, the regulation of turns of irrigation, or of distribution of water
from any such irrigation work to the field depending on it.
(b)
Subject to such restriction and control as may be prescribed, the fishery rights in minor irrigation tanks and the right to
auction weeds and reeds in such tanks and the right to plant trees on the bunds of such tanks and enjoy the usufruct
thereof shall vest in the Gram Panchayat.
(2)
The Gram Panchayat shall have power, subject to such restrictions and control as may be prescribed, to execute
kudimaramat in respect of any irrigation source in the village and to levy such fee and on such basis for the purposes
thereof as may be prescribed:
Provided that nothing in this Section shall be deemed to relieve the village community or any of its members of its or his
liability under the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Compulsory Labour Act, 1858 (Central Act 1 of 1858) or any other law
similar thereto for the time being in force in respect of any irrigation source in the village, in case the Gram Panchayat
makes default in executing the kudimaramat in respect of that irrigation source.
57.
Vesting of the management of ferries in Gram Panchayats etc.
- Notwithstanding anything in the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Canals and Public Ferries Act, 1890 (Act 2 of 1890)
and the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Ferries Act, 1314 Fasli (Act 2 of 1314 F), the management of a public ferry in
the Andhra Area, and of a Government ferry in the Telangana area other than a ferry mentioned in sub-Section (2) shall
vest -
(a)
in the case of a ferry connecting any public road under the management of a Gram Panchayat and lying wholly within
the jurisdiction of that Gram Panchayat, in such Gram Panchayat and in the case of a ferry connecting any public road
under the management of a Gram Panchayat and lying within the jurisdiction of more than one Gram Panchayat, in a
joint committee of the Gram Panchayats concerned;
(b)
in case of a ferry connecting any public road under the management of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and lying wholly within the jurisdiction of that [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, in such [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and in the case of ferry connecting any public road under the management of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and lying within the jurisdiction of more than one [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, in a joint committee of the [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
concerned;
(c)
in the case of a ferry connecting any public road under the management of a Gram Panchayat or a [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and lying partly within the jurisdiction of a municipality, in a joint committee of the Gram Panchayat or a [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as the case may be, and the Municipality concerned.
(2)
The Government may, subject to such conditions as may be agreed upon transfer the management of any such ferry
connecting a National Highway or a State Highway and lying wholly within the jurisdiction of a Gram Panchayat or a
[Mandal Praja Parishad]
Page 33/149
----- PAGE 34 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to such Gram Panchayat or [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and in case the said ferry is lying within the jurisdiction of more than one Gram Panchayat or [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, to the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
concerned.
(3)
The constitution and powers of the procedure to be adopted by any joint committee referred to in sub-Section (1) and
the method of resolving any difference of opinion arising between the local authorities concerned in connection with the
works of such committee shall be in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed.
(4)
The income realised by a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a Gram Panchayat from any ferry under its management under sub-Section (1) or sub-Section (2) shall form part of
its funds. The income realised by joint committee referred to in sub-Section (1) or by a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
under sub-Section
(2)
from a ferry under its management shall be apportioned in equal shares between the local authorities concerned and the
amount so apportioned shall form part of the funds of such local authorities.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this Section, the expression 'Public Ferry' in relation to the Andhra Area, and
expression 'Government Ferry' in relation to Telangana Area, shall respectively have the meaning assigned to them in
the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Canals and Public Ferries Act, 1890 (Act 2 of 1890) and the Andhra Pradesh
(Telangana Area) Ferries Act, 1314 Fasli (Act 2 of 1314 F).
58.
Certain Government porambokes to vest in Gram Panchayat etc.
(1)
The following porambokes namely, grazing grounds, threshing floors, burning and burial grounds, cattle stands, cart
stands and topes, which are at the disposal of the Government and are not required by them for any specific purpose
shall vest in the Gram Panchayat subject to such restrictions and control as may be prescribed.
(2)
The Government may, at any time by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, direct that any porambokes referred to
in sub-Section (1) shall cease to vest in the Gram Panchayat if it is required by them for any specific purpose and
thereupon such porambokes shall vest in the Government.
(3)
The Gram Panchayat shall have power, subject to such restrictions and control as may be prescribed, to regulate the
use of any other poramboke which is at the disposal of the Government, if the Gram Panchayat is authorised in that
behalf by an order of the Government.
(4)
The Gram Panchayat may, subject to such restrictions and control as may be prescribed, plant trees on any poramboke
the use of which is regulated by it under sub-Section (3).
Explanation. - If any question arises whether a land is a poramboke or not, for the purposes of this Section, the question
shall be referred to the Government whose decision thereon shall be final.
59.
Acquisition of immovable property required by Gram Panchayat.
- Any immovable property which any Gram Panchayat may require for the purpose of this Act or any rules made
thereunder may be acquired under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act 1 of 1894) and on
Page 34/149
----- PAGE 35 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
payment of the compensation awarded under the said Act, in respect of such property and of any other charges incurred
in acquiring it, the said property shall vest in the Gram Panchayat.
Chapter III
Taxation and Finance
60.
Taxes leviable by Gram Panchayats.
(1)
A Gram Panchayat shall levy in the village,-
(a)
a House tax;
(b)
kolagaram, or katarusum that is to say, tax on the village produce sold in the village by weight, measurement or number
subject to such rules as may be prescribed;
(c)
such other tax as the Government may, by notification, direct any Gram Panchayat or class of Gram Panchayats to levy
subject to such rules as may be prescribed:
Provided that no such notification shall be issued and no such rule shall be made except with the previous approval of
the Legislative Assembly of the State.
(2)
A duty shall also be levied on transfers of property situated in the area under the jurisdiction of the Gram Panchayat in
accordance with the provisions of Section 69.
(3)
Subject to such rules as may be prescribed the Gram Panchayat may also levy in the village,-
(i)
a vehicle tax;
(ii)
a tax on agricultural land for a specific purpose;
(iii)
a land-cess at the rate of two naya paise in the rupee on the annual rental value of all occupied lands which are not
occupied by or adjacent and appurtenant to buildings;
(iv)
fees for use of porambokes or communal lands under the control of the Gram Panchayat;
(v)
fees for the occupation of building including chavadies and sarais under the control of the Gram Panchayat.
(4)
Every Gram Panchayat may also levy a duty in the form of a surcharge on the seigniorage fees collected by the
Government on materials other than minerals and minor minerals quarried in the village:
Provided that the rate at which such duty shall be levied shall be fixed by the Gram Panchayat with the previous
approval of the Government.
(5)
Every Gram Panchayat may, with the previous approval of the prescribed authority also levy, in respect of lands lying
within its jurisdiction, a duty in the form of a surcharge at such rate, not exceeding twenty-five naya paise in the rupee,
as may be fixed by the Gram Panchayat,-
(a)
in the Andhra Area, on the land cess, leviable under Section 78 of the Andhra Pradesh
(Andhra Area) District Boards Act, 1920 (Act XIV of 1920) and on the education tax leviable under Section 37 of the
Andhra Pradesh Education Act, 1982 (Act 1 of 1982);
(b)
in the Telangana Area, on the local cess, leviable under Section 135 of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) District
Boards Act, 1955 (Act 1 of 1956) and on the education tax leviable under Section 37 of the Andhra Pradesh Education
Act, 1982 (Act 1 of 1982).
Page 35/149
----- PAGE 36 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(6)
Any resolution of a Gram Panchayat abolishing an existing tax or reducing the rate at which a tax is levied shall not be
carried into effect without the previous approval of the Commissioner.
61.
House Tax.
(1)
The house tax referred to in clause (a) of sub-Section (1) of Section 60 shall subject to such rules as may be prescribed,
be levied on all houses in the village on any one of the following basis, namely:-
(a)
annual rental value, or
(b)
capital value, or
(c)
such other basis as may be prescribed:
Provided that no house tax shall be levied on poultry sheds and annexes thereto which are essential for running the
poultry farms.
(2)
The house-tax shall, subject to the prior payment of the land revenue, if any, due to the Government in respect of the
site of the house be a first charge upon the house and upon the movable property, if any, found within or upon the same
and belonging to the person liable to pay such tax.
(3)
The house-tax shall be levied every year and shall, save as otherwise expressly provided in the rules made under
sub-Section (1) be paid by the owner within thirty days of the commencement of the year. It shall be levied at such rates
as may be fixed by the Gram Panchayat, not being less than the minimum rates and not exceeding the maximum rates,
prescribed in regard to the basis of levy adopted by the Gram Panchayat.
(4)
The Government may make rules providing for-
(i)
the exemption of special classes of houses from the tax;
(ii)
the manner of ascertaining the annual or capital value of houses or the categories into which they fall for the purposes of
taxation;
(iii)
the person who shall be liable to pay the tax and the giving of notice of transfer of houses;
(iv)
the grant of exemptions from the tax on the ground of poverty;
(v)
the grant of vacancy and other remissions; and
(vi)
the circumstances in which, and the conditions subject to which houses constructed, reconstructed or demolished, or
situated in areas included in or excluded from the village, during any year, shall be liable or cease to be liable to the
whole or any portion of the tax.
(5)
If the occupier of a house pays the house-tax on behalf of the owner thereof, such occupier shall be entitled to recover
the same from the owner and may deduct the same from the rent then or thereafter due by him to the owner.
62.
Levy of House Tax on a direction by Government.
(1)
The Government may, by order published in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, for special reasons to be specified in such
order direct any Gram Panchayat to levy the house-tax referred to in clause (a) of sub-Section (1) of Section 60 at such
rates and with effect from such date not being earlier than the first day of the year immediately following that in which the
Page 36/149
----- PAGE 37 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
order is published, as may be specified in the order.
Such direction may be issued in respect of all buildings in a Gram Panchayat or in respect of only such buildings
belonging to the undertakings owned or controlled by the State Government or Central Government and the buildings
belonging to the State Government as may be specified therein.
(2)
When an order under sub-Section (1) has been published, the provisions of this Act relating to house-tax shall apply as
if the Gram Panchayat had, on the date of publication of such order, by resolution determined to levy the tax at the rate
and with effect from the date specified in the order, and as if no other resolution of the Gram Panchayat under Section
60 determining the rate at which and the date from which the house-tax shall be levied, had taken effect.
(3)
A Gram Panchayat shall not alter the rate at which the house-tax is levied in pursuance of an order under sub-Section
(1) or abolish such tax except with the previous sanction of the Government.
63.
Tax on advertisement.
- Every person who erects, exhibits, fixes or retains upon or over any land, building, wall, hoarding or structure any
advertisement or who displays any advertisement to public view in any manner whatsoever, in any place whether public
or private, shall pay on every advertisement which is so erected, exhibited, fixed, retained, or displayed to public view, a
tax calculated at such rates and in such manner and subject to such exemptions as the Gram Panchayat may with the
approval of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
by resolution determine:
Provided that the rates shall be subject to the maximum and minimum prescribed by the Government in this behalf:
Provided further that no tax shall be levied under this Section on any advertisement or a notice-
(a)
of a public meeting; or
(b)
of an election to any legislative body or to the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
; or
(c)
of a candidature in respect of such an election:
Provided also that no such tax shall be levied on any advertisement which is not a sky-sign and which-
(a)
is exhibited within the window of any building; or
(b)
relates to the trade or business carried on within the land or building upon or over which such advertisement is exhibited
or to any sale or letting of such land or building or any effects therein or to any sale, entertainment or meeting to be held
upon or in the same land or building; or
(c)
relates to the name of the land or building upon or over which the advertisement is exhibited or to the name of the owner
or occupier of such land or building; or
(d)
relates to the business of any railway administration; or
(e)
is exhibited within any railway station or upon any wall or other property of a railway administration except any portion of
the surface of such wall or property fronting any street.
Explanation I. - The word "structure" in this Section shall include any movable board on wheels used as an
advertisement or an advertisement medium.
Explanation II. - The expression "sky-sign" shall in this Section, mean any advertisement, supported on or attached to
Page 37/149
----- PAGE 38 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
any post, pole, standard framework or other support wholly or in part upon or over any land, building, wall or structure
which, or any part of which shall be visible against the sky from some point in any public place and includes all and
every part of any such post, pole, standard framework or other support. The expression "sky-sign" shall also include any
balloon, parachute or other similar device employed wholly or in part for the purposes of any advertisement upon or over
any land, building or structure or upon or over any public place but shall not include,-
(a)
any flagstaff, pole, vane or weathercock unless adopted or used wholly or in part for the purpose of any advertisement;
or
(b)
any sign or any board, frame or other contrivance securely fixed to or on the top of the wall or parapet of any building or
on the cornice or on blocking course of any wall or to the ridge of a roof:
Provided that such board, frame or other contrivance be of one continuous face and not open work, and does not extend
in height more than one meter above any part of the wall or parapet or ridges, to, against or on which it is fixed or
supported; or
(c)
any advertisement relating to the name of the land or building upon or over which the advertisement is exhibited or to
the name of the owner or occupier of such land or building; or
(d)
any advertisement relating exclusively to the business of a railway administration and placed wholly upon or over any
railway, railway station, yard, platform or station approach belonging to railway administration and so placed that it
cannot fall into any street or public place; or
(e)
any notice of land or building to be sold or let, placed upon such land or building.
Explanation III. - "Public place" shall, for the purpose of this Section mean any place which is open to the use and
enjoyment of the public, whether it is actually used or enjoyed by the public or not.
64.
Prohibition of advertisement without written Permission of Executive Authority.
(1)
No advertisement shall be erected, exhibited, fixed or retained upon or over any land, building, wall, boarding or
structure within the Gram Panchayat or shall be displayed in any manner whatsoever in any place without the written
permission of the Executive Authority.
(2)
The Executive Authority shall not grant such permission, if-
(i)
the advertisement contravened any bye-law made by the Gram Panchayat under Section 270;
(ii)
the tax, if any, due in respect of the advertisement has not been paid.
(3)
Subject to the provisions of sub-Section (2) in the case of an advertisement liable to the advertisement tax, the
Executive Authority shall grant permission for the period to which the payment of the tax relates and no fees shall be
charged in respect of such permission:
Provided that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any advertisement relating to the business of a railway
administration erected, exhibited, fixed or retained on the premises of such administration.
65.
Permission of the Executive Authority to become void in certain cases.
- The permission granted under Section 64 shall become void in the following cases, namely:-
(a)
if the advertisement contravenes any bye-law made by the Gram Panchayat under Section 270;
(b)
if any addition to the advertisement be made except for the purpose of making it secure under the direction of Engineer
of the Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Department or the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
Page 38/149
----- PAGE 39 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer;
(c)
if any material change be made in the advertisement or any part thereof;
(d)
if the advertisement or any part thereof falls otherwise than through accident;
(e)
if any addition or alteration be made to or in the building, wall or structure upon or over which the advertisement is
erected, exhibited, fixed or retained, if such addition or alteration involves the disturbance of the advertisement, or any
part thereof; and
(f)
if the building, wall or structure upon or over which the advertisement is erected, exhibited, fixed or retained, be
demolished or destroyed.
66.
Owner or person in occupation to be deemed responsible.
- Where any advertisement is erected, exhibited, fixed or retained upon or over any land, building, wall, hoarding or
structure in contravention of the provisions of Section 63 or Section 64 or after the written permission for the erection,
exhibition, fixation or retention thereof for any period has expired or becomes void, the owner or person in occupation of
such land, building, wall, hoarding or structure shall be deemed to be the person who has erected, exhibited, fixed or
retained such advertisement in such contravention, unless he proves that such contravention was committed by a
person not in his employment or under his control or was committed without his connivance.
67.
Removal of unauthorised advertisements.
- If any advertisement is erected, exhibited, fixed or retained contrary to the provisions of Section 63, Section 66 or after
the written permission for the erection, exhibition, fixation or retention thereof for any period has expired or become void,
the Executive Authority may, by notice in writing, require the owner or occupier of the land, building, wall, hoarding or
structure upon or over, which the same is erected, exhibited, fixed or retained to take down or remove such
advertisement or may enter any building, land or property and have the advertisement removed, and the costs thereof
shall be recoverable in the same manner as property tax.
68.
Collection of tax on advertisements.
- The Executive Authority may farm out of the collection of any tax on advertisement leviable under Section 63 for any
period not exceeding one year at a time on such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Gram Panchayat.
69.
Duty on transfers of property.
(1)
The duty on transfers of property shall be levied by the Government-
(a)
in the form of a surcharge on the duty imposed by the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (Central Act 2 of 1899) as in force for the
time being in the State, on every instrument of the description specified below, in so far as it relates to the whole or part
of immovable property as the case may be, situated in the area under the jurisdiction of a Gram Panchayat; and
(b)
at such rate as may be fixed by the Government not exceeding five percentum on the amount specified below against
such instrument:
Description of instrument
Amount on which duty shall be levied
(1)
(2)
(i)
Sale of immovable property
The amount of value of the consideration for the
Page 39/149
----- PAGE 40 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
sale as set forth in the instrument or the market value of the
property which is the subject matter of the sale, whichever is
higher.
(ii)
Exchange of immovable property
The market value of the property of greater
value which is the subject matter of exchange.
(iii)
Gift of immovable property
The market value of the property which is the
subject matter of the gift.
(iv)
Mortgage with possession of immovable property
The amount secured by the mortgage as set-forth
in the instrument
(v)
Lease for a term exceeding one hundred years or
in perpetuity of immovable property
An amount equal to one-sixth of the whole amount
or value of the rents which would be paid or delivered in respect
of the first fifty years of the lease, as set-forth in the
instrument.
(2)
On the introduction of the duty aforesaid-
(a)
Section 27 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (Central Act 2 of 1899) shall be read as if it specifically required the particulars
to be set-forth separately in respect of property situated in the area under the jurisdiction of a Gram Panchayat and in
respect of property situated outside such area; and
(b)
Section 64 of the same Act shall be read as if it referred to the Gram Panchayat as well as the Government.
(3)
The duty levied under this Section shall be apportioned among the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
concerned in such manner as may be prescribed.
(4)
The Government shall make rules for regulating the collection of the duty and the apportionment thereof among the
Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
concerned and the deduction of any expenses incurred by the Government in the collection thereof.
(5)
The Government may by order exempt, subject to such conditions and terms as may be specified therein, any
instrument or class of instruments from the levy of duty under this Section.
70.
Vehicle tax.
- The vehicle tax referred to in clause (i) of sub-Section (3) of Section 60 shall, subject to such rules as may be made in
this behalf including rules relating to the exemptions and restrictions, be levied every year on all vehicles kept or used
within the village at such rates as may be fixed by the Gram Panchayat not being less than the minimum rates and not
Page 40/149
----- PAGE 41 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
exceeding the maximum rates prescribed.
Explanation. - In this Section, "vehicle" means a conveyance suitable for use on roads or rails and includes any kind of
carriage, cart, wagon, wheel barrows, truck, bicycle, tricycle and rickshaw, but does not include a motor vehicle as
defined in the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988).
71.
Special tax leviable by a Gram Panchayat.
- Subject to such rules as may be prescribed, a Gram Panchayat shall levy a special tax on houses at such rates as may
be prescribed, to provide for expenses connected with the construction, maintenance, repair, extension and
improvement of water or drainage works or the lighting of the public streets and public places, and other similar works.
72.
Composition of tax payable by owner of a factory or a contiguous group of buildings.
- Subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be prescribed, a Gram Panchayat may, on application by the owner
of a factory or a contiguous group of buildings, permit him to compound all or any of the taxes payable by him under this
Act, by paying in lieu thereof such lumpsum amount as may be agreed upon between him and the Gram Panchayat.
Where there is no such agreement the matter may be referred to the Government in the manner prescribed and the
Government shall, after giving to the Gram Panchayat and the owner of the factory or a contiguous group of buildings
concerned an opportunity of making a representation, decide the lumpsum amount payable by the owner of the factory
or a contiguous group of buildings under this Section. The decision of the Government in this regard shall be final.
73.
Power to write-off irrecoverable amounts.
- Subject to such restrictions and control as may be prescribed, a Gram Panchayat may write off any tax, fee or other
amount whatsoever due to it, whether under a contract or otherwise, or any sum payable in connection therewith, if in its
opinion such tax, fee, amount or sum is irrecoverable:
Provided that where the District Collector or any of his subordinates is responsible for the collection of any tax, fee or
other amount due to a Gram Panchayat, the power to write off such tax, fee or amount or any sum payable in
connection therewith on the ground of its being irrecoverable, shall be exercised by the Commissioner of Land Revenue
or subject to his control by the District Collector or any officer authorised by him.
74.
Gram Panchayat Fund.
(1)
All moneys received by the Gram Panchayat shall constitute a fund called the "Gram Panchayat Fund", and shall be
applied and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this Act and other laws:
Provided that the Gram Panchayat shall credit, subject to such rules as may be prescribed, the proceeds of any tax or
fee levied under this Act, to a special fund earmarked for the purpose of financing any specific public improvement. A
separate account shall be kept of the receipts into and the expenditure from such special fund.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of sub-Section (1), the receipts which shall be credited to the Gram Panchayat Fund shall
include-
(i)
the house-tax and any other tax or any cess or fee levied under this Act;
(ii)
the proceeds of the duty collected under sub-Section (4) of Section 60;
(iii)
the proceeds of the duty on transfers of property levied under Section 69 which are paid to the Gram Panchayat;
[***]
[Omitted by Section 4(i) of Act. no. 37 of 2001.]
(iv)
[]
[Renumbered by Section 4(ii) of Act. no. 37 of 2001.]
any payment made to the Gram Panchayat by a market committee in pursuance of sub-Section (3) of Section 11 of the
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Commercial Crops Markets Act, 1933 (Act XX of 1933), or any other law similar thereto
Page 41/149
----- PAGE 42 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
for the time being in force;
(v)
the taxes and tolls levied in the village under Sections 117 and 118 of the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Public Health
Act, 1939 (Act III of 1939); or under the corresponding provision of any other law similar thereto for the time being in
force in the State;
(vi)
any payment made to the Gram Panchayat by the Government under Section 13 of the Andhra Pradesh Entertainments
Tax Act, 1939 (Act X of 1939);
(vii)
the amount contributed by the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to the Gram Panchayat in respect of markets in the village classified as [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
markets or paid by the [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to the Gram Panchayat towards the latter's share of the income derived from such markets as per the apportionment
made under Section 112 and the amount paid by a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or any of the joint committees referred to in Section 57 to the Gram Panchayat towards the latter's share of the income
derived from a ferry under the management of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or joint committee, as the case may be, as per the apportionment made under the said Section;
(viii)
fees for the temporary occupation of village sites, roads and other similar public places or parts thereof in the village;
(ix)
fees levied by the Gram Panchayat in pursuance of any provision in this Act, or any rule or other made thereunder;
(x)
income from endowments and trusts under the management of the Gram Panchayat;
(xi)
the net assessment on service inams which are resumed by Government after the commencement of this Act;
(xii)
income derived from village fisheries, vested in the Gram Panchayat including the weeds and reeds;
(xiii)
income derived from ferries under the management of the Gram Panchayat;
(xiv)
unclaimed deposits and other forfeitures;
(xv)
the seigniorage fees collected by the Government every year from persons permitted to quarry in the village for
materials including minor minerals other than major minerals;
(xvi)
all income derived from porambokes which vest in the Gram Panchayat or the user of which is regulated by the Gram
Panchayat and also the penalty and penal assessment, if any, levied in respect of unauthorised occupation thereof
under any law for the time being in force;
(xvii)
all income derived from trees standing on porambokes although the user of the porambokes is not vested in the Gram
Panchayat;
(xviii)
income from leases of Government property obtained by the Gram Panchayat;
(xix)
a sum equivalent to one-tenth of the gross income derived by the Government every year from fines imposed by
Magistrates in respect of offences committed in the village under this Act, or any rule or bye-law made thereunder or any
Page 42/149
----- PAGE 43 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
other provision of law which is prescribed in this behalf;
(xx)
grants received from the Government, the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
;
(xxi)
income from investments of amounts taken from the Gram Panchayat Fund;
(xxii)
all other receipts accruing from the sources of Gram Panchayat revenue specified in this Act; and
(xxiii)
all sums other than those enumerated above which arise out of, or are received in aid of, or for expenditure on any
institutions or services maintained or financed from the Gram Panchayat Fund or managed by the Gram Panchayat.]
(3)
All moneys received by the Gram Panchayat shall be lodged in the nearest Government treasury.
[Provided that the amounts received as funds under the Jawahar Rozgar Yojana, Employment Assurance Scheme or
other Wage Employment Schemes shall be lodged in nearby Nationalised Banks or Co-operative Banks or Post Offices
in such manner as may be prescribed.]
[Added by Section 2 of Act No. 16 of 1998.]
(4)
[ All orders or cheques against the Gram Panchayat Fund shall be signed by such authority as may be prescribed.]
[Substituted by Act No. 17 of 1996.]
75.
Expenditure from Gram Panchayat Fund.
(1)
The purpose to which the Gram Panchayat Fund may be applied include all objects expressly declared obligatory or
discretionary by this Act or any rules made thereunder or by any other laws or rules and the fund shall be applicable
thereto within the village subject to such rules or special orders as the Government may prescribe or issue and shall,
subject as aforesaid, be applicable to such purposes outside the village if the expenditure is authorised by this Act or
specially sanctioned by the Commissioner.
(2)
(a)
It shall be the duty of every Gram Panchayat to provide for the payment of -
(i)
any amounts falling due on any loans contracted by it;
(ii)
the salaries and allowances and the pensions, pensionary contributions and provident fund contributions of its officers
and servants;
(iii)
sums due under any decree or order of a Court;
(iv)
contributions, if any, levied by the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
subject to such limits as may be specified by Commissioner; and
(v)
any other expenses rendered obligatory by or under this Act or any other law.
(3)
A Gram Panchayat may, with the sanction of the Government, contribute to any fund for the defence of India.
(4)
A Gram Panchayat may, with the sanction of the Commissioner, also -
Page 43/149
----- PAGE 44 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(i)
contribute towards the expenses of any public exhibition, ceremony or entertainment in the village;
(ii)
contribute to any charitable fund, or to the funds of any institution for the relief of the poor or the treatment of diseased or
infirmity or the reception of diseased or infirm persons or the investigation of the causes of disease;
(iii)
contribute to the funds of any institution established for promoting community development or the aims of Panchayat
Raj; and
(iv)
defray any other extraordinary charges.
76.
Election expenses to be borne by the Government.
- The cost of the preparation and revision of the electoral roll, the cost of the election expenses, including the conduct of
elections to the Gram
Panchayat and the cost of maintenance of election establishment employed in connection therewith, shall be borne by
the Government.
77.
Preparation and sanction of budget.
(1)
The Executive Authority shall in each year frame before the prescribed date and place before the Gram Panchayat, the
budget showing the probable receipts and expenditure during the following year and the Gram Panchayat shall, within
one month of the date on which the budget is placed before it, sanction the budget with such modifications, if any, as it
thinks fit:
Provided that if for any reasons, the budget is not sanctioned by the Gram Panchayat under this sub-Section before the
expiration of the period of one month aforesaid, the Executive Authority shall submit the budget to the Divisional
Panchayat Officer, who shall sanction it with such modifications, if any, as he thinks fit.
(2)
Where the budget is sanctioned by the Gram Panchayat it shall be forwarded by the Executive Authority on or before
such date as may be prescribed to the Divisional Panchayat Officer. The Divisional Panchayat Officer shall make such
suggestions or modifications as he may deem fit within one month from the date of its receipt and return it to the Gram
Panchayat which shall consider the same and approve the budget with or without modifications, at a special meeting
convened for the purpose; and the budget so approved at such meeting shall be final.
(3)
If in the course of a year a Gram Panchayat finds it necessary to alter figures shown in the budget with regard to its
receipts or to the distribution of the amounts to be expended on the different services undertaken by it, a supplemental
or revised budget may be framed, sanctioned, submitted and modified in the manner provided in sub-Sections (1) and
(2).
78.
Contribution to expenditure by other local authorities.
- If the expenditure incurred by the Government or by any other Gram Panchayat or the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or by any other local authority in the State for any purpose authorised by or under this Act is such as to benefit the
inhabitants of the village, the Gram Panchayat may, with the sanction of the Commissioner, and shall, if so directed by
him, make a contribution towards such expenditure.
79.
Recovery of loans and advances made by the Government.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything in the Local Authorities Loan Act, 1914 (Central Act 9 of 1914), or any other law similar thereto
for the time being in force, the Government may-
Page 44/149
----- PAGE 45 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(a)
by order direct any person having custody of the Gram Panchayat Fund to pay to them in priority to any other charges
against such fund, except charges for the service of authorised loans, any loan or advance made by them to the Gram
Panchayat for any purpose to which its funds may be applied under this Act;
(b)
recover any such loan or advance by suit.
(2)
The person to whom the order referred to in clause (a) of sub-Section (1) is addressed shall be bound to comply with
such other.
Chapter IV
Public Safety, Convenience and Health
80.
Vesting of water works in Gram Panchayats.
(1)
All public water-courses, springs, reservoirs, tanks, cisterns, fountains wells, stand-pipes and other water works
(including those used by the public to such an extent as to give a prescriptive right to their use) whether existing at the
commencement of this Act or afterwards made, laid or erected and whether made, laid or erected at the cost of the
Gram Panchayat or otherwise for the use or benefit of the public, and also any adjacent land, not being private property,
appertaining thereto shall vest in the Gram Panchayat and be subject to its control:
Provided that nothing in this sub-Section shall apply to any work which is, or is connected with, a work of irrigation or to
any adjacent land appertaining to any such work.
(2)
Subject to such restrictions and control as may be prescribed, the Gram Panchayat shall have the fishery rights in any
water work vested in it under sub-Section (1), the right to supply water from any such work for raising seed beds on
payment of the prescribed fee, and the right to use the adjacent land appertaining thereto for planting of trees and
enjoying the usufruct thereof or for like purpose.
(3)
The Government may, by notification, define or limit such control or may, assume the administration of any public source
of water supply and public land adjacent and appertaining thereto after consulting, the Gram Panchayat and giving due
regard to its objections, if any.
81.
Setting apart of public tanks etc., for certain purposes.
(1)
(a)
The Gram Panchayat may, in the interests of Public Health, regulate or prohibit the washing of animals or of clothes or
other articles or fishing in any public spring, tank or well or in any public water course or part thereof and may set apart
any such place for drinking or for bathing or for washing animals or clothes or for any other specified purpose.
(b)
The powers conferred by clause (a) may, in the case of any private spring, tank, well, or water course, be exercised by
the Gram Panchayat, with the consent of the owner of such place.
(c)
The Gram Panchayat may, in the interests of public health, regulate or prohibit the washing of animals or of clothes or of
other articles, in any private spring, tank, well or water-course from which the public have a right to take water for
drinking purposes.
(2)
The Executive Authority on receipt of a certificate from any health or medical officer in the service of the Government,
the Gram Panchayat or the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
stating that the water in any well, tank, spring or other sources of water supply to which the public have access in the
Page 45/149
----- PAGE 46 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
village, is likely to endanger or cause the spread of any dangerous disease, shall, by public notice, prohibit the use of
such water, such notice shall be served by affixing a copy of it near the source of water-supply and by beat of drum
stating the number of days during which such prohibition shall last. The Executive Authority may modify the notice or
extend the period of operation thereof without the production of a further certificate.
82.
Prohibition against using places so set apart for purposes other than those Notified.
- No person shall-
(a)
bathe in or defile, the water in any place set apart for drinking or cooking purposes either by a Gram Panchayat or in the
case of private property, by the owner thereof; or
(b)
deposit any offensive or deleterious matter in the bed of any place set apart as aforesaid when such bed is dry; or
(c)
wash clothing in any place set apart as aforesaid; or
(d)
wash any animal or any cooking utensil or wool, skins or other foul or offensive substance or deposit any offensive or
deleterious matter in any other place set apart as aforesaid or set apart for bathing or for washing clothes.
(e)
allow the water from a sink, sewer, drain engine or boiler, or any other offensive matter belonging to him or flowing from
any building or land belonging to or occupied by him, to pass into any place set apart as aforesaid or set apart for
bathing or for washing clothes.
83.
Contribution from persons having control over places of pilgrimage etc.
- Where a mosque, temple, mutt or any place of religious worship or instruction or any place which is used for holding
fairs, or festivals or for other like purposes, is situated within the limits of a village or in the neighbourhood thereof and
attracts either throughout the year or on particular occasions a large number of persons, any special arrangements
necessary for public health, safety or convenience, whether permanent or temporary, shall be made by the Gram
Panchayat but the Government may, after consulting the trustee or other person having control over such place, require
him to make such recurring or non-recurring contribution to the funds of the Gram Panchayat as they may determine.
84.
Cleaning of Private Latrines.
- The Executive Authority of a Gram Panchayat may contract with the owner or occupier of any premises to remove
rubbish or filth or any particular kind of rubbish or filth, from such premises or any place belonging thereto, on such
terms as to times and periods of removal and other matters as may deem fit and suitable to the Executive Authority and
on payment of fees at such rate calculated to cover the cost of the service as the Gram Panchayat may fix.
85.
Registration of burial and burning grounds.
(1)
Every owner or person having control of any place used at the commencement of this Act as a place for burying, burning
or otherwise disposing of the dead, shall, if such place be not already registered under any law applicable thereto, apply
to the Gram Panchayat to have such place registered under this Act.
(2)
If it appears to such Gram Panchayat that there is no owner or person having the control of such place, the Gram
Panchayat shall assume such control and register such place or may close it.
86.
Licensing of places for disposal of the dead.
(1)
No new place for the disposal of the dead whether private or public, shall be opened, formed, constructed or used,
unless a licence is obtained from the Gram Panchayat on application.
(2)
Such application for a licence shall be accompanied by a plan of the place to be licensed showing the locality, boundary
Page 46/149
----- PAGE 47 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
and extent thereof, the name of the owner or person or community interested therein, the system of management and
such further particulars as the Gram Panchayat may require.
(3)
The Gram Panchayat to which an application is made, may, in consultation with the District Health Officer -
(a)
grant or refuse a licence, or
(b)
postpone the grant of licence, until objections, if any, to the site, considered reasonable by the Gram Panchayat have
been removed or any particulars called for by it have been furnished.
(4)
The District Collector may cancel or modify any order passed by Gram Panchayat under sub-Section (3).
87.
Provision of burning and burial grounds.
- A Gram Panchayat may, and shall, if no sufficient provision exists, provide at the cost of the Gram Panchayat Fund,
places to be used as burial or burning grounds or crematoria, and may charge rents and fees for the use thereof.
88.
A book to be kept of places registered, licensed or provided.
(1)
A book shall be kept at the office of every Gram Panchayat in which the places registered, licensed or provided under
Section 85, Section 86, Section 87 and all such places registered, licensed or provided before the commencement of
this Act shall be recorded.
(2)
A notice in English and in the chief language of the village that such place has been registered, licensed or provided as
aforesaid, shall be affixed at or near the entrance to such place conspicuously.
89.
Prohibition against burying or burning in unauthorised places.
- No person shall bury, burn or otherwise dispose of or cause of suffer to be buried, burnt or otherwise disposed or any
corpse in any place within two hundred metres of a dwelling place or any source of drinking water supply other than a
place registered, licensed or provided as aforesaid.
90.
Notices to be given to Gram Panchayat of burials etc.
- The person having control of a place for disposing of the dead shall give information of every burial, burning or other
disposal, of a corpse at such place to any person appointed by the Gram Panchayat.
91.
Prohibition against use of burial and burning grounds dangerous to health or overcrowded with graves.
(1)
If a Gram Panchayat is satisfied,-
(a)
that any registered or licensed place for the disposal of the dead is in such a state or a situation as to be or to be likely to
become, dangerous to the health of persons living in the neighbourhood thereof; or
(b)
that any burial ground is overcrowded with graves, and if in the case of a public burial or burning ground or other place
as aforesaid, another convenient place duly authorised for the disposal of the dead exists or has been provided for the
persons who would ordinarily make use of such place, it may, with the approval of Commissioner, give notice that it shall
not be lawful, after a period of not less than two months to be specified in such notice, to bury, burn or otherwise dispose
of, any corpse at such place.
(2)
Every notice given under sub-Section (1) shall be published by affixture to the notice board in the office of the Gram
Panchayat and in the village by beat of drum.
(3)
No person shall, in contravention of any notice under this Section and after the expiration of the period specified in such
Page 47/149
----- PAGE 48 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
notice, bury, burn or otherwise dispose of, or cause or permit to be buried, burnt or otherwise disposed of, any corpse at
such place.
92.
[ Power to control and administer stray dogs or pigs.
[Substituted by Act No. 8 of 2018.]
- A Gram Panchayat shall have power to control and administer stray dogs or pigs in such manner as may be
prescribed.]
93.
Prohibition against allowing outflow of filth.
- No owner or occupier of any premises shall allow the water from any sink, drain, latrine, or stable or any other filth, to
flow out of such premises to any portion of a public road except a drain or cesspool or to flow out of such premises in
such a manner as to cause nuisance by the soakage of the said water or filth into the walls or ground at the side of a
drain forming a portion of such public road.
94.
Power as to sanitation and conservancy.
(1)
If it appears necessary to improve the sanitary conditions of any area within the village, the Executive Authority may, by
written notice, require owner or occupier of any of the lands, and houses in area, within a reasonable period to be
specified in the notice, -
(a)
to remove a hut or privy either wholly or in part;
(b)
to construct in a building, private drains there for to alter or to remove, any private drain thereof;
(c)
to cause any land or building to be cleansed to the satisfaction of the Executive Authority;
(d)
where any land or building contains a well, pool, ditch, pond, tank or any drain, filth or stagnant water which is injurious
to health or offensive to the neighbourhood or is otherwise a source of nuisance, to cause the same to be filled up,
cleansed or deepened or to cause the water to be removed therefrom or drained off or to take such other action as may
be deemed necessary by the Executive Authority;
(e)
to cause any land overgrown with vegetation, under growth, prickly-pear or jungle which is in any manner injurious to
health or dangerous to the public or offensive to the neighbourhood or an impediment to efficient ventilation, to be
cleared of the vegetation, undergrowth, prickly pear or jungle;
(f)
to convert any step well into a draw-well:
Provided that the Executive Authority shall hear and decide objections, if any, raised by the person on whom a notice is
so served.
(2)
If any work required under sub-Section (1) is not executed within the period specified in the notice the Executive
Authority may himself cause such work to be carried out, and may recover the cost of such work or part thereof from the
owner or occupier referred to in sub-Section (1) in the manner hereinafter provided.
95.
Prohibition against working of quarry near public roads.
(1)
No person shall work a quarry in, or remove stones, earth or other material from, any place within twenty metres of a
public road or of other immovable property vesting in or belonging to the Gram Panchayat except under a licence issued
by a Gram Panchayat. The Gram Panchayat may either grant or refuse to grant a licence and in the later case the
reasons for refusal shall be communicated to the person concerned.
(2)
If, in the opinion of the Gram Panchayat, the working of any quarry or the removal of stone, earth or other material from
Page 48/149
----- PAGE 49 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
any place is dangerous to any person residing in, or having legal access to, the neighbourhood thereof or creates or is
likely to create a nuisance, the Gram Panchayat may require the owner or person having control of the said quarry or
place to discontinue working the same or to discontinue removing stone, earth or other material from such place or to
take such action in respect of such quarry or place as it shall deem necessary for the purpose of preventing danger or of
abating the nuisance arising or likely to arise therefrom.
96.
Prohibition against destruction in or over public roads.
- No person shall build any wall or erect any fence or other obstruction or projection or make any encroachment in or
over any public road except as hereinafter provided.
97.
Prohibition against and regulation of door, gate, bar or ground floor window opening outwards.
(1)
No door, gate, bar or ground floor window shall, without a licence from the Executive Authority, be hung or placed so as
to open outwards upon any public road vested in the Gram Panchayat.
(2)
The Executive Authority may, by notice, require the owner of such door, gate, bar or ground floor window to alter it, so
that no part thereof when open shall project over the public road.
98.
Removal of encroachments.
(1)
The Executive Authority may, by notice, require the owner or occupier of any building to remove or alter any projection,
encroachment or obstruction, other than a door, gate, bar or ground floor window, situated against or in front of such
building and in or over any public road vested in such Gram Panchayat.
(2)
If the owner or the occupier of the building proves that any such projection, encroachment or obstruction has existed for
a period sufficient under the law of limitation to give any person a prescriptive title thereto or that it was erected or made
with the permission or licence of any local authority duly empowered in that behalf, and that the period, if any, for which
the permission or licence is valid has not expired, the Gram Panchayat shall make reasonable compensation to every
person who suffers damages by the removal or alteration of the same.
99.
Power to allow certain projections and erections.
(1)
The Executive Authority may, with the approval of the Gram Panchayat, grant a licence, subject to such conditions and
restrictions as he may think fit to the owner or occupier of any building to put up verandahs, balconies, sunshades,
weather frames and the like, to project over a public road vested in such Gram Panchayat; or to construct any step or
drain covering necessary for access to the building.
(2)
The Executive Authority may grant a licence, subject to such conditions and restrictions as he may think fit for the
temporary erection of pandal and other structures in a public road vested in such Gram Panchayat; or in any other public
place the control of which is vested in such Gram Panchayat.
(3)
The Executive Authority shall have power with the approval of the Gram Panchayat, to lease the roadsides vested in
such Gram Panchayat for occupation on such terms and conditions and for such period as the Gram Panchayat may fix.
(4)
But neither a licence under sub-Section (1) nor a lease under sub-Section (3) shall be granted if the projection,
construction or occupation, as the case may be, is likely to be injurious to health or cause public inconvenience or
otherwise materially interfere with the use of the road as such.
(5)
The Government may, by notification, restrict and place under such control as they may think fit the exercise, by any
Gram Panchayat of the powers under sub-Sections (1) and (3).
(6)
Page 49/149
----- PAGE 50 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
On the expiry of any period for which a licence has been granted under this Section the Executive Authority may without
notice, cause any projection or construction put up under sub-Section (2) to be removed, and the cost of so doing shall
be recoverable, in the manner hereinafter provided from the person to whom the licence was granted.
100.
Prohibition of building on sewer, drain etc., without permission.
(1)
No building shall be erected without the written permission of the Executive Authority or any person authorised by such
Executive Authority, over any sewer or drain or any part of sewer or drain or upon any ground which has been covered,
raised or levelled wholly or in part by road sweepings or other rubbish.
(2)
The Executive Authority or the person authorised by him as aforesaid may, by notice, require any person who has
erected a building without such permission or in a manner contrary to or inconsistent with the terms of such permission
to demolish the same.
101.
Prohibition against making holes and causing obstruction in public roads.
(1)
No person shall make a hole or cause any obstruction in any public road vested in a Gram Panchayat except with the
previous permission of the Executive Authority and subject to such conditions as the Executive Authority may impose.
(2)
When such permission is granted such person shall, at his own expense, cause such hole or obstruction to be
sufficiently fenced and enclosed until the hole or obstruction to be sufficiently lighted during the night.
(3)
If any person contravenes the provisions of this Section, the Executive Authority shall fill up the hole or remove the
obstruction or cause the hole or obstruction to be lighted, as the case may be, and may recover the cost of so doing
from such person.
102.
Prohibition against planting or felling trees on public roads etc., without permission.
(1)
No person shall plant any tree on any public road or other property vesting in or belonging to a Gram Panchayat, except
with the previous permission of the Executive Authority and on such conditions as the Executive Authority may impose.
(2)
No person shall fell, remove, destroy lop or strip bark, leaves or fruits from or otherwise damage any tree vesting in or
belonging to a Gram Panchayat and growing on any such public road or property except with the previous permission or
order of the Executive Authority and on such conditions as the Executive Authority may impose.
103.
Recovery of penalty and compensation for unauthorised occupation of land.
(1)
If any person, without the previous sanction of the Gram Panchayat, occupies any land which is set apart for any public
purpose and is vested in or belongs to it, he shall be bound to pay in respect of such occupation such sum as may be
demanded by the Gram Panchayat by way of penalty; and any such sum may be recovered in the manner hereinafter
provided.
(2)
The Executive Authority may, by notice require any person on whom a penalty is or may be imposed under sub-Section
(1) to vacate such land and to remove any building or other construction or anything deposited on it.
(3)
If any damage to the property of the Gram Panchayat has been caused by any person occupying any land for which he
is liable to pay penalty under sub-Section (1), he shall be liable to pay compensation to the Gram Panchayat for such
damage in addition to and irrespective of any penalty that may be imposed on or recovered from him, and the amount of
such compensation, shall in case of dispute, be determined and recovered in the manner hereinafter provided.
104.
Public Markets.
Page 50/149
----- PAGE 51 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(1)
The Gram Panchayat may provide places for use as public market and, with the sanction of the Commissioner, close
any such market or part thereof.
(2)
Subject to such rules as may be prescribed the Gram Panchayat may levy one or more of the following fees in any
public market at such rates, not exceeding the maximum rates, if any prescribed in this behalf, as the Gram Panchayat
may think fit-
(a)
fees for the use of, or for the right to expose goods for sale in such market;
(b)
fees for the use of shops, stalls, pens or stands in such markets;
(c)
fees on vehicles including motor vehicles as defined in the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988) or
pack-animals bringing or persons carrying, any goods for sale in such markets;
(d)
fees on animals brought for sale into or sold in such market;
(e)
licence fees on brokers, commission agents, weighmen and measures practising their calling in such market.
105.
Licence for private markets.
(1)
No person shall open a new private market or continue to keep open a private market unless he obtain from the Gram
Panchayat a licence to do so.
(2)
Application for such licence shall be made by the owner of the place in respect of which the licence is sought not less
than thirty and not more than ninety days before such place is opened as a market, or the commencement of the year
for which the licence is sought to be renewed, as the case may be.
(3)
The Gram Panchayat shall, as regards private markets already lawfully established and may, as regards new private
markets, grant the licence applied for, subject to such regulations as to supervision and inspection and to such
conditions as to sanitation, drainage, water supply, width of paths and ways, weights and measures to be used, and
rents and fees to be charged in such market, as the Gram Panchayat may think proper; or the Gram Panchayat may, for
reasons to be recorded in writing, refuse to grant any such licence for any new private market. The Gram Panchayat
may, however, at any time for breach of any condition of the licence suspend or cancel the licence granted under this
Section. The Gram Panchayat may also modify any of the conditions of the licence to take effect from a specified date.
(4)
When a licence is granted, refused, suspended, cancelled or modified under this Section, the Gram Panchayat shall
cause a notice of such grant, refusal, suspension, cancellation or modification in the chief language of the village to be
pasted conspicuously at or near the entrance to the place in respect of which the licence was sought or had been
obtained.
(5)
Every licence granted under this Section shall expire at the end of the year.
(6)
Any person aggrieved by an order of the Gram Panchayat under sub-Section (3) may appeal against such order to the
Commissioner who may, if he thinks fit, suspend the execution of the order, pending the disposal of the appeal.
106.
Fee for licence.
- When a licence granted under Section 104 permits the levy of any fees of the nature specified in sub-Section (2) of
Section 104 a fee not exceeding fifteen per cent of gross income of the owner from the market in the preceding year,
shall be charged by the Gram Panchayat for such licence.
107.
Page 51/149
----- PAGE 52 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Power exercisable by Executive Authority in respect of public markets.
- The Executive Authority may expel from any public market any person who or whose servant has been convicted of
disobeying any bye-laws for the time being in force in such market, and may prevent such persons from further carrying
on by himself or his servants or agents, any trade or business in such market, or occupying any shop, stall or other
place therein and may determine any lease or tenure which such person may possess in any shop, stall or place.
108.
Powers exercisable by Gram Panchayat in respect of private markets.
(1)
The Gram Panchayat may by notice, require the owner, occupier, or farmer of any private market to, -
(a)
construct approaches, entrances, passages, gates, drains and cess-pits for such market and provide it with latrines of
such description and in such position and number as the Gram Panchayat may think fit;
(b)
roof and pave the whole or any portion of it or pave any portion of the floor with such material as will in the opinion of the
Gram Panchayat secure imperviousness and ready cleansing;
(c)
ventilate it properly and provide it with an adequate supply of water;
(d)
provide passages of sufficient width between the stalls and make such alterations in the stalls, passages, shops, doors
or other parts of the market as the Gram Panchayat may direct;
(e)
keep it in a cleanly and proper state, remove all filth and refuse therefrom and dispose of them at such place and in such
manner as the Gram Panchayat may direct; and
(f)
make such other sanitary arrangements as the Gram Panchayat may consider necessary.
(2)
If any person, after notice given to him in that behalf by the Gram Panchayat, fails within the period and in the manner
laid down in the said notice, to carry out any of the works specified in sub-Section (1), the Gram Panchayat may
suspend the licence of the said person, or may refuse to grant him a licence until such work is completed.
(3)
It shall not be lawful for any person to keep open any private market during such suspension or until the licence is
renewed.
(4)
No owner, occupier, agent or manager in-charge of any private market, or of any shop, stall, shed or other place therein,
shall keep the same so that it is a nuisance, or fail to cause anything that is a nuisance in such market, shop, stall, shed
or other place to be at once removed to a place to be specified by the Gram Panchayat.
109.
Decisions of disputes as to whether places are market.
- If any question arises as to whether any place is a market or not, the Gram Panchayat shall make a reference thereon
to the Government and their decision shall be final.
110.
Prohibition of sale in unlicensed private market etc.
- No person shall sell or expose for sale any animal or article,
(a)
in any unlicensed private market; or
(b)
in any public or licensed private market without the permission of the Executive Authority or licensee, as the case may
be, or of any person authorised by him.
111.
Prohibition against sale in or upon public roads.
- The Executive Authority may, with the sanction of the Gram Panchayat, prohibit by public notice or licence or regulate
Page 52/149
----- PAGE 53 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
the sale or exposure for sale of any animals or articles in or upon any public road or place or part thereof.
112.
Classification of markets.
(1)
The Government shall have power to classify public and private markets situated in a village as [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
markets and Gram Panchayat markets and provide for the control of any such market and for the apportionment of the
income derived therefrom between the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and the Gram Panchayat or the payment of a contribution in respect thereof to the Gram Panchayat or the [Zilla Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as the case may be.
(2)
In the case of markets classified as [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
markets, the Gram Panchayat and its Executive Authority shall not exercise any of the powers conferred on them by
Sections 104 to 111 or both inclusive.
113.
Vesting of places used as markets situated in estates taken over by the Government.
- With effect on and from the date of deposit of final compensation under sub-Section (1) of Section 41 of the Andhra
Pradesh (Andhra Area) Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 (Act XXIV of 1948) in respect of any
estates any place used as a market in such estates, which was vested in the Government under the provisions of the
said Act, shall stand transferred to, and vest in, the Gram Panchayat in whose limits such place is situated and,
thereupon, the Gram Panchayat shall provide such place for use as a public market.
114.
Classification of public roads, fairs and festivals etc.
- The classification of public roads, fairs and festivals, choultries, dispensaries and libraries in any Gram Panchayat area
as appertaining to the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the Gram Panchayat shall be made by the Commissioner in such manner as may be prescribed.
115.
Public landing places, cart-stands etc.
- Subject to such rules as may be prescribed, the Gram Panchayat may : -
(a)
provide public landing places, halting places, and cart stands (which last expression includes stands for animals and
vehicles of any description including motor vehicles) and levy fees for their use:
Provided that it shall be open to the Gram Panchayat to permit any person to compound such fees by paying in lieu
thereof such lumpsum amount as may be fixed by the Gram Panchayat;
(b)
where any such place or stand has been provided, prohibit the use for the same purpose by any person within such
distance thereof, of any public places or the sides of any public road, as the Gram Panchayat may, subject to the control
of the Commissioner specify.
116.
Private cart-stands.
Page 53/149
----- PAGE 54 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
- No person shall open a new private cart-stand and or continue to keep open a private cart-stand unless he obtain from
the Gram Panchayat a licence to do so. Such licence shall be renewed every year.
(2)
The Gram Panchayat shall as regards private cart-stands already lawfully established, and may, at its discretion, as
regards new private cart-stands, grant the licence applied for subject to such conditions as the Gram Panchayat may
think fit as to supervision and inspection, conservancy and such other matters as may be prescribed, or the Gram
Panchayat may refuse to grant such licence, for any new cart-stand.
(3)
The Gram Panchayat may modify conditions of the licence to take effect from a specified date.
(4)
The Gram Panchayat may at any time suspend or cancel any licence granted under sub-Section (2) for breach of the
conditions thereof.
(5)
The Gram Panchayat may levy on every grant or renewal of a licence under this Section, a fee not exceeding two
hundred rupees.
117.
Public slaughter houses.
- Subject to such rules as may be prescribed, every Gram Panchayat may provide places for use as public slaughter
houses and charge rents and fees for their use.
118.
Prohibition or regulation of the use of places for slaughtering animals and licensing of slaughterers.
- The Government shall have power to make rules for-
(a)
prohibiting or regulating the slaughter, cutting up or skinning of animals specified in the rules, on all occasions not
excepted therein, at places other than public slaughter-houses;
(b)
licensing persons to slaughter animals specified in the rules for purposes of sale to the public; and
(c)
the inspection of slaughter-houses and of the meat therein and the payment of remuneration to the officers employed for
such inspection.
119.
Purposes for which places may not be used without licence.
- The Gram Panchayat may notify in the prescribed manner, that no place within the limits of the village shall be used for
any one or more of the purposes specified in the rules made in this behalf without a licence issued by the Executive
Authority in the prescribed manner and except in accordance with the conditions specified in such licence:
Provided that no such notification shall take effect until the expiry of a period of sixty days from the date of publication.
120.
Applications to be made for construction, establishment, or installation of factory, workshop or work place in which
steam or other power is to be employed.
(1)
Every person intending, -
(a)
to construct or establish any factory, workshop or work-place in which it is proposed to employ-steam power, water
power or other mechanical power or electrical power; or
(b)
to install in any premises any machinery or manufacturing plant driven by steam, water or other powers as aforesaid, not
being machinery or manufacturing plant exempted by rules made in this behalf, shall, before beginning such
construction, establishment or installation, obtain the permission of the Gram Panchayat in the prescribed manner for
undertaking the intended work.
(2)
The application to be made under sub-Section (1) shall conform to such rules and shall be processed in such manner
Page 54/149
----- PAGE 55 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
and in consultation and approval of such authorities and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed.
121.
Construction of buildings.
- No piece of land shall be used as a site for the construction of a building and no building shall be constructed or
reconstructed and no addition or alteration shall be made to an existing building without the permission of the Gram
Panchayat granted in accordance with the provisions of any rules or bye-laws made under this Act, relating to the use of
building sites or the construction or reconstruction of buildings:
Provided that the Government may, in respect of all Gram Panchayats or with the consent of the Gram Panchayat, in
respect of any particular Gram Panchayat or portion thereof, exempt all buildings or any class of buildings from all or any
of the provisions of any rules or bye-laws made under this Act.
122.
Power of Gram Panchayat to issue directions for abatement of nuisance caused by steam or other power.
(1)
If in any factory, workshop or workplace in which steam power, water power or other mechanical power or electrical
power is used, nuisance is caused by reason of the particular kind of fuel employed or by reason of the noise or
vibration created, the Gram Panchayat may issue such directions as it thinks fit for the abatement of nuisance within a
reasonable time to be specified for the purpose.
(2)
If there has been willful default in carrying out such directions or if abatement is found impracticable, the Gram
Panchayat may,-
(a)
prohibit the use of the particular kind of fuel employed, or
(b)
restrict the noise or vibration by prohibiting the working of the factory, workshop or work-place between the hours of 9.30
p.m. and 5.30. a.m.
123.
Form of licences, notices, permissions.
- All licences, notices, permissions, given, issued or granted, as the case may be, under the provisions of this Act, shall
be in accordance with such rules as may be made in this behalf.
124.
Power of Government to pass order to give directions.
- The Government may, either generally or in any particular case, make such order or give such directions as they may
deem fit, in respect of any action taken or omitted to be taken under Section 119, Section 120 or Section 122.
125.
Modification of the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Places of Public Resort Act, 1888.
- Notwithstanding anything in the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Places of Public Resort Act, 1888 or any other Act
similar thereto for the time being in force in the State, when the Government extend that Act to any village or part thereof
-
(a)
the authority to whom application shall be made for a licence under that Act in respect of any place or building to be
used exclusively for purposes other than the holding of cinematograph exhibitions and who may grant or refuse such
licence shall be the Executive Authority, and
(b)
the appeal from the order of the Executive Authority granting, refusing, revoking or suspending a licence under that Act
shall lie to the Gram Panchayat.
Chapter V
General and Miscellaneous (Gram Panchayats)
126.
Power to name streets and number buildings.
(1)
The Gram Panchayat may, in the manner prescribed, cause a name to be given to any street and shall cause a number
Page 55/149
----- PAGE 56 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
to be affixed to the side or outer door of any building or to some place at the entrance of such building and in a like
manner, may, from time to time, cause such name or number to be altered.
(2)
No person shall, without lawful authority, destroy, pull down, or deface any such name or number or any number
assigned to any building in any such area.
(3)
When a number has been affixed, the owner of the building shall be bound to maintain such number and to replace it if
removed or defaced, and if he fails to do so, the prescribed authority may, by notice require him to replace it.
127.
General provisions regarding licences and permissions.
(1)
Every licence and permission granted under this Act or any rule or bye-law made under this Act shall specify the period,
if any, for which, and the restrictions, limitations and conditions subject to which the same is granted and shall be signed
by the Executive Authority or by some person duly authorised by him in this behalf.
(2)
Save as otherwise expressly provided in or may be prescribed under this Act, for every such licence or permission fees
may be charged on such units and at such rates as may be fixed by the Gram Panchayat:
Provided that a person who is a barber, washerman, medari or kummari or other village artisan by profession shall not
be liable to pay any fees in relation to the licence granted to him for the use of any place in the Gram Panchayat for
exercising his profession or transacting his business as such.
(3)
Every order of the authority competent under this Act or any rule or bye-law made thereunder to pass an order refusing,
suspending, cancelling or modifying a licence or permission shall be in writing and shall state the grounds on which it
proceeds:
Provided that every application for a licence or permission under this Act shall be disposed of within fifteen days from
the date of receipt thereof or from the date of receipt of approvals or completion of other formalities prescribed failing
which it shall be deemed that licence or permission is granted.
(4)
Subject to the special provisions regarding private markets, any licence or permission granted under this Act or any rule
or bye-law made thereunder it may, at any time, after giving the persons concerned an opportunity of making a
representation be suspended or revoked by the Executive Authority if any of the restrictions, limitations or conditions laid
down in respect thereof is evaded or infringed by the grantee, or if the grantee is convicted of a breach of any of the
provisions of this Act, or of any rule, bye-law or regulation made under it, in any matter to which such licence or
permission relates or if the grantee has obtained the same by misrepresentation or fraud.
(5)
It shall be the duty of the Executive Authority to inspect places in respect of which a licence or permission is required by
or under this Act, and he may enter any such place between sunrise and sunset, and also between sunset and sunrise if
it is open to the public or any industry is being carried on in it at that time; and if he has reason to believe that anything is
being done in any place without a licence or permission where the same is required by or under this Act, or otherwise
than in conformity with the same, he may at any time by day or night without notice enter such place for the purpose of
satisfying himself whether any provision of law, rules, bye-laws or regulations, any condition of a licence or permission
or any lawful direction or prohibition is being contravened; and no claim shall lie against any person for any damage or
inconvenience necessarily caused by the exercise of powers under this sub-Section by the Executive Authority or any
person to whom he has lawfully delegated his powers; or by the use of any force necessary for effecting an entrance
under this sub-Section.
(6)
When any licence or permission is suspended or revoked or when the period for which its was granted, or within which
application for renewal should be made has expired, whichever expires later, the grantee shall for all purposes of this
Act, or any rule or bye-law made under this Act, be deemed to be without a licence or permission, until the order
suspending or revoking the licence or permission is cancelled or subject to sub-Section (11) until the licence or
permission is renewed as the case may be.
Page 56/149
----- PAGE 57 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(7)
The grantee of every licence or permission shall, at all reasonable times, while such licence or permission remains in
force, produce the same at the request of the Executive Authority.
(8)
Whenever any person is convicted of an offence in respect of the failure to obtain a licence or permission or to make a
registration as required by the provisions of this Act or any rule or bye-law made thereunder, the Magistrate shall, in
addition to any fine which may be imposed, recover summarily and pay over to the Gram Panchayat the amount of the
fee chargeable for the licence or permission or for registration and may, in his discretion, also recover summarily and
pay over to the Gram Panchayat such amount, if any, as he may fix, as the costs of the prosecution.
(9)
Save as otherwise expressly provided in or may be prescribed under this Act, every application for a licence or
permission or for registration under this Act or any rule, bye-law or regulation made thereunder or for renewal thereof,
shall be made not less than thirty and not more than ninety days before the commencement of the period or such less
period as is mentioned in the application.
(10)
Recovery of the fee under sub-Section (8) shall not entitle the person convicted to a licence or permission or to
registration as aforesaid.
(11)
The acceptance by or on behalf of a Gram Panchayat of the prepayment of the fee for a licence or permission or for
registration shall not entitle the person making such prepayment to the licence or permission or of registration, as the
case may be but only to refund of the fee in case of refusal of the licence or permission or of registration, but an
applicant for the renewal of a licence or permission or registration shall, until communication of orders on his application,
be entitled to act as if the licence or permission or registration had been renewed and save as otherwise specially
provided in this Act, if orders on an application for licence or permission or for registration are not communicated to the
applicant within thirty days or such longer period as may be prescribed in any class of cases after the receipt of the
application by the Executive Authority, the application shall be deemed to have been allowed for the period if any, for
which it would have been ordinarily allowed and subject to the law, rules bye-laws and regulations and all conditions
ordinarily imposed.
128.
Appeal from the order of Executive Authority.
(1)
An appeal shall lie to the Gram Panchayat from -
(a)
any order of the Executive Authority granting, refusing, suspending or revoking a licence or permission;
(b)
any other order of the Executive Authority that may be made appealable by rules made under Section 268.
(2)
A second appeal shall lie from the decision of the Gram Panchayat passed in an appeal under sub-Section (1) to such
authority as may be prescribed whose decision thereon shall be final.
129.
Limitation of time for appeal.
- In any case in which no time is fixed by the foregoing provisions of this Act for the presentation of an appeal allowed
thereunder, such appeal shall, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of the Indian Limitation Act, 1963 (Central Act 36 of
1963) be presented within thirty days after the date of receipt of the order from which the appeal is preferred.
130.
Government and Market Committees not to obtain licences and permissions.
- Nothing in this Act or in any rule, bye-law or regulation made thereunder shall be construed as requiring the taking out
of any licence or the obtaining of any permission under this Act or any such rule, bye-law or regulation in respect of any
place in the occupation or under the control of the State or Central Government or of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
Page 57/149
----- PAGE 58 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or of a Market Committee constituted under the Andhra Pradesh (Agricultural Produce and Livestock) Markets Act, 1966
(Act 16 of 1966) or in respect of any property of the State or Central Government or of any property belonging to such
[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or Market Committee.
131.
Time for complying with notice, order etc., and power to enforce in default.
(1)
Whenever by any notice, requisition or order under this Act, or under any rule, bye-law or regulation made thereunder,
any person is required to execute any work to take any measures or to do anything, a reasonable time shall be named in
such notice, requisition or order within which the work shall be executed, the measures taken or the thing done.
(2)
If such notice, requisition or order is not complied with within the times so named-
(a)
the Executive Authority may cause such work to be executed or may take any measures or do anything which may in his
opinion be necessary for giving due effect to the notice, requisition or order and all expenses thereby incurred by the
Gram Panchayat shall be paid by the person or persons upon whom a notice was served and shall be recoverable in the
manner hereinafter provided; and further
(b)
if no penalty has been specially provided, in this Act for failure to comply with such notice, requisition or order the said
person shall be punishable with fine not exceeding fifty rupees for every such offence.
132.
Powers of entry and inspection.
(1)
Subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed the Executive Authority or any person authorised by
him may, between sunrise and sunset on any day enter any place building or land with or without notice and with or
without assistants or workmen in order to make an inquiry, inspection, test, examination, survey, measurement or
valuation or to execute any other work which is authorised by the provisions of the Act or of any rule, bye-law, regulation
or order made under it or which it is necessary to make or execute for any of the purposes of this Act or in pursuance of
any of the said provisions.
(2)
No claim shall lie against any person for any damage or inconvenience necessarily caused by the exercise of powers
under sub-Section (1) or the use of any force necessary for effecting an entrance under that sub-Section.
133.
Testing of weights and measures.
- The Executive Authority or any person authorised by him may examine and test the weights and measures used in the
markets and shops in the village with a view to the prevention and punishment of offences relating to such weights and
measures under Chapter XIII of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act 45 of 1860).
134.
Power to call for information from Executive authority.
(1)
The Executive Authority may, by an order in writing require the Executive Authority having jurisdiction over the Gram
Panchayat to furnish him information on any matter falling within such categories as may be prescribe in respect of
villages within his jurisdiction or any part thereof or any person or property therein and such Executive Authority shall
comply with such order.
(2)
The order shall specify the period within which it may be complied with but the Executive Authority may, from time to
time, extend such period.
Page 58/149
----- PAGE 59 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
135.
Limitation for recovery of dues.
- No distraint shall be made, no suit shall be instituted and no prosecution shall be commenced in respect of any tax or
other amount due to a Gram Panchayat under this Act or any rule, bye-law, regulation or order made under it after the
expiration of a period of three years from the date on which distraint might first have been made, a suit might first have
been instituted, or prosecution might first have been commenced, as the case may be, in respect of such tax or amount.
136.
Persons empowered to prosecuted.
- Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, no person shall be tried for any offence against this Act or any rule or
bye-law made thereunder, unless complaint is made within twelve months of the commission of the offence by the
police, the Executive Authority or person expressly authorised in this behalf by the Gram Panchayat or Executive
Authority:
Provided that failure to take out a licence, obtain permission or secure registration under this Act, shall, for the purposes
of this Section be deemed a continuing offence until the expiration of the period, if any, for which the licence, permission
or registration is required and if no period is specified, complaint may be made at any time within twelve months from the
commencement of the offence.
137.
Power to compound offences.
(1)
The Executive Authority may, subject to such restrictions and control, as may be prescribed, compound for a sum not
exceeding rupees five hundred, any offence against the provisions of this Act or any rule or bye-law made thereunder,
which may by rules, be declared compoundable.
(2)
On payment of the amount by way of composition no further proceedings shall be taken or continued against the
defaulter in regard to the offence or alleged offence so compounded.
(3)
Nothing in this Section shall apply to election offences.
138.
prosecutions and compositions to be reported to Gram Panchayat.
- Every prosecution instituted or offence compounded by the Executive Authority shall be reported by him to the Gram
Panchayat at its next meeting.
138A.
[ Notice of action against Gram Panchayat.
[Inserted by Section 5 of Act No. 37 of 2001.]
(1)
Subject to the provisions of Section 138, no suit or other legal proceeding shall be brought against any Gram Panchayat
or the Sarpanch or the executive authority or any member, officer or servant of such Gram Panchayat or against any
person acting under the direction of such Gram Panchayat, Sarpanch, executive authority, member, officer or servant, in
respect of any act done or purporting to be done under this Act or in respect of any alleged neglect or default in the
execution of the provisions of this Act or any rule, bye-law, regulation or order made under it, until the expiration of two
months next after notice in writing stating the cause of action, the nature of the relief sought, the amount of
compensation claimed and the name and place of residence of the intended plaintiff, has been left at the office of the
Gram Panchayat and if the proceeding is intended to be brought against any such Sarpanch, executive authority,
member, officer, servant or person, also delivered to him or left at his place of residence, and unless such notice is
given, the court shall not entertain such suit or legal proceeding.
(2)
Every such proceeding shall, unless it is a proceeding for the recovery of immovable property or for a declaration of title
thereto, be commenced within six months after the date on which the cause of action arose or in case of a continuing
injury or damage, during such continuance or within six months after the ceasing thereof.
(3)
If any Gram Panchayat or person to whom notice is given under sub-Section (1) tenders amends to the plaintiff before
Page 59/149
----- PAGE 60 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
the proceeding is commenced and if the plaintiff does not in such proceeding recover more than the amount so
tendered, he shall not recover any costs incurred by him after such tender, and the plaintiff shall also pay all cost
incurred by the defendant after such tender.]
139.
Assistance of police to the Gram Panchayat.
- Every Police Officer in whose jurisdiction the village is situated, shall be bound to assist the Gram Panchayat and its
officers and servants in the exercise of their lawful authority.
140.
Wrongful restraint of Executive Authority or his delegates.
- Any person who prevents the Executive Authority or any person to whom the Executive Authority has lawfully
delegated his powers of entering on or into any place, building or land, from exercising his lawful power of entering
thereon or thereinto shall be deemed to have committed an offence under Section 344 of the Indian Penal Code (Central
Act 45 of 1860).
141.
Punishment for obstructing Gram Panchayat.
- Whoever obstructs a Gram Panchayat or the Sarpanch, the Executive Authority or a member of the Gram Panchayat
or any person employed by the Gram Panchayat or any person with whom it has contracted in the performance of its
duty under the provisions of this Act or of any rule made thereunder, or prevents or tries to prevent any person from
doing anything which he is empowered or required to do, by virtue of this Act, or removes any mark set up for the
purpose of indicating any level or direction incidental to the carrying out of any work authorised by this Act, or removes,
destroys, or defaces or otherwise obliterates any notice put up or exhibited by the Gram Panchayat or under its
authority, shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty rupees.
142.
Penalty for not giving information or giving false information.
- Any person required by this Act or by any notice or other proceedings issued thereunder to furnish any information,
who omits to furnish such information or knowingly furnishes false information shall be punishable with fine not
exceeding ten rupees.
Supplemental Provisions
143.
Special provisions in the case of [***]
[Omitted by Section 2 (i) of Act No. 2 of 1996.]
Gram Panchayats.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything in this Act, when a local area is notified as a village under Section 3, for the first time, the
Commissioner shall appoint a special officer to exercise the powers and perform the functions of the Gram Panchayat
and its Sarpanch and Executive Authority until the members and Sarpanch thereof who are duly elected assume office.
(2)
The special officer shall cause arrangements for the election of the members of the Gram Panchayat to be made before
such date as may be fixed by the Commissioner in this behalf:
Provided that the Commissioner may, from time to time, postpone the date so fixed, if for any reason, the elections
cannot be completed before such date.
(3)
[ "The Government, or as the case may be, an officer authorised by the Government, shall appoint a special officer or a
person-in-charge or a committee of persons-in-charge to a Gram Panchayat, if for any reason, the process of election to
such Gram Panchayat is not completed.
(4)
The special officer or person-in-charge or the committee of persons-in-charge, appointed under sub-Section (3) shall
exercise the powers and perform the functions of the gram panchayat and its Sarpanch and executive authority until the
members and Sarpanch elected thereof assume office".]
[Added by Section 2 (ii) of Act No. 2 of 1996.]
144.
Page 60/149
----- PAGE 61 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Public roads, markets, wells, tanks etc., to be open to all.
- All roads, markets, wells, tanks, reservoirs and water ways vested in or maintained by a Gram Panchayat shall be
open to the use and enjoyment of all persons, irrespective of their caste and creed.
145.
Power to farm out fees.
- A Gram Panchayat shall have power to farm out the collection of any fees due to it under this Act or any rule, bye-law
or regulation made thereunder, for any period not exceeding three years at a time on such conditions as it thinks fit.
146.
Extension of provisions of law relating to District Municipalities or of rules thereunder.
(1)
The Commissioner may, at the request of the Gram Panchayat or otherwise, by notification, declare that any of the
provisions of the law relating to municipalities for the time being in force or of any rule made thereunder including those
relating to taxation, shall be extended to and be in force in the village or any specified area therein.
(2)
The provisions so notified shall be construed with such alterations not affecting the substance as may be necessary or
proper for the purpose of adopting them to the village or specified area therein.
(3)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, all references to a municipal council or the Chairperson or
the Executive Authority thereof shall be construed as references to the Gram Panchayat or the Sarpanch or the
Executive Authority thereof, all references to any officer or servant of a municipal council as reference to corresponding
officer or servant of the Gram Panchayat and all references to the municipal limits as references to the limits of the
village or the specified area therein, as the case may be.
147.
Transfer of functions of Gram Panchayats to other local authorities or vice-versa.
- Notwithstanding anything in this Act, or in any law relating to other local authorities, the Government may, in
consultation with the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or other local authority as the case may be, and the Gram Panchayat concerned, by notification, and subject to such
restrictions and conditions and to such control and revision as may be specified therein, direct that, -
(i)
any power or function vested in the Gram Panchayat by or under this Act, shall be transferred to and exercised and
performed by the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the other local authority; and
(ii)
any power or function vested in the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the other local authority shall be transferred to and exercised and performed by the Gram Panchayat.
Explanation. -  For the purpose of this Section, 'local authority' includes, the Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure
Corporation Limited.
Part III ? Constitution and Incorporation, Composition, Powers, Functions, Etc., of [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
148.
Constitution and incorporation of [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Page 61/149
----- PAGE 62 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
.
(1)
There shall be constituted by the Government by notification from time to time, and with effect on and from such date, as
may be specified therein constitute a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
for each mandal.
(2)
Where under sub-Section (2) of Section 3 of the Andhra Pradesh Districts (Formation) Act, 1974 (Act
7 of 1974
), a Mandal is redelimited or a new Mandal is formed, the Government may, by notification, reconstitute the [Mandal
Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
for the redelimited Mandal or constitute a new [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
for the new Mandal. On such reconstitution or constitution the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
concerned functioning immediately before such reconstitution or constitution, shall stand abolished:
Provided that in reconstituting the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
the Government may direct that the President, the Vice-President or an elected member of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
which was functioning immediately before such redelimitation and who is otherwise qualified to hold such office in the
reconstituted [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be the President, Vice-President or elected member of the reconstituted [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as if he was elected to such office in the reconstituted [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(3)
Where after a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is constituted for a Mandal, a part of such Mandal is included in a neighbouring Municipality or Municipal Corporation,
and,
(i)
in case the residuary part of the Mandal is viable for the constitution of a separate [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
such residuary part shall be redelimited into a separate Mandal under the Andhra Pradesh Districts (Formation) Act,
1974 (Act
7 of 1974
) and a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be constituted for such newly formed Mandal and that portion of the Mandal prior to its redelimitation which is
included in the neighbouring Municipality or Municipal Corporation shall be included in an adjoining Mandal which forms
part of such Municipality or Municipal Corporation; or
(ii)
in case the residuary portion of the Mandal is not viable to be constituted into a separate [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, it shall be competent for the Government, -
Page 62/149
----- PAGE 63 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(a)
to include such residuary portion of the Mandal in the adjoining Mandal or Mandals and abolish the [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
constituted for such Mandal; or
(b)
to form a new Mandal by adding to such residuary portion, areas from the adjoining Mandal or Mandals and constitute a
[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
for such new Mandal:
Provided that where a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is constituted under clause (i) or sub-clause (b) of clause (ii), the Government may direct that the President,
Vice-President or an elected member of the abolished [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
who is otherwise qualified to hold such office in the newly constituted [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be the President, Vice-President or elected Member of the newly constituted [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as if he was elected to such office in the newly constituted [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
Explanation. - For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared that, -
(i)
the President, Vice-President or an elected member of the newly constituted [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
continued under this sub-Section shall hold office only for the residue of the term of the President, Vice-President or an
elected member of the abolished [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
:
Provided further that where a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is abolished under clause (a), the President, Vice-President or an elected member holding office immediately before
such abolition shall unless he is continued under the foregoing proviso cease to hold their respective offices.
(4)
Every [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall, by the name of the Mandal for which it is constituted or reconstituted, be a body corporate having perpetual
succession and a common seal with power to acquire, hold and dispose of property and to enter into contracts and may
by its corporate name sue and be sued.
(5)
The notification under sub-Section (2) may contain such supplemental, incidental and consequential provisions as the
Government may deem necessary and the Government may, from time to time, amend any such notification.
149.
Composition of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
Every [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall consist of the following members namely:-
Page 63/149
----- PAGE 64 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(i)
persons elected under Section 151;
(ii)
the Member of the Legislative Assembly of the State representing a constituency which comprises either wholly or partly
the Mandal concerned;
[(ii-a) any Member of the Legislative Council of the State who is a registered voter in the Mandal concerned;]
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2007, dated 9.8.2007.]
(iii)
the Member of the House of the People representing a constituency which comprises either wholly or partly the Mandal
concerned;
(iv)
any Member of the Council of States who is a registered voter in the Mandal concerned;
(v)
one person belonging to minorities to be co-opted in the prescribed manner by the members specified in clause (i) from
among persons who are registered voters in the Mandal and who are not less than 21 years of age.
(2)
No person shall be a member in more than one of the categories specified in sub-Section (1). A person who is or
becomes a Member of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in more than one such category shall, by notice in writing signed by him and delivered to the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer, within fifteen days from the date of the first meeting referred to in sub-Section (3) of Section 153,
intimate in which one of the said categories he wishes to serve, and thereupon he shall cease to be the Member in the
other category or categories. In default of such intimation within the aforesaid period, his membership in the [Mandal
Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
category acquired earlier shall, and his membership acquired later in the other shall not, cease at the expiration of such
period. The intimation given under this sub-Section shall be final and irrevocable.
150.
Division of Mandal into constituencies.
- For the purpose of electing the members specified in clause (i) of sub-Section (1) of Section 149, the Commissioner
shall, subject to such rules as may be made in this behalf, divide each [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
area into as many territorial constituencies as he may, by notification specify, in such manner that, as far as practicable,
shall consist of a population ranging between three thousand and four thousand; and that the ratio between the
population of each constituency and the number of seats allotted to it shall, as far practicable, be the same throughout
the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
area:
Provided that the ratio between the population of the territorial area of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and the number of seats in such Parishad to be filled by election shall, as far as practicable, be the same throughout the
State.
151.
Election of members from territorial constituencies.
(1)
One member shall be elected to the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
from each territorial constituency specified in Section 150 by the method of secret ballot by the persons who are
registered voters in the territorial constituency concerned:
Provided that a registered voter in the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
Page 64/149
----- PAGE 65 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be entitled to contest from any territorial constituency of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(2)
For purpose of preparation and publication of the electoral roll for the elections to the office of member under this
Section, the provisions of Sections 11 and 12 shall, mutatis mutandis apply, subject to such rules as may be made in
this behalf.
152.
Reservation of seats of Members of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
In every [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
out of the total strength of elected members determined under Section 150, the Commissioner shall, subject to such
rules as may be prescribed, by notification, reserve-
(a)
such number of seats to the members belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as may be determined by
him, subject to the condition that the number of seats so reserved shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion
to the total number of seats to be filled by direct election to the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, as the population of the Scheduled Castes, or as the case may be, the Scheduled Tribes in that Mandal bears to the
total population of that Mandal, and such seats may be allotted by rotation to different constituencies in a [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the manner prescribed.
[***]
[Omitted by Section 6 (A) (i) of Act 5 of 1995.]
(c)
not less than one-third of the total number of seats reserved under [clause (a) and sub-Section (1A)]
[Subs by Section 6 (A) (ii) of Act 5 of 1995.]
for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or as the case may be, the Backward Classes;
(d)
not less than one-third (including the number of seats reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes) of the total number of seats to be filled by direct election to every [Mandal
Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be reserved for women and such may be allotted by rotation to different constituencies in a [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the manner prescribed.
(1A)
[ In addition to the reservation of seats under sub-Section (1), there shall be reserved for the Backward Classes such
number of seats as may be allocated to them in each [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Inserted by Section 6 (B) of Act 5 of 1995.]
in the manner prescribed; so however that the number of offices of members of [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the State reserved for Backward Classes shall not be less than thirty-four per cent of the total number of offices of the
members of [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Page 65/149
----- PAGE 66 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
in the State. The number of seats allocated to each [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be allotted by rotation to different territorial constituencies in the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
:
Provided that it shall be competent for the Government to make special provisions with regard to the manner and
quantum of seats to be reserved for Backward Classes in the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
situated either wholly or partly in the Scheduled areas, by rules made in this behalf.]
(2)
Nothing in [sub-Sections (1) and 1A]
[Subs by Section 6 (C) of Act 5 of 1995.]
shall be deemed to prevent women and Members of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes
from standing for election to the non-reserved seats in the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
153.
Election, reservation and term of office of President, Vice-President.
(1)
For every [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
there shall be one President and one Vice-President who shall be [elected by and from among the elected members
specified in clause (i) of sub-Section (1) of Section 149 by show of hands duly obeying the party whip given by such
functionary of the recognised political party as may be prescribed]
[Subs by Section 7 (A) (i) of Act 5 of 1995.]
. If at an election held for the purpose no President or Vice-President is elected, fresh election shall be held. The names
of the President and the Vice-President so elected shall be published in the prescribed manner:
Provided that if a Member of the Legislative Assembly of the State or of either House of Parliament is elected to either of
the said offices, he shall cease to hold such office unless within fifteen days from the date of election to such office he
ceases to be a Member of the Legislative Assembly of the State or of either House of Parliament by resignation or
otherwise:
[Provided further that a member voting under this sub-section in disobedience of the party whip [shall cease to hold
office in the manner prescribed]
[Added by Section 7 (A) (ii) of Act 5 of 1995.]
and the vacancy caused by such cessation shall be filled as a casual vacancy.]
(2)
Out of the total number of offices of President in the State, the Commissioner shall, subject to such rules as may be
prescribed, by notification reserve -
(a)
such number of offices to the members belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as may be determined by
him, subject to the condition that the number of offices so reserved shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion
to the total number of offices to be filled in the State as the population of the Scheduled Castes or as the case may be,
the Scheduled Tribes in the State bears to the total population of the State; and such offices may be allotted by rotation
to different [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the State in the manner prescribed.
[***]
[Omitted by Section 7 (B) (i) of Act 5 of 1995.]
(c)
not less than one-third of the total number of offices reserved under [clause (a) and sub-Section 2A]
[Subs by Section 7 (B) (ii) of Act 5 of 1995.]
Page 66/149
----- PAGE 67 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, or as the case may be, the Backward Classes; and
(d)
not less than one-third (including the number of offices reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes and the Backward Classes) of the total number of offices to be filled in the State for women; and such
offices may be allotted by rotation to different [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the State in the manner prescribed.
(2A)
[ In addition to the reservation of offices of President under sub-Section (1), there shall be reserved for the Backward
Classes such number of offices of President as may be allocated to them in each district in the manner prescribed; so
however, that the number of offices of President in the State reserved for Backward Classes shall not be less than
thirty-four per cent of the total number of offices of Presidents of [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Inserted by Section 7 (B) (iii) of Act 5 of 1995.]
in the State. The number of offices of Presidents allocated for reservation to each district shall be allotted by rotation to
different [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the district.]
(3)
The first meeting of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to elect a President and Vice-President shall be called as soon as may be, after the results of the ordinary elections to
the office of elected members of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
have been published. The notice of the date and time of the meeting for the election of President and Vice-President
shall be given to the elected members in the prescribed manner:
Provided that if, for any reason, the election of the President or Vice-President is not held on the date fixed as aforesaid,
the meeting for the election of the President and Vice-President shall be held on the next day, whether or not it is a
holiday observed by the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(4)
Every President or Vice-President shall cease to hold office on the expiration of his term of office as a member.
(5)
Save as otherwise expressly provided in, or prescribed under this Act, the term of office of the President or
Vice-President who is elected at an ordinary election shall be five years from the date appointed by the Andhra Pradesh
Election Commissioner for Local Bodies for the first meeting of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
after the ordinary election.
(6)
Any casual vacancy in the office of the President or Vice-President shall be filled within a period of six months from the
date of occurrence of the vacancy by a fresh election under sub-Section (3) and a person elected as President or
Vice-President in any such vacancy shall hold office only so long as the person in whose place he is elected would have
been entitled to hold office if the vacancy had not occurred.
153A.
[ Resolution of disputes relating to cessation for disobedience of party whip.
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
- Where a member against whom a proceeding that he ceased to hold office as a consequence of the disobedience of
the party whip is issued in pursuance of the second proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 153 and the affected member
disputes the correctness of the proceedings, he may apply to the District Court having jurisdiction over the area in which
the office of the [Mandal Praja Parishad] is situated, for a decision.]
154.
Page 67/149
----- PAGE 68 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Term of office of member of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, -
(i)
an ex-officio member of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall hold office so long as he continues to hold the office by virtue of which he became such ex-officio member;
(ii)
a member elected at an ordinary election or a co-opted member shall hold office for a term of five years from the date
appointed by the Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies for the first meeting of the [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
after the said ordinary election.
155.
Qualification of candidates for election.
- No person shall be eligible for election as member of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
unless his name appears in the electoral roll of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
concerned and he has completed the age of twenty-one years.
156.
Disqualifications.
(1)
A member of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be disqualified for election as President or Vice-President if he is in arrears of any dues, otherwise than in a
fiduciary capacity to a Gram Panchayat, a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or if he is interested in a subsisting contract made with, or any work being done for, any Gram Panchayat in the Mandal
or the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
within whose jurisdiction the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is situated or any other [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
within the jurisdiction of that [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
:
Provided that a person shall not be deemed to have any interest in such contract or work by reason only of his having a
share or interest in -
(i)
a company as a mere shareholder but not as a director;
(ii)
any lease, sale or purchase of immovable property or any agreement for the same; or
(iii)
any agreement for the loan of money or any security for the payment of money only;or
Page 68/149
----- PAGE 69 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(iv)
any newspaper in which any advertisement relating to the affairs of any of aforesaid [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is Inserted.
(2)
The provisions of [Sections 18, 19, 19-A, 19-B, 20, 21 and 22]
[Substituted 'Sections 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22' by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
shall apply to a member of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as they apply to a member of the Gram Panchayat subject to the variations that for the expressions, "Gram Panchayat,"
"Executive Authority," "Sarpanch," "Upa-Sarpanch" and "District Panchayat Officer," the expressions "[Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
", "[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer", "President," "Vice-President" and "Chief Executive Authority," shall respectively be substituted:
Provided that nothing in clause (b) of Section 20 shall apply to a member of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
specified in clause (ii), clause (iii) and clause (iv) of sub-Section (1) of Section 149.
157.
Resignation of President, Vice-President or member.
- The President, the Vice-President, elected member or co-opted member may resign his office in such manner as may
be prescribed.
158.
Permanent invitees to the meetings of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
- The Collector, the Sarpanches of all the Gram Panchayats within the jurisdiction of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, [the member of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Subs by Section 8 of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
specified in clause (i) of sub-Section (3) of Section 177 elected from the Mandal concerned, the Chairperson, [Zilla Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, and the President of Agricultural Marketing Committee] shall be permanent invitees to the meetings of the [Mandal
Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and they shall have the right to speak in and otherwise to take part in the proceedings of any meeting of a [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
functioning within the local limits of their respective jurisdictions but shall not, by virtue of this Section be entitled to vote
at any such meeting.
159.
President of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may invite certain persons to attend its meetings.
(1)
The President of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may for purposes of consultation, invite any person other than an office bearer of any political party having experience
and specialised knowledge of any subject under the consideration of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
Page 69/149
----- PAGE 70 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to attend the meeting of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
. Such person shall have the right to speak in, and otherwise to take part in the proceedings of such meeting but shall
not, by virtue of this Section be entitled to vote at any such meeting.
(2)
A person attending a meeting under sub-Section (1) shall be entitled to such allowances as may be prescribed.
160.
Rules for the conduct of the business at a meeting of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
- Every [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall in regard to the conduct of business at its meetings, follow such rules as may be prescribed.
161.
Powers and functions of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the administration of the Mandal shall vest in the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
. Every [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall endeavour to install among the people within its jurisdiction spirit of self-help and initiative and harness their
enthusiasm for raising the standard of living, it shall exercise all the powers conferred on, and perform all the functions
entrusted to it by or under this Act, and such other powers and functions as may be conferred on, and entrusted to it by
the Government for carrying out the purposes of this Act, but it shall not exercise the powers or perform the functions
expressly assigned by or under this Act, or any other law to its President or to the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or any other authority, it shall do extension and review functions at the mandal level effectively. It may, with the previous
approval of the Government and subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed borrow moneys for carrying
out the purposes of this Act. It shall also exercise and perform such of the powers and functions of the District Board
including the powers to levy any tax or fees as may be transferred to it under this Act.
(2)
Every [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall exercise such powers and perform such functions as may be entrusted to it by rules made in this behalf in regard
to the subjects enumerated in Schedule I. In particular, the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall exercise the powers and perform the functions specified in Schedule-II.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything in this Act, the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may with the prior approval of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
levy contributions from the funds of the Gram Panchayats in the Mandal.
(4)
Every [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Page 70/149
----- PAGE 71 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
may levy with the prior sanction of the Government a duty in the form of a surcharge on any tax imposed by a Gram
Panchayat or on land cess or local cess levied within its jurisdiction in such manner and subject to such maximum as
may be prescribed.
162.
Maintenance of common water works and other institutions.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything in this Act and subject to the rules made in this behalf, two or more Gram Panchayats may, -
(i)
construct and maintain water works for supply of water for washing and bathing purposes and protected water for
drinking purposes from a common source, and
(ii)
entrust to [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
with its consent and on such terms as may be agreed upon the management of any institution or the execution or
maintenance of any work.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder, two or more [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may establish and maintain common dispensaries, child welfare centres and institutions of such other kinds, as may be
prescribed.
163.
Power of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to call for documents from the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer.
- A [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may, at any time require the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer to furnish any document in his custody. The said officer shall comply with every such requisition.
164.
Power of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to call for information from Executive Authority.
- A [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may require any Executive Authority of any village within the jurisdiction of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to furnish any information on any matter falling within such categories as may be prescribed in respect of such village or
any person or property therein required for the purposes of this Act.
165.
Powers and functions of the President and Vice-President.
(1)
The President of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall, -
(a)
exercise administrative control over the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer for the purposes of implementation of the resolution of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
Page 71/149
----- PAGE 72 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
;
(b)
preside over and conduct the meetings of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
; and
(c)
have full access to all records of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(2)
In case of emergency the President may in consultation with the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer direct the execution of any work or the doing of any act which requires the sanction of the [Mandal
Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and the immediate execution or the doing of which is, in his opinion, necessary for the service or safety of the general
public, but he shall report the action taken under this sub-Section and the reasons therefor to the [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
at its next meeting:
Provided that he shall not direct the execution of any work or the doing of any act in contravention of any order of the
Government.
(3)
The Vice-President shall exercise such powers and perform such functions of the President as the President may, from
time to time, delegate to him in writing.
(4)
When the office of the President is vacant the Vice-President of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall exercise the powers and perform the functions of the President until a new President is elected.
(5)
If the President has been continuously absent from the Mandal for more than fifteen days or is incapacitated for more
than fifteen days, his powers and functions during such absence or incapacity shall devolve on the Vice-President.
(6)
When the office of the President is vacant or the President has been continuously absent from the Mandal for more than
fifteen days or is incapacitated for more than fifteen days and there is either a vacancy in the office of Vice-President or
the Vice-President has been continuously absent from the Mandal for more than fifteen days or is incapacitated for more
than fifteen days, the powers and functions of the President shall devolve on a member of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
appointed by the Government in this behalf. The member so appointed shall be styled as the temporary President and
he shall exercise the powers and perform the functions of the President subject to such restrictions and conditions as
may be prescribed until a new President or Vice-President assumes office after his election or until the President or the
Vice-President returns to the Mandal or recovers from his incapacity, as the case may be.
166.
Right of individual members to draw attention in respect of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
etc.
- Any member of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may draw the attention of the President or the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Page 72/149
----- PAGE 73 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Development Officer to any neglect in the execution of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
work, to any waste of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
property or to the needs of any locality and may suggest any improvement which may appear desirable.
167.
Powers and functions of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer.
(1)
The [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer shall be the Chief Executive Authority of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
. He shall be responsible for implementing the resolutions of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and shall also exercise such powers and perform such functions as may be entrusted to him by the Government. He
shall also exercise such powers of supervision over the Gram Panchayats in the Mandal as may be prescribed.
(2)
The [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer shall, with the approval of, or on the direction of the President, convene the meetings of the
[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
so that at least one meeting of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is held every month and if the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer fails to discharge that duty, with the result that no meeting of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is held within a period of ninety days from the last meeting, he shall be liable to disciplinary action under the relevant
rules:
Provided that where the President fails to give his approval for convening the meeting so as to hold a meeting within a
period of ninety days aforesaid, the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer may himself convene the meeting in the manner prescribed.
(3)
The [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer shall ordinarily attend the meetings of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and shall be entitled to take part in the discussions thereat but he shall not be entitled to vote or to move any resolution.
(4)
Subject to the provisions of Section 168 the staff borne on the establishment of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and the staff working in institutions and schemes transferred by the Government or the Head of the Department of
Government to the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be under the administrative control and supervision of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer.
Page 73/149
----- PAGE 74 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(5)
Notwithstanding anything in sub-Section (1) of Section 161 and subject to all other provisions of this Act, and the rules
made thereunder, the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall have power to issue such specific direction as it may think fit regarding the performance by the [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer of any of the functions assigned to him under this Act.
(6)
The Government shall pay out of the Consolidated Fund of the State, the salaries, allowances, leave allowances,
pension and contribution if any towards the provident fund or provident fund-cum-pension fund of the [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer appointed by them for [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(7)
The Government shall have power to make rules to regulate the classification and methods of recruitment, conditions of
services, pay and allowances and disciplinary conduct of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer.
168.
The [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer and other officers and staff of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to be subordinate to the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
- The [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer and other officers and staff of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and the staff employed in the institutions and schools under the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be subordinate to the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
169.
Officers and other employees of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
The Government may, at any time create such posts of officers and other employees of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as they may consider necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
All appointments to the posts created under sub-Section (1) and transfer of the holders of such posts shall be made
subject to the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Regulation of Age of Superannuation) Act, 1984
(Act 23 of 1984), the Andhra Pradesh
(Regulation of Appointments to Public Services and Rationalisation of Staff Pattern and Pay Structure) Act, 1994 (Act
Page 74/149
----- PAGE 75 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
2 of 1994
) and such rules as may be made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India.
(3)
The Government shall pay, out of the Consolidated Fund of the State, the salaries, allowances, leave allowances,
pension and contributions, if any, towards the provident fund or Pension-cum-Provident fund of the officers and other
employees of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
who hold any of the posts referred to in sub-Section (1).
(4)
The classification and methods of recruitment, conditions of service, pay and allowances and discipline and conduct of
the officers and other employees referred to in sub-Section (3), shall be regulated in accordance with the provisions of
the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Regulation of Age of Superannuation) Act, 1984 (Act 23 of 1984), the Andhra
Pradesh (Regulation of Appointments to Public Services and Rationalisation of Staff Pattern and Pay Structure) Act,
1994 (Act
2 of 1994
) and such rules as may be made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution until rules in that behalf are so
made, the law for the time being in force regulating the recruitment and conditions of service, pay and allowances and
conduct, applicable to such holder shall continue to apply to such holder.
(5)
The Government may, from time to time, by order give such directions to any [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or any officer, authority, or person thereof as may appear to them to be necessary for the purpose of giving effect to the
provisions of this Section and the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer, authority or person shall comply with all such directions.
170.
Allowances for attending a meeting of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
There shall be paid to the members of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
including its President and Vice-President and to the Members of the Legislative Assembly and of either House of
Parliament for attending a meeting of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
such allowances as may be prescribed.
(2)
There shall also be paid to the President in respect of his tours on duty whether within or outside the Mandal but within
the District such allowances as may be prescribed.
171.
[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Fund.
(1)
All moneys received by a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall constitute a fund called the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Fund and shall be applied for the purposes specified in this Act and for such other purposes and in such manner as may
be prescribed.
(2)
Page 75/149
----- PAGE 76 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
All moneys received by the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be lodged in the nearest Government treasury:
[Provided that the amounts received as funds under the Jawahar Rozgar Yojana, Employment Assurance Scheme or
other Wage Employment Schemes shall be lodged in nearby Nationalised Banks or Co-operative Banks or Post Offices
in such manner as may be prescribed.]
[Added by Section 3 of Act No. 16 of 1998.]
(3)
All orders or cheques against the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Fund shall be signed by the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer.
172.
Income and expenses of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
The sources of income of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall consist of, -
(i)
funds relating to institutions and schemes transferred by the Government or Heads of Departments of the Government
to the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
;
(ii)
funds relating to the community development programmes;
(iii)
Central and State aid and aid received from the All India bodies and institutions for the development of cottage and
village industries, khadi, silk, coir, handicrafts and the like;
(iv)
donations and contributions received by the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
from Gram Panchayats or from the public in any form;
(v)
such income of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as the Government may, by order, allocate to it;
(vi)
such share of the land revenue, State taxes or fees as may be prescribed;
(vii)
proceeds from taxes, surcharge or fee which the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is empowered to levy under this Act or any other law;
(viii)
such contributions as the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may levy from Gram Panchayats;
(ix)
any other income from remunerative enterprises and the like.
Page 76/149
----- PAGE 77 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(2)
Government shall also make an annual grant at the rate of five rupees per person residing in the Mandal calculated on
the basis of the last preceding census of which figures are available.
(3)
The expenses of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall include the salaries and allowances of its officers and other employees, the allowances to be paid under Sections
159 and 170, any item of expenditure directed by the Government for carrying out the purposes of this Act and such
other expenses as may be necessary for such purposes.
173.
Election expenses to be borne by the Government.
- The cost of the election expenses including the conduct of elections to the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and the cost of maintenance of election establishment employed in connection therewith shall be borne by the
Government.
174.
Budget of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
The [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer shall, in each year frame and place before the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
on or before the prescribed date a budget showing the probable receipts and expenditure during the following year, and
the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall sanction the budget with such modifications, if any, as it thinks fit.
(2)
The budget as so sanctioned shall be submitted by the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer on or before such date as may be prescribed, to the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and where there is no such [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to the District Collector, and if the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the District Collector, as the case may be is satisfied that adequate provision has not been made therein for giving
effect to the provisions of this Act, it or he shall have power to approve the budget with such modifications as may be
necessary to secure such provisions.
(3)
If, for any reason the budget is not sanctioned by the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
under sub-Section (1) before the date referred to in sub-Section (2) the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer shall submit the budget to the District Collector who shall sanction it with such modifications, if any,
as he thinks fit and forward it to the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
which shall thereupon approve the budget as if it were submitted to it under sub-Section (2), where there is no [Zilla
Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Page 77/149
----- PAGE 78 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
for the District, the sanction accorded by the District Collector shall be final.
(4)
If, in the course of a year, the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
finds it necessary to make any alterations in the budget with regard to its receipts or items of expenditure, a revised or
supplemental budget may be framed, submitted and sanctioned or approved as far as may be in the manner provided in
sub-Sections (1), (2) and (3).
175.
Joint Committee of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and other local authorities.
- A [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may, and if so required by the Government shall, join with one or more than one other local authority in constituting a
joint committee for any purpose for which they are jointly responsible.
176.
Constitution, powers and functions of Joint Committee.
- The constitution, powers and procedure of the Joint Committee referred to in Section 175 and the method of settling
differences of opinion arising in connection with such committee between the local authorities concerned shall be in
accordance with such rules as may be prescribed.
Part IV ? Constitution, Incorporation, Composition, Powers, Functions, Etc., of [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
177.
Constitution, incorporation and composition of [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
There shall be constituted by the Government by notification a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
for a District with effect from such date as may be specified therein.
(2)
Every [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall, by the name of the District for which it is constituted, be a body corporate having perpetual succession and a
common seal with power to acquire, hold and dispose of property and to enter into contracts and may by its corporate
name, sue and be sued.
(3)
Every [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall consist of the following members, namely:-
(i)
persons elected under Section 179;
(ii)
the Member of the Legislative Assembly of the State representing the constituency which comprises either wholly or
partly the district concerned:
Provided that such Member of the Legislative Assembly shall have the right to speak in and otherwise to take part in the
proceedings of a meeting of any Standing Committee of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
but he shall not be entitled to vote at a meeting of such Standing Committee, unless he is also a member of that
Standing Committee:
Provided further that no Member of the Legislative Assembly representing a constituency the whole of which forms part
Page 78/149
----- PAGE 79 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
of the local area within the jurisdiction of any of the Municipal Corporations or any of the Municipalities in the State shall
be the member of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
of the concerned district;
[(ii-a) any Member of the Legislative Council of the State who is a Member of the Mandal Praja Parishad;
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2007, dated 9.8.2007.]
Provided that such Member of the Legislative Council of the State shall have the right to speak in, and otherwise to take
part in the proceedings of a meeting of any standing committee of the zilla Praja Parishad, but he shall not be entitled to
vote at a meeting of any standing committee, unless he is also a member of that standing committee.]
(iii)
The member of the House of People representing the constituency which comprises either wholly or partly the district
concerned:
Provided that no Member of the House of the People representing a constituency the whole of which forms part of the
local area within the jurisdiction of any of the Municipal Corporations in the State shall be the Member of the [Zilla Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
:
Provided further that a Member of the House of the People representing a constituency which comprises more than one
district including a portion of any district, shall be a member of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
of all such districts with the right to speak in, and otherwise to take part in the proceedings of their meetings with voting
rights; he shall also have the right to speak in and otherwise to take part in the meetings of any Standing Committee of
the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
but he shall not be entitled to vote at a meeting of any Standing Committee unless he is also a member of that Standing
Committee.
(iv)
the Member of the Council of States who is a registered voter in the district:
Provided that such Member of the Council of States shall have the right to speak in, and otherwise to take part in the
proceedings of a meeting of any Standing Committee of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, but he shall not be entitled to vote at a meeting of that Standing Committee, unless he is also a member of that
Standing Committee;
(v)
two persons belonging to minorities to be co-opted in the prescribed manner by the members specified in clause (i) from
among persons who are registered voters in the District and who are not less than 21 years of age.
(4)
No person shall be a Member in more than one of the categories specified in sub-Section (3). A person who is or
becomes a Member of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in more than one such category, shall, by notice in writing signed by him and delivered to the Chief Executive Authority,
within fifteen days from the date of the first meeting of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
referred to in sub-Section (4) of Section 181, intimate in which one of the said categories he wishes to serve, and
thereupon, he shall cease to be the member in the other category or categories. In default of such intimation within the
aforesaid period, his membership in the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the category acquired earlier shall, and his membership acquired later in the other category shall not, cease at the
expiration of such period. The intimation given under this sub-Section shall be final and irrevocable.
(5)
No person other than a Member of the House of the People, shall be entitled to be a member of more than one [Zilla
Page 79/149
----- PAGE 80 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
at a time.
178.
Mandals to be territorial constituencies.
- For purposes of electing the members specified in clause (i) of sub-Section (3) of Section 177 every Mandal in the
District shall be a territorial constituency and the Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies shall allot not
more than one seat for each such territorial constituency.
179.
Election of members from territorial constituencies.
(1)
One member shall be elected to the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
from each territorial constituency specified in Section 178 by the method of secret ballot by the registered voters in the
territorial constituency concerned:
Provided that a registered voter in the district shall be entitled to contest from any territorial constituency of the [Zilla
Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(2)
For purposes of preparation and publication of the electoral roll for the elections to the office of member under this
Section, the provisions of Sections 11 and 12 shall, mutatis mutandis apply subject to such rules as may be made in this
behalf.
180.
Reservation of seats of members of [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
In every [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, out of the total strength of elected members determined under Section 179, the Commissioner shall, subject to such
rules as may be prescribed, by notification, reserve, -
(a)
such number of seats to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as may be determined by him, subject to the
condition that the number of seats so reserved shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion to the total number
of seats to be filled by direct election to the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as the population of the Scheduled Castes or as the case may be Scheduled Tribes in the District bears to the total
population of the District and such seats may be allotted by rotation to different constituencies in a District in the manner
prescribed;
[***]
[Omitted by Section 9 (A) of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
(c)
not less than one-third of the total number of seats reserved under [clause (a) and sub-Section 1A]
[Subs by Section 9 (A) (ii) of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or as the case may be, the Backward Classes;
(d)
not less than one-third (including the number of seats reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes and backward classes) of the total number of seats to be filled by direct election to the [Zilla Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Page 80/149
----- PAGE 81 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
for women and such seats may be allotted by rotation to different constituencies in the district in the manner prescribed.
(1A)
[ In addition to the reservation of seats under sub-Section (1), there shall be reserved for the Backward Classes such
number of seats as may be allocated to them in each [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Inserted by Section 9 (B) of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
in the manner prescribed; so however that the number of offices of members of [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the State reserved for Backward Classes shall not be less than thirty-four per cent of the total number of offices of the
members of [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the State. The number of seats allocated to each [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be allotted by rotation to different territorial constituencies in the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.]
(2)
Nothing in [sub-Sections (1) and (1 A)]
[Subs Section 9 (C) of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
shall be deemed to prevent women and members of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or Backward classes from
standing for election to the non-reserved seats in the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
181.
Election of Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson.
(1)
For every [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
there shall be one Chairperson and one Vice-Chairperson who shall be [elected by and from among the elected
members specified in clause (i) of sub-Section (3) of Section 177 by show of hands duly obeying the party whip given by
such functionary of the recognised political party as may be prescribed]
[Subs by Section 10 (A) (i) of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
. If at an election held for the purpose no Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson is elected fresh election shall be held. The
names of the Chairperson and the Vice-Chairperson so elected shall be published in the prescribed manner:
Provided that if a Member of the Legislative Assembly of the State or of either House of Parliament is elected to either of
the said offices, he shall cease to hold such office unless within fifteen days from the date of election to such office he
ceases to be Member of the Legislative Assembly of the State or of either House of Parliament by resignation or
otherwise.
[Provided further that a member voting under this sub-Section in disobedience of the party whip [shall cease to hold
office in the manner prescribed]
[Added by Section 10 (A) (ii) of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
and the vacancy caused by such cessation shall be filled as a casual vacancy.]
(2)
[ Out of the total number of offices of Chairperson in the State, the Commissioner shall, subject to such rules as may be
prescribed, by notification reserve,-
(a)
such number of offices to the members belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as may be determined by
him, subject to the condition that the number of offices so reserved shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion
to the total number of offices to be filled in the State as the population of the Scheduled Castes or as the case may be,
the Scheduled Tribes in the State bears to the total population of the State and such offices may be allotted by rotation
to different [Zilla Praja Parishad] in the State in the manner prescribed;
(b)
Page 81/149
----- PAGE 82 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
thirty-four per cent of the total number of such offices of Chairperson in the State for Backward Classes; and such
offices may be allotted by rotation to different [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the State in the manner prescribed;
(c)
not less than one-third of the total number of offices reserved under clauses (a) and
(b)
for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, or as the case may be, the Backward Classes; and
(d)
not less than one-third (including the number of offices reserved for women belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled
Tribes and the backward classes) of the total number of offices to be filled in the State for women and such offices may
be allotted by rotation to different [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the State in the manner prescribed.]
(3)
The offices reserved for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Backward Classes and Women may be allotted by
rotation to different [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the different regions in the State in the manner prescribed.
(4)
The first meeting of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be called as soon as may be, after the results of the ordinary
elections to the office of elected members of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
have been published. The notice of the date and time of the meeting for the election of Chairperson and
Vice-Chairperson shall be given to the elected members in the prescribed manner:
Provided that if, for any reason, the election of the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson is not held on the date fixed as
aforesaid, the meeting for the election of the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be held on the next day, whether
or not it is a holiday observed by the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(5)
Every Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson shall cease to hold office on cessation as an elected member.
(6)
Save as otherwise expressly provided in, or prescribed under this Act, the term of office of the Chairperson or
Vice-Chairperson who is elected at an ordinary election shall be five years from the date appointed by the Andhra
Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies for the first meeting of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
after the ordinary election.
(7)
Any casual vacancy in the office of the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson shall be filled within a period of six months from
the date of occurrence of the vacancy by a fresh election under sub-Section (4) and a person elected as Chairperson or
Vice-Chairperson in any such vacancy shall hold office only so long as the person in whose place he is elected would
have been entitled to hold office if the vacancy had not occurred.
181A.
[ Resolution of disputes relating to cessation for disobedience of party whip.
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
- Where a member against whom a proceeding that he ceased to hold office as a consequence of the disobedience of
the party whip is issued in pursuance of the second proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 181 and the affected member
disputes the correctness of the proceedings, he may apply to the District Court having jurisdiction over the area in which
Page 82/149
----- PAGE 83 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
the office of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Subs by Section 10 (B) of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
is situated, for a decision.]
182.
Term of office of a member of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
- Save as otherwise provided in this Act,-
(i)
an ex-officio member of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall hold office so long as he continues to hold the office by virtue of which he became such ex-officio member;
(ii)
a member elected at an ordinary election or a co-opted member shall hold office for a term of five years from the date
appointed by the Andhra Pradesh Election Commission for Local Bodies for the first meeting of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
after the said ordinary election.
183.
Qualification of candidates for election.
- No person shall be eligible for election as member of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
unless his name appears in the electoral rolls of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
concerned and he has completed the age of twenty-one years.
184.
Disqualifications.
(1)
A member of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be disqualified for election as Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson if he is in arrears of any dues, otherwise than in a
fiduciary capacity to any [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the District or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or if he is interested in a subsisting contract made with or any work being done for any [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the District or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
:
Provided that a person shall not be deemed to have any interest in such contract or work by reason only of his having a
share or interest in -
(i)
a company as a mere shareholder but not as a director; or
(ii)
any lease, sale or purchase of immovable property or any agreement for the same; or
(iii)
any agreement for the loan of money or any security for the payment of money only;or
(iv)
any newspaper in which any advertisement relating to the affairs of any of the aforesaid [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
Page 83/149
----- PAGE 84 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is Inserted.
(2)
The provisions of [Sections 18, 19. 19-A, 19-B, 20, 21 and 22]
[Substituted 'Sections 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22' by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
shall apply to a member of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as they apply to a member of the Gram Panchayat subject to the variations that the expressions, "Gram Panchayat,"
"Executive Authority", "Sarpanch", "Upa-Sarpanch", the expressions "[Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
", "Chief Executive Authority", "Chairperson", "Vice-Chairperson" and "Chief Executive Authority" shall respectively be
substituted:
Provided that nothing in clause (b) of Section 20 shall apply to a member of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
specified in clauses (ii) to (iv) of sub-Section (3) of Section 177.
185.
Resignation of Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or member.
- The Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson, an elected member or co-opted member may resign his office in such manner
as may be prescribed.
186.
Appointment of Chief Executive Officer and his powers and functions.
(1)
There shall be Chief Executive officer for every [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
who shall be appointed by the Government.
(2)
Every Chief Executive Officer shall be liable to be transferred by the Government.
(3)
Save as otherwise expressly provided by or under this Act, the executive power for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this Act, shall vest in the Chief Executive Authority who shall -
(a)
exercise all the powers and perform all the functions specially conferred or imposed upon him by or under this Act, or
under any other law for the time being in force; and
(b)
lay down the duties of all officers and servants of, or holding office under [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in accordance with the rules made by the Government.
(4)
Subject to the provisions of this Act, and the rules made thereunder, the Chief Executive Officer, -
(a)
shall be entitled to -
(i)
attend the meeting of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or any of its Standing Committees (including any meeting of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
) and take part in the discussions thereat but shall not be entitled to vote or to move any resolution;
(ii)
call for any information, return, statement of account or report from any officer or servant of, or holding office under the
[Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Page 84/149
----- PAGE 85 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
or a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(b)
shall exercise supervision and control over the acts of the officers and servants holding office under the [Zilla Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the institutions thereunder in matters of executive administration and those relating to accounts and records of the
[Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the institutions thereunder;
(c)
shall have the custody of all papers and documents connected with the proceedings of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and of its Standing Committees;
(d)
shall be responsible for implementing the resolutions of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and of the standing Committees thereof;
(e)
shall supervise and control the execution of all activities of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
;
(f)
shall take necessary measures for the speedy execution of all works and development schemes of the [Zilla Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
;
(g)
shall have the power to enter upon and inspect any work, scheme or institution under the management of the [Zilla Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
;
(h)
shall have the power to enter upon and inspect any work, scheme or institution under the management of a [Mandal
Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
if the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or any of its Standing Committees so direct;
(i)
shall be the competent authority to enter into agreements and to sign and execute them in the name and on behalf of
the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
from time to time;
(j)
shall implement such specific directions issued by the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as it may think fit regarding the performance by him of any of the functions assigned to him under the act:
Provided that such directions are in conformity with the terms and conditions governing planning, community
development and other development activities entrusted by the Government or any other authority;
Page 85/149
----- PAGE 86 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(k)
shall immediately execute the orders passed by the Government in exercise of the powers conferred by the Act and
rules made thereunder or any other law for the time being in force and shall forthwith send a compliance report to the
Government and place a copy thereof before the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson;
(l)
shall exercise such other powers and perform such other functions as may be prescribed.
(5)
The Chief Executive Officer shall, with the approval of, or on the direction of the Chairperson convene the meetings of
the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
so that at least one meeting of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is held every month and if the Chief Executive Officer fails to discharge that duty, with the result that no meeting of the
[Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is held within a period of ninety days from the last meeting, he shall be liable to disciplinary action under the relevant
rules:
Provided that where the Chairperson fails to give his approval for convening the meeting so as to hold a meeting within
the period of ninety days aforesaid the Chief Executive Officer may himself convene the meeting in the manner
prescribed.
(6)
Subject to the provisions of Section 195 the staff borne on the establishment of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and the staff working in institutions and schemes transferred by the Government or the Head of Department of
Government to the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be under the administrative control and supervision of the Chief Executive Officer.
(7)
The Government shall pay out of the Consolidated Fund of the State, the salaries, allowances, leave allowances,
pension and contributions, if any, towards the provident fund or provident fund-cum-pension fund of the Chief Executive
Officer appointed under sub-Section (1).
(8)
The Government shall have power to make rules to regulate the classification and methods of recruitment, conditions of
service, pay and allowances and disciplinary conduct of the Chief Executive Officer appointed under sub-Section (1).
187.
Standing Committees of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
For every [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
there shall be constituted the following standing Committees, the subjects assigned to each such standing committee
being those specified against it, namely:-
(i)
Standing Committee for Planning and Finance: District Plan, budget, taxation, finance and coordination of the work
relating to other committees.
(ii)
Standing Committee for Rural Development: Poverty Alleviation Programme, Area Development Programmes,
employment, housing, cooperation, thrift and small savings, Industries including cottage, village and small scale
industries, trusts and statistics.
(iii)
Page 86/149
----- PAGE 87 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Standing Committee for Agriculture: Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, soil reclamation including contour bunding, social
forestry, fisheries and sericulture.
(iv)
Standing Committee for Education and Medical Services: Education including Social Education, medical services, public
health and sanitation including drainage, relief for distress in grave emergencies.
(v)
Standing Committee for Women Welfare: Development of Women and welfare of children.
(vi)
Standing Committee for Social Welfare: Social Welfare of Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes
and cultural affairs.
(vii)
Standing Committee for Works: Communications, rural water supply, power and irrigations.
(2)
Every standing Committee shall consist of the Chairperson of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
who shall be ex-officio member and such other members [as may be elected from among the members of the [Zilla
Praja Parishad]
[Subs by Section 11 of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
] in accordance with the rules made in that behalf.
(3)
The Vice-Chairperson shall be ex-officio Member and Chairperson of the Standing Committee for Agriculture, two offices
of the Chairperson of the Standing Comittees shall be filled by nomination by the Chairperson of the [Zilla Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
from among the women members of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the manner prescribed and the Chairperson of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be the Chairperson of the rest of the four offices of the Chairperson of the Standing Committees.
(4)
The powers and functions of the Standing Committee, the permanent invitees to it and other incidental and
consequential matters shall be such as may be prescribed.
(5)
The District Collector shall have right to participate in the meetings of all Standing Committees without voting rights.
(6)
The decisions of the Standing Committees shall be subject to ratification by the general body of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
which shall have the power to approve, modify, rescind or reverse them.
188.
Permanent invitees to [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
The following shall be the permanent invitees to the meetings of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
:
(i)
The Chairperson, District Co-operative Marketing Society;
(ii)
The Chairperson, Zilla Grandhalaya Samstha;
(iii)
Page 87/149
----- PAGE 88 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
The Chairperson, District Co-operative Central Bank;
(iv)
The District Collector;
(v)
All Presidents of [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the District.
(2)
The permanent invitees shall be entitled to participate in the meetings of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
without right to vote.
189.
Special invitees.
(1)
The Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the Chairperson of a Standing Committee thereof may, for purposes of consultation, invite any person other than an
office bearer of any political party having experience and specialised knowledge of any subject under its consideration to
attend its meeting. Such persons shall have the right to speak in and otherwise to take part in the proceedings of such
meeting, but shall not, by virtue of this Section, be entitled to vote at any such meeting.
(2)
A person attending a meeting under sub-Section (1) shall be entitled to such allowances as may be prescribed.
190.
Rules for conduct of business at meetings.
- Every [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a Standing Committee thereof shall in regard to the conduct of business at its meetings follow such rules as may be
prescribed.
191.
Power of [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or its Standing Committee to call for documents from Chief Executive Officer.
- A [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a Standing Committee thereof may, at any time require the Chief Executive Officer to furnish any document in his
custody and he shall comply with every such requisition.
192.
Powers and functions of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
Every [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall exercise such powers and perform such functions as may be entrusted to it by rules made in this behalf with regard
to the subjects enumerated in the First Schedule. The [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall also have the power to -
(i)
examine and approve the budgets of [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the district;
Page 88/149
----- PAGE 89 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(ii)
distribute the funds allotted to the district by the Central or State Government among the [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and Mandals in the district for which [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
are not constituted;
(iii)
co-ordinate and consolidate the plans prepared in respect of the Mandals in the district and prepare plans in respect of
the entire district;
(iv)
secure the execution of plans, projects, schemes or other works either solely relating to the individual Mandals or
common to two or more Mandals in the district;
(v)
supervise generally the activities of the [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the district;
(vi)
exercise and perform such of the powers and functions of the District Board including the powers to levy any tax or fees,
as may be transferred to it under this Act;
(vii)
exercise and perform such other powers and functions in relation to any development programme as the Government
may by notification confer on or entrust to it;
(viii)
advise Government on all matters relating to development activities and maintenance of services in the district, whether
undertaken by local authorities or Government;
(ix)
advise Government on the allocation of work among Gram Panchayats and [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and coordination of work between the said bodies and among the various Gram Panchayats themselves;
(x)
advise Government on matters concerning the implementation of any statutory or executive order specially referred by
the Government to the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
;
(xi)
collect such data as it deems necessary;
(xii)
publish statistics or other information relating to the activities of the local authorities;
(xiii)
require any local authority to furnish information regarding its activities;
(xiv)
accept trusts relating exclusively to the furtherance of any purpose for which its funds may be applied;
(xv)
establish, maintain, or expand secondary, vocational and industrial schools;
(xvi)
borrow money for carrying out the purposes of this Act with the previous approval of the Government and subject to
such terms and conditions as may be prescribed.
(2)
The [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may, with the approval of the Government levy contributions from the funds of the [Mandal Praja Parishads]
Page 89/149
----- PAGE 90 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in the district.
193.
Powers and functions of Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
The Chairperson of [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall-
(a)
exercise administrative control over the Chief Executive Officer for the purposes of implementation of the resolutions of
the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or any Standing Committee thereof;
(b)
preside over and conduct the meetings of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
;
(c)
have full access to all records of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(2)
The Vice-Chairperson shall exercise such powers and perform such functions of the Chairperson as the Chairperson
may, from time to time delegate to him in writing.
(3)
When the office of the Chairperson is vacant, the Vice-Chairperson of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall exercise the powers and perform the functions of the Chairperson until a new Chairperson is elected.
(4)
If the Chairperson has been continuously absent from the district for more than fifteen days or is incapacitated for more
than fifteen days his powers and functions during such absence or incapacity shall devolve on the Vice-Chairperson.
(5)
When the office of the Chairperson is vacant or the Chairperson has been continuously absent from the district for more
than fifteen days or is incapacitated for more than fifteen days and there is either a vacancy in the office of the
Vice-Chairperson or the Vice-Chairperson has been continuously absent from the district for more than fifteen days or is
incapacitated for more than fifteen days, the powers and functions of the Chairperson shall devolve on a member of the
[Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
appointed by the Government. The member so appointed shall be styled as the temporary chairperson and he shall
exercise the powers and perform the functions of the Chairperson subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be
prescribed until a new Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson assumes office after his election, or until the Chairperson or the
Vice-Chairperson returns to the district or recovers from his incapacity, as the case may be.
(6)
It shall be the duty of the Chairperson or the person for the time being exercising the powers and performing the
functions of the Chairperson to convene the meetings of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
so that at least one meeting of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is held in every ninety days. If the Chairperson or such person fails to discharge that duty with the result that no meeting
Page 90/149
----- PAGE 91 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
is held within the said period of ninety days or within thirty days following such period he shall with effect from the date of
expiration of thirty days aforesaid cease to be the Chairperson or as the case may be cease to exercise the powers and
perform the functions of the Chairperson, unless such cessation has otherwise occurred before that date, and for a
period of one year from that date he shall not be eligible to be elected as Chairperson or to exercise the powers and
perform the functions of the Chairperson:
Provided that in reckoning any such period of ninety days or the period of thirty days following such period as the case
may be referred to above any public holiday shall be excluded.
(7)
Where the District Collector is satisfied that the Chairperson or the person for the time being exercising the powers and
performing the functions of the Chairperson has ex-facie ceased to be the Chairperson or as the case may be ceased to
exercise the powers and functions of the Chairperson under sub-Section (6) he shall forthwith intimate that fact by
registered post to the Chairperson or such person.
194.
Rights of individual members to draw attention in respect of [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Works.
- Any member of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may draw the attention of the Chairperson or Chief Executive Officer of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to any neglect in the execution of [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
work to any waste of Parishad property or to the needs of any locality and may suggest any improvement which may
appear desirable.
195.
Officers and other employees of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
The Government may, at any time create such posts of officers and other employees of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as they may consider necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
All appointments to the posts created under sub-Section (1) and transfer of the holders of such posts shall be made,
subject to the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Regulation of Age of Superannuation) Act, 1984
(Act 23 of 1984), the Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Appointments to Public Services and Rationalisation of Staff
Pattern and Pay Structure) Act, 1994, (Act
2 of 1994
), and such rules as may be made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution.
(3)
The Government shall pay, out of the Consolidated Fund of the State, the salaries, allowances, leave allowances,
pension and contributions, if any, towards the provident fund or of a pension cum-provident fund of the officers and other
employees of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
who hold any of the posts referred to in sub-Section (1).
(4)
The classification and methods of recruitment, conditions of service, pay and allowances and discipline and conduct of
the officers and the employees referred to in sub-Section (1), shall be regulated in accordance with the provisions of the
Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Regulation of Age of Superannuation) Act, 1984 (Act 23 of 1984), the Andhra
Pradesh (Regulation of Appointments to Public Services and Rationalisation of Staff Pattern and Pay Structure) Act,
1994 (Act,
Page 91/149
----- PAGE 92 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
2 of 1994
) and such rules as may be made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution. Until the rules in that behalf are so
made, the law for the time being in force regulating the recruitment and conditions of service, pay and allowances and
discipline and conduct, applicable to such holder shall continue to apply to such holder.
(5)
The Government, may from time to time, by order give such directions to any Parishad or any officer, authority or person
thereof, as may appear to them to be necessary for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Section; and the
[Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, officer, authority or person shall comply with all such directions.
196.
Allowances for attending meeting of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a Standing Committee.
(1)
There shall be paid to the non-official members of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and a Standing Committee thereof such allowances as may be prescribed for attending a meeting of the [Zilla Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or such committee.
(2)
There shall be paid to the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in respect of their/his tours on duty, whether within or outside the district but not outside the State, such allowances as
may be prescribed.
197.
Funds of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
All moneys received by the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall constitute a fund called the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Fund and shall be applied for the purposes specified in this Act and for such other purposes and in such manner as may
be prescribed.
(2)
All moneys received by the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be lodged in the nearest Government Treasury:
[Provided that the amounts received as funds under the Jawahar Rozgar Yojana, Employment Assurance Scheme or
other Wage Employment Schemes shall be lodged in nearby Nationalised Banks or Co-operative Banks or Post Offices
in such manner as may be prescribed.]
[Added by Section 4 of Act No. 16 of 1998.]
(3)
All orders or cheques against the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Fund shall be signed by the Chief Executive Authority.
198.
Income and expenses of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
Page 92/149
----- PAGE 93 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
The sources of income of [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall consist of-
(i)
the Central or State Government funds allotted to the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
;
(ii)
grants from all India bodies and institutions for the development of cottage, village and small scale industries and the
like;
(iii)
[ such share of the State taxes or fees as may be prescribed;]
[Substituted by Section 6(i) of Act. No. 37 of 2001.]
(iv)
proceeds from taxes or fees which the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may, under any law, levy;
(v)
income from endowments or trusts administered by the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
;
[***]
[Omitted by Section 6(ii) of Act. No. 37 of 2001.]
(vi)
[]
[Renumbered by Section 6(iii) of Act. No. 37 of 2001.]
donations and contributions from the [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, or from the public in any form;
(vii)
such contributions as the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may levy from the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
with the previous approval of the Government;
(viii)
any other income from remunerative enterprises and the like.]
(2)
The Government shall also make an annual grant at the rate of two rupees per person residing in the District calculated
on the basis of the last preceding census of which figures are available.
(3)
The expenses of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall include the salaries and allowances of its officers and other employees, the allowances to be paid under Section
189 and Section 196, any item of expenditure directed by the Government for carrying out the purposes of this Act and
such other expenses as may be necessary for such purposes.
199.
The Budget of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
Page 93/149
----- PAGE 94 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
The Chief Executive Officer shall in each year, frame and place before the prescribed date, a budget showing the
probable receipts and expenditure during the following year, and the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall sanction the budget, with such modifications, if any, as it thinks fit.
(2)
The budget so sanctioned shall be submitted to the Government by the Chief Executive Officer through the Chairperson
on or before such date as may be fixed by the Government and if the Government are satisfied that adequate provision
has not been made therein or that it is otherwise unsatisfactory for giving effect to the provisions of this Act, they shall
have the power to approve the budget with such modifications as they may consider necessary to secure such
provision.
(3)
If, for any reason, the budget is not sanctioned by the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
under sub-Section (1) before the date referred to in sub-Section (2), the Chief Executive Officer shall submit the budget
to the Government who shall thereupon approve the budget as it were submitted to them under sub-Section (2).
(4)
If, in the course of a year, the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
finds it necessary to make any alterations in the budget with regard its receipts or items of expenditure a revised or
supplemental budget may be framed, submitted and sanctioned or approved as far as may be, in the manner provided
in sub-Sections (1), (2) and (3).
Part V ? Constitution of Andhra Pradesh Election Commission for Local Bodies Conduct of Election and Election
Officers
Chapter I
Election Commission and Conduct of Elections
200.
Constitution of Andhra Pradesh Election Commission for Local Bodies.
(1)
There shall be constituted a [Andhra Pradesh Election Commission for Local Bodies]
[Substituted 'State Election Commission' by Act No. 33 of 1998.]
for Local Bodies for the superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of electoral rolls for, and the conduct of
elections to, all the Panchayat Raj institutions governed by this Act.
(2)
The said Andhra Pradesh. Election Commission for Local Bodies shall consist of a Andhra Pradesh. Election
Commissioner for Local Bodies. The Governor on the recommendation of the Government shall appoint a person who is
holding or who has held an office not less in rank than that of a Principal Secretary to Government as Andhra Pradesh
Election Commissioner for Local Bodies.
(3)
The conditions of service and tenure of office of the Andhra Pradesh. Election Commissioner for Local Bodies shall be
such as the Governor may, by rule, determine:
Provided that the Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies shall not be removed from his office except
in like manner and on the like grounds as a Judge of a High Court and the conditions of service of the Andhra Pradesh
Election Commissioner for Local Bodies shall not be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment.
201.
Powers and functions of the Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies.
(1)
All elections to the Panchayat Raj institutions shall be held under the supervision and control of the Andhra Pradesh
Election Commission for Local Bodies and for this purpose it shall have power to give such directions as it may deem
Page 94/149
----- PAGE 95 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
necessary to the Commissioner, District Collector or any officer or servant of the Government and the Panchayat Raj
institutions so as to ensure efficient conduct of the elections under this Act.
(2)
The preparation of electoral rolls for the conduct of all elections under the Act shall be done under the supervision and
control of the Andhra Pradesh Election Commission for Local Bodies.
(3)
For the purpose of this Section the Government shall provide the Andhra Pradesh Election Commission with such staff
as may be necessary.
(4)
On the request of the Andhra Pradesh Election Commission for Local Bodies, the State Government shall place at the
disposal of the Commission such staff of the State Government, Gram Panchayats, [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
for the purpose of conduct of elections under this Act.
(5)
The Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies may, subject to control and revision delegate his powers
to such officers as he may deem necessary.
201A.
[ Voting machines at elections.
[Inserted by Section 5 of Act No. 26 of 2000.]
- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or the rules made thereunder, the giving and recording of votes by
voting machines in such manner as may be prescribed, may be adopted in such Ward or Wards or Constituency or
Constituencies as the Andhra Pradesh Election Commission for Local Bodies may, having regard to the circumstances
of each case, specify.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this Section, "Voting Machines" means any machine or apparatus whether operated
electronically or otherwise used for giving or recording of votes and any reference to a ballot box or ballot paper in this
Act or the rules made threunder shall, save as otherwise provided, be construed as including a reference to such voting
machine wherever such voting machine is used at any election.]
202.
[ Symbols for elections under the Act.
[Substituted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
- The State Election Commission shall by notification, specify the symbols that may be chosen by candidates contesting
any election under this Act and the restrictions to which their choice shall be subject:
Provided that the State Election Commission shall not in the case of elections to gram panchayats allot to any contesting
candidate any symbol reserved for a recognised political party or a registered political party but in the case of elections
to [Mandal Praja Parishads] and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, the State Election Commission shall allot symbols including the symbols reserved for a recognised political party, or, as
the case may be symbols if any, reserved for a registered political party where any candidate is set up by such political
party.]
202A.
[ Reservations to Backward Classes.
[Added by Section 13 of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
- For the purpose of reserving the offices of Sarpanch, President and Chairman and members of the Gram Panchayats,
[Mandal Praja Parishads] and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to the members belonging to the backward classes under this Act, the population figures of the backward classes,
gathered in the Socio-Economic Survey conducted by the Andhra Pradesh Backward Classes Co-operative Finance
Corporation Limited, Hyderabad, shall be taken as the basis.]
202B.
Page 95/149
----- PAGE 96 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[ Voter identity Cards.
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
- With a view to preventing personation of electors, provision may be made by rules made under this Act, for the
production before the Presiding Officer of a polling station by every such elector, of his identity card before the delivery
of a ballot paper or ballot papers to him, if under the rules made in that behalf under the Registration of Electors Rules,
1960 made under the Representation of the People Act, 1950, electors of the Legislative Assembly Constituency or
Constituencies in which the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad] Territorial Constituency or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Territorial Constituency, as the case may be, is situated, have been supplied with identity cards with or without their
respective photographs attached thereto.]
203.
Reservation of offices [to cease on the expiration of the period specified in Article 334.]
[Subs by Section 2(ii) of Act No. 7 of 2000.]
- The provisions of this Act relating to reservation of offices of Sarpanch, President and Chairman and members of the
Gram Panchayats, [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes [shall cease to have effect on the expiration of the period specified in
article 334 of the Constitution of India.]
[Subs by Section 2(i) of Act No. 7 of 2000.]
204.
Injunctions not to be granted in election proceedings.
- Notwithstanding anything in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, or in any other law for the time being in force, no court
shall grant any permanent or temporary injunction or make any interim order restraining any proceeding which is being
or about to be taken under this Act for the preparation or publication of any electoral roll or for the conduct of any
election.
205.
Requisitioning of premises for election purposes.
(1)
If it appears to the Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies that in connection with any election held
under this Act, -
(a)
any premises are needed for or likely to be needed for the purpose of being used as a polling station or for the storage
of ballot boxes after a poll has been taken, or
(b)
any vehicle is needed or is likely to be needed for the purpose of transport of personnel or ballot boxes to or from any
polling station, or transport of members of the police force for maintaining order during the conduct of such election, or
transport of any officer or other person for performance of any duties in connection with such election, the Andhra
Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies may, by order in writing, requisition such premises or such vehicle, as
the case may be, and may make such further orders as may appear to him to be necessary or expedient, in connection
with the requisitioning:
Provided that no vehicle which is being lawfully used by a candidate or his agent for any purpose, connected with
election of such candidate shall be requisitioned under this sub-Section until the completion of the poll at such election.
(2)
The requisition shall be effected by an order in writing addressed to the person deemed by the Andhra Pradesh Election
Commissioner for Local Bodies to be the owner or person in possession of the property and such order shall be served
in the prescribed manner on the person to whom it is addressed.
(3)
Whenever any premises is requisitioned under sub-Section (1), the period of such requisition shall not extend beyond
the period for which such property is required for any of the purposes mentioned in that sub-Section.
Page 96/149
----- PAGE 97 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Explanation. -  For purposes of this Section 'premises' means any land, building or part of a building and includes a hut,
shed or other structure or any part thereof and 'vehicle' means any vehicle used or capable of being used for the
purpose of road transport, whether propelled by mechanical power or otherwise.
206.
Payment of compensation.
(1)
Whenever in pursuance of Section 205, the Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies requisitions any
premises, there shall be paid to the person interested compensation the amount of which shall be determined by taking
into consideration the following namely:-
(i)
the rent payable in respect of the premises or if no rent is so payable, the rent payable for similar premises in the
locality;
(ii)
if in consequence of the requisition of the premises the person interested is compelled to change his residence or place
of business, the reasonable expenses, if any, incidental to such change:
Provided that where any person interested being aggrieved by the amount of compensation so determined makes an
application within the prescribed time to the Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies for referring the
matter to an arbitrator, the amount of compensation to be paid shall be such as the arbitrator appointed in this behalf by
the Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for LocaL Bodies may determine:
Provided further that where there is any dispute as to the title to receive the compensation or as to the apportionment of
the amount of compensation, it shall be referred by the A.P. Election Commissioner for Local Bodies to an arbitrator
appointed in this behalf by the said Commissioner for determination, and shall be determined in accordance with the
decision of such arbitrator.
Explanation. - In this sub-Section, the expression "person interested" means the person who was in actual possession of
the premises requisitioned under Section 205 immediately before the requisition or where no person was in such actual
possession, the owner of such premises.
(2)
Whenever in pursuance of Section 205, the A.P. Election Commissioner for Local Bodies requisitions any vehicle, there
shall be paid to the owner thereof compensation the amount of which shall be determined by the A.P. Election
Commissioner for Local Bodies on the basis of the fares or rates prevailing in the locality for the hire of such vehicle:
Provided that where the owner of such vehicle, being aggrieved by the amount of compensation so determined, makes
an application within the prescribed time to the A.P. Election Commissioner for Local Bodies for referring the matter to
an arbitrator, the amount of compensation to be paid shall be such as the arbitrator appointed in this behalf by the A.P.
Election Commissioner for Local Bodies may determine:
Provided further that where immediately before the requisitioning, the vehicle was by virtue of a hire purchase
agreement, in the possession of a person, other than the owner, the amount determined under this sub-Section as the
total compensation payable in respect of the requisition shall be apportioned between that person and the owner in such
manner as they may agree upon, and in default of agreement, in such manner as the arbitrator appointed by the A.P.
Election Commissioner for Local Bodies in this behalf may decide.
207.
Power to obtain information.
- The A.P. Election Commissioner for Local Bodies may with a view to requisitioning any property under Section 205 or
determining the compensation payable under Section 206 by order, require any person to furnish to such authority as
may be specified in the order, such information in his possession relating to such property as may be specified.
208.
Eviction from requisitioned premises.
(1)
Any person remaining in possession of any requisitioned premises in contravention of any order made under Section
205 may summarily be evicted from the premises by an officer empowered by the A.P. Election Commissioner for Local
Bodies in this behalf.
(2)
Page 97/149
----- PAGE 98 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Any officer so empowered may, after giving to any woman not appearing in public, reasonable warning and facility to
withdraw, remove or open any lock or bolt or break open any door of any building or do any other act necessary for
effecting such eviction.
209.
Penalty for contravention of any order regarding requisitioning.
- If any person contravenes any order made under Section 205 or Section 207 he shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to one year or with fine or with both.
210.
Electoral officers and staff etc., deemed to be on deputation.
(1)
Any officer or staff employed in connection with the preparation, revision and correction of the electoral rolls for, and the
conduct of all elections shall be deemed to be on deputation to the A.P. Election Commission for Local Bodies for the
period during which they are employed and such officers and staff shall during that period, be subject to the control,
superintendence and discipline of the A.P. Election Commission for Local Bodies.
(2)
The Returning Officer, Assistant Returning Officer, Presiding Officer, Polling Officer and any other officer appointed
under this Act, and any police officer designated for the time being by the State Government for the conduct of any
elections shall be deemed to be on deputation to the A.P. Election Commission for Local Bodies for the period
commencing on and from the date of notification calling for such elections and ending with the date of declaration of the
results of such elections and such officer shall, during that period, be subject to the control, superintendence and
discipline of the A.P. Election Commission for Local Bodies.
Chapter II
Election Offences
211.
Corrupt practices.
- The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices for the purposes of this Act:-
(1)
Bribery, that is to say,-
(A)
any gift, offer or promise by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of a candidate or his
election agent, of any gratification, to any person whomsoever, with the object, directly or indirectly, of inducing -
(a)
a person to stand or not to stand as or to withdraw or not to withdraw from being a candidate at an election, or
(b)
an elector to vote or refrain from voting at an election, or as a reward to-
(i)
a person for having so stood or not stood, or for having withdrawn or not having withdrawn his candidature, or
(ii)
an elector for having voted or refrained from voting;
(B)
the receipt of, or agreement to receive, any gratification, whether as a motive or a reward-
(a)
by a person for standing or not standing as or for withdrawing or not withdrawing from being a candidate, or
(b)
by any person whomsoever for himself or any other person for voting or refraining from voting or inducing or attempting
to induce any elector to vote or refrain from voting, or any candidate to withdraw or not to withdraw his candidature.
Explanation. -  For the purpose of this clause the term "gratification" is not restricted to pecuniary gratification or
gratifications estimable in money and it includes all forms of entertainment and all forms of employment for reward but it
does not include the payment of any expenses bonafide incurred at, or for the purpose of any election and duly entered
in the account of election expenses.
(2)
Page 98/149
----- PAGE 99 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Undue influence, that is to say, any direct or indirect interference or attempt to interfere on the part of the candidate or
his agent, or of any other person with the consent of the candidate or his election agent with the free exercise of any
electoral right:
Provided that-
(a)
without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of this clause any such person as is referred to thereon, who-
(i)
threatens any candidate or any elector or any person in whom a candidate or an elector is interested, with injury of any
kind including social ostracism and ex-communication or expulsion from any caste or community; or
(ii)
induces or attempts to induce a candidate or an elector to believe that he, or any person in whom he is interested will
become or will be rendered an object of divine displeasure or spiritual censure, shall be deemed to interfere with the free
exercise of the electoral right of such candidate or elector within the meaning of this clause;
(b)
a declaration of public policy, or a promise of public action, or the mere exercise of a legal right without intent to interfere
with an electoral right, shall not be deemed to be interference within the meaning of this clause.
(3)
The appeal by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent to
vote or refrain from voting for any person on the ground of his religion, race, caste, community or language or the use of,
or appeal to religious symbols or the use of, or appeal to national symbols such as the national flag or the national
emblem, for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of that candidate or for prejudicially affecting the election of
any candidate:
Provided that no symbol allotted under this Act to a candidate shall be deemed to be a religious symbol or a national
symbol for the purposes of this clause.
(4)
The promotion of, or attempt to promote, feelings of enemity or hatred between different classes of the citizens of India
on grounds of religion, race, caste, community, or language by a candidate, or his agent or any other person with the
consent of a candidate or his election agent for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of that candidate or of
pre-judicially affecting the election of any candidate.
[(4-A) The propagation of the practice or the commission of sati or its glorification by a candidate or his agent or any
other person with the consent of the candidate or his election agent for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of
that candidate of for pre-judicially affecting the election of any candidate.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause, "sati" and "glorification" in relation of sati shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Commission of Sati (Prevention) Act, 1987.]
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
(5)
The publication by a candidate or his agent or by any other person, with the consent of a candidate or his election agent
or any statement of fact which is false, and which he either believes to be false, or does not believe to be true in relation
to the personal character or conduct of any candidate or in relation to the candidature, or withdrawal of any candidate,
being a statement reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of that candidate's election.
(6)
The hiring or procuring whether, on payment or otherwise of any vehicle or vessel by a candidate or his agent or by any
other person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent, or the use of such vehicle or vessel for the free
conveyance of any elector other than that the candidate himself, the members of his family or his agent to or from any
polling station:
Provided that the hiring of a vehicle or vessel by an elector or by several electors at their joint costs for the purpose of
conveying him or them to and from any such polling station or place fixed for the poll shall not be deemed to be a corrupt
practice under this clause if the vehicle or vessel so hired is a vehicle or vessel not propelled by mechanical power:
Provided further that the use of any public transport vehicle or vessel by any elector at his own cost for the purpose of
going to or coming from any such polling station or place fixed for the poll shall not be deemed to be a corrupt practice
under this clause.
Page 99/149
----- PAGE 100 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Explanation. - In this clause, the expression "vehicle" means any vehicle used or capable of being used for the purpose
of road transport, whether propelled by mechanical power or otherwise and whether used for drawing other vehicles or
otherwise.
(6A)
[ The incurring or authorising of expenses in contravention of Section 230A.]
[Added by Section 6 of Act No. 26 of 2000.]
(7)
The obtaining or procuring or abetting or attempting to obtain or procure by a candidate or his agent, or by any other
person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent, any assistance (other than the giving of vote) for the
furtherance of the prospects of that candidate's election, from any person in the service of the State, Central
Government, local authority or a corporation owned or controlled by the State or Central Government:
Provided that where any person, in the service of the State or Central Government or a local authority in the discharge
or purported to discharge of his official duty, makes any arrangements or provides any facilities or does any other act or
thing, for to or in relation to, any candidate or his agent or any other person acting with the consent of the candidate or
his election agent (whether by reason of the office held by the candidate or for any other reason), such arrangements,
facilities or act or thing shall not be deemed to be assistance for the furtherance of the prospects of that candidate's
election.
(8)
[ Booth capturing by a candidate or his agent or other person.]
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
Explanation. - (1) In this Section, the expression "agent" includes an election agent, a polling agent, and any person who
is held to have acted as an agent in connection with election with the consent of the candidate.
(2)
For the purpose of clause (7), a person shall be deemed to assist in the furtherance of the prospects of a candidate's
election if he acts as an election agent of that candidate.
(3)
For the purpose of clause (7) notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, the publication in the Andhra Pradesh
Gazette of the appointment, resignation, termination of service, dismissal or removal from service of a person in the
service of the Government shall be conclusive proof -
(i)
of such appointment, resignation, termination of service, dismissal or removal from service, as the case may be; and
(ii)
where the date of taking effect of such appointment, resignation, termination of service, dismissal or removal from
service, as the case may be, is stated in such publication, also of the fact that such person was appointed with effect
from the said date, or in the case of resignation, termination of service, dismissal or removal from service, such person
ceased to be in such service with effect from the said date.
(4)
[ For the purposes of sub-section (8), booth capturing shall have the same meaning as in Section 224.]
[Added by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
212.
[ Penalty for illegal hiring or procuring of conveyance at elections.
[Substituted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
- If any person is guilty of any such corrupt practice as is specified in subsection (7) of Section 211 at or in connection
with an election, he shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three months and with fine.]
213.
Promoting enemity between classes in connection with election.
- Any person who in connection with an election under this Act, promotes or attempts to promote on grounds of religion,
race, caste, community or language, feelings of enemity or hatred, between different classes of the citizens of India shall
be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and with fine which may extend to three
thousand rupees.
214.
Page 100/149
----- PAGE 101 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[ Prohibition of public meetings before the date of poll.
[Substituted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
(1)
No person shall,-
(a)
convene, hold, attend, join or address any public meeting or procession in connection with an election:
or
(b)
display to the public any election matter by means of  cinematography, television or other similar apparatus; or
(c)
propagate any election matter to the public by holding, or by arranging the holding of, any musical concert or any
theatrical performance or any other entertainment or amusement with a view to attracting the members of the public
thereto, in any polling area during the period of forty-eight hours prior to the hour fixed for the conclusion of the poll in
the case of [Mandal Praja Parishads] and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and forty four hours prior to the hour fixed for the conclusion of the poll in the case of Gram Panchayats.
(2)
Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to two years, or with fine or with both.
(3)
In this section, the expression "election matter" means any matter intended or calculated to influence or affect the result
of election.]
215.
Disturbance at election meetings.
(1)
Any person who at a public meeting to which this Section applies acts or incites others to act in a disorderly manner for
the purpose of preventing the transaction of the business for which the meeting was called together, shall be punishable
[with imprisonment which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees]
[Substituted 'with fine which may extend to two hundred and fifty rupees' by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
.
[(1-A) An offence punishable under subsection (1) shall be cognizable.]
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
(2)
This Section applies to any public meeting of a political character held in any constituency between the date of the issue
of notification under this Act calling upon the constituency to elect a member or members or office bearers of a local
authority and the date on which such election is held.
(3)
If any police officer reasonably suspects any person of committing an offence under sub-Section (1) he may, if
requested to do by the Chairman of the meeting require that person to declare to him immediately his name and address
and, if that person refuses or fails so to declare his name and address or if the police officer reasonably suspects him of
giving a false name or address, the police officer may arrest him without warrant.
216.
Restrictions on the printing of pamphlets, posters etc.
(1)
No person shall print or publish or cause to be printed or published, any election pamphlet or poster which does not bear
on its face the names and addresses of the printer and the publisher thereof.
(2)
No person shall print or cause to be printed any election pamphlet or poster,-
(a)
unless a declaration as to the identity of the publisher thereof, signed by him and attested by two persons to whom he is
personally known, is delivered by him to the printer in duplicate; and
Page 101/149
----- PAGE 102 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(b)
unless, within a reasonable time after the printing of the document, one copy of the declaration is sent by the printer,
together with one copy of the document,-
(i)
where it is printed in the capital of the State, to the A.P. Election Commissioner for local bodies, and
(ii)
in any other case, to the District Magistrate of the district in which it is printed.
(3)
For the purpose of this Section,-
(a)
any process for multiplying copies of a document other than copying it by hand, shall be deemed to be printing and the
expression 'printer' shall be construed accordingly; and
(b)
"election pamphlet or poster" means any printed pamphlet, hand-bill or other document distributed for the purpose or
promoting or prejudicing the election of a candidate or group of candidates or any play card or poster having reference
to an election, but does not include any hand-bill, play card or poster merely announcing the date, time, place and other
particulars of an election meeting or routine instructions to election agents or workers.
(4)
Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of sub-Section (1) or sub-Section (2) shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees or with
both.
217.
Maintenance of secrecy of voting.
(1)
Every Officer, clerk, agent or other person who performs any duty in connection with the recording or counting of votes
at an election shall maintain, and aid in maintaining, the secrecy of the voting and shall not (except for some purpose
authorised by or under any law) communicate to any person any information calculated to violate such secrecy.
(2)
Any person who contravenes provisions of sub-Section (1) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three months or with fine or with both.
218.
Officers etc, at elections not to act for candidates or to influence voting.
(1)
No person who is a District Election Officer or a Returning Officer, or an assistant returning officer, or a presiding officer
or polling officer at an election, or an officer or clerk appointed by the returning officer or the presiding officer to perform
any duty in connection with an election shall in the conduct or the management of the election do any act other than the
giving of vote for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of a candidate.
(2)
No such person as aforesaid, and no member of a police force, shall endeavour,-
(a)
to persuade any person to give his vote at an election, or
(b)
to dissuade any person from giving his vote at an election, or
(c)
to influence the voting of any person at an election in any manner.
(3)
Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-Section (1) or sub-Section (2) shall be punishable with imprisonment
which may extend to six months or with fine or with both.
219.
Prohibition of canvassing in or near polling stations.
(1)
Page 102/149
----- PAGE 103 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
No person shall, on the date or dates on which a poll is taken at any polling station, commit any of the following acts
within the polling station or in any public or private place within a distance of one hundred metres of the polling station,
namely:-
(a)
canvassing for votes; or
(b)
soliciting the vote of any elector; or
(c)
persuading any elector not to vote for any particular candidate; or
(d)
persuading any elector not to vote at the election; or
(e)
exhibiting any notice or signs (other than an official notice) relating to the election.
(2)
Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-Section (1) shall be punished with fine which may extend to two
hundred and fifty rupees.
220.
Penalty for disorderly conduct in or near polling stations.
(1)
No person shall, on the date or dates on which a poll is taken at any polling station, -
(a)
use or operate within or at the entrance of the polling station, or in any public or private place in the neighbourhood
thereof, any apparatus for amplifying or reproducing the human voice, such as a megaphone or a loudspeaker, or
(b)
shout, or otherwise act in a disorderly manner within or at the entrance of the polling station or in any public or private
place in the neighbourhood thereof, so as to cause annoyance to any person visiting the polling station for the poll, or so
as to interfere with the work of the officers and other persons on duty at the polling station.
(2)
Any person who contravenes, or willfully aids or abets the contravention of the provisions of sub-Section (1) shall be
punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three months or with fine or with both.
(3)
If the presiding officer of a polling station has reason to believe that any person is committing or has committed an
offence punishable under this Section, he may direct any police officer to arrest such person, and thereupon the police
officer shall arrest him.
(4)
Any police officer may take such steps, and use such force as may be reasonably necessary for preventing any
contravention of the provisions of sub-Section (1), and may seize any apparatus used for such contravention.
221.
Penalty for misconduct at the polling station.
(1)
Any person who during the hours fixed for the poll at any polling station misconducts himself or fails to obey the lawful
directions of the presiding officer may be removed from the polling station by the presiding officer or by any police officer
on duty or by any person authorised in this behalf by such presiding officer.
(2)
The powers conferred by sub-Section (1) shall not be exercised so as to prevent any elector who is otherwise entitled to
vote at a polling station from having opportunity of voting at that station.
(3)
If any person who has been so removed from polling station re-enters the polling station without the permission of the
presiding officer he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine, or
with both.
221A.
Page 103/149
----- PAGE 104 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[ Penalty for failure to observe procedure for voting.
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
- If an elector to whom a ballot paper has been issued, refuses to observe the procedure prescribed for voting, the ballot
paper issued to him shall be liable for cancellation.]
221B.
[ Prohibition of going armed to or near a polling station.
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
(1)
No person other than a Police Officer and any other person appointed to maintain peace and order, at a polling station
who is on duty at the polling station, shall, on a polling day, go armed with arms, as defined in the Arms Act, 1959, of
any kind within the neighbourhood of a polling station.
(2)
If any person contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1), he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.
(3)
An offence punishable under subsection (2) shall be cognizable.]
222.
Breaches of official duty in connection with elections.
(1)
If any person to whom this Section applies is without reasonable cause guilty of any act or omission in breach of his
official duty, he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees.
(2)
No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against any such person for damages in respect of any such act or omission
as aforesaid.
(3)
The persons to whom this Section applies are the District Election Officers, returning officers, assistant returning
officers, presiding officers, polling officers and any other person appointed to perform any duty in connection with the
receipt of nominations or withdrawal of candidatures, or the recording or counting of votes at an election and the
expression "official duty" shall for the purposes of this Section be construed accordingly but shall not include duties
imposed otherwise than by or under this Act.
223.
Penalty for Government servants etc., for acting as election agent, polling agent, or counting agent.
- If any person in the service of the State or Central Government or a local authority or a Corporation owned or
controlled by the State or Central Government acts as an election agent or a polling agent or counting agent of a
candidate at an election he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with
fine or with both.
224.
[ Offence of both capturing.
[Substituted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
(1)
Whoever commits an offence of booth capturing shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less
than one year but which may extend to three years and with fine, and where such offence is committed by a person in
the service of the Government, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three
years but which may extend to five years and with fine.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section and Section 232-A "booth capturing" includes, among other things,
all or any of the following activities, namely:—
(a)
seizure of a polling station or a place fixed for the polHoy any person or persons making polling authorities surrender the
ballot papers or voting machines and doing of any other act which affects the orderly conduct of elections;
(b)
taking possession of polling station or a place fixed for the poll by any person or persons and allowing only his or their
Page 104/149
----- PAGE 105 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
own supporters to exercise their right to vote and prevent others from free exercise of their right to vote:
(c)
coercing or intimidating or threatening directly or indirectly threatening any elector and preventing him from going to the
polling station or a place fixed for the poll to cast his vote;
(d)
seizure of a place for counting of votes by any person or persons, making the counting authorities surrender the ballot
papers or voting machines and the doing of anything which affects the orderly counting of votes;
(e)
doing by any person in the service of Government, of all or any of the aforesaid activities or aiding or conniving at, any
such activity in the furtherance of the prospects of the election of a candidate.
(2)
An offence punishable under subsection (1) shall be cognizable.]
225.
Removal of ballot papers or ballot boxes from polling stations to be an offence.
(1)
Any person who at any election fraudulently takes or attempts to take a ballot paper or ballot box out of polling station, or
willfully aids or abets the doing of any such act shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
five years and with fine which may extend upto five thousand rupees.
(2)
If the presiding officer of a polling station has reason to believe that any person is committing or has committed an
offence punishable under sub-Section (1), such officer may, before such person leaves the polling station arrest or direct
a police officer to arrest such person and may cause him to be searched by a police officer:
Provided that when it is necessary to cause a woman to be searched the search shall be made by another woman with
strict regard to decency.
(3)
Any ballot paper found upon the person arrested on search shall be made over for safe custody to a police officer by the
presiding officer or when the search is made by a police officer, shall be kept by such officer in safe custody.
[225-A. "Liquor not to be sold given or distributed on polling day.
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
(1)
No spirituous, fermented or intoxicating liquors or other substances of a like nature shall be sold, given or distributed at a
hotel, eating house, tavern, shop or any other place, public or private, within a polling area during the period of
forty-eight hours prior to the hour fixed for the conclusion of the poll in the case of [Mandal Praja Parishads] and [Zilla
Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and forty four hours prior to the conclusion of poll in the case of Gram Panchayats and also on the counting day.
(2)
Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1), shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with both.
(3)
Where a person is convicted of an offence under this section, the spirituous, fermented or intoxicating liquors or other
substances of a like nature found in his possession shall be liable to confiscation and the same shall be disposed of in
such manner as may be prescribed.]
225B.
[ Adjournment of poll in emergencies.
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
(1)
If at an election the proceedings at any polling station are interrupted or obstructed by any riot or open violence, or if at
an election it is not possible to take the poll at any polling station or such place on account of any natural calamity, or
any other sufficient cause, the Presiding Officer for such polling station shall announce an adjournment of the poll to a
date to be notified later, and he shall forthwith inform the Returning Officer concerned.
Page 105/149
----- PAGE 106 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(2)
Wherever a poll is adjourned under sub-section (1), the Returning Officer shall immediately report the circumstances to
the District Election Authority and the State Election Commission, and shall, as soon as may be, with the previous
approval of the State Election Commission, appoint the day on which the poll shall recommence, and fix the hours
during which, the poll will be taken, and shall not count the votes cast at such election until such adjourned poll shall
have been completed.
(3)
In every such case as aforesaid, the Returning Officer shall notify in such manner as the State Election Commission
may direct, the date and hours of polling fixed under subsection (2).]
225C.
[ Fresh poll in the case of destruction etc., of ballot boxes.
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
(1)
If at any election, -
(a)
any ballot box used at a polling station is unlawfully taken out of the custody of the Presiding Officer or the Returning
Officer, or is accidentally or intentionally destroyed or lost or is damaged or tampered with, to such an extent, that the
result of the poll at that polling station cannot be ascertained; or
(b)
any voting machine develops a mechanical failure during the course of the recording of votes; or
(c)
any such error or irregularity in procedure as is likely to vitiate the poll is committed at a polling station, the Returning
Officer shall forthwith report the matter to the State Election Commission.
(2)
Thereupon the State Election Commission shall, after taking all material circumstances into account; either-
(a)
declare the poll at that polling station to be void, appoint a day, and fix the hours, for taking a fresh poll at that polling
station and notify the day so appointed and the hours so fixed in such manner as it may deem fit; or
(b)
if satisfied that the result of a fresh poll at that polling station will not, in any way, affect the result of the election or that
the mechanical failure of the voting machine or the error or irregularity in procedure is not material, issue such directions
to the Returning Officer as it may deem proper for the further conduct and completion of the election.
(3)
The provisions of this Act and of any rules or orders made thereunder shall apply to every such fresh poll as they apply
to the original poll.]
225D.
[ Destruction, loss, etc., of ballot papers at the time of counting.
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
(1)
If any time before the counting of votes is completed any ballot papers used at a polling station are unlawfully taken out
of the custody of the Returning Officer or are accidentally or intentionally destroyed or lost or are damaged to tampered
with, to such an extent that the result of the poll at that polling station cannot be ascertained, the Returning Officer shall
forthwith report the matter to the State Election Commission.
(2)
Thereupon, the State Election Commission shall, after taking all material circumstances into account, either,-
(a)
direct that the counting of votes shall be stopped, declare the poll at that polling station to be void, appoint a day, and fix
the hours, for taking a fresh poll at that polling station and notify the date so appointed and hours so fixed in such
manner as it may deem fit; or
(b)
if satisfied that the result of a fresh poll at that polling station will not, in any way, affect the result of the election, issue
Page 106/149
----- PAGE 107 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
such directions to the Returning Officer as it may deem proper for the resumption and completion of the counting and for
the further conduct and completion of the election in relation to which the votes have been counted.
(3)
The provisions of this Act and of any rules or orders made thereunder shall apply to every such fresh poll as they apply
to the original poll.]
226.
Impersonation at elections.
- Whoever at an election applies for a ballot paper or votes in the name of any other person, whether living or dead or in
a fictitious name, or who having voted once at such election applies at the same election for a ballot paper in this own
name, and whoever abets, procures or attempts to procure the voting by any person in any such way shall be punished
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.
227.
Other offences and penalties thereunder.
(1)
A person shall be guilty of an electoral offence if at any election he, -
(a)
fraudulently defaces or fraudulently destroys any nomination paper; or
(b)
fraudulently defaces or destroys or removes any list, notice or other document affixed by or under the authority of a
returning officer; or
(c)
fraudulently defaces or fraudulently destroys any ballot paper or the official mark of any ballot paper or any declaration
or identity or official envelope used in connection with voting by postal ballot; or
(d)
without due authority supplies any ballot paper to any person or receives any ballot paper from any person or is in
possession of any ballot paper; or
(e)
fraudulently puts into any ballot box anything other than the ballot paper which he is authorised by law to put in; or
(f)
without due authority destroys, takes, opens or otherwise interferes with any ballot box or ballot papers then in use for
the purposes of the election; or
(g)
fraudulently or without due authority as the case may be, attempts to do any of the foregoing acts or willfully aids or
abets the doing of any such acts.
(2)
Any person guilty of an electoral offence under this Section shall,
(a)
if he is a returning officer or an assistant returning officer or a presiding officer at a polling station or any other officer or
clerk employed on official duty in connection with the election, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to two years or with fine or with both;
(b)
if he is any other person, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with fine or with
both.
(3)
For the purposes of this Section a person shall be deemed to be on official duty if duty is to take part in the conduct of
an election or part of an election including the counting of votes or to be responsible after an election for the used ballot
papers and other documents in connection with such election, but the expression "official duty" shall not include any
duty imposed otherwise than by or under this Act.
228.
Penalty for offences not otherwise provided for.
- Whoever does any act in contravention of any of the provisions of this Act, or of any rule, notification or order made,
Page 107/149
----- PAGE 108 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
issued or passed, thereunder and not otherwise provided for in this Act shall, on conviction, be punished with
imprisonment which may extend to two years and with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees.
229.
Offences by companies.
(1)
Where an offence under this Act, has been committed by a company, every person who at the time the offence was
committed, was in charge of and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-Section shall render any such person liable to any punishment if he proves
that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of such offence.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-Section (1) where any offence under this Act has been committed by a
company and it is proved that offence has been committed with the consent or connivance or is attributable to any
neglect on the part of any director, manager, Secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
Secretary or other official shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.
Explanation. -  For the purposes of this Section, -
(a)
"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals; and
(b)
"director" in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm.
[Chapter II A]
[Substituted by Section 7 of Act. No. 26 of 2000.]
Election Expenses
230.
Application of Chapter.
- This Chapter shall apply to candidates of any election held under this Act.
230A.
Account of election expenses.
(1)
Every candidate, at any election held under this Act shall, either by himself, or by his election agent, keep a separate
and correct account of all expenditure incurred in connection with the election between the date on which the candidate
concerned has been nominated, and the date of declaration of the result of the election both dates inclusive (herein after
in this Chapter referred to as 'election expenses').
Explanation I. - 'Election Expenses' for purpose of this Act shall mean all expenses in connection with the election, -
(a)
incurred, or authorised by the contesting candidate, or by his election agent;
(b)
incurred by any association, or body of persons, or by any individual (other than the candidate or his election agent),
aimed at promoting or procuring the election of the candidate concerned; and
(c)
incurred by any political party, by which the candidate is set up, so as to promote or procure his election:
Provided that any expenses incurred by any political party as part of its general propaganda,
(which is distinguishable from its election campaign, for the promotion or procuring the election of a particular
candidate), by words, either written or spoken, or by signs or visible representations, or by audio visual devises, or
through print or electronic media or otherwise, shall not constitute 'election expenses' for purposes of this Act.
Explanation II. - (1) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that any expenses incurred in respect of any
arrangements made, facilities provided or any other act, or thing done by any person in the service of the Government
and belonging to any of the classes mentioned in clause (7) of Section 211 in the discharge or purported discharge of
Page 108/149
----- PAGE 109 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
his official duty as mentioned in the proviso to that clause shall not be deemed to be expenses in connection with the
election incurred or authorised by a candidate or by his election agent for the purposes of this sub-Section.
(2)
The account of election expenses shall contain such particulars, as may, by order, be specified by the State Election
Commission.
(3)
The total of the said expenses shall not exceed such amount, as may, by order, be specified by the State Election
Commission.
230B.
Lodging of account with the District Election Authority.
- Every contesting candidate at an election shall, within forty five days from the date of declaration of the result of the
election, lodge with the District Election Authority, an account of his election expenses, which shall be a true copy of the
account kept by him, or by his election agent, under Section 230A.]
Chapter III
Miscellaneous Election Matters Vacation of Seats and Offices
231.
Adjournment of poll or countermanding of election on the ground of booth capturing.
(1)
If at any election, -
(a)
booth capturing has taken place at a polling station or in such number of polling stations as is likely to affect the result of
such election or that the result of the poll at that polling station cannot be ascertained; or
(b)
booth capturing takes place in any place for counting of votes in such manner that the result of the counting at that place
cannot be ascertained, the returning officer shall forthwith report the matter to the A.P. Election Commissioner for Local
Bodies.
(2)
The A.P. Election Commissioner for Local Bodies shall on the receipt of a report from the returning officer under
sub-Section (1) and after taking all material circumstances into account, either, -
(a)
declare that the poll at that polling station be void, appoint a day, and fix the hours, for taking fresh poll at that polling
station and notify the date so appointed and hours so fixed in such manner as he may deem fit, or
(b)
if satisfied that in view of the large number of polling stations involved in booth capturing the result of the election is likely
to be affected or that booth capturing had affected counting of votes in such manner as to effect the result of the
election, countermand the election in that constituency.
Explanation. - In this Section "booth capturing" shall have the same meaning as in Section 224.
232.
Power to delegate.
- The A.P. Election Commissioner for Local Bodies may, subject to such conditions and restrictions as the Government
may, by general or special order, impose, by order in writing delegate to any officer or authority subordinate to him,
either generally or as respects any particular matter or class of matters any of his powers under this Act.
232A.
[ Appointment of Observers.
[Inserted by Act No. 22 of 2006, dated 19.4.2006.]
(1)
The State Election Commission may nominate an Observer who shall be an officer of Government to watch the conduct
of election or elections for such specified area or areas in the district and to perform such other functions as may be
entrusted to him by the Commission in relation thereto.
(2)
The Observer nominated under Subsection (1) shall have the power to direct the Returning Officer for the or for any of
Page 109/149
----- PAGE 110 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
the wards or constituencies for which he has been nominated, to stop the counting of votes at any time before the
declaration of the result, or not to declare the result, if in the opinion of the Observer, booth capturing has taken place at
a large number of polling stations or at counting centres or any ballot papers used at a polling station are unlawfully
taken out of the custody of the Returning Officer or are accidentally or intentionally destroyed or lost or are damaged or
tampered with, to such an extent that the result of the poll at that polling station cannot be ascertained.
(3)
Where an Observer has directed the Returning Officer under this section to stop counting of votes or not to declare the
result, the Observer shall forthwith report the matter to the Commission and thereupon the Commission shall, after
taking all material circumstances into account, issue appropriate directions under Section 225-D or Section 231 in the
matter of declaration of results.
(4)
It shall be competent for the State Election Commission to appoint an Election Expenditure Observer for a group of
wards or constituencies or for a Mandal or group of Mandals so as to ensure that the provisions of Sections 230-A and
230-B are strictly adhered to and in that behalf the Commission may issue such instructions as it deems fit, from time to
time, to such Observers.]
233.
Election petitions.
- No election held under this Act shall be called in question except by an election petition presented to such authority
and in accordance with such rules as may be made in this behalf.
234.
Prohibition of holding dual offices and vacation of seats.
(1)
No person shall be entitled to contest in the elections to the offices of member of the Gram Panchayat from more than
one ward or to the office of member of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
from more than one territorial constituency.
(2)
No person shall be a member of the Gram Panchayat, member of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
simultaneously and if he is so elected, he shall retain only one office and vacate the other office or offices in the manner
prescribed.
(3)
Where a person is elected to more than one office of member of the Gram Panchayat or [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and Sarpanch or President or Chairperson he shall retain one office and vacate the other office or offices in the manner
prescribed except when his continuance as member of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is necessary to continue as President or as the case may be the Chairperson thereof.
Part VI ? Finance Commission
235.
Constitution of Finance Commission.
(1)
The Governor shall on the recommendation of the State Government constitute a Finance Commission as soon as may
Page 110/149
----- PAGE 111 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
be within one year from the date of commencement of the Constitution (Seventy-third) Amendment Act, 1992 and
thereafter on the expiration of every fifth year.
(2)
The Finance Commission shall consist of a Chairman and four other members of whom one shall be the Member
Secretary. The Governor shall, by order appoint, on the recommendation of the Government, the Chairman and other
members of the Commission.
(3)
The Government shall make available to the Finance Commission such staff as may be necessary for the discharge of
the functions conferred on the Finance Commission.
236.
Qualifications for appointment as, and the manner of selection of, members of the Commission.
- The Chairman of the Commission shall be selected from among persons who have had experience in public affairs and
the other members shall be selected from among persons who -
(a)
have special knowledge of the finances and accounts of Government; or
(b)
have had wide experience in financial matters and in administration; or
(c)
have special knowledge of economics.
237.
Personal interest to disqualify members.
- Before appointing a person to be a member of the Commission the Governor shall satisfy himself that the person will
have no such financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as a member of the Commission;
and the Governor shall also satisfy himself from time to time with respect to every member of the Commission that he
has no such interest and any person who is, or whom the Governor proposes to appoint to be a member of the
Commission shall, whenever required by the Governor so to do, furnish to him such information as the Governor
considers necessary for the performance by him of his duties under this Section.
238.
Disqualifications for being a member of the Commission.
- A person shall be disqualified for being appointed as, or for being a member of the Commission, -
(a)
if he is of unsound mind;
(b)
if he is an undischarged insolvent;
(c)
if he has been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude;
(d)
if he has such financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as a member of the Commission.
239.
Term of office of members and eligibility for reappointment.
- Every member of the Commission shall hold office for such period as may be specified in the order of the Governor,
appointing him, but shall be eligible for reappointment:
Provided that he may, by letter addressed to the Governor, resign his office.
240.
Conditions of service and salaries and allowances of members.
- The members of the Commission shall render whole-time or part-time service to the Commission as the Governor in
each case specify, and there shall be paid to the members of the Commission such fees or salaries and such
allowances as the State Government may, by rules made in this behalf, determine.
241.
Functions of the Commission.
(1)
Page 111/149
----- PAGE 112 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
The Finance Commission shall review the financial position of the Gram Panchayats, [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and make recommendations to the Government as to, -
(a)
the principles which should govern -
(i)
the distribution between the State and the said Gram Panchayats and Parishads of the net proceeds of the taxes,
duties, tolls and fees leviable by the State, which may be divided between them and the allocation between the said
Gram Panchayats and Parishads at all levels of their respective shares of such proceeds;
(ii)
the determination of the taxes, duties, tolls and fees which may be assigned to or apportioned by, the said Gram
Panchayats and Parishads;
(iii)
the Grant-in-Aid to the said Gram Panchayats and Parishads from the Consolidated Fund of the State;
(b)
the measures needed to improve the financial position of the said Gram Panchayats and Parishads.
(2)
The Government shall cause every recommendation made by the Commission under this Section together with an
explanatory memorandum as to the action taken thereon to be laid before the Legislature of the State.
242.
Procedure and powers of the Commission.
(1)
The Commission shall determine their procedure and in the performance of their functions shall have all the powers of a
Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure. 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908) while trying a suit in respect of the following
matters, namely -
(a)
summoning and enforcing the attendance of witnesses;
(b)
requiring the production of any document;
(c)
requisitioning any public record from any court or office.
(2)
The Commission shall have power to require any person to furnish information on such points or matters as in the
opinion of the Commission may be useful for, or relevant to, any matter under the consideration of the Commission and
any person so required shall, notwithstanding anything contained in sub-Section (2) of Section 54 of the Indian
Income-Tax Act, 1922 (Central Act 2 of 1922) or in any other law for the time being in force, be deemed to be legally
bound to furnish such information within the meaning of Section 176 of the Indian Penal Code. (Central Act 45 of 1860).
(3)
The commission shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for the purposes of Sections 345 (1) and 346 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973. (Central Act 2 of 1974).
Explanation. - For the purposes of enforcing the attendance of witnesses, the local limits of the Commission's jurisdiction
shall be the limits of the territory of the State of Andhra Pradesh.
[Part VI-A]
[Inserted by Act No. 7 of 1998.]
Special provisions relating to the Panchayats, [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
located in the scheduled areas
Page 112/149
----- PAGE 113 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
242A.
Application of this Part.
(1)
The provisions of this Part shall apply to the Gram Panchayats, [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
constituted in the Scheduled Areas in the State.
(2)
The provisions of this Part shall prevail over anything inconsistent therewith elsewhere in this Act.
242B.
Declaration of village in Scheduled Areas.
- For the purposes of Section 3, a village shall ordinarily consist of a habitation or a group of habitations or a hamlet or a
group of hamlets thereof comprising a community or communities and managing their affairs in accordance with
traditions and customs.
242C.
Functions of Gram Sabha.
(1)
Every Gram Sabha shall be competent to safeguard and preserve the traditions and customs of the people, their cultural
identity, community resources and without detriment to any law for the time being in force, the customary mode of
dispute resolution.
(2)
Every Gram Sabha shall, -
(i)
approve plans, programmes and projects for social and economic development before such plans, programmes and
projects are taken up for implementation by the Gram Panchayat, at the village level;
(ii)
be responsible for the identification of selection of persons as beneficiaries under poverty alleviation and other
programmes.
(3)
Every Gram Panchayat shall obtain from the Gram Sabha a certification of utilisation of funds by that Panchayat for the
plans, programmes and projects referred to in sub-Section (2).
242D.
Reservation of seats of members of Gram Panchayat and [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and offices of Sarpanches of Gram Panchayats and Presidents of [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
- The reservation of seats in the Scheduled Areas to every Gram Panchayat and [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be in proportion to the population of the communities in that Gram Panchayat or the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as the case may be:
Provided that the reservation for the Scheduled Tribes shall not be less than one-half of the total number of seats:
Provided further that all seats of Sarpanches of Gram Panchayats and Presidents of [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be reserved for the Scheduled Tribes.
242E.
Nomination of persons.
- The Government may nominate persons belonging to such Scheduled Tribes who have no representation in [Mandal
Praja Parishads]
Page 113/149
----- PAGE 114 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
:
Provided that such nomination shall not exceed one tenth of the total members to be elected in that [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
242F.
Acquisition of land in the Scheduled Areas.
- The [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be consulted before making the acquisition of land in the Scheduled Areas for development projects and before
resettling or rehabilitating persons evicted by such projects in the Scheduled Areas, the actual planning and
implementation of the projects in the Scheduled Areas shall be coordinated at the State level.
242G.
Management of minor water bodies in the Scheduled Areas.
- Planning and management of minor water bodies in the Scheduled Areas shall be entrusted to Gram Panchayats,
[Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, as the case may be, in such manner as may be prescribed.
242H.
Minor minerals in the Scheduled Areas.
(1)
The recommendations of the Gram Panchayats, made in such manner as may be prescribed, shall be taken into
consideration prior to grant of prospecting licence or mining lease, for minor minerals in the Scheduled Areas.
(2)
The prior recommendation of the Gram Panchayat, made in such manner as may be prescribed, shall be taken into
consideration for grant of concession for the exploitation of minor minerals by auction.
242I.
Powers and functions of Gram Panchayats and [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
The Gram Panchayat or as the case may be, the Gram Sabha shall exercise such powers and perform such functions in
such manner and to such extent as may be prescribed in respect of the following matters, namely: -
(a)
enforcement of prohibition or regulation or restriction of the sale and consumption of any intoxicant;
(b)
the ownership of minor forest produce;
(c)
prevention of alienation of land in the Scheduled Areas and restoration of any unlawfully alienated land of a Scheduled
Tribe;
(d)
management of village markets by whatever name called; and
(e)
exercising control over money lending to the Scheduled Tribe;
(2)
The [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall exercise such powers and perform such functions in such manner and to such extent as may be prescribed, in
Page 114/149
----- PAGE 115 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
respect of the following matters, namely:-
(a)
exercising control over institutions and functionaries in all social Sectors; and
(b)
control over local plans and resources for such plans including tribal sub-plans.
Part VII ? Miscellaneous
243.
Transfer of powers and functions of District Board to [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything in the relevant District Boards Act or any other law, the Government may, by notification and
subject to such control, restrictions, conditions and reservations as may be specified therein, direct that any powers
exercisable or functions performable by a District Board by or under the relevant District Boards Act or any other law for
the time being in force including the powers to levy any tax or fees, shall be transferred to a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and thereafter the Mandal Parishad or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as the case my be, shall exercise and perform the powers and functions transferred to it.
(2)
When any powers and functions of the District Board are transferred to a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
under sub-Section (1), all references in the relevant District Boards Act or any other law for the time being in force to the
District Board with reference to such powers and functions shall be construed as references to the [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, as the case may be.
244.
Application of the relevant District Boards Act to [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
The Government may, by notification, direct that such of the provisions of the relevant District Boards Act, including the
provisions relating to the levy and collection of any tax or fee as may be specified in such notification, shall apply to the
[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
constituted under this Act.
For the purpose of facilitating the application of these provisions to the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Page 115/149
----- PAGE 116 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
constituted under this Act, the Government may, by notification, make such adaptations and modifications of the
relevant District Boards Act and the rules made thereunder whether by way of repealing, amending or suspending any
provision thereof, as may be necessary or expedient and thereupon the relevant District Boards Act and the rules made
thereunder shall have effect subject to the adaptations and modifications so made.
(2)
Notwithstanding that no provision or insufficient provision has been made under sub-Section (1) for the adaptations of
the provisions of the relevant District Boards Act, or the rules made thereunder, any court, tribunal or authority required
or empowered to enforce these provisions may, for the purpose of facilitating their application to any [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
construe these provisions in such manner, without affecting the substance, as may be necessary or proper in regard to
the matter before the court, tribunal or authority.
245.
Motion of no confidence in Upa-Sarpanch, President or Chairperson.
(1)
A motion expressing want of confidence in the Upa-Sarpanch or President or Vice-President or Chairperson or
Vice-Chairperson may be made by giving a written notice of intention to move the motion in such form and to such
authority as may be prescribed, signed by not less than one-half of the total number of members of the Gram
Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, or as the case may be the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and further action on such notice shall be taken in accordance with the procedure prescribed:
Provided that no notice of motion under this Section shall be made within two years of the date of assumption of office
by the person against whom the motion is sought to be moved:
Provided further that no such notice shall be made against the same person more than once during his term of office.
Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that for the purpose of this Section the expression "total
number of members" means, all the members who are entitled to vote in the election to the office concerned inclusive of
the Sarpanch, President or Chairperson but irrespective of any vacancy existing in the office of such members at the
time of meeting:
Provided that a suspended office-bearer or member shall also be taken into consideration for computing the total
number of members and he shall also be entitled to vote in a meeting held under this Section.
(2)
if the motion is carried with the support of [***]
[Omitted by Section 2(i) of Andhra Pradesh Act No. 8 of 2000.]
two thirds of the total number of members in the case of a Upa-Sarpanch, the Commissioner shall and in the case of the
President or Vice-President or Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson, the Government shall by notification remove him from
office and the resulting vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as a casual vacancy.
[Explanation. -  For the purposes of this Section, in the determination of two-thirds of the total number of members, any
fraction below 0.5 shall be ignored and any fraction of 0.5 or above shall be taken as one.]
[Added by Section 2(ii) of Andhra Pradesh Act No. 8 of 2000.]
246.
Power to cancel or suspend resolution of a Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
Page 116/149
----- PAGE 117 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(1)
The Government may either suo moto or on a reference made to them by the Executive Officer or [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer or as the case may be, the Chief Executive Officer, in the manner prescribed by order in writing
cancel any resolution passed by a Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or any standing Committee of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
if in their opinion such resolution,
(a)
is not legally passed, or
(b)
is in excess or abuse of the powers conferred by or under this Act, or any other law;or
(c)
on its execution is likely to cause danger to human life, health or safety or is likely to lead to a riot or affray.
(2)
The Government shall, before taking action under sub-Section (1), give the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as the case may be, an opportunity for explanation.
(3)
If in the opinion of the District Collector, immediate action is necessary to suspend a resolution on any of the grounds
referred to in clause (c) of sub-Section (1), he may make a report to the Government and the Government may, by order
in writing, suspend the resolution.
247.
Power of Government to take action in default of a Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
If at any time it appears to the Government that a Gram Panchayat or the Sarpanch thereof or a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the President thereof or a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the Chairperson thereof or any standing Committee of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
has made default in performing any function or discharging any duty imposed by or under this Act, or any relevant law
for the time being in force, the Government may, by order in writing fix a period for performing such function or
discharging such duty.
(2)
If such function or duty is not performed or discharged by any authority aforesaid within the period so fixed, the
Government may appoint some person to perform that function or discharge that duty and may direct that the expenses
incurred in that regard shall be paid by the person having the custody of the Gram Panchayat Fund, [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Fund or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
Page 117/149
----- PAGE 118 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Fund, as the case may be, in priority to any other charges against such fund except charges for the service of
authorised loans.
248.
Power of Government to issue directions.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, it shall be competent for the Commissioner or the Government to issue
such directions as they may consider necessary to the Executive Officer, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer or the Chief Executive Officer for the proper working of the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or as the case may be, the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or for the implementation of the resolutions thereof and the Executive Officer, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer or as the case may be, the Chief Executive Officer shall implement those directions, failing which,
he shall be liable for disciplinary action under the relevant rules.
(2)
The Sarpanch of the Gram Panchayat, the President of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or as the case may be, the Chairman of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall ensure that the Executive Officer, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer or as the case may be, the Chief Executive Officer implements the directions issued by the
Government under sub-Section (1) and shall not do anything in derogation to the directions of the Government
aforesaid. The Sarpanch, the President or the Chairman who contravenes the provisions of this Section shall be
deemed to have willfully omitted or refused to carry out the orders of the Government for the proper working of the Gram
Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or as the case may be, the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
within the meaning of Section 249.
249.
Powers of Government to remove Sarpanch, President or Chairperson etc.
(1)
If in the opinion of the District Collector the Sarpanch or the Upa-Sarpanch and in the opinion of the Government the
President or the Vice-President or as the case may be, the Chairperson or the Vice-Chairperson, -
(i)
wilfully omitted or refused to carry out the orders of the Government for the proper working of the concerned local body;
or
(ii)
abused his position or the powers vested in him; or
(iii)
is guilty of misconduct in the discharge of his duties; or
(iv)
persistently defaulted in the performance of his functions and duties entrusted to him under the Act to the detriment of
the functioning of the concerned local body or has become incapable of such performance:
The Collector or as the case may be, the Government, may remove such Sarpanch or Upa- Sarpanch, President or
Vice-President or as the case may be the Chairperson or the Vice-Chairperson, after giving him an opportunity for
Page 118/149
----- PAGE 119 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Explanation. -
Provided that the proceedings initiated under this sub-Section may be continued notwithstanding the fact that the
Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch, President or Vice-President, or as the case may be, the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson
ceased to hold office by resignation or other-wise and shall be concluded within two years from the date of such
cessation and where on such conclusion the authority competent to remove him, records a finding after giving an
opportunity of making a representation to the person concerned that the charge or charges proved against him are
sufficient for his removal, then the provision of sub-Section (3) shall apply to the person against whom such finding is
recorded.
(2)
Where the Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch, the President or the Vice-President or the Chairperson of Vice-Chairperson is
removed under sub-Section (1) the vacancy shall, subject to the provisions of sub-Section (3) be filled as casual
vacancies.
(3)
A Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch, a President or a Vice-President or Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson removed from his
office under this Section shall not be eligible for re-election as Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch, President or Vice-President
or Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson for a period of two years from the date of the removal.
(4)
If the District Collector is satisfied that any elected member of the Gram Panchayat or the Government are satisfied that
any elected member of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is guilty of any misconduct while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his duties, or in the performance of the
functions, under this Act, the District Collector or as the case may be, the Government may, by order, remove such
member, after giving him an opportunity for explanation, and any member so removed shall not be eligible for re-election
as a member for a period of two years from the date of removal.
(5)
Where a member of Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is removed under sub-Section (4), the vacancy shall be filled in such manner and within such time as may be
prescribed.
(6)
If the District Collector is of the opinion that a Sarpanch or a Upa-Sarpanch or any member of a Gram Panchayat or the
Government are of the opinion that any President or Vice-President or the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson or any
member of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
wilfully omitted or refused to carry out the orders of Government for the proper working of the concerned local body or
abused his position or the powers vested in him, and that the further continuance of such person in office would be
detrimental to the interests of the concerned local body or the inhabitants of the Village, Mandal or District, the District
Collector or as the case may be, Government may, by order, suspend such Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch or President or
Vice-President or as the case may be, the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson or member from office for a period not
exceeding three months, pending investigation into the said charges and action thereon under the foregoing provisions
of this Section:
Provided that no order under this sub-Section shall be passed unless the person concerned has had an opportunity of
making a representation against the action proposed:
Provided further that it shall be competent for the Government to extend, from time to time, the period of suspension for
such further period not exceeding three months; so however that the total period of suspenstion shall not exceed six
Page 119/149
----- PAGE 120 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
months:
Provided also that a person suspended under this sub-Section shall not be entitled to exercise the powers and perform
the functions attached to his office and shall not be entitled to attend the meetings of the concerned local body except a
meeting held for the consideration of a no-confidence motion.
(7)
Any person aggrieved by an order of removal passed by the District Collector under sub-Section (1) or Sub-Section (4)
may within thirty days from the date of the order prefer an appeal to the Government and the Government may, pending
a decision on such appeal, stay the order appealed against.
250.
Powers of Government to dissolve Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(1)
(i)
If at any time, it appears to the Government that a Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is not competent to perform its functions or has failed to exercise its powers or perform its functions or has exceeded or
abused any of the powers conferred upon it by or under this Act, or any other law for the time being in force, the
Government may direct the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or as the case may be, [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to remedy such incompetency, failure, excess or abuse or to give a satisfactory explanation therefor and if the Gram
Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, fails to comply with such direction, the Government may dissolve it with effect from a specified date and reconstitute it
either immediately or within six months from the date of dissolution, and cause any or all of the powers and functions of
the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to be exercised and performed by such person or authority as the Government may appoint in that behalf during the
period of its dissolution and any person or authority so appointed may, if the Government so direct, receive
remuneration for the services rendered from the funds of the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, as the case may be.
(ii)
With effect from the date specified for the dissolution of a Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
under clause (i), all its members including its Sarpanch, Upa-Sarpanch, President or Vice-President and Chairperson or
Vice-Chairperson, as the case may be, shall forthwith be deemed to have vacated their offices as such and they shall
Page 120/149
----- PAGE 121 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
not be entitled to be restored to office after the expiration of the period of dissolution. The vacancies arising out of
vacation of offices under this Section shall be deemed to be casual vacancies and filled accordingly within a period of six
months from the date of dissolution:
Provided that no casual elections to fill the vacancies under this Section shall be held where the remainder of the period
for which the dissolved Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or, as the case may be, the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
would have continued had it not been dissolved is less than six months.
(2)
The Government may, by notification, authorise the District Collector to exercise the powers of the Government under
sub-Section (1) in respect of Gram Panchayats.
(3)
If, at any time, it appears to the Government that a Standing Committee of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is not competent to perform its functions or has failed to exercise its powers or perform its functions or has exceeded or
abused any of the powers conferred upon it by or under this Act, or any other law for the time being in force, the
Government may direct the Standing Committee to remedy such incompetency, failure, excess or abuse, or to give a
satisfactory explanation therefor and if the Standing Committee fails to comply with such direction, the Government may
dissolve the Standing Committee and direct the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to re-constitute the dissolved Standing Committee immediately thereafter.
250A.
[ Special provision in the case of Mandal Praja Parishad and Zilla Praja Parishad.
[Inserted by Act No. 17 of 2011, dated 20.12.2011.]
(1)
The Government, or as the case may be, an officer authorized by the Government, shall appoint a Special Officer or a
Person-in-charge or a Committee of persons-in-charge to a Mandal Praja Parishad or a Zilla Praja Parishad, if for any
reason, the process of election to such Mandal Praja Parishad or Zilla Praja Parishad is not completed, in accordance
with the Act.
(2)
The Special Officer or Person-in-charge or the Committee of persons-in-charge, appointed under sub-section (1) shall
exercise the powers, discharge the duties and perform the functions of the Mandal Praja Parishad or Zilla Praja
Parishad until the members, the President and Vice-President of Mandal Praja Parishad and the members, the
Chairman and Vice-Chairman of Zilla Praja Parishad elected thereof respectively, assume office.
(3)
The term of the Special Officer or Person-in-charge or Committee of persons-in-charge appointed under subsection (1)
shall be for a period of six months from the date of appointment or till the date of assumption of office, of the members
and office bearers of Mandal Praja Parishad and Zilla Praja Parishad respectively, whichever is earlier.
(4)
Subject to such rules as may be made in this behalf, the administration of the Mandal Praja Parishad or as the case may
be, the Zilla Praja Parishad shall be carried on by the Special Officers or a Person-in-charge or a Committee of
persons-in-charge appointed under sub-section (1) in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the rules made
thereunder.]
251.
Acts of Gram Panchayats, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted '<SPAN class=amd2><A TITLE =]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
not to be invalidated by informality, vacancy, etc.
(1)
Page 121/149
----- PAGE 122 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
No act of a Gram Panchayat shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of a defect in the establishment of such Gram
Panchayat or on the ground that the Sarpanch, Upa-Sarpanch or any member of such Gram Panchayat was not entitled
to hold, or continue in such office by reason of any disqualification or by reason of any irregularity or illegality in his
election, as the case may be, or by reason of such act having been done during the period of any vacancy in the office
of the Sarpanch, Upa-Sarpanch, or member of such Gram Panchayat.
(2)
The provisions of sub-Section (1) shall mutatis-mutandis apply to the acts of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a Standing Committee thereof.
252.
Oath of allegiance.
(1)
Every person who is elected to be the Sarpanch or member of a Gram Panchayat or the President or member of a
[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the Chairperson or member of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall, before taking his seat make, at a special meeting or any other meeting of the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, as the case may be, an oath or affirmation of his allegiance to the Constitution of India in the form prescribed.
(2)
Any such Sarpanch, President or Chairperson or member who fails to make, within three months of the date on which
his term of office commences, or at one of the first three meetings held after the said date, whichever is later, the oath or
affirmation laid down in sub-Section (1) shall cease to hold his office and his seat shall be deemed to have become
vacant.
(3)
No such Sarpanch, President or Chairperson or member shall take his seat at a meeting of the Gram Panchayat,
[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or, as the case may be, of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or do any act as such member unless he has made the oath or affirmation as laid down in this Section.
(4)
Where a person ceases to hold office under sub-Section (2), the Executive Officer, the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer, or as the case may be, the Chief Executive Officer, shall report the same to the Gram Panchayat,
[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
at its next meeting and on application of such person made within thirty days of the date on which he has ceased to be
Sarpanch, President or Chairperson or member under that sub-Section, the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may grant him further time which shall not be less than four months and not more than nine months for making the oath
Page 122/149
----- PAGE 123 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
or affirmation and if he makes the oath or affirmation within the time so granted, he shall, notwithstanding anything in
this Act, continue to hold his office.
(5)
Where on an application made by a person who ceases to hold office under sub-Section (2), the Government are
satisfied that such person for reasons beyond his control, has not been able to make the oath or affirmation within the
period specified in sub-Section (2) or within further time, if any, granted to him under sub-Section (4), they may, by an
order, grant such further time as they deem fit to the person to make the oath or affirmation. If such person makes the
oath or affirmation within the time granted he shall, notwithstanding anything in this Act, continue to hold his office.
253.
Administration report.
(1)
Every [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall furnish to the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and every [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall furnish to the Government a report on its administration for each year, as soon as may be, after the close of such
year, in such form and with such details as may be prescribed. The [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall, while furnishing the report to [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as aforesaid send a copy thereof to the Government.
(2)
The [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall consider the administration report of each [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and forward it to the Government with its remarks.
(3)
The report of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be prepared by the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer and that of [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
by its Chief Executive Officer and the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall consider and forward it to the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the Government, as the case may be, with its resolution thereon.
(4)
The administration report of the Gram Panchayat shall be prepared by the Executive Officer if there is one and if there is
no Executive Officer by the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer having jurisdiction over the Gram Panchayat. The same shall be forwarded to District Panchayat
Officer who shall process it in the prescribed manner.
254.
Recovery of sums due to the Gram Panchayats, [Mandal Praja Parishads]
Page 123/149
----- PAGE 124 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as arrears of land revenue.
- Any sum due to, or recoverable by, a Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
under this Act may be recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
255.
Power of entry of inspecting officers.
(1)
Any Officer or person whom the Government may empower in this behalf may enter on and inspect, -
(a)
any immovable property, or any work in progress under the control of any Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
;
(b)
any school, hospital, dispensary, vaccination station, choultry or other institution maintained by, or under the control of
any Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and any records, registers or other documents kept in such institution;
(c)
the office of any Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and any records, registers or other documents kept therein.
(2)
The Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be bound to afford to the officer or person referred to in sub-Section (1) such access at all reasonable times, to its
property or premises and to all documents as may, in the opinion of such officer or person, be necessary to enable him
to discharge his duties under the said sub-Section.
256.
Power to call for records etc.
- The Government or any officer or person duly empowered by them in this behalf, may, -
(a)
call for any record, register or other document in the possession or under the control of any Gram Panchayat, [Mandal
Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
;
(b)
Page 124/149
----- PAGE 125 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
require any Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to furnish any return, plan, estimate, statement, account or statistics;
(c)
require any Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to furnish any information or report on any matter connected with such Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
; and
(d)
record in writing for the consideration of any Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
any observations, the Government, officer or person may think proper to make in regard to the proceedings or duties of
such Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
257.
Protection of acts done in good faith.
- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall be instituted against any person for anything which is, in good
faith, done or intended to be done under this Act or under the rules made thereunder.
258.
Chairperson, President, Sarpanch etc., to be public servants.
- The Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson or a member of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
the President, the Vice-President or a member of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, the Sarpanch, Upa-Sarpanch or member of a Gram Panchayat, the Chief Executive Officer, or any Officer or servant of
a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer, the Executive Officer, or any Officer or servant of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the Gram Panchayat shall be deemed to be a public servant, within the meaning of Section 21 of Indian Penal Code
(Central Act 45 of 1860).
259.
Power of [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
Page 125/149
----- PAGE 126 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
to make bye-laws.
(1)
Subject to such rules as may be made, a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
with the approval of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may, with the approval of the Government, make bye-laws for carrying out any of the purposes for which it is constituted.
(2)
The Government shall have power to make rules regarding the procedure for making of bye-laws under this Section, the
publication thereof and the date on which they shall come into effect.
260.
Delegation of powers etc.
(1)
The Government may, by notification, authorise any officer or person to exercise any of the powers vested in them by
this Act except the power to make rules; and may in like manner withdraw such authority.
(2)
The Commissioner or the District Collector may, by notification, authorise any officer or person to exercise any of the
powers vested by or under this Act in the Commissioner or the District Collector, as the case may be, and may in like
manner withdraw such authority.
(3)
The exercise of any power delegated under sub-Section (1) or sub-Section (2) shall be subject to such restrictions and
conditions as may be prescribed or as may be specified in the notification and also to control and revision by the
delegating authority, or where such authority is the Government, by such persons as may be empowered by the
Government in this behalf. The Government shall also have power to control and revise the acts or proceedings of any
persons so empowered.
(4)
The exercise of any power conferred on the Commissioner or the District Collector by any of the provisions of this Act,
including sub-Sections (2) and (3) of this Section, shall whether such power is exercised by the Commissioner or the
District Collector himself or by any person to whom it has been delegated under sub-Section (2), be subject to such
restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed and also to control by the Government or by such person as may be
empowered by them in this behalf. The Government shall also have power to control the acts or proceedings of any
persons so empowered.
(5)
(a)
The Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies, may by notification, authorise any officer or person to
exercise in any local area in the revenue district in regard to any Gram Panchayat or all Gram Panchayats in that area,
any of the powers vested in him by or under this Act, or in regard to any [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in so far as it relates to the conduct of elections under this Act, and may, in like manner, withdraw such authority.
(b)
The provisions of sub-Sections (3) and (4) shall apply, as far as may be, in regard to the power delegated under this
sub-Section.
(c)
The Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies may appoint such number of additional, joint, deputy or
assistant election authorities, as it thinks fit to exercise such powers and perform such functions as are assigned by the
Andhra Pradesh Election Commission for Local Bodies.
Page 126/149
----- PAGE 127 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(6)
A [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or any person exercising or performing any powers or functions by or under the provisions of this Act may delegate its or
his powers or functions in writing to any person or authority, subject to such restrictions, limitations and conditions as
may be prescribed and also to control and revision by the Government.
Provided that the President of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the Chairperson of a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall not delegate his powers to any person or authority other than the Vice-President of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the Vice-Chairperson of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, as the case may be, if he is in office.
261.
Power to transfer institutions and works.
- The Government may transfer any institution or work under their management or control to a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may transfer any institution under its management or control to any [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or Gram Panchayat, subject to such conditions, limitations and restrictions as may be specified by the Government or
the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, as the case may be:
Provided that no such transfer shall be made unless the prior consent of the concerned [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, as the case may be, is obtained.
262.
Emergency Powers of the Government, Commissioner and District Collector.
(1)
Subject to such control as may be prescribed, the Government, the Commissioner or the District Collector may, in cases
of emergency, direct or provide for the execution of any work, or the doing of any act which a Gram Panchayat or
Executive Officer is empowered to execute or do, and the immediate execution or doing of which is in his opinion
necessary for the safety of the public, and may direct that the expenses of executing such work or doing such act shall
be paid by the person having the custody of the Gram Panchayat Fund in priority to any other charges against such fund
except charges for the service of authorised loans.
(2)
The powers of the nature referred to in sub-Section (1) may be exercised by the Government in the case of a [Mandal
Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Page 127/149
----- PAGE 128 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
subject to the variation that for the expression "Executive Authority", the expression "[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer" or as the case may be "Chief Executive Officer" and for the expression "Gram Panchayat Fund",
the expression "[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Fund" or as the case may be the "[Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Fund" is substituted.
263.
Control over electrical undertakings of Gram Panchayats.
- The administration by a Gram Panchayat of any undertaking for the generation, transmission, supply or use of
electrical energy shall be subject to such control as may be prescribed, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Indian
Electricity Act, 1910 (Central Act 9 of 1910) or the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (Central Act 54 of 1948) as in force for
the time being, the rules made under those Acts, and the terms of the licence granted thereunder to the Gram
Panchayat.
264.
Power of review and revision by Government.
(1)
The Government may, either suo motu or on application from any person interested, call for and examine the record of a
Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or of its Standing Committees or of any authority, officer or person, in respect of any proceeding to satisfy themselves as
to regularity of such proceeding or the correctness, legality or propriety of any decision or orders passed therein and, if
in any case, it appears to the Government that any such decision or order should be modified, annulled or reversed, or
remitted for reconsideration, they may pass orders accordingly:
Provided that the Government shall not pass any order prejudicial to any party unless such party has had an opportunity
of making a representation.
(2)
The Government may stay the execution of any such decision or order pending exercise of their powers under
sub-Section (1) in respect thereof.
(3)
The Government may suo motu at any time or on an application received from any person interested within ninety days
of the passing of an order under sub-Section (1), review any such order if it was passed by them under any mistake,
whether of fact or of law, or in ignorance of any material fact. The provisions contained in the proviso to sub-Section (1)
and in sub-Section (2) shall apply in respect of any proceeding under this sub-Section as they apply to a proceeding
under sub-Section (1).
(4)
Every application preferred under sub-Section (1) shall be accompanied by a fee of fifteen rupees.
265.
Liability of Sarpanch, President, Chairperson etc., for loss, waste or mis-application of property.
(1)
If, after giving the Sarpanch, Upa-Sarpanch, President, Vice-President, Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or the Executive
Officer, the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Development Officer, the Chief Executive Authority an Opportunity of showing cause to the contrary, the Commissioner
is satisfied that the loss, waste, misapplications of any money or other property owned by or vested in the Gram
Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, or as the case may be, the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
Page 128/149
----- PAGE 129 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
is a direct consequence of misconduct or gross neglect, on the part of such person, the Commissioner may, by order in
writing, direct such person to pay to the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or as the case may be, the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
before the date fixed by him, the amount required to reimburse it for such loss, waste or misapplication, unless such
person proves that he had acted in good faith.
(2)
If the amount is not so paid, the Commissioner shall cause it to be recovered as arrears of land revenue and credited to
the fund of the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or, as the case may be, [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
.
(3)
An appeal shall lie within thirty days from any decision of the Commissioner under this Section to the Government
whose decision thereon shall be final.
266.
Accounts and Audit.
(1)
The accounts of the Gram Panchayats, [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
shall be maintained in such manner and in such form as may be prescribed. The accounts maintained by the said local
bodies shall be audited by the Director of State Audit appointed under Section 3 of the Andhra Pradesh State Audit Act,
1989 (Act 9 of 1989).
(2)
For the purpose of proper maintenance of accounts and matters connected therewith or incidental thereto, it shall be
competent for the Director of State Audit to issue such directions as he deems necessary to the Chief Executive Officer,
who shall ensure that the said directions are carried out by the said local bodies.
(3)
[ Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-Section (1), every local body shall engage Chartered Accountants from out
of the panels of Chartered Accountants made by the Director of State Audit to get audited of the accounts maintained
under sub-Section (1) and for speedy finalisation of their accounts:
Provided that every Sarpanch of a Gram Panchayat shall have to close the accounts of the Gram Panchayat and get
them audited before the end of third quarter of the succeeding financial year.]
[Added by Section 11 of Act No. 22 of 2002.]
267.
Assessments etc., not to be impeached.
(1)
No assessment or demand made, and no charge imposed, under the authority of this Act, shall be impeached or
affected by reasons of any clerical error or by reason of any mistake -
(a)
in respect of the name, residence, place of business or occupation of any persons, or
(b)
in the description of any property or thing, or
(c)
in respect of the amount assessed, demanded or charged, provided that the provisions of this Act have in substance
and effect been compiled with; and no proceedings under this Act shall, merely, for defect in form, be quashed or set
Page 129/149
----- PAGE 130 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
aside by any court.
(2)
No suit shall be brought in any Court to recover any sum of money collected under the authority of this Act or to recover
damages on account of assessment or collection of money made under the said authority:
Provided that the provisions of this Act have in substance and effect been compiled with.
(3)
No distraint or sale under this Act shall be deemed unlawful, nor shall any person making same be deemed a
trespasser, on account of any error, defect, or want of form in the bill, notice, schedule, form, summons, notice of
demand, warrant of distraint, inventory or other proceeding relating thereto, if the provisions of this Act and of the rules
and bye-laws made thereunder have in substance and effect been compiled with:
Provided that every person aggrieved by any irregularity may recover satisfaction for any special damages sustained by
him.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908) or in any other law for the time
being in force, no court shall grant any permanent or temporary injunction or make any interim orders restraining any
proceeding which is being or about to be taken under this Act for the revision or amendment of the assessment books or
restraining such revision or amendment from taking effect.
Part VIII ? Rules, Bye-Laws and Penalties
268.
Power of Government to make rules for the purposes of this Act.
(1)
The Government shall, in addition to the rule making powers, conferred on them by any other provisions of this Act,
have power to make rules generally to carry out all or any of the purposes of this Act.
(2)
In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, the Government may make rules, -
(i)
as to all matters under this Act, relating to electoral rolls or the conduct of elections, not expressly provided for in this
Act, including deposits to be made by candidates standing for election and the conditions under which such deposits
may be forfeited, and the conduct of inquiries and the decision of disputes relating to electoral rolls or elections;
[***]
[Omitted by Section 14 of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
(iii)
as to the interpellation of the Sarpanch, President or Chairperson by the members of the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal
Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or as the case may be of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and the moving of resolutions at meeting of a Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
;
(iv)
as to the delegation of any function of a Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
respectively to the Sarpanch, President or Chairperson or any member or officer of the Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
Page 130/149
----- PAGE 131 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or any employee of the State or Central Government;
(v)
as to the transfer of allotments entered in the sanctioned budget of a Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
from one head to another;
(vi)
as to the estimates of receipts and expenditure, returns, statements and reports to be submitted by Gram Panchayat,
[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
;
(vii)
as to the accounts to be kept by Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, the audit and publication of such accounts and the conditions under which rate payers may appear before auditors,
inspect book and accounts, and take exceptions to items entered or omitted;
(viii)
as to the preparation of plans and estimates for works and the powers of Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and of servants of the State or Central Government to accord professional or administrative sanction to estimates;
(ix)
as to the powers of auditors to disallow and surcharge items, appeals against order of disallowance or surcharge and
the recovery of sums disallowed or surcharged;
(x)
as to the powers of auditors, inspecting and superintending officers and officers authorised to hold inquiries to summon
and examine witnesses and to compel the production of documents and all other matters connected with audit,
inspection and superintendence;
(xi)
as to the conditions on which property may be acquired by a Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or on which property vested in or belonging to a Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may be transferred by sale, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise;
(xii)
as to the conditions on which and the mode in which contracts may be made by or on behalf of Gram Panchayat,
[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Page 131/149
----- PAGE 132 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
;
(xiii)
as to the assessment and realisation of taxes under this Act and the revision of and appeals against assessment;
(xiv)
as to the acceptance in lieu of any tax or other amount due to a Gram Panchayat under this Act, of any service by way
of cartage or otherwise;
(xv)
as to the form and contents of licences, permissions and notices granted or issued under this Act, the manner of their
issue or the method of their service, and the modifications, suspension or cancellation thereof;
(xvi)
as to the powers of executive authorities to call for information on any matter, to summon and examine witnesses, and
to compel the production of document;
(xvii)
as to the regulation or registration of building and the use of sites for building;
(xviii)
for the determination of any claim to trees growing on public roads or other property vesting in or belonging to Gram
Panchayats or on porambokes or on lands, the use of which is regulated by them under Section 102, and for the
presumptions to be drawn in regards to the ownership of such trees;
(xix)
as to the provisions of cattle sheds by the Gram Panchayat wherein owners of cattle may stall cattle and as to the fees
leviable in respect thereof;
(xx)
as to the disposal of household and farmyard waste in the village, the acquisition of land by the Gram Panchayat for
laying out plots, for digging pits in which such waste may be thrown, the assignment of any of those plots to persons in
the village and the conditions subject to which such assignment may be made, including the rent to be charged;
(xxi)
as to the duties to be discharged by village officers in relation to Gram Panchayats and their executive authorities;
(xxii)
for regulating the sharing between local authorities in the State, of the proceeds of any tax or income levied or obtained
under this or any other Act;
(xxiii)
as to the accounts to be kept by owners, occupiers and farmer, private markets and the audit and inspection of such
accounts;
(xxiv)
as to the manner of publication of any notification or notices to the public under this Act;
(xxv)
for the use of the facsimiles of the signatures of the executive authorities and officers of Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja
Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
;
(xxvi)
regarding proceedings of Gram Panchayats and their committees; and
(xxvii)
relating to assessment levy, and collection of taxes and the lodging of moneys received by the Gram Panchayat,
[Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and payment of moneys from their Funds.
Page 132/149
----- PAGE 133 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(3)
All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette.
(4)
Every rule made under the Act shall immediately after it is made, be laid before the Legislative Assembly of the State if it
is in session, and if it is not in session, in the session immediately following for a total period of fourteen days which may
be comprised in one session or in two successive sessions and if before the expiration of the session in which it is so
laid or the session immediately following the Legislative Assembly agrees in making any modification in the rule or in the
annulment of the rule, the rule shall, from the date on which the modification or annulment is notified, have effect only in
such modified form or shall stand annulled, as the case may be, so however that any such modification or annulment
shall be without prejudice to the validity or anything previously done under that rule.
269.
Penalties for breach of rules.
- A rule under this Act may provide that a breach thereof shall be punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees,
or in case of continuing breach with fine not exceeding five rupees for every day during which the breach continues after
conviction for the first breach.
270.
Bye-laws and penalties for their breach.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of this Act and of any other law and to such rules as may be prescribed, a Gram Panchayat
may, with the approval of the Commissioner, make bye-laws for carrying out any of the purposes for which it is
constituted.
(2)
A bye-law made by the Gram Panchayat may provide that any person who commits a breach thereof shall be liable to
pay by way of penalty such sum as may be fixed by the Gram Panchayat not exceeding fifteen rupees, or in case of a
continuing breach, not exceeding five rupees for every day during which the breach continues after a penalty has been
levied for the breach.
(3)
The Government shall have power to make rules regarding the procedure for the making of bye-laws, the publication
thereof and the date on which they shall come into effect.
271.
General provisions regarding penalties specified in Schedules III and IV.
(1)
Whoever, -
(a)
contravenes any of the provisions of this Act specified in the first and second columns of Schedule-III, or
(b)
contravenes any rule or order made under any of the provisions so specified; or
(c)
failing to comply with any direction lawfully given to him, or any requisition lawfully made upon him under or in
pursuance of any of the said provisions, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to the amount mentioned in that
behalf in the fourth column of the said Schedule.
(2)
Whoever after having been convicted of, -
(a)
contravening any of the provisions of this Act specified in the first and second columns of Schedule IV; or
(b)
contravening any rule or order made under any of the provisions so specified; or
(c)
failing to comply with any directions lawfully given to him, or any requisition lawfully made upon him under or in
pursuance of any of the said provisions, continues to contravene the said provisions or the said rule or order, or
continues to fail to comply with the said direction or requisition shall be punishable for each day after the previous date
Page 133/149
----- PAGE 134 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
of conviction during which he continues so to offend, with fine which may extend to the amount mentioned in that behalf
in the fourth column of the said Schedule.
Explanation. - The entries in the third column of Schedules III and IV headed 'subject' are not intended as definitions of
the offences described in the provisions specified in the first and second columns thereof or even as abstracts of those
provisions, but are Inserted merely as references to the subject dealt with therein.
271A.
[ Penalty for not handling over documents, moneys etc., to the newly elected Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch of a Gram
Panchayat.
[Inserted by Andhra Pradesh Act No. 33 of 1998, dated 22.12.1998.]
(1)
Any Sarpanch who having been the Sarpanch, Temporary Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch of a Gram Panchayat fails to
hand over any documents of or any moneys or other properties vested in or belonging to, the Gram Panchayat, which
are in, or have come into, his possession or control, to his successor in office or other prescribed authority, -
(i)
in every case, within a period of thirty days from the expiry of the term of office as such Sarpanch, Temporary Sarpanch
or Upa-Sarpanch; and
(ii)
in the case of person, who was the Upa-Sarpanch also within a period of thirty days on demand by the Sarpanch shall
be punishable with imprisonment which may extend upto six months or with fine not exceeding one thousand rupees or
with both, for every such offences.
(2)
Any person who is convicted under sub-Section (1) fails to handover any documents of, or any moneys or other
properties vested in, or belonging to the Gram Panchayat, which are in or have come into, his possession, or control to
his successor in office, shall be punishable for each day after conviction during which he continues to persist in his
offence with a fine not exceeding one hundred rupees.
(3)
In cases falling under sub-Sections (1) and (2), the court may, apart from ordering conviction for the offence, order the
seizure of the documents, moneys or other properties of the Gram Panchayat from the person convicted.]
272.
Recovery of amounts due as taxes.
- All costs, damages, compensation, penalties, charges, fees (other than school fees), expenses, rents (not being rents
for land and buildings demised by the Gram Panchayat), contributions and other amounts which under this Act or any
other law or rules or bye-laws made thereunder are due by any person to the Gram Panchayat may, if there is no
special provision in this Act, or the rules made thereunder for their recovery, be demanded by a bill as provided in the
rules for the recovery of taxes made under the Act and recovered in the manner provided therein.
273.
Adjudication of disputes between local authorities.
(1)
When a dispute exists between a local authority and one or more other local authorities in regard to any matter arising
under the provisions of this or any other Act and the Government are of opinion that the local authorities concerned are
unable to settle it amicably among themselves, the Government may take cognizance of the dispute; and
(a)
decide it themselves, or
(b)
refer it for enquiry and report to an arbitrator or a board of arbitrators or to a joint committee constituted for the purpose
by an order of the Government.
(2)
The reports referred to in clause (b) of sub-Section (1) shall be submitted to the Government who shall decide the
dispute in such manner as they may deem fit.
(3)
Any decision given under clause (a) of sub-Section (1) or under sub-Section (2) may be modified from time to time, by
Page 134/149
----- PAGE 135 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
the Government in such manner as they deem fit, and any such decision with the modification, if any, made therein
under this sub-Section, may be cancelled at any time by the Government.
Any such decision or any modification therein or cancellation thereof shall be binding on all the local authorities
concerned and shall not be, liable to be questioned in any court of law.
(4)
Where one of the local authorities concerned is a cantonment authority or the port authority of a major port, the powers
of the Government under this Section shall be exercisable only with the concurrence of the Central Government.
274.
Act to read subject to Schedules V and VI in regard to first constitution or reconstitution etc.
(1)
In regard to the first constitution of a Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
for a village, Mandal or District or to the first reconstitution in accordance with the provisions of this Act of such bodies in
existence at the commencement thereof, and otherwise in first giving effect to the said provisions they shall be read
subject to the rules in Schedules V and VI.
(2)
The Government shall have power, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, to amend, add to or repeal the rules
in the said Schedules.
275.
Power to remove difficulties.
(1)
If any difficulty arises in first giving effect to the provisions of this Act or as to the first constitution or reconstitution of any
Gram Panchayat, [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
after the commencement of this Act, the Government, as occasion may require, may by order published in the Andhra
Pradesh Gazette, do anything which appears to them necessary for removing the difficulty.
(2)
All orders made under sub-Section (1) shall, as soon as may be after they are made, be placed on the table of
Legislative Assembly of the State and shall be subject to such modification by way of amendments or repeal as the
Legislative Assembly may make either in the same session or in the next session.
276.
Repeal and savings.
(1)
The following Acts are hereby repealed, namely:-
(i)
The Andhra Pradesh Gram Panchayats Act 1964. (Act 2 of 1964),
(ii)
The Andhra Pradesh Mandal Praja Parishads, Zilla Praja Parishads and Zilla Pranalika and Abhivrudhi Sameeksha
Mandals Act, 1986 (Act 31 of 1986), and
(iii)
The Andhra Pradesh Local Bodies Electoral Reforms Act, 1989, (Act 28 of 1989).
(2)
On such repeal the provisions of Sections 8 and 18 of the Andhra Pradesh General Clauses Act, 1981 (Act 1 of 1981)
shall apply.
277.
Amendment of Act 9 of 1989.
- In the Andhra Pradesh State Audit Act, 1989 (Act 9 of 1989), in Section 2, for clauses (c) and (d), the following clause
Page 135/149
----- PAGE 136 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
shall be substituted, namely:-
"(c) a Gram Panchayat, a township, a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or a [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994."
278.
Transitional provisions in regard to elections.
- The first ordinary elections to the Gram Panchayats, [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in accordance with the provisions of this Act shall be held [within a period not exceeding one year and six months]
[Subs by Section 2 (2) of Act No. 33 of 1995.]
from the date of commencement of this Act.
I
General Powers and Functions of Panchayats
(Sections 45, 161 and 192)
1. Agriculture, including agricultural extension.
2. Land improvement, implementation of land reforms, land consolidation and soil conservation.
3. Minor irrigation, water management and watershed development.
4. Animal husbandry, dairying and poultry.
5. Fisheries
6. Social forestry and farm forestry.
7. Minor forest produce.
8. Small scale industries, including food processing industries.
9. Khadi, village and cottage industries.
10. Rural housing.
11. Drinking water.
12. Fuel and fodder.
13. Roads, culverts, bridges, ferries, waterways and other means of communication.
14. Rural electrification, including distribution of electricity.
15. Non-conventional energy sources.
16. Poverty alleviation programme.
17. Education, including primary and secondary schools.
18. Technical Training and vocational education.
19. Adult and non-formal education.
20. Libraries.
21. Cultural activities.
22. Markets and fairs.
23. Health and sanitation, including hospitals, primary health centres and dispensaries.
24. Family Welfare.
25. Women and child development.
26. Social welfare, including welfare of the handicapped and mentally retarded.
27. Welfare of the weaker Sections, and in particular, of Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.
28. Public Distribution System.
29. Maintenance of community assets.
II
Powers and Functions of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
(Sections 45, 161 and 192)
Page 136/149
----- PAGE 137 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
1. Community Development. - The execution of all programmes under Community Development in association with
panchayats, co-operative societies, voluntary organisations and the people.
2. Agriculture. - The doing of everything necessary to step up agriculture Production and in particular, -
(i)
multiplication and distribution of improved seeds;
(ii)
distribution of fertilizers;
(iii)
popularisation of improved techniques, methods and practices and improved implements;
(iv)
achieving self-sufficiency in green manure and composting of farmyard manure;
(v)
encouraging fruit and vegetable cultivation;
(vi)
reclamation of land and conservation of soil;
(vii)
providing credit for agricultural purposes;
(viii)
propagating and assisting in plant protection methods;
(ix)
laying out demonstration plots and working out better methods of farm managements;
(x)
bringing more acreage under irrigation by renovating and sinking wells, repairing and digging private tanks and
maintaining Government minor irrigation sources and supply channels;
(xi)
utilising more power for agricultural purposes;
(xii)
exploiting underground water sources by sinking wells, filter points and tube wells;
(xiii)
tree planting;
(xiv)
growing of village forests.
3. Animal Husbandry and Fisheries.
(i)
upgrading local stock by introducing pedigree breeding bulls and castrating scrub bulls;
(ii)
introducing improved breeds of cattle, sheep, pigs and poultry;
(iii)
controlling contagious diseases by systematic protection;
(iv)
introducing improved fodders and feeds;
(v)
establishing and maintaining of artificial insemination centres, first aid centres and minor veterinary dispensaries;
(vi)
educating the people about the importance of better cattle for both milk and draught.
4. [ Health and Rural Sanitation.]
[Subs by Section 15 of Act No. 5 of 1995.]
(i)
Expanding existing medical and health services and bringing them within the reach of people.
(ii)
Establishing and maintaining Primary Health Centres and Maternity Centres.
Page 137/149
----- PAGE 138 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
(iii)
Providing protected drinking water facilities.
(iv)
Ensuring systematic vaccination.
(v)
Controlling epidemics.
(vi)
Providing drains and soakage pits for village and house drainage.
(vii)
Encouraging the use of sanitary type of latrines and utilising human waste.
(viii)
Popularising of smokeless chullas.
(ix)
Supervising the work in Government hospitals.
(x)
Enlisting people's participation for the improvement of such hospitals.
(xi)
Securing the co-operation of the people and the panchayats during epidemics.
(xii)
Carrying out environmental sanitation campaigns and educating the public in (a) nutrition, (b) maternity and child health
(c) communicable diseases and (d) family planning and the like.
(xiii)
Implementing health programme subject to the technical control of concerned district officers.
5. Education. - Maintenance and expansion to Elementary and Basic Schools and in particular, -
(i)
management of Government and taken over Aided Elementary and Higher Elementary Schools;
(ii)
establishment of Adult Education Centres and Adult Literacy Centres;
(iii)
provision and improvement of accommodation for schools with people's participation;
(iv)
conversion of existing Elementary Schools into Basic Schools; and
(v)
taking of such action as may be necessary for the promotion of education for all children until they complete the age of
fourteen years.
6. Social Education. - The creation of a new outlook among the people and making them self-reliant, hard working and
responsive to community action and in particular, -
(i)
establishment of information community and recreation centre;
(ii)
establishment of Youth Organisation, Mahila Mandals, Farmer clubs and the like;
(iii)
establishment and popularisation of libraries;
(iv)
organisation of watch and ward;
(v)
encouragement of physical and cultural activities;
(vi)
organisation of voluntary sanitary squads;
(vii)
training and utilisation of the services of Gram Sahayaks.
Page 138/149
----- PAGE 139 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
7. Communications.
(i)
Formation and maintenance of inter village roads;
(ii)
Rendering such assistance as may be necessary for the formation and maintenance of Village Roads which serve as
feeders.
8. Co-operation. - The Securing of economic development along democratic lines by the application of co-operation in its
infinitely varying forms and in particular, -
(i)
establishment of co-operative credit, industrial, irrigation, farming and multipurpose societies in order to serve the
maximum number of families.
(ii)
encouragement of thirft and small savings.
9. Cottage Industries. - Development of cottage, village and small scale industries in order to provide better employment
opportunities and thereby raise the standard of living and in particular, -
(i)
the establishment and maintenance of production-cum-training centres;
(ii)
the improvement of the skills of artisans and craftsmen;
(iii)
the popularisation of improved implements; and
(iv)
implementation of schemes for the development of cottage, village and small scale industries financed by the Khadi and
Village Industries Commission and the All India Boards.
10. Women Welfare. - The implementation of schemes specially designed for Welfare of women and children and in
particular the establishment of Women and Child Welfare Centres, LIteracy Centres, Crafts and Dress Making Centres
and like.
11. Social Welfare.
(i)
The management of hostels subsidised by Government for the benefit of Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and
Backward Classes;
(ii)
The implementation of Rural Housing Schemes;
(iii)
The maintenance of diseased beggers and control of vagrancy;
(iv)
The strengthening of Voluntary Social Welfare Organisations and Coordinating their activities;
(v)
The propagation of temperance and prohibition; and
(vi)
The removal of untouchability.
12. Emergency Relief. - Provision of emergency relief through voluntary efforts in case of distress owing to fires, floods,
epidemics and other wide spread calamities.
13. Collection of Statistics. - Collection and compilation of such statistics as may be found necessary either by the
Mandala Parishad, the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
or the Government.
14. Self-Help Programme. - Formulation and execution of suitable programmes for stepping-up production and for
raising the incomes and standards of living for the improvement of sanitation and for the provision of amenities for the
people.
15. Trusts. - Management of trusts for the furtherence of any purpose to which the funds of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
Page 139/149
----- PAGE 140 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
may be applied.
III
Ordinary Penalties
(Section 271)
Section
Sub-Section or clause
Subject
Fine which may be imposed
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
81
(2)
Disobeying notice prohibiting use of water to
which public have access
Fifty rupees
82
(a)
Bathing etc., in places set apart for drinking
purposes
Fifty rupees
82
(b)
Depositing any offensive etc., matter in places
set apart for drinking purposes
Fifty rupees
82
(c)
Washing clothes in places set apart for
drinking, bathing or washing clothes
Fifty rupees
82
(d)
Washing animals etc., in places set apart for
drinking, bathing or washing clothes.
Fifty rupees
82
(e)
Allowing water from a sink, sewer etc., into
places set apart for drinking, bathing or washing clothes
Fifty rupees
85
(1)
Failure to register any place for the disposal
of the dead
One hundred rupees
86
(1)
Opening etc., or using any place for the
Page 140/149
----- PAGE 141 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
disposal of the dead without a licence
One hundred rupees
89
...
Burying, burning etc., of corpse within two
hundred metres of dwelling place or source of drinking water
supply
One hundred rupees
90
...
Failure to give information of burials or
burning in a burial ground or burning ground
Twenty rupees
91
(3)
Buying or burning or otherwise disposing of a
corpse in a prohibited place
One hundred rupees
93
...
Allowing filth to flow in public road etc.,
Twenty rupees
94
(1)
Failure to execute the work as required by the
notice
Fifty rupees
95
(1)
Quarrying near a public road, etc., without a
licence
Fifty rupees
96
...
Unlawful building of wall or erecting of fence,
etc., in or over public road
One hundred rupees
97
...
Allowing doors, ground floor windows, etc., to
open outwards or without licence or contrary to notice
Twenty rupees
98
(1)
Failure to remove or alter encroachment
Two hundred rupees
100
(1)
Unlawful construction of building over a drain
on ground leveled etc., by rubbish
Two hundred rupees
Page 141/149
----- PAGE 142 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
100
(2)
Failure to obey requisition to demolish a
building constructed without permission or contrary to the terms
of permission
Two hundred rupees
101
(1)
Unlawful making of hole or placing obstruction
in public road
Fifty rupees
101
(2)
Failure to fence, enclose etc., hole or
obstruction
Fifty rupees
102
(1)
Planting of trees without permission on any
public road or other property vested in a Gram Panchayat
Two hundred rupees
102
(2)
Felling etc., without permission of trees,
growing on public road or other property vested in a Gram
Panchayat or on a poramboke or land the use of which is regulated
by it under Section 102
Two hundred rupees
103
(2)
Failure to remove any building etc., on land
vested in Gram Panchayat
Two hundred rupees
105
(1)
Opening or keeping open a private market in
contravention of Section 105
Five hundred rupees
108
...
Failure to obey directions to construct
approaches, etc., for a private market or to roof etc.
One hundred rupees
110
...
Sale or exposure for sale in public or private
market of any animal or articles without permission
Twenty rupees
111.
....
Sale etc., of articles in public roads or places
Page 142/149
----- PAGE 143 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
after prohibition or without licence or contrary to regulations
Ten rupees
115.
(b)
Using any public place or roadside as a landing
or halting place or as a cart-stand within prohibited distance
Fifty rupees
116
(1)
Opening a new private cart-stand or continuing
to keep open a private cart-stand without licence or contrary to
licence
Two hundred rupees
118
(a)
Slaughtering, cutting up or skinning etc.,
cattle etc., outside slaughter house.
Two hundred rupees
118
(b)
Slaughtering etc., any cattle etc., without
licence or contrary to licence
Twenty rupees
119.
...
Using a place for any of the purposes specified
in Schedule III without licence or contrary to licence
One hundred rupees
120.
...
Unlawful erection of factory, workshop
One thousand rupees
122.
...
Disobedience of order regarding abatement of
nuisance
One hundred rupees
126.
(2)
Unlawful defacement etc., of numbers assigned to
buildings
Five rupees
126.
(3)
Failure to replace number when required to do so
Twenty rupees
127.
(7)
Failure to produce licence on request
Five rupees
144.
Page 143/149
----- PAGE 144 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
...
Obstructing a person in the use or enjoyment of
a public road, market, well, tank, etc
One hundred rupees
IV
Penalties For Continuing Breaches
(Section 271)
Section
Sub-Section or clause
Subject
Fine which may be imposed
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
81
(2)
Disobeying notice prohibiting use of water to
which public have access
Ten rupees
82
(e)
Allowing water from a sink, sewer etc., into
places set apart for drinking, bathing or washing clothes
Ten rupees
86
(1)
Using any place for the disposal of the dead
without a licence
Twenty rupees for each occasion
93
...
Allowing filth to flow in public road etc.,
Ten rupees
94
(1)
Failure to execute the work as required by the
notice
Ten rupees
95
(1)
Quarrying near a public road, etc., without a
licence
Ten rupees
96
...
Unlawful building of wall or erecting of fence,
etc., in or over public road
Twenty rupees
97
...
Page 144/149
----- PAGE 145 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
Allowing doors, ground floor windows, etc., to
open outwards or without licence or contrary to notice
Ten rupees
98
(1)
Failure to remove or alter encroachment
Ten rupees
100
(1)
Unlawful construction of building over a drain
or on ground levelled etc., by rubbish
Fifty rupees
100
(2)
Failure to obey requisition to demolish a
building constructed without permission or contrary to the terms
of permission
Fifty rupees
101
(1)
Unlawful making of hole or placing obstruction
in public road
Ten rupees
103
(2)
Failure to remove any building etc., on land
vested in Gram Panchayat.
Fifty rupees
105
(1)
Opening or keeping open a private market in
contravention of Section 105
One hundred rupees
108
...
Failure to obey directions to construct
approaches, etc., for a private market or to roof etc.
Ten rupees
110
...
Sale or exposure for sale in public or private
market of any animal or articles without permission
Ten rupees
116
(1)
Keeping open a private cart-stand without
licence or contrary to licence
Twenty rupees
119
...
Using a place for any of the purposes specified
Page 145/149
----- PAGE 146 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
in Schedule III without licence or contrary to licence
Twenty rupees
120
...
Unlawful erection of factory, work-shop One
hundred rupees
122
...
Disobedience of order regarding abatement of
nuisance
Fifty rupees
V
Transitional Provisions (Gram Panchayats)
(Section 274)
1. Definitions. - In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
'Old Panchayats Act' means the Andhra Pradesh Gram Panchayat Act, 1964;
(b)
'Panchayat' means a panchayat constituted under the old Panchayats Act;
(c)
'Member' means a member of a panchayat constituted under the Old Panchayats Act;
(d)
'Sarpanch' means a Sarpanch of a Gram Panchayat constituted under the Old Panchayats Act.
2. Existing villages to be deemed to be villages for purposes of this Act. - (1) Every local area which, at the
commencement of this Act, is a village under the old Panchayats Act shall be deemed to have been declared to be a
village under this Act.
(2)
Every Gram Panchayat in existence at the commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be a Gram Panchayat
constituted under this Act.
3. Total number of members of Gram Panchayat. - Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the total number of
members of a Gram Panchayat fixed under the old Panchayats Act, shall be deemed to be the total number of members
of the Gram Panchayat as deemed to have been constituted under this Act by virtue of sub-rule (2) of rule 2 until their
number is altered by the Commissioner.
4. Term of office of existing Sarpanches and members. - (1) The Sarpanches and members of a Gram Panchayat
holding office at the commencement of this Act shall, subject to the provisions of Sections 18 and 20, continue to hold
such office upto and inclusive of the date fixed by the Government or upto the date on which special officers who may
be appointed by the Commissioner assume office whichever is early.
(2)
Any vacancy in the office of the Sarpanch, the Upa-Sarpanch or a member of a Gram Panchayat at the commencement
of this Act or which may occur thereafter shall not be filled until the next ordinary elections.
5. First ordinary election. - The Andhra Pradesh Election Commissioner for Local Bodies shall cause the first ordinary
election under this Act to a Gram Panchayat and the first meeting of the Gram Panchayat under sub-Section (1) of
Section 13 after such election, to be held on any day before the date appointed by the said Commissioner.
6. Reconstitution of Panchayats dissolved or superseded before the commencement of this Act. - Any Panchayat
dissolved or superseded under the old Panchayats Act and awaiting reconstitution at the commencement of this Act,
shall be reconstituted in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
7. Constitution of Panchayats for villages notified before the commencement of this Act. - Where, before the
commencement of this Act, a village was notified under the old Panchayats Act, for constituting a panchayat but no
panchayat was constituted, the special officer appointed, if any, therefor, shall be deemed to have been appointed under
this Act and the provisions of Section 143 shall apply to such a case. Where no such special officer was appointed, a
special officer shall be appointed for such a village under this Act as if it has been notified under this Act on the date of
Page 146/149
----- PAGE 147 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
the commencement of this Act.
8. Executive Officers to be deemed to be Executive Officers appointed under this Act. - The Executive Officers of the
Gram Panchayats which are deemed to be Gram Panchayats from the date of commencement of this Act and holding
office as such on the said date, shall be deemed to have been appointed under this Act.
9. Devolution of property, rights and liabilities. - (1) All property, all rights of whatever kind, used, enjoyed or possessed
by, and all interests of whatever kind, owned by or vested in, or held in trust, by or for any panchayat, as well as all
liabilities legally subsisting against it, shall, on and from the date of commencement of this Act and subject to such
directions as the Government may, by general or special order give in this behalf, pass to such Gram Panchayat as
deemed to be constituted under this Act.
(2)
All arrears of taxes or other payments by way of composition for a tax or due for expenses or compensation or otherwise
due to a panchayat at the commencement of this Act may be recovered as if they had accrued under this Act.
(3)
All proceedings taken by or against any panchayat or other authority or any person under the old Panchayats Act in so
far as they are not inconsistent with this Act, be continued by or against such Gram Panchayat, authority or person
under this Act.
10. Continuance of existing taxes. - Any tax, cess, fee or duty which was being lawfully levied by or on behalf of any
panchayat at the commencement of this Act under any law, shall continue to be levied by or on behalf of the Gram
Panchayat at the rates fixed and in pursuance of the assessment made by or under such law for the year in which this
Act was brought into force and in the subsequent years also until the Government, by general or special order,
otherwise direct, or assessment is made by or under this Act, whichever is earlier.
11. Action taken under old Panchayats Act to continue. - Any action taken under the old Panchayats Act by any
authority, before the commencement of this Act shall, unless inconsistent with this Act, be deemed to have been taken
by the authority competent to take such action under this Act, unless and until superseded by action taken by such
authority, whether it be the same as the authority competent to take such action under the old Panchayats Act or not.
12. Removal of difficulty. - If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of these rules, the Government, as
occasion may require, may after previous publication, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, do anything which
appears to them necessary for removing the difficulty.
VI
Transitional Provisions ([Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
)
(Section 274)
Abolition of Mandala Praja Parishads and Devolution of Assets and Liabilities:
(1)
With effect on and from the constitution of a [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
under this Act, the Mandal Praja Parishad or Parishads in the Mandal for which the Mandal Panchayat is constituted,
shall stand abolished.
(2)
On such abolition of a Mandal Praja Parishad under sub-rule (1), (Act 31 of 1986),
(a)
the Collector may pass such orders as he deems fit as to the devolution on the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
comprised in the area of such Mandal of the assets or institutions belonging to such Mandal Praja Parishad or Mandal
Praja Parishads or as to the disposal otherwise of such assets;
(b)
all rights vesting in a Mandal Praja Parishad and all liabilities against it shall devolve on the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
Page 147/149
----- PAGE 148 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
concerned;
(c)
all contracts made by or on behalf of a Mandal Praja Parishad prior to its abolition and subsisting on the day of such
abolition may be transferred by the Collector to the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
concerned.
(3)
In respect of all arrears of taxes or other payments by way of composition for a tax, or due for expenses or
compensation, or otherwise due to the said Mandal Praja Parishad on such abolition, it shall be competent for the
Collector to pass such orders as he may deem fit for their recovery by the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
as if they had accrued to it and had become due, under the provisions of this Act.
(4)
All taxes, fees and duties, which immediately before such abolition were being levied by the said Mandal Praja Parishad
shall be deemed to have been levied by the relevant [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
under the provisions of this Act, and shall continue to be in force accordingly until such taxes, fees and duties are
revised, cancelled or superseded by anything done or any action taken under this Act.
(5)
All proceedings taken by or against the Mandal Praja Parishad or authority or any person under the Andhra Pradesh
Mandal Praja Parishads, Zilla Praja Parishads and Zilla Pranalika and Abhivrudhi Sameeksha Mandals Act, 1986 (Act
31 of 1986) (hereinafter called the Mandals Act) may be continued by or against the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, authority or person as if the said proceedings had been started under the provisions of this Act.
(6)
Any action taken under the Mandals Act by any authority before such abolition shall be deemed to have been taken by
the authority competent to take such action under this Act as if this Act had then been in force.
(7)
With effect on and from the constitution of [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, for any district under this Act, the Zilla Praja Parishad constituted for such district under sub-Section (1) of Section 43
of the Mandals Act shall stand abolished.
(8)
All assets and rights vesting in a Zilla Praja Parishad at the time of its abolition under sub-Section
(7)
and all liabilities against it at such abolition under the Mandals Act or any other law for the time being in force, shall
devolve on the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, constituted under this Act.
(9)
Notwithstanding anything in this Act, every officer or employee who immediately before such abolition was in the service
of the Zilla Praja Parishad shall be deemed to be an officer or employee of the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, under this Act and every officer or employee who, immediately before the abolition of the Mandal Praja Parishad was in
the service of the Mandal Praja Parishad shall be the employee of one of the [Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, as may be ordered by the District Collector and it shall also be competent for the District Collector to transfer such
officer or employee to any other service as may be directed by the Government:
Provided that, -
(i)
the terms and conditions applicable to such officers and employees consequent on their absorption in the service of the
Page 148/149
----- PAGE 149 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994
[Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, or [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, shall not be less favourable than those applicable to such employees immediately before such abolition as respects
pay and allowances, leave, pension, gratuity, provident fund and age of superannuation; and
(ii)
the services rendered by any such officer or other employee under the Zilla Praja Parishad or Mandal Praja Parishad
upto such abolition shall be deemed to be service under the [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, constituted under this Act, or as the case may be, of the [Mandal Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishad' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
, and he shall be entitled to count that service for the purpose of increments, leave, pension, or provident fund and
gratuity.
(10)
"The Special Officers appointed under Section 76 of the Andhra Pradesh Mandal Praja Parishads, Zilla Praja Parishads
and Zilla Pranalika and Abhivrudhi Sameeksha Mandals Act, 1986 shall, notwithstanding the repeal of the said Act
continue to hold office and continue to exercise the same powers and perform the same functions as they were
exercising or performing immediately before the commencement of this Act, until the first ordinary elections to the
[Mandal Praja Parishads]
[Substituted 'Mandal Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
and [Zilla Praja Parishad]
[Substituted 'Zilla Parishads' by Act No. 41 of 2006, dated 23.9.2006.]
in accordance with the provisions of this Act are held and the newly elected members and office bearers thereof assume
office."
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 149/149