
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Rural Electric Co-operative Societies (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1998
Andhra Pradesh Rural Electric Co-operative Societies (Temporary
Provisions) Act, 1998
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/36726181/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Rural Electric Co-operative Societies (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1998
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Rural Electric Co-operative Societies (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1998
Act 32 of 1998
Published on 18 December 1998
Commenced on 18 December 1998
[This is the version of this document from 18 December 1998.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Rural Electric Co-operative Societies (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1998
Act
32 of 1998
Last Updated 14th September, 2019
Statement of Objects and Reasons - (Act 10 of 2000).-The restructuring of the Power Sector has been taken up by the
Government and the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Reforms Act, 1998 (Andhra Pradesh Act 30 of 1998) has been passed
by the Legislative Assembly and has received the assent of the President. Guidelines are being evolved, inter alia for
rationalising the transmission, distribution and supply of electricity.
There are nine Rural Electrical Co-operative Societies in the State which are involved in the distribution and supply of
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Rural Electric Co-operative Societies (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1998
electricity in their areas of operation. The reforms in the power sector will effect the future organisation and activities of
these societies.
Under the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act, 1964, Persons-in-charge may be appointed to
manage the affairs of the society for an aggregate period of three years. This period has expired in respect of certain
such societies. The reforms of the Power Sector will take some more time and therefore it will be desirable and
advisable to conduct elections to the Rural Electrical Co-operative Societies soon after the finalisation of such reforms.
Consequently, the Government after careful consideration felt that the elections to the Rural Electrical Co-operative
Societies should be postponed till a reasonable time. Accordingly it has been decided to provide for the appointment of
persons-in-charge to the Rural Electrical Co-operative Societies for a period upto 31st March, 2000.
This Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision. Appended to L.A. Bill No. 33 of 1998.
Statement of Objects and Reasons (Act 21 of 2002):-The restructuring of the power sector has been taken up by the
Government and the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Reforms Act, 1998 (Andhra Pradesh Act 30 of 1998) has been enacted
and brought into force. The Electricity Reforms are under process.
The reform of the power sector will take some more time and therefore it will be desirable to conduct elections to the
Rural Electric Co-operative Societies only after the finalisation of such reforms.
Accordingly, Government have decided to further extend the period of appointment of persons-in-charge to the Rural
Electric Co-operative Societies upto 31st March, 2004 by amending the Andhra Pradesh Rural Electric Co-operative
Societies (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1998, suitably.
As the Legislative Assembly of the State was not then in session having been prorogued, it was considered necessary
to give effect to the above decision immediately, the Andhra Pradesh Rural Electric Co-operative Societies (Temporary
Provisions) (Amendment) Ordinance, 2002 was promulgated by the Governor on the 22nd May, 2002 and it was
published on the 22nd May, 2002.
This Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.
Published in Andhra Pradesh. Gazette, Part 4-A (Ext.), Ext. No. 13, dated 22-7-2002.
Statement of Objects and Reasons - (Act No. 18 of 2009). - The restructuring of the power sector has been taken up by
the Government and the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Reforms Act, 1998 (Andhra Pradesh Act 30 of 1998) has been
enacted and brought into force. The Electricity Reforms are still under process.
The Rural Electric Co-operative Societies in the State were under the management of committees elected under the
provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act, 1964 and the term of the said committees was expired.
The Government are contemplating reforms of the RESCOs which have not yet been concluded. It will take some more
time to finalize the modalities regarding the decision to be taken about the continuance of RESCOs as independent
entitles or merger with A.P. Transco. As such, the matter was examined by the State Government and enacted the
Andhra Pradesh Rural Electric Co-operative Societies (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1998. The said Act empowers the
Government to appoint non-official Person-in-Charge committees to the said societies until elections are held or the
reforms are materialized.
Accordingly, the Government had appointed Non-Official Person-in-Charge Committees, after expiry of the term of the
elected Committees and extending PICs from time to time by way of amending Section2 of the Andhra Pradesh Rural
Electric Co-operative Societies (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1998. (Act
32 of 1998
). As the last extended period expired by 31-3-2009, the CC & RCS has now requested the Government to amend
Section 2 of the Andhra Pradesh Rural Electric Co-operative Societies (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1998 (Act
32 of 1998
) to facilitate further extension of the term of PIC Committees by one more year i.e., upto 31-3-2010 and it is decided to
extend the term of the existing Non-Official PIC Committees upto 31-3-2010 or till merger process is completed
whichever is earlier.
As the Legislature of the State was not then in Session having been prorogued, and as it was decided to give effect to
the above decision immediately, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh has promulgated the Andhra Pradesh Rural Electric
Co-operative Societies (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009 on the 2nd March, 2009.
This Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.
Received the assent of the Governor on 15-12-1998 and the said assent is hereby first Published in Andhra Pradesh
Gazette, Part 4-B (Ext.),  dated 18-12-1998 for general information.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Rural Electric Co-operative Societies (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1998
An Act to provide for the management of the affairs of the Rural Electric Co-operative Societies by Persons-in-charge
until Evolution of an Electricity Policy and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Whereas, there are nine Rural Electric Co-operative Societies in the State of Andhra Pradesh, the object of which is to
purchase power from the Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board and to distribute and supply electricity in their areas of
operation, and the affairs of several of them are being managed by the persons-in-charge;
And whereas, the constitution of an electricity regulatory commission, restructuring of the Electricity Industry,
rationalisation of the generation, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity, avenues for participation of private
sector in the electricity industry and taking measures conducive to the development and management of the electricity
industry in an efficient, economic and competitive manner has been engaging the attention of the State Government
since a considerable time;
And whereas, the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Reforms Act, 1998 (Andhra Pradesh Act No. 30 of 1998) has been passed
by the Legislative Assembly of the State and received the assent of the President;
And whereas, a comprehensive policy and guidelines are being evolved for restructuring and rationalising the
generation, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity, participation of private sector in the Electricity Industry
and Development and Management of electricity industry;
And whereas, future organisation and operation of the Rural Electric Co-operative Societies will be depending upon
such policy and guidelines;
And whereas, sub-section (7) of Section 32 of the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act, 1964 (Andhra Pradesh
Act 7 of 1964) provides for appointment of a person or persons to manage the affairs of a Society for a period not
exceeding six months which can be extended from time to time so however, that the aggregate period including the
extended period, if any, shall not exceed three years;
And whereas, such period of three years has expired in respect of Persons-in-charge of certain Rural Electric
Co-operative Societies;
And whereas, evolution of an electricity policy and guidelines for the State will take sometime and it is considered
desirable and advisable to conduct elections to the said Rural Electric Co-operative Societies soon after the finalisation
of such policy and guidelines.
Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-ninth year of the Republic of India,
as follows:
1.
Short title and commencement
: - (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Rural Electric Co-operative Societies (Temporary Provisions) Act,
1998.
(2)
It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from the 1st November, 1976.
2.
Appointment and term of Persons-in-charge
: - Notwith-standing anything contained in the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act, 1964 or the rules made
thereunder, the Government may extend from time to time the period of appointment of a person or persons appointed
to manage the affairs of any Rural Electric Co-operative Society beyond the expiry of the period of three years, so
however, that the period of such appointment including the extended period shall not be beyond [the 31st March, 2010]
[Substituted for the words 'the 31st march, 2009 by Andhra Pradesh Act No. 18 of 2009, w.r.e.f. 1..11.1976. ]
.
3.
Validation
: - Notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any Court, tribunal or other authority,-
(a)
no order passed under clause (a) of sub-section (7) of Section 32 of the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act,
1964, extending the term of office of the persons appointed to manage the affairs of any Rural Electric Co:operative
Society; and
(b)
no act or thing done or proceeding taken after the commencement of Section 2 of this Act in pursuance of an order
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Rural Electric Co-operative Societies (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1998
passed under clause (a) of sub-section (7) of Section 32 of the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act, 1964 by any
person or persons appointed to manage the affairs of any Rural Electric Co-operative Society, in exercise of the powers
or the performance of the duties entrusted to them by or under the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act, 1964;
shall be deemed illegal or invalid and accordingly the extension of the term of office of the person or persons appointed
to manage the affairs of the Rural Electric Co-operative Societies ordered from time to time and all acts or things done
or proceedings taken by the said person or persons shall for all purposes be deemed to be and to have always been
done or taken, in accordance with the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act, 1964 and this Act,
and no suit or other proceeding shall be instituted in any Court against any such extension, act or thing or proceeding on
the ground only that any such extension, act, thing or proceeding was not done or taken in accordance with law.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4