
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Preparation and Publication of Electoral Rolls) Rules, 2000
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Preparation and Publication of
Electoral Rolls) Rules, 2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/31557477/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Preparation and Publication of Electoral Rolls) Rules, 2000
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Preparation and Publication of Electoral Rolls) Rules, 2000
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-PANCHAYAT-RAJ-PREPARATION-AND-PUBLICATION-OF-ELECTORAL-ROLLS-RULES-2000
of 2000
Published on 4 August 2000
Commenced on 4 August 2000
[This is the version of this document from 4 August 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Preparation and Publication of Electoral Rolls) Rules, 2000
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms.No. 254, dated 4.8.2000
Last Updated 27th July, 2019
G.O.Ms.No. 254. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (i) sub-section (2) of Section 268, read with Section 11,
sub-section (2) of Section 151 and sub-section (2) of Section 179, of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 (Act
No.13 of 1994
), and in supersession of the rules issued in G.O.Ms.No.879, PR, RD & R (Elecs.I) Department, dated 3.12.1994,
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Preparation and Publication of Electoral Rolls) Rules, 2000
G.O.Ms.No. 898, PR, RD & R (Elecs.I) Department, dated 10.12.1994, G.O.Ms.No.913, PR, RD & R (Elecs.I)
Department, dated 21.12.1994 and G.O.Ms.No.923, PR, RD & R (Elecs.I) Department, dated 28.12.1994, the Governor
of Andhra Pradesh, hereby, makes the following Rules relating to preparation and publication of electoral rolls under the
said Act, for a Gram Panchayat, Mandal Praja Parishad and Zilla Praja Parishad, or any portion thereof.
1.
Short Title.
- These rules may be called the "Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Preparation and Publication of Electoral Rolls) Rules,
2000".
2.
Preparation of Gram Panchayat electoral roll.
(1)
The electoral roll of a Gram Panchayat, hereinafter referred to as "the electoral roll", shall be such part of the current
electoral roll of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly Constituency, prepared and published under the
Representation of the People Act, 1950 (Central Act 43 of 1950), as relates to the village, which shall be prepared by the
District Panchayat Officer, taking into account the various amendments issued to the said electoral roll of the Assembly
Constituency, from time to time, as they relate to the village, up to the date of election notification.
(2)
There shall be a separate electoral roll for each Gram Panchayat.
3.
Electoral roll for election to the office of Sarpanch.
- For the purpose of election of Member and Sarpanch of Gram Panchayat, the roll prepared under rule 2 shall be the
electoral roll.
4.
Form and language of the roll.
(1)
The roll shall be prepared in the format specified by the State Election Commission, by order.
(2)
The roll shall be prepared in such language or languages in which the roll of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly
Constituency, within which the Gram Panchayat is situated, is prepared.
5.
Publication of copies of rolls.
(1)
As soon as the roll is prepared in accordance with these rules, the District Panchayat Officer shall, make arrangements
to print or cyclostyle or write in manuscript as many copies of the roll as may be directed by the State Election
Commission, from time to time. He shall publish the same for inspection by general public:
(a)
on the notice board kept in the office of the District Panchayat Officer.
(b)
on the notice board kept in the office of the Gram Panchayat; and
(c)
at three conspicuous places in the concerned village.
(2)
The electoral roll published under sub-rue (1) shall indicate the ward division made under sub-section (4) of Section 11
or, as the case may be, under Section 12, of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 (Act
13 of 1994
), hereinafter in these rules referred to as "the Act".
(3)
Upon such publication under this rule, the roll shall be the electoral roll of the Gram Panchayat and shall remain in force
till a fresh electoral roll is prepared and published.
6.
Procedure for lodging claims and objections.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Preparation and Publication of Electoral Rolls) Rules, 2000
- All omissions of names in any part of the roll or objections to any entry in the roll, at any point of time after its
publication under rule 5, shall be settled only after a suitable amendment to the relevant entry in the electoral roll of the
Legislative Assembly Constituency, based on which the Gram Panchayat roll was prepared. Anybody wishing to prefer a
claim for inclusion or deletion of any name in the roll or any objection in respect of any entry in the roll so published,
shall submit a proper claim or objection under the provisions of the Registration of Electors Rules, 1960 made under the
representation of the People Act, 1950 (Central Act 43 of 1950), to the Electoral Registration Officer of the concerned
Legislative Assembly Constituency. Subject to the provisions of Section 11 of the Act, and based on the orders of the
Electoral Registration Officer of the Assembly Constituency on such claims and objections, the District Panchayat
Officer shall carry out consequential amendments in the Gram Panchayat electoral roll. In case of any clerical or printing
error or both, or when the entries deviate from the particulars of the Assembly Electoral Roll, the District Panchayat
Officer may cause such errors rectified, so as to bring it in conformity with the particulars of the Assembly Electoral roll
concerned. However, the District Panchayat Officer shall not resort to suo motu revision of the rolls by way of deletions
or additions or modifications.
7.
Electoral roll of a Mandal Praja Parishad.
(1)
For the purposes of preparation and publication of electoral roll for the election to the office of members of Mandal Praja
Parishad the provisions of Sections 11 and 12 of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 shall apply mutatis
mutandis.
(2)
The Electoral roll for the Gram Panchayat prepared and published under rule 2 shall be arranged Territorial
Constituency-wise of the Mandal Praja Parishad by the Mandal Parishad Development Officer and it shall be divided into
convenient parts which shall be numbered conveniently. The part of the electoral roll shall be arranged Gram
Panchayat-wise in alphabetical order for each Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituency for the purpose of conducting
elections of Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituency.
(3)
A copy of such electoral roll in respect of each Territorial Constituency of Mandal Praja Parishad shall be kept open for
inspection in the office of the Mandal Praja Parishad concerned.
8.
Electoral roll of a Zilla Praja Parishad.
(1)
For the purposes of preparation and publication of electoral roll for the election of member of Zilla Praja Parishad, the
provisions of Sections 11 and 12 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(2)
The electoral roll for the Gram Panchayat prepared and published under rule 2 shall be arranged for each Mandal which
is a Territorial Constituency of the Zilla Praja Parishad by the Chief Executive Officer, Zilla Praja Parishad concerned,
and it shall be divided into convenient parts which shall be numbered conveniently. The part of the electoral roll shall be
arranged Gram Panchayat-wise in alphabetical order for each Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency, for the purpose of
conducting elections of Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency.
(3)
A copy of such electoral roll in respect of each Territorial Constituency of Zilla Praja Parishad shall be kept open for
inspection in the office of the Zilla Praja Parishad concerned.
9.
Transitional Provision.
- Notwithstanding anything in these rules, the electoral rolls of Gram Panchayats prepared and finally published, with
reference to 1st January, 2000 as the qualifying date, in pursuance of Notification No.738/SEC-B1/1999-2000, dated 7th
January, 2000 of the State Election Commission, shall continue to be in force, until fresh electoral rolls are prepared and
published, subject to the condition that any additions or deletions made by the Electoral Registration Officer under the
Representation of the People Act, 1950 (Central Act 43 of 1950) in the electoral roll of the Legislative Assembly
Constituency, as relates to the concerned Gram Panchayat, between the date of the notification of the State Election
Commission referred to above, and the date of Election notification, for any election held under this Act shall be added
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Preparation and Publication of Electoral Rolls) Rules, 2000
or deleted, as the case may be, in the electoral rolls already prepared as above. Any additions shall, however, be added
to the last ward of the Gram Panchayat concerned.
Form-I
Notice of Publication of Electoral Roll
(See rule 5)
Notice is, hereby, given that the electoral roll of the ........................ Gram Panchayat in .................................. Mandal
has been prepared in accordance with the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Preparation and Publication of Electoral
Rolls) Rules, 2000 by adopting the existing entries in the relevant part of the Electoral Roll for Legislative Assembly
Constituency prepared under the Representation of the People Act, 1950. The same is kept open for inspection at my
office and at the office of the Gram Panchayat.
Any person who wishes to lodge any claim for including his/her name in the roll or any objection to the inclusion of a
name or any objection to the particulars of any entry in the said roll, shall first get such claim or objection settled with
reference to the corresponding entry in the Electoral Roll of the Assembly Constitutencies by lodging suitable claim or
objection under the provisions of the Representation of the People Act, 1950 (Central Act 43 of 1950) and the
Registration of Electors Rules, 1960 made thereunder, before the Electoral Registration Officer of the said Assembly
Constituency.
All orders of inclusion, deletion or corrections issued on the basis of these claims and objections by the said Electoral
Registration Officer till the date of the notification issued by the State Election Commissioner under sub-rule (2) of rule 4
of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Conduct of Elections) Rules, 1994, will be duly incorparted in the electioral Roll
of the Gram Panchayat.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4