
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Officers delegation of Powers Rules, 2000
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Officers delegation of Powers Rules,
2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/102977473/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Officers delegation of Powers Rules, 2000
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Officers delegation of Powers Rules, 2000
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-PANCHAYAT-RAJ-OFFICERS-DELEGATION-OF-POWERS-RULES-2000 of 2000
Published on 16 August 2000
Commenced on 16 August 2000
[This is the version of this document from 16 August 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Officers delegation of Powers Rules, 2000
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 266, Panchayat Raj & Rural development (Rules), dated 16.08.2000
Last Updated 27th August, 2019
No. G.O. Ms. No. 266. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of Section 260 read with Section 268 of
the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 (Act No. 13 of 1994), the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the
following rules namely: -
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Officers delegation of Powers Rules, 2000.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Officers delegation of Powers Rules, 2000
2.
Authorisation by the Government.
(a)
The Government authorize the Commissioner of Panchayat Raj to inspect all Zilla Parishads once in a Calender year
and submit copies of inspection notes for review by Government.
(b)
The Financial Commissioner, Panchayat Raj Department, the Chief Accounts Officers of the Office of the
Commissioner, Panchayat Raj shall be competent to inspect the accounts wing of the Zilla Parishads, accounts wing of
executive engineer, Panchayat Raj and Mandal Parishad Offices. Copies of notes of inspection shall be submitted to the
Government by Financial Commissioner and to Commissioner, Panchayat Raj by the Accounts Officer through the
Office of the Commissioner, Panchayat Raj and Rural Employment.
(c)
The Executive Authority concerned shall submit replies to the inspection reports within two (2) months from the date of
receipt of inspection report duly rectifying the defects.
(d)
A special report shall be prepared and submitted to the Commissioner, Panchyat Raj, if any major financial irregularity,
loss wastage or financial impropriety noticed by them. Before submission of the said report the view of the Chief
Executive Officer or Mandal Parishad Development Officer or Executive Engineer should be obtained in writing.
3.
Inspection.
(a)
The Commissioner, Panchayat Raj or any other Officer authorized by him shall be competent to enter upon and inspect
any Institution, School, Centre, work or scheme being implemented by the Zilla Parishad or Mandal Parishad and shall
be competent to call for and obtain any information, return, statement records, files etc., relating to the subject for
examination and scrutiny.
(b)
Every person who is incharge of the programme or work, institution or school shall be bound to comply with the
requisition.
(c)
For failure to comply with the requisition, the concerned person shall be liable for disciplinary action.
4.
Physical verification by the Inspecting Officers.
(1)
The Inspecting Officers shall physically verify the cash balances on hand under permanent schemes and under different
schemes, stocks of materials in stores, godowns, NMR muster rolls records relating to payment of Wages, M-Books, the
manner in which awards of contracts, the targets and achievements under check measurements, super checks by the
competent authorities, delays in accordance with technical sanctions, delays in commencement and completion of
works, rejection of substandard materials, levy and collection of penalties and fines, collection of Earnest Money Deposit
for for-feiture of deposits for violation of rules, should be carefully examined.
(2)
The Inspecting Officers shall.
(a)
Verify whether utilization certificates were submitted in respect of all grants on due dates.
(b)
Check up any diversion from earmarked funds from State/ Central grants and along with the explanation of the
concerned.
(c)
register of cash contributions received and accounted for.
(d)
review on audit reports and a note on minor or major and serious audit objections and a special report in case the
amounts involved in more than Rs. 25,000/-
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Officers delegation of Powers Rules, 2000
(e)
Check up the qualifications of staff in accounts wing and their tenure in general.
(f)
Submit the paid vouchers to audit, monthly and annual accounts.
(g)
check up the re-appropriation of Heads of Accounts whenever necessary.
(3)
The Inspecting Officer shall.
(a)
evaluate whether 15%, 6% and 6% of revenues under each segment of funds both under general funds and other
schemes have been complied with generally and check physically a few major works under such programmes.
(b)
create the nature of assets under Jawahar Rojgar Yojana/ Employment Assurance Scheme / Swarna Jayanthi Gram
Sworojgar Yojana/Jawahar Gram Samruddi Yojana etc., and the proportion of Schedule Caste/Schedule Tribe/ Women
employed for these works.
5.
Release of funds and their utilisation.
(a)
The release of funds under normal schemes whether received, schemes approved by Zilla Parishad/Mandal Parishad
(Normal Schemes like Rural Water Supply/ Minimum Needs Programmes/Rural Road Maintenance/Zilla Parishad Rural
Road Maintenance/Accelerated Rural Water Supply), Sugarcane cess/Minor irrigation grants and whether prompt action
is taken for their adjustment and release to Mandal Parishads/Gram Panchayats whenever due.
(b)
The Special grants like Member of Parliament (Local area development) Schemes. Member of Legislative Assembly
(Legislative Assembly Constituency- Area development grant), Schemes, special incentive under National Savings
Certificate/ Works Bank programmes, Vimukthi (Sanction Programme), Tenth Finance Commission etc., were received
and executed as per norms.
(c)
The works on hand both physical and financial progress of works, sanctioned, works completed and works on hand and
whether the amounts are likely to be spent fully without lapsing.
(d)
Any other schemes /works sanctioned by other agencies also should be examined.
6.
Presence of Officers during Inspection.
- All Executive Authorities and the Wing Officers, the Executive Engineers. Accounts Officer shall personally be present
during the inspections and no leave shall be sanctioned by the competent authorities, unless in emergency cases.
7.
Power of the Commissioner.
- The Commissioner. Panchat Raj is empowered to initiate disciplinary action against the Officers, disobeying these
orders.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3