
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation of Seats and Offices of Gram Panchayats, Mandal ...
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation of Seats and Offices of
Gram Panchayats, Mandal Parishads and Zilla Parishads) Rules, 2001
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/108787109/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation of Seats and Offices of Gram Panchayats, Mandal Parishads and Zilla
Parishads) Rules, 2001
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation of Seats and Offices of Gram Panchayats, Mandal Parishads and Zilla
Parishads) Rules, 2001
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-PANCHAYAT-RAJ-RESERVATION-OF-SEATS-AND-OFFICES-OF-GRAM-PANCHAYATS-MAN
DAL-PARISHADS-AND-ZILLA-PARISHADS-RULES-2001 of 2001
Published on 20 April 2001
Commenced on 20 April 2001
[This is the version of this document from 20 April 2001.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation of Seats and Offices of Gram Panchayats, Mandal Parishads and Zilla
Parishads) Rules, 2001
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 140, Panchayat Raj and Rural Development (Elections), dated 20.04.2001
Last Updated 29th August, 2019
No. G.O. Ms. No. 140. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 268 read with Sections 9, 15,
Page 1/10
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation of Seats and Offices of Gram Panchayats, Mandal ...
152, 153, 180, 181 and 242-D of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 (Act 13 of 1994), and in supersession of
all the previous rules issued on the subject, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh, hereby, makes the following rules relating
to reservations of seats and offices of Gram Panchayats, Mandal Parishads and Zilla Parishads for the members
belonging to Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and Women.
1.
These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation of Seats and Offices of Gram Panchayats,
Mandal Parishads and Zilla Parishads) Rules, 2001.
2.
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(i)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994;
(ii)
"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Panchayat Raj; and - includes the Collector of a District;
(iii)
"Words" and "Expressions" used, but not defined in these rules shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the
Act.
3.
In every district, the reservation of offices and the seats shall be made in accordance with the following rules before
every ordinary elections and notified in the District Gazette concerned in respect of Gram Panchayat and in the Andhra
Pradesh Gazette and in the District Gazette concerned in respect of Mandal Parishads and Zilla Parishads.
Part - I Gram Panchayats
Members of Gram Panchayat
4.
(1)
The Revenue Divisional Officer shall in respect of each Gram Panchayat in his jurisdiction determine in the first
instance, the number of wards to be reserved, in the Gram Panchayat concerned, for the members belonging to
Scheduled Tribes and the Scheduled Castes subject to the condition that the number of wards so reserved shall bear,
as nearly as may be, the same proportion to the total number of wards to be filled by direct election to the Gram
Panchayat as the population of Schedule Tribes or as the case may be, of the Schedule Castes in that Gram Panchayat
bears to in total population of that Gram Panchayat, subject to the condition that the Revenue Divisional Officer shall, in
the Scheduled Areas, allocate not less than one half of the total number of seats of each Gram Panchayat for being
reserved for Scheduled Tribes.
(2)
For the purpose of reserving wards for the Backward Classes in respect of the Gram Panchayat, the Revenue Divisional
Officer shall determine the number of wards to be reserved for the Backward Classes in each Gram Panchayat on the
basis of the proportionate percentage of Backward Classes of that Mandal arrived at in the following manner.
Note. - In order to arrive at the Proportionate percentage of backward Classes of the Gram Panchayat the following
formula shall be adopted:
Mandal Proportionate Percentage of Backward Class  =| Reservation of BCs in the State (34%)State percentage of BCs
(38.8%)| x   Mandal BCs percentage
=   0.876 x Percentage of Backward Classes in [Mandal Parishads]
[Corrected as per Errata issued in G.O. Ms. No. 145, Panchayat Raj & Rural Development, dated 26-04-2001]
.
Explanation - (i) Percentage of Backward Class reservation in 34% as provided in the Act;
(ii)
State percentage of Backward Classes is 38.8% as projected by Bureau of Economics and Statistics, as on 1-3-1991,
from the data of Socio-Economic Survey conducted by Andhra Pradesh Backward Classes Finance Corporation Limited.
(iii)
Mandal Backward class percentage is the figure as projected by the Bureau of Economics and Statistics as on 1-3-1991,
from the data of Socio Economic Survey referred to above and as published.
(3)
Page 2/10
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation of Seats and Offices of Gram Panchayats, Mandal ...
(a)
Where the reservation for Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes reaches or exceeds 100%. in
such case, the reservation for Backward Classes shall be calculated by arriving ata percentage to the remaining Offices
after so reserving for Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes.
(b)
Notwithstanding anything contained in Clause (a), the Revenue Divisional Officer shall for the purpose of reservation of
wards for BCs in gram panchayats located in scheduled areas, determine in the first instance number of wards
remaining after reserving seats for STs and SCs in each such Gram Panchayat and arrive at the number of wards to be
reserved for BCs computed only on the basis of such remaining wards applying the proportionate percentage of
population of backward classes in the Mandal Parishad.
(4)
The Revenue Divisional Officer shall reserve one-third of the number of wards reserved for Scheduled Tribes,
Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes and one-third of the un-served wards for Women, in each Gram Panchayat.
5.
(1)
The Revenue Divisional Officer shall then communicate the number of wards of Gram Panchayats to be reserved in
each Gram Panchayat for the members of Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and Women to
Mandal Parishad Development Officer concerned.
(2)
The Mandal Parishad Development Officer shall, in turn, on receipt of communication under sub-rule (1) shall reserve in
respect of wards allotted under Rule 4( 1) to the Schedule Tribes in the Gram Panchayat in the first instance in such
wards where the proportion of voters belonging to Scheduled Tribes to the total number of voters in the ward concerned
is the highest in the descending order.
(3)
After excluding the wards reserved for Scheduled Tribes in the respective Gram Panchayat, the Mandal Parishad
Development Officer shall reserve the wards from among the other wards, for Scheduled castes allotted under Rule 4(
1) above, in the wards where the proportion of voters belonging to Scheduled Castes to the total number of voters in the
ward concerned is the highest in the descending order.
(4)
The reservation of wards for Backward Classes in the Gram Panchayat allotted under Rule 4(2) shall be made by the
Mandal Parishad Development Officer from among the wards remaining after reserving wards for Scheduled Tribes and
Scheduled Castes in each Gram Panchayat where the proportion of . voters belonging to the backward class to the total
voters in the ward concerned is the highest in the descending order.
Provided that no reservation for Backward Class shall be made in such of those Gram Panchayats where there are no
Backward Class voters.
Provided further that where there are no B.C. voters in a Gram Panchayat in a Mandal or where the proportion of the
B.C. voters is lower than their proportion in the Mandal, the reservation of Ward Members for B.Cs. proportionate to the
shortage noted shall be shifted to such of those Gram Panchayats within the concerned Mandal in proportion to the B.C.
voters in Gram Panchayats arranged in a descending order subject to the condition that the total number of ward
members to be allotted to B.Cs. in the Mandal shall remain the same thus ensuring that the number of wards reserved
for B.Cs. in a Mandal is equal to Mandal proportion as calculated at sub-rule (2) of Rule 4.
(5)
The reservation of wards for women in the Gram Panchayats allotted under Rule 4(4) shall be made by the Mandal
Parishad Development Officer in each category i.e., ST, SC, BC and Unreserved, on the basis of the highest proportion
of the women voters to the total number of voters in the ward is the highest in the descending order.
6.
The reservation of wards for Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and women under sub-rules (2) -
(5) shall be by rotation as far as practicable commencing from the first ordinary election held under the Act. The wards
allotted to STs, SCs, BCs and Women during the earlier ordinary elections shall not be allotted to the same categories
till a cycle of reservation in that category is completed.
Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that:-
Page 3/10
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation of Seats and Offices of Gram Panchayats, Mandal ...
(i)
For purposes of reserving wards under these rules any fraction less than one-half shall be ignored and any fraction
equal to or more than one-half shall be counted as one.
(ii)
The expression "Revenue Divisional Officer" under these rules shall include the Sub-Collector or Assistant Collector
in-charge of a Revenue Division.
(iii)
In case where the reservation for Scheduled Tribes or Scheduled Castes cannot be made due to nonavailability of their
population/ voters in required number of Wards, then the reservation shall be made in descending order in such of those
Wards Where the population/voters of Scheduled Tribes or Scheduled Castes are available in the first instance, and
thereafter, the remaining reservation of Wards shall be made by drawal of lots.
Example. - If there are eight Wards in a Gram Panchayat of which six are to be reserved for Scheduled Tribes. Whereas
Scheduled Tribes population/voters/ are available only in three Wards then the reservation for the remaining three
Wards shall be made by drawl of lots from among the other five Wards by the Mandal Parishad Development Officer
concerned.
Reservation of Offices of Sarpanchas of Gram Panchayats
7.
(1)
The Revenue Divisional Officer shall determine in the first instance the number of offices of Sarpanchas to be reserved
in each Mandal Parishad for the Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes subject to the condition that the number of
offices so reserved shall bear as nearly as may be, the same proportion as the population of the Scheduled Tribes or as
the case may be, Scheduled Castes in the Mandal Parishad bears to the total population of the Mandal Parishad
concerned.
Provided that all the Offices of Sarpanchas of Gram Panchayats located in Scheduled Areas shall be reserved for
Scheduled Tribes.
(2)
For the purpose of determining number of offices of Sarpanchas to be reserved for the Backward Classes, the Revenue
Divisional Officer shall arrive at this number on the basis of the Mandal proportionate percentage of Backward Classes
arrived at in the manner specified below:
Mandal Proportionate Percentage of Backward Class  =| Reservation of BCs in the State (34%)State percentage of BCs
(38.8%)| x   Mandal BCs percentage
=   0.876 x Mandal Backward Class Percentage.
Explanation I. - (i) Percentage of Backward Classes reservation is 34% as provided in the Act.
(ii)
State percentage of Backward Classes is 38.8% as projected by the Bureau of Economics and Statistics as on 1
-3-1991 from the data of Socio - Economic Survey conducted by Andhra Pradesh Backward Classes Finance
Corporation Limited.
(iii)
Mandal Backward Classes percentage is the figure as projected by Bureau of Economics and Statistics as on 1 -3-1991
from the data of Socio Economic Survey referred to above and as published.
Explanation II. - For the purpose of reservations to the offices of Sarpancha, the Mandal Parishad concerned shall be
taken as a unit.
(3)
Where the reservation for Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes reaches or exceeds 100%, in
such case the reservation for Backward Classes shall be calculated by arriving at a percentage to the remaining Offices
of Sarpanchas . after as so reserving for Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled castes.
(4)
The Revenue Divisional Officer shall reserve one third of number of offices of Sarpanchas reserved for Scheduled
Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and one third of the unreserved offices of Sarpanchas for Women in each
Mandal Parishad.
8.
Page 4/10
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation of Seats and Offices of Gram Panchayats, Mandal ...
(1)
The Revenue Divisional Officer on determining the number of offices of Sarpanchas to be reserved in each Mandal
Parishad for the members belonging to Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and Women, shall allot
offices to the Scheduled Tribes in the first instance where the proportion of the population of the Scheduled Tribes to the
total population of the Gram Panchayat concerned is the highest in the descending order.
(2)
After excluding the Gram Panchayat reserved for Scheduled Tribes in the Mandal Parishad, the Revenue Divisional
Officer shall reserve from among the other Gram Panchayats, the offices for the Scheduled Castes and allocate them
where the proportion of the population of the Scheduled Castes to the total population the Gram Panchayat concerned is
the highest in the descending order.
(3)
After excluding the Gram Panchayats reserved for Scheduled Tribes and the Scheduled Cases in the Mandal Parishad,
the Revenue Divisional Officer shall reserve from among the other Gram Panchayats, the offices for the Backward
Classes where the proportion of voters belonging to , Backward Classes in the Gram Panchayat to the total voters in the
Gram Panchayat is the highers tin the descending order.
(4)
The Revenue Divisional Officer shall reserve offices for Women from out of the reserved and un-reserved categories on
the basis of the highest proportion of the population of Women to the total population of the Gram Panchayat concerned
is the highest in the descending order.
9.
The reservation of offices for Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and Women shall be by rotation
as far as practicable commencing from the first ordinary election held under the Act. The offices reserved to STs, SCs,
BCs and Women during the earlier ordinary elections shall not be again reserved to the same categories till a cycle of
reservation in that category is completed, except in the case of offices reserved for Scheduled Tribes in the Gram
Panchayats in the Scheduled Areas.
Explanation. - (i) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that for purposes of reserving offices under these rules
any fraction less than one half shall be ignored and any fraction equal to or more than one half shall be counted as one.
(ii)
The expression "Revenue Divisional Officer" under these rules shall include the Sub-Collector or Assistant Collector
in-charge of Revenue Division.
PART - II Mandal Parishads
Members of Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituencies
10.
(1)
The District Collector shall in respect of each Mandal Parishad in the District determine, in the first instance, the number
of Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituencies (herein after referred to as MPTC) to be reserved in the Mandal Parishad
concerned for the members belonging to Scheduled Tribes and the Scheduled Castes, subject to the condition that the
number of MPTCs so reserved shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion to the total number of MPTCs to be
filled by direct Election to the Mandal Parishad as the population of Scheduled Tribes or as the case maybe, of the
Scheduled Castes, in that Mandal Parishad bears to the total population of that Mandal Parishad, and communicate the
same to all the Revenue Divisional Officers in the District in respect of the Mandals falling within their respective
jurisdiction, subject to the condition that the District Collector shall, in the Mandal Parishad wholly locate in the
Scheduled Areas, allocate not less than one half of the total number of MPTCs in the each Mandal Parishad for being
reserved for Scheduled, Tribes.
(2)
For the purpose of reserving MPTCs for Backward Classes in respect of the territorial constituencies of the Mandal
Parishads in the District, the District Collector shall determine the number of MPTCs to be reserved for the Backward
Classes in each Mandal Parishad, on the basis of the proportionate percentage of Backward Classes of the Mandal
Parishad and communicate the same to the concerned Revenue Divisional Officer in the District in respect of the
Mandal Parishads falling within their respective jurisdiction.
Note. - In order to arrive at the Mandal proportionate percentage of Backward Classes the following formula shall be
Page 5/10
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation of Seats and Offices of Gram Panchayats, Mandal ...
followed:
Mandal Proportionate Percentage of Backward Class  =| Reservation of BCs in the State (34%)State percentage of BCs
(38.8%)| x   Mandal BCs percentage
Explanation. - (i) Percentage of Backward Classes is 34% as provided in the Act;
(ii)
State percentage of Backward Classes is 38.8% as projected by Bureau of Economics & Statistics as on 1-3-1991 from
the data of Socio-Economic Survey conducted by Andhra Pradesh Backward Class Finance Corporation Limited;
(iii)
Mandal Backward Class percentage is the figures as projected by Bureau, of Economics and Statistics as on' 1-3-1991
from the data of Socio Economic Survey conducted by the Andhra Pradesh Backward Class Finance Corporation
Limited.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the District Collector shall, for purposes of reservation of MPTCs for
Backward Classes in the Mandal Parishads wholly located in the Scheduled Areas, determine in the first instance the
number of MPTCs remaining after reserving seats for Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes in each such Mandal
Parishad and arrive at the number of MPTCs. to be reserved for Backward Classes computed only on the basis of such
remaining MPTCs applying the proportionate percentage of population of Backward Classes in the Mandal.
(4)
The District Collector shall reserve One-third of the number of MPTCs reserved for Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes
and Backward Classes and one-third of the unreserved seats for Women in each Mandal Parishad.
(5)
While communicating the number of MPTCs to be reserved for Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and Backward
Classes, the District Collector shall also communicate to the Revenue Divisional Officer, the number of MPTCs to be
reserved for Women from among the said categories and also the number of MPTCs to be reserved for Women from
among the, un-reserved MPTCs in respect of each Mandal Parishad.
(1)
The Revenue Divisional Officer, in' his turn, shall on receipt of the communication under sub-rule (1) of Rule 10, reserve
in respect of each Mandal Parishad in his revenue division, MPTCs allotted to the Scheduled Tribes in such Mandal
Parishad, in the first instance, where the proportion of the population of Scheduled Tribes in the MPTC to the total
population of the MPTC concerned in the Mandal Parishad is the highest in the descending order.
(2)
After excluding the MPTCs reserved for Scheduled Tribes in the respective Mandal Parishad, the' Revenue Divisional
Officer shall reserve from among the other MPTCs, for the Scheduled Castes allocated to each Mandal Parishad under
sub-rule (1) of Rule 10, in Territorial Constituencies where the proportion of the population of the Scheduled Castes in
the MPTC to the total population of the MPTC concerned in the Mandal Parishad is the highest, in the descending order:
(3)
After excluding the Territorial MPTCs reserved for Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes in respect of a Mandal
Parishad, the Revenue Divisional Officer shall reserve from the remaining MPTCs for Backward Classes in each'
Mandal Parishad, such MPTCs where the propotion of voters belong to Backward Classes to the total number of voters
in the MPTC concerned is the highest in the descending order.
(4)
The Revenue Divisional Officer shall reserve MPTCs for Women from out of the reserved and un-reserved categories on
the basis of the highest proportion of the population of Women to the total population of the MPTC is the highest in the
descending order.
11.
The reservation of MPTCs for Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and Women shall be, by rotation
commencing from the first ordinary election) under the Act. The MPTCs allotted to STs, SCs, BCs, and women during
the earlier ordinary elections shall not be allotted to the same categories till a cycle of reservation in that category is
completed.
Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that,-
(i)
Page 6/10
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation of Seats and Offices of Gram Panchayats, Mandal ...
for purposes of reserving seats under these rules any fraction less than one-half shall be ignored and any fraction equal
to or more than one-half shall be counted as one.
(ii)
the expression 'Revenue Divisional Officer' under these rules shall include the Sub-Collector or Assistant Collector
in-charge of a Revenue Division.
12.
(1)
(a)
The Commissioner shall determine in the first instance, the number of offices of President Mandal Parishad to be
reserved for the members belonging to Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes, subject to the condition that the
number of Offices reserved for Scheduled Tribes shall be 7.61% and for Scheduled Castes 17.56% of the total number
of offices of Presidents of Mandal Parishads in the State and then allot to each District on the basis of the proportion of
the population of the Scheduled Tribes or of the Scheduled Castes in the District to the total population of the District
and communicate the same to all the District Collectors in respect of the Mandal Parishads falling within their respective
districts.
(b)
Provided that all offices of President of Mandal Parishads wholly located in Scheduled Areas shall be reserved for
Scheduled Tribes.
(2)
For the purpose of reserving offices of President for Backward Classes in respect of the Mandal Parishads, the
Commissioner Panchayat Raj shall in the first instance determine the' number of offices of Presidents to be reserved for
the Backward Classes in the State such that the number of offices so determined shall be 34% of the total number of
offices of President Mandal Parishads in the State and allot them to each District on the basis of the proportionate
percentage of Backward Classes of each District arrived at in the manner specified, in the Note under sub-rule (2) of
Rule 16.
(3)
The Commissioner shall reserve one-third of the number of offices reserved for Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes
and Backward Classes and one-third of the un-reserved offices for Women in each District.
(4)
While communicating the number of, offices to be reserved from Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and Backward
Classes, the Commissioner shall also communicate to the District Collector the number of offices to be reserved for
Women from among these categories and also the number of offices to be reserved for Women from among the
un-reserved offices in respect of each District.
(President, Mandal Parishads)
13.
(1)
Reservation of office of President, Mandal Parishad shall be determined after reservation for Zilla Parishad Territorial
Constituencies is completed as indicated in Rule 18 and 19. As far as possible, office of President Mandal Parishad
shall not be reserved for the same category as that corresponding to Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency.
(2)
The District Collector in his turn shall on receipt of the communication under Rule 13 reserve the Mandal Parishads in
the District and allot to the Scheduled Tribes in the first instance, where the proportion of the population of Scheduled
Tribes to the total population of the Mandal Parishad concerned is the highest in the descending order.
(3)
After excluding the Mandal Parishads reserved for Scheduled Tribes, the District Collector shall reserve from among the
other Mandal Parishads the Offices for the Scheduled Castes allocated to each District under Rule 13 where the
proportion of the population of the Scheduled Castes of the Mandal Parishad to the total population of the Mandal
Parishad concerned is the highest in the descending order:
(4)
The reservation of offices for Backward Classes in each District shall be made by the Collector after excluding the
Mandal Parishads reserved for Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes, where the proportion of the Backward Class
Page 7/10
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation of Seats and Offices of Gram Panchayats, Mandal ...
voters in the Mandal Parishad to the total voters in the Mandal Parishad concerned is the highest in the descending
order.
(5)
The Collector shall reserve offices for Women from out of the reserved and un-reserved categories on the basis of the
highest proportion of the population of Women in the Mandal Parishad to the total population of the Mandal Parishad is
the highest in the descending order.
14.
The reservation of Offices for Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and Women shall be by rotation
commencing from the first ordinary election held under the Act. The Offices of Mandal Presidents reserved to the STs,
SCs, BCs and Women during the earlier ordinary elections shall not be reserved to the same categories till a cycle of
reservation in that category is completed. Except the offices reserved for Scheduled Tribes in the Mandal Parishads
wholly located in the Scheduled Areas.
Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that for purposes of reserving offices under these rules
any fraction less than one-half shall be ignored and any fraction equal to or more than one- half shall be counted as one.
Part - III Zilla Parishads
(Members of Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituencies)
15.
(1)
The District Collector shall determine, in the first instance, the number of Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituencies (herein
after referred to as ZPTC) to be reserved for the members belonging to Scheduled Tribes and the Scheduled Castes
subject to the condition, that the number of ZPTCs so reserved shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion to
the total number of ZPTCs to be filled by direct election to the Zilla Parishad as the population of Scheduled Tribes or as
the case may be of the Scheduled Castes, in that Zilla Parishad bears to the total population of that District falling within
the jurisdiction.
(2)
For the purpose of reserving ZPTCs for Backward Classes in respect of the Territorial Constituencies in the District, the
District Collector shall determine the number of ZPTCs to be reserved for the Backward Classes each district on the
basis of the proportionate percentage of Backward Classes of the District.
Note. - In order to arrive at the District proportionate percentage of Backward Classes, the following formula shall be
followed:
District Proportionate Percentage of Backward Class  =| Reservation of BCs in the State (34%)State percentage of BCs
(38.8%)| x   District BCs percentage
Explanation. - (i) Percentage of B.Cs is 34% as provided in the Act.
(ii)
State percentage of B.Cs. is 38.8% as projected by Bureau of Economics and Statistics as on 1-3-1991 from the data of
Socio-Economic Survey.
(iii)
District B.Cs. percentage is the figures as projected by Bureau of Economics and Statistics and as published.
(3)
The District Collector shall reserve one-third of the number of ZPTCs reserved for Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes
and Backward Classes and one-third of the unreserved ZPTCs for Women in each Zilla Parishad.
16.
(1)
The District Collector,shall reserve' in respect of ZPTCs and allot to the Scheduled Tribes in the District, in first instance
in such Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituencies, where the proportion of the population of Scheduled Tribes in the ZPTC
to the total, population of the ZPTC concerned is the highest in the descending order.
(2)
After excluding the Constituencies reserved for Scheduled Tribes, the District Collector shall reserve from among the
other ZPTCs for the Scheduled Castes allocated under sub-rule (1) of Rule 16, where, the proportion of the population
of the Scheduled Castes to the total population of the ZPTC concerned is the highest in the descending order.
(3)
Page 8/10
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation of Seats and Offices of Gram Panchayats, Mandal ...
The reservation of ZPTCs for Backward Classes in the District as allocated under sub-rule (2) of Rule 16, shall be made
by the District Collector after excluding the Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituencies reserved for Scheduled Tribes and
Scheduled Castes, where the proportion of the voters of Backward Classes in the ZPTC to the total voters in the ZPTC
concerned in the highest in the descending order.
(4)
The District Collector shall reserve ZPTCs for Women as allocated under sub-rule (3) of Rule 16, out of the reserved
and un-reserved categories on the basis of the highest proportion of the population of Woman to the total population of
the ZPTC concerned is the highest in the descending order.
17.
The District Collector shall reserve seats with regard to Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency in the first instance and
thereafter reserve offices with regard to President, Mandal Parishad.
18.
The Office of President, Mandal Parishad and the office of member of Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency, which are
co-terminus shall not as far as practicable, be reserved for same categories i.e., ST/SC/ BC and Women except the
Offices reserved under Clause (b) under Rule 13(1).
19.
The reservation of ZPTCs for Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and Women shall be by rotation
commencing from the first ordinary election held under the Act. The ZPTCs allotted to the STs, SCs, BCs and Women
during the earlier ordinary elections shall not be allotted to the same categories till a cycle of reservation in that category
is completed.
Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that, for purposes of reserving seats under these rules
any fraction less than one-half shall be ignored and any fraction equal to or more than one-half shall be counted as one.
(Chairperson, Zilla Parishad)
20.
(1)
The Commissioner, Panchayat Raj shall in respect of the State determine in the first instance the number of offices of
Chairpersons, Zilla Parishads to be reserved in the State for the members belonging to Scheduled Tribes and the
Scheduled Castes subject to the condition that the number of Offices so reserved shall be 8% of the total number of Zilla
Parishads in the State in the case of Scheduled Tribes and 18% of the total number of Zilla Parishads in the State in the
case of Scheduled Castes.
(2)
For the purposes of reserving offices Chairpersons for Backward Classes in respect of the State the Commissioner,
Panchayat Raj, shall determine 34% of the offices to the members belonging to Backward Classes.
(3)
The Commissioner shall reserve one-third of the number of offices of Chairpersons reserved for Scheduled Tribes,
Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes and one-third of the unreserved offices for women in the State.
21.
(1)
The Commissioner, shall on determining the number under sub-rule (1) Rule 21 in respect of the State, reserve Offices
of Chairpersons and allot to the Scheduled Tribes in the first instance, where the proportion of the population of
Scheduled Tribes of the District to the total population of the District is the highest in the descending order.
(2)
After excluding the offices of Chairpersons reserved for Scheduled Tribes, the Commissioner, Panchayat Raj shall
reserve from among the other offices for the Scheduled Castes determined under sub-rule (1) of Rule 21, where the
proportion of the population of the Scheduled Castes to the total population of the District is the highest in the
descending order.
(3)
After excluding the offices of Chairpersons reserved for Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes, the Commissioner
shall reserve from among the other offices for the Backward Classes determine under sub-rule (2) of Rule 21, where the
proportion of the Backward Classes voters to the total voters in the District concerned is the highest in the descending
order.
Page 9/10
----- PAGE 10 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Reservation of Seats and Offices of Gram Panchayats, Mandal ...
(4)
The Commissioner, shall reserve offices of Chairpersons for Women determine under sub-rule (3) of Rule 21, from out
of the reserved and un-reserved categories on the basis of the highest proportion of the population c in the District to the
total population of District concerned is highest in the descending order.
22.
The reservation of offices of Chairpersons for Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and Women
shall be by rotation commencing from the first ordinary election held under the Act. The Offices of Chairpersons of Zilla
Parishads reserved for STs, SCs, BCs and Women during the earlier ordinary elections shall not be reserved for the
same categories till a cycle of reservation in the category is completed.
Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that for purposes of reserving Offices under these rules
any fraction less than one-half shall be ignored and any fraction equal to or more than one half shall be counted as one.
Transitional provision. - Any reservations already notified for the purpose of second ordinary elections under the rules,
superseded by these rules shall stand cancelled.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 10/10