
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological sites and Remains (Amen...
Andhra Pradesh Ancient and Historical Monuments and
Archaeological sites and Remains (Amendment)Act, 2001
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/109833430/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological sites and Remains (Amendment)Act, 2001
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological sites and Remains (Amendment)Act, 2001
Act 19 of 2001
Published on 22 April 2001
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 22 April 2001.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
An Act to amend the Andhra Pradesh Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act,
1960
Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fifty-second Year of the Republic of
India, as follows:-
1.
The following Act of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly received the assent of the Governor on the 22nd April,
2001 and the said assent is hereby first published on the 25th April, 2001 in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette for general
information:-
STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological sites and Remains (Amen...
The Andhra Pradesh Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1960 (A.P. Act VII
of 1960) provides for preservation of ancient and historical monuments, and archaeological sites and remains other than
those of national Importance for the regulation of archaeological excavations and for the protection of sculptures,
carvings and other objects as defined under section 2 which have been in existence for not less than one hundred
years.
In pursuance of the decisions taken by the Secretaries of State and Union Territories in charge of art & Culture in the
conference held at New Delhi and the request of the Ministry of Education and culture, Government of India, the Director
of Archeology and Museums, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad has requested the government to amend section 2 of the
said Act so as to facilitate the department to protect the archaeologically important monuments, sites etc., of more than
seventy five years old.
The Government after careful examination of the proposal of the Director, have decided to take precautionary measures
and avoid damage for the historical monuments and archaeological sites and remains of the State which have been in
existence for not less than "seventy five years" by suitably amending clauses (a), (b) and (d) of section 2 of the said act.
This Bill seeks to give effect the above decision.
1. Short title, extent and commencement.-
(1)
This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains
(Amendments) Act, 2001.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette
appoint.
2. Amendment of Section 2 Act VII of 1960.-
In the Andhra Pradesh, Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1960, in section
2,
(i)
in clause (a), in the opening paragraph, for the words, "one hundred years", the words, "seventy five years", shall be
substituted;
(ii)
in clause (b), in item (v), for the words, "one hundred years", the words "seventy five years", shall be substituted; and
(iii)
in clause (d), in the ogening paragraph, for the words, "one hundred years", the words, "seventy five fears", shall be
substituted.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2