
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Prohibition of Unauthorized Construction of Building on Sewer Drain Rules, ...
Andhra Pradesh Prohibition of Unauthorized Construction of Building
on Sewer Drain Rules, 2002
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/158970780/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Prohibition of Unauthorized Construction of Building on Sewer Drain Rules, 2002
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Prohibition of Unauthorized Construction of Building on Sewer Drain Rules, 2002
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-PROHIBITION-OF-UNAUTHORIZED-CONSTRUCTION-OF-BUILDING-ON-SEWER-DRAIN-RUL
ES-2002 of 2002
Published on 1 July 2002
Commenced on 1 July 2002
[This is the version of this document from 1 July 2002.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Prohibition of Unauthorized Construction of Building on Sewer Drain Rules, 2002
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 250, Panchayat Raj and Rural Development (Rules), dated 1.7.2002
Last Updated 20th August, 2019
G.O.Ms.No. 250. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 268 read with Section 100 of the
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 (Act 13 of 1994) the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following
rules relating to "Power of Panchayat to close or limit the use of Private Sewerage in certain cases".
1.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Prohibition of Unauthorized Construction of Building on Sewer Drain Rules, ...
These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Prohibition of Unauthorized Construction of Building on Sewer Drain
Rules, 2002.
2.
Prohibition of Building on Sewer drain without permission.
- Where a sewerage connection any premises with a panchayat sewerage is sufficient for the effectual drainage of such
premises and is otherwise unobjectionable but is not, in the opinion of the panchayat adopted to the general system of
Sewerage in the panchayat area, it may, by a written notice Addressed to the owner or occupier of the premises direct-
(a)
that such sewerage be closed, discontinued or destroyed and that any work necessary for that purpose be done; or
(b)
that such sewerage shall, from such date as may be specified in the notice, be used for filth and polluted water only or
for rain water and unpolluted subsoil water only;
(i)
Provided that no sewerage shall be closed, discontinued or destroyed by Panchayat under clause (a) except on
condition of its providing another drain equally effectual for the drainage of the premises except rain water connecting
with any Panchayat sewerage which it thinks fit; and
(ii)
Provided further that, the expenses towards the construction of any drain so provided by the Panchayat for any work
done under clause (a) shall be recovered from the owner of such premises to whom it is provided.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2