
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rules for the Constitution of the "Functional Committee for Works" in every Mandal
Rules for the Constitution of the "Functional Committee for Works" in
every Mandal
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/8214637/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Rules for the Constitution of the "Functional Committee for Works" in every Mandal
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Rules for the Constitution of the "Functional Committee for Works" in every Mandal
Published on 18 September 2002
Commenced on 18 September 2002
[This is the version of this document from 18 September 2002.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rules for the Constitution of the "Functional Committee for Works" in every Mandal
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 348, Panchayat Raj and Rural Development (Mandal I), dated 18.9.2002
Last Updated 20th August, 2019
G.O.Ms. No. 348. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 268 read with sub-section (2) of Section 161 of the
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 (Act 13 of 1994). the Government of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the
following rules for the constitution of the Functional Committee for "Works" in every Mandal.
1.
These rules may be called the "Rules for the Constitution of the Functional Committee for Works" in every Mandal.
2.
Composition of Functional Committee.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rules for the Constitution of the "Functional Committee for Works" in every Mandal
(1)
One of the members of the Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituency as resolved by the Mandal Parishad will be the
Chairman of the Functional Committee for Works. No member can be elected as the Chairperson for more than one
committee.
(2)
The Mandal Parishad Engineer of the Mandal concerned in which the mandal is located shall be the member convenor
of the said committee.
(3)
The Mandal Parishad Development Officer shall be the member of the said Committee.
(4)
The Mandal Revenue Officer shall be the member of the said Committee.
(5)
Two Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituency members shall be co-opted as members by resolution of the Mandal
Parishad.
(6)
One of the Engineers at the Mandal level of the line Department having maximum works in the concerned Mandal shall
be the member of the Committee.
3.
Functions of the Functional Committee.
(1)
It shall review and monitor the expenditure of different works undertaken in the Mandal.
(2)
It shall enlist the assests created and keep a watch on their maintenance.
(3)
It shall ensure displaying of all the details at the works site for greater transparency and accountability.
(4)
It shall insist the executing agency to produce all the documents like estimate, bills, vouchers, M.B. and Muster rolls to
the stake holders during the working period.
(5)
It shall ensure following procedure in execution of works without jeopardising the quality.
(6)
It shall ensure the peoples Estimate concept is implemented while executing the works.
(7)
It shall encourage holding of Avagahana Sadassu and formation of Vigilance Committee by the stake holders as second
step to bring in transparency.
(8)
It shall endeavour to bring relevant fact into the notice of concerned authority at higher level for completing the works as
per the schedule.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2