
----- PAGE 1 -----
Constitution of the Functional Committee for Agriculture
Constitution of the Functional Committee for Agriculture
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/29084749/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Constitution of the Functional Committee for Agriculture
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Constitution of the Functional Committee for Agriculture
Published on 16 November 2002
Commenced on 16 November 2002
[This is the version of this document from 16 November 2002.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Constitution of the Functional Committee for Agriculture
Published vide Notification G.O.Ms. No. 419, Panchayat Raj and Rural Development (Mandal-I), dated 16th November,
2002
Last Updated 20th August, 2019
G.O.Ms. No. 419. - In exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (1) of Section 268 read with Section 161 of
the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 (Act 13 of 1994), the Government of Andhra Pradesh hereby make the
following rules for the constitution of the "Functional Committee for Agriculture".
1.
These rules may be called the rule for the Constitution of the Functional Committee for Agriculture.,
2.
Composition of Functional Committee.
(1)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Constitution of the Functional Committee for Agriculture
One of the members of the Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituency as resolved by the Mandal Parishad shall be the
Chairperson of the Functional Committee for Agriculture. No members shall be elected as the Chairperson for more than
one Committee.
(2)
The Mandal Parishad Agriculture Officer of the Mandal concerned in which the Mandal is located shall be the member
convenor of the said committee.
(3)
The Mandal Parishad Development Officer shall be the member of the said committee.
(4)
The Mandal Revenue Officer shall be the member of the said committee.
(5)
Chairman of Headquarters Rythu Club will be the member of the committee.
(6)
A progressive farmer shall be co-opted as member of the said committee through a resolution by the Mandal Parishad.
(7)
Two Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituency persons will also be members of the functional committee as resolved by
the Mandal Parishad.
3.
Functions of the Functional Committee.
(1)
The Functional Committees for Agriculture shall take steps to increase Agriculture production/Horticulture
production/Vegetable production.
(2)
It shall take steps for Assessment and Distribution of Inputs.
(3)
It shall take steps to provide credit support, if necessary.
(4)
It shall take steps to monitor the visit of extension workers to village farmers.
(5)
It shall take steps to monitor soil testing work to help farmers for improvement of soil fertility as per the soil testing
results.
(6)
It shall estimate crop losses and report the action for relief operations.
(7)
It shall assist farmers providing benefits from crop insurance schemes.
(8)
All the funds under different schemes of Agriculture Department being spent at Mandal level will be routed through this
Sub-committee.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2