
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-g...
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of
Admissions into Under-graduate Medical and Dental Professional
Courses) Rules, 2003
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/12370573/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-graduate Medical and
Dental Professional Courses) Rules, 2003
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-graduate Medical and
Dental Professional Courses) Rules, 2003
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-GOVERNMENT-PROFESSIONAL-INSTITUTIONS-REGULATION-OF-ADMISSIONS-INTO-UND
ER-GRADUATE-MEDICAL-AND-DENTAL-PROFESSIONAL-COURSES-RULES-2003 of 2003
Published on 5 September 2003
Commenced on 5 September 2003
[This is the version of this document from 5 September 2003.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-graduate Medical and
Dental Professional Courses) Rules, 2003
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 486, Health, Medical and Family Welfare (E1), dated 05.09.2003
Page 1/9
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-g...
Last Updated 13th August, 2019
R.S. to Part I A.P. Gazette dated 10-09-2003.
G.O. Ms. No. 486. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 3 and 15 of the Andhra Pradesh Educational
Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (A.P. Act No. 5 of 1983) and in super
cession of the Andhra Pradesh Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission into Under Graduate
Professional Courses through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 1983, issued in G.O.Ms.No. 184, Education, dated
20-08-1993 and G.O.Ms.No. 225, HM&FW (El) Department, dated 16-06-2001, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby
makes the following Rules for admission into the Under Graduate Professional Courses in Medical and Dental in
Government Professional Institutions in the State.
1.
Short title applicability and commencement.
- (i) These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into
Under-graduate Medical and Dental Professional Courses) Rules, 2003.
(ii)
They shall apply to all Government Professional Institutions imparting Under-Graduate Professional Courses in Medical
and Dental courses for which admissions shall be made to the 'Competent Authority Seats and to the 'Self Financing
Seats/College Development Seats' in such manner as prescribed here in.
(iii)
These Rules shall come into force from the academic year 2003-2004.
2.
Definitions.
- (i) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires;
(a)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee)
Act. 1983 (A.P. Act No. 5 of 1983).
(b)
"Common Entrance Test" means EAMCET, the examination conducted for assigning rank or merit to candidates, which
will be the basis for admission of the candidates into the first year of concerned Under-Graduate Courses in various
Government Professional Institutions in the State.
(c)
"Competent Authority" means the Vice Chancellor, NTR University of Health Sciences, Andhra Pradesh, Vijayawada in
respect of Medical and Dental Courses.
(d)
"Committee for Admissions" means the Committee nominated by the Competent Authority to select and make allotment
of candidates to Professional Institutions offering Medical and Dental Courses in the State for Admissions in accordance
with the provisions laid down"
(e)
"Competent Authority Seats" means the seats earmarked from out of the sanctioned intake of seats in each course to be
filled by the Committee for Admissions.
(f)
"Self-financing Seats/College Development Seats" means the seats earmarked from out of the sanctioned intake of
seats in each course to be filled by the Government in all the Government Professional Institutions.
(g)
"Institutions" means, unless otherwise specifically mentioned, all the Government Professional Institutions imparting
Under Graduate Professional Education in Medical and Dental courses.
(h)
"Local Area" means the territorial jurisdiction prescribed for identifying the local candidate.
(i)
"Local Candidate" means the Candidate in relation to the local area as specified in Rule 8(B).
(j)
"Qualified Candidate" in respect of seats to be filled by 'competent authority' means the candidate who has appeared for
Page 2/9
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-g...
the Common Entrance Test for admission into the related Professional Course and has been assigned ranking in the
Common Merit List as per Rule 5 of the A. P. Common Entrance Test for entry into Engineering, Architecture,
Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental Courses Rules, 2003.
(k)
"Qualified Candidate" in respect of Self Financing Seats shall be as in Rule 3(i)(d).
(l)
"Qualifying Examination" means the examination of the minimum qualification prescribed, passing of which entitles one
to seek admission into the relevant Professional Courses.
(m)
"University" means the NTR University of Health Sciences.
(ii)
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning assigned to them in the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee Act, 1983 (A. P. Act
5 of 1983) unless otherwise defined by Government in Health medical and Family Welfare Department or by the
Competent Authority.
3.
Eligibility Criteria for Admission.
- (i) Admission into various Courses in different Professional Educational Institutions shall be governed by the rules of
admission prescribed herein. The eligibility criteria for Admission into Medical and Dental Courses shall be as mentioned
below:
(a)
Nationality and Domicile. - The candidates should be Indian nationals and should satisfy Local, Non-local status
requirement as laid down in the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission) Order, 1974 as
amended in G.O.(P)No. 646 education (W) Department dated 10-07-1979.
(b)
The above clause (a) Nationality and Domicile is not applicable for the Self Financing Seats.
(c)
Age Limit. - candidates should have completed the age of seventeen years on or before 31st December of the year of
admission.
(d)
Educational Qualifications. - The candidates should pass two years intermediate examination (10 + 2 Pattern) or
equivalent examination with Physics, Chemistry, Botany, Zoology and English individually and must have obtained a
minimum of 50% marks taken together in Physics, Chemistry, Botany and Zoology at the qualifying examination. In
respect of candidates belonging to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes, the marks obtained shall be a minimum of
40% marks taken together in Physics, Chemistry, Botany and Zoology.
4.
Allotment of seats.
- (i) Category - A-(97% of the sanctioned intake of seats) - Competent Authority Seats. These seats shall be filled up
through counseling by the competent authority as per merit/ ranking following rules of Reservation from the students
who have passed the common entrance test held by the state (EAMCET) for that year.
(ii)
Category - B - (3% of the sanctioned intake of the seats) - Self Financing Seats/College Development Seats: These
seats shall be filled by the Government/Committee constituted by the Government as per the orders issued by the
Government from time to time based on merit.
5.
Authority for Admissions to Category A Seats (Competent Authority Seats - 97% of the Sanctioned intake of seats) and
Category B Seats (Self Financing Seats-3% of the Sanctioned intake of seats).
(a)
All the Competent Authority Seats (Category A) shall be filled by the Committee for Admissions nominated by the
competent authority under these Rules.
(b)
Page 3/9
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-g...
Self Financing Seats/College Development Seats (Category B) Shall be filled by the Government/ Committee
constituted by the Government as per the procedure laid down by the Government from time to time through a rational
and transparent method of selection subject to fulfillment of the eligibility criteria.
6.
Procedure for Admissions.
- A. To Fill Up Competent Authority Seats
(Category-A-97% of the Sanctioned intake of seats)
(i)
Committee for Admissions shall be constituted by the Competent authority under these rules.
(ii)
The Competent Authority will issue an advertisement calling for a single application in the prescribed form from the
eligible qualified candidates who have been assigned ranking in the Common Entrance Test, desirous of seeking
admission in Government, Professional Colleges and Private colleges in respect of seats to be filled by the Competent
Authority.
(iii)
The candidates who are qualified to seek admission as a consequence of obtaining ranking in the common entrance test
and desirous of seeking admission into the Government/ unaided private/unaided minority professional institutions shall
make application to the competent authority enclosing all the relevant documents including a copy of rank card issued.
The application shall be acknowledged.
(iv)
The competent authority shall scrutinize all the applications received from the candidates. After scrutiny the competent
authority shall prepare the following merit list namely-
(a)
Common merit list: containing the names of all the candidates arranged in the order of merit ranking assigned to them in
the common entrance test.
(b)
Category wise merit list: containing the names of the candidates belonging to the concerned categories arranged in the
order of merit ranking assigned to them in the common entrance test.
(c)
Minority category wise merit list: containing the names of the minority candidates concerned arranged in the order of
merit ranking assigned to them in the common entrance test.
(d)
In case of same rank being obtained by more than one candidate, the marks obtained in Physics, Chemistry, Botany
and Zoology shall be reckoned.
(e)
In case of a further tie, the older candidate shall be given the higher place in the merit list.
(v)
Candidates will be called for an interview in the order of merit for selection and allotment of course and institution.
(a)
All the candidates called for interview shall submit the specified original documents along with one set of duly attested
photocopies and the Committee for Admissions shall be entitled to cause verification of all the documents produced by
the Candidates.
(b)
As and when each candidate gets his turn for interview in the order of merit, choice of institutions and course will be
given to him, depending upon availability at the point of time with due regard to the eligibility of the candidate for a seat
in a particular local area for a particular reserved category.
(c)
The selection of candidates and allotment of course/institutions in respect of the seats to be filled by 'competent
authority' in Government Professional Colleges, unaided Private Professional Colleges and unaided minority
professional colleges shall also be solely on the basis of merit as adjudged by the rank obtained in the Entrance Test
subject to the condition that the candidate should have passed the qualifying examination with the minimum marks
Page 4/9
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-g...
prescribed.
(d)
Mere appearance at the Entrance Test and obtaining high rank in the merit list does not entitle a candidate to be
considered for admission automatically into any Course/Institution unless he/she also satisfies the rules and regulations
of admission prescribed by the concerned University/ Government including marks to be obtained in the qualifying
examination etc.
(vi)
The Committee of Admissions shall select and allot candidates into various courses in respect of the seats to be filled by
'competent authority' in the Govt. Professional Colleges, unaided Private Professional Colleges and unaided Minority
professional colleges.
(vii)
Once a candidate secures admission to a particular college/institution based on his/her option, no further claim for
admission into other college/ institution, to any other kind of seat or any other course will be entertained, except as
provided by the committee for admissions in the subsequent counseling, if any.
(viii)
The candidates selected for admission into Government Professional Colleges, unaided Private Professional Colleges
or unaided minority professional colleges shall pay the prescribed fee in the form of demand draft drawn on any
nationalized bank in favour of Registrar, NTRUHS payable at Vijayawada. If a candidate fails to pay the fee on the day
of selection the selection will be cancelled forthwith and it will be filled up in the subsequent selections/counseling.
(ix)
The fee so collected shall be kept with the competent authority (ill the entire admission process is completed. As soon
as the admission process is completed, the fees so collected shall be transferred to the colleges concerned.
(x)
A candidate after selection and allotment to a college/course can withdraw from the course only, within in one day from
the date of admission as notified by the Competent Authority i.e., NTR University of Health Sciences, A.P., Vijayawada,
then the fee paid by the candidate shall be refunded. Resultant vacancies if any shall be filled following the prescribed
procedure, in the final counseling as notified by competent authority.
(xi)
Candidates are considered for selection only for such categories for which they have claimed reservation in the
application form and have submitted supporting documents. Request for a change to any other category after
submission of application shall not be considered.
(xii)
The selection will be made only from among the candidates who physically present themselves when called in order of
merit. Claims of the candidates will not be considered if they are absent when called thrice at the time of selection and
the next in the merit would be called.
(xiii)
Resultant vacancies will be open to all the candidates below the rank of candidates who have not joined the course and
the candidates who were absent in the earlier selection. Resultant vacancies shall be filled by the candidates belonging
to the same category of the seats as those who have not joined the course or vacated the seat.
(xiv)
The selection committee shall have the power to cancel the selection or admission of the candidates at any stage if it is
detected either during selection or before closure of admissions that the selection or admission is against the regulation.
(xv)
All the candidates selected should undergo Medical Examination as directed by the Head of the Institution concerned.
The admission of the candidates shall be subject to their fitness in the medical examination.
(xvi)
The Competent Authority/Committee for Admissions shall prepare the final list of candidates, admitted course wise and
institution-wise and send the same to University.
(xvii)
The Competent Authority in consultation with Committee for admission shall fix the cut off dates for each stage of
admission contemplated above.
Page 5/9
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-g...
B. To Kill up Category B Seats (Sell Financing Seats/College Development Seats - 3% of the sanctioned intake of the
sets):
(a)
Self Financing Sets/College Development Seats - 3% of the sanctioned intake of the seats shall be filled by the
Government/Committee appointed by the Government, keeping them open to all the candidate: satisfying the eligibility
criteria under Rule (3) for admission including candidates belonging to other States Union Territories of India, Non
Resident Indian and Foreign national on the basis of marks secured in the qualifying examination based on merit and
ensuring transparency.
(b)
The candidates who have passed the qualifying examination from outside the State or outside the Country have to
submit the equivalency certificate from NTR University of Health Sciences, A.P., Vijayawada.
7.
Cut off date for admissions.
- The Competent Authority, the Committee of Private Unaided Minority/Non-Minority and the management of the
concerned private colleges shall close the admission process on such date as notified by the Competent Authority that is
NTRUHS. Subsequent to this date no admissions in the private unaided professional institutions shall be made in
pursuance of the Judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Madhu Singh Case.
8.
Rides of Reservation for admission.
- Seats shall be reserved for the following categories in Admissions to Professional Courses:
(1)
Region-Wise reservation of Seats. - (a) Admission to 85% of the "Competent Authority Seats" in each Course shall be
reserved for the local candidates and the remaining 15% of the "Competent Authority Seats" shall be unreserved seats
as specified in the Andhra Pradesh educational Institutions (Regulations and Admissions) Order, 1974 as subsequently
amended.
(b)
In respect of State Wide Institutions, admission into 85% of seats, in each course shall be reserved for the candidates
belonging to the three local areas in the State specified in this sub-rule namely, Andhra University area (Andhra),
Osmania University area (Telangana) and Sri Venkateswara University area (Rayalaseema) in the ratio of 42 : 36 : 22
respectively and the balance of 15% seats shall be un-reserved seats.
Explanations. - for purpose of these Rules:
(i)
"The Local Areas" means:
(a)
The part of the State comprising the districts of Adilabad, Hyderabad (including Twin Cities) Ranga Reddy, Karimnagar,
Khammam, Medak, Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda, Nizamabad and Warangal shall be regarded as the Osmania University
Local Area (Telangana).
(b)
the part of the State comprising the districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West
Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam shall be regarded as the Andhra University Local Area (Andhra).
(c)
The part of the State Comprising the districts of Anantapur, Kumool, Chittoor, Cuddapah and Nellore shall be regarded
as the Sri Venkateswara University Local area (Rayalaseema).
(ii)
"The Local Candidate" means:
(A)
A candidate for admission shall be regarded as a local candidate in relation to a local area.
(a)
if he has studies in Educational Institutions in such local area for a period of not less than four consecutive academic
years ending with the academic year in which he appeared or as the case may be, first appeared in the relevant
qualifying examination.
Page 6/9
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-g...
OR
(b)
where, during the whole or any part of the four consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he
appeared or as the case may be first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination he has not studied in any
Educational Institutions, if he has resided in that local area for a period of not less than four years immediately preceding
the date of commencement of the relevant qualifying examination which he appeared or as the case may be first
appeared.
(B)
A candidate for admission to the Course who is not regarded as local candidate under clause (A) in relation to any local
area shall
(a)
If he has studied in Educational Institutions in the State for a period of not less than seven consecutive academic years
ending with the academic year in which he appeared or as the case may be first appeared for the relevant qualifying
examination be regarded as a local candidate in relation to............
(i)
such local area where he has studied for the maximum period out of said period of seven years;
OR
(ii)
where the period of his study in two or more local areas are equal, such local area, where he has studied last in such
equal period.
OR
(b)
If, during the whole or any part of seven consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he
appeared or as case may be first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination he has not studied in the Educational
Institutions in any local area but has resided in the State during the whole of the said period of seven years, be regarded
as a local candidate in relation to....
(i)
such local area where he has resided for the maximum period out of the said period of seven years
OR
(ii)
where the periods of his residence in two or more local areas are equal, such local area where he has resided last in
such equal periods.
(C)
The following categories of candidates are eligible to apply for admission to the remaining 15% of un-reserved seats:
(a)
All the candidates eligible to be declared as local candidates.
(b)
Candidates who have resided in the State for a total period of 10 years excluding periods of study outside the State or
either of whose parent have resided in the State for a total period of ten years excluding period of employment outside
the State.
(c)
Candidates who are children of parents who are in employment of the State or Central Government, Public Sector
Corporations, Local Bodies, Universities and Educational Institutions other similar quasi Public Institutions within the
state.
(d)
Candidates who are spouses of those in the employment of the State or Central Government, Public Sector
Corporations, Local Bodies, Universities and Educational Institutions recognized by the Government or University OR
other competent authority and similar quasi Government Institutions within the State.
(D)
If a local candidate in respect of a local area is not available to fill any seat reserved or allocated in favour of a local
candidate in respect of that local area, such seat shall be filled if it had not been reserved.
Page 7/9
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-g...
Note. - For details, see the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulations of Admission) Order, 1974 as
subsequently amended.
(2)
Reservation of seats for SC/ST/ BC Communities. - (a) 15% of seats in each course shall be reserved for the candidates
belonging to Scheduled Caste as shown below: -
SC-A .. 1%
SC-B .. 7%
SC-C .. 6%
SC-D .. 1%
(b)
6% of seats in each course shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to the Scheduled Tribes.
The seats reserved for Scheduled Tribes shall be made available to Scheduled Castes and Vice-Versa, if qualified
candidates are not available in the category.
If qualified candidate belongs to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes communities are not available, the left over
seats reserved for them shall be treated as open competition seats and shall be filled by the candidates of General Pool.
(c)
25% seats in each course shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to the Backward Classes and shall be
allocated among the four groups of Backward Classes as shown below:
Croup 'A' .. 7%
Group 'B' .. 10%
Group 'C' .. 1%
Group 'D' .. 7%
If qualified candidates belonging to Backward Class of a particular group are not available, the left over seats can be
adjusted for the candidates of next group. If qualified candidates belonging to Backward classes are not available to fill
up the 25% seats reserved for them, the left over seats shall be treated as open competition seats and shall be filled up
with candidates of General Pool.
(d)
No candidate seeking reservation for admission under the above categories be allowed to participate in the Counselling
for admission unless he produces the Integrated Community Certificate prescribed by the Government and issued by
the Revenue Authorities in the Government (Vide G.O.Ms.No. 58, Social Welfare (J) Department, dated 12-05-1997).
(3)
Reservation for Special Categories. - (a) Seats shall be reserved in each course for the following categories, to the
extent indicated against them:
(i)
Physically Handicapped .. 1/4% (0.25%)
(ii)
National Cadet Corps .. 1/4% (0.25%)
(iii)
Games and Sports .. 1/2% (0.50%)
(iv)
1% for the Children of Ex-servicemen and serving service personnel of the three wings of the Defence Services i.e..
Army, Navy and Airforce, subject to the condition that the Ex-service men etc. are residing for a minimum of five years in
Andhra Pradesh, provided that if suitable candidates are not available equivalent to fulfill the above reservation, the
condition of five years minimum period of residence shall not be insisted upon.
(b)
The priorities in respect of the categories mentioned in item (a) above as declared by the Government vide G.O.Ms.No.
254., HM&FW (El) Department, dated 28-04-1993 and subsequent amendments thereto from time to time.
Note. - The candidates claiming reservation benefits under the above categories shall produce original documents in
support of their claim to the Committee for Admissions and he shall be entitled to refer the original documents of the
candidates claiming reservation for scrutiny and confirmation to the following authorities:
(i)
Page 8/9
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-g...
NCC .. To the Director of NCC, Andhra Pradesh
(ii)
Sports & Games .. To the Vice-Chairman and Managing Director, Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP)
(iii)
Physically Handicapped .. To the Medical Board Constituted by the Competent Authority.
(iv)
CAP .. To the Director, Sainik Welfare Department Andhra Pradesh.
(4)
Reservation of seats for women. - 33 1 /3% of seats are guaranteed for women candidates in each category. This
regulation of guarantee shall not be applicable if women candidate is selected on merit in each category form 33 1 /3%
or more of the seats therein. When the number of women candidates falls short of this percentage, it shall be made up
by replacing the last selected male candidate by women candidate in that category.
(5)
Reservation for Anglo-Indian. - One seat shall be reserved in MBBS course for Anglo-Indians. The candidate shall
produce certificate in support of his/her claim in the prescribed proforma issued by the Mandal Revenue Officer, subject
to scrutiny and confirmation by the Secretary, Department of Minority Welfare, Government of Andhra Pradesh.
9.
Fees.
- (i) Fee for Govt. Medical Colleges
(a)
The fee for Competent Authority seats (Category A) in the Government Medical Colleges shall be Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees
ten thousand only) of which Rs. 3,000/- (Rupees three thousand only) shall be credited to the College Development
Society. The fee shall be paid every year for five years.
(b)
The fee in respect of Self financing seats /College Development Society Seats (Category B) in the Government Medical
Colleges shall be 12,000/- US Dollars or equivalent the Indian Rupees per annum shall be payable by the candidate
every year for five years and shall be credited to the account of the College Development Society.
(ii)
Fee for Dental Colleges:
(a)
The fee for Competent Authority Seats (Category-A) in the Government Dental Colleges shall be Rs. 9,000/- (Rupees
nine thousand Only) of which Rs. 3,000/- (Rupees three thousand only) shall be credited to the College Development
Society. The fee shall be paid every year for four years.
(b)
The fee in respect of Self financing seats/College Development Society Seats (Category-D) in the Government Dental
Colleges shall be 6,000 US Dollars or equivalent in Indian Rupee per annum in respect of BDS Course payable every
year for four years and to be credited to College Development Society concerned.
(iii)
The fee structure of the Course may be reviewed once in three years by the Government.
(iv)
The candidates selected and admitted into professional courses shall pay the fee as prescribed by the University
towards the fee payable to the University, which is non-refundable.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 9/9