
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh University Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
Andhra Pradesh University Professional Institutions (Regulation of
Admissions into Under-Graduate Professional Courses through
Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2003
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/128143484/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh University Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-Graduate Professional
Courses through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2003
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh University Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-Graduate Professional
Courses through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2003
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-UNIVERSITY-PROFESSIONAL-INSTITUTIONS-REGULATION-OF-ADMISSIONS-INTO-UNDER-
GRADUATE-PROFESSIONAL-COURSES-THROUGH-COMMON-ENTRANCE-TEST-RULES-2003 of 2003
Published on 11 June 2003
Commenced on 11 June 2003
[This is the version of this document from 11 June 2003.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh University Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-Graduate Professional
Courses through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2003
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 32, Higher Education (E.C.), dated 11th June, 2003
Page 1/8
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh University Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
Last Updated 13th August, 2019
R.S. to Part I (Extraordinary) A.P. Gazette, dated 20-6-2003.
No. G.O. Ms. No. 32. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 3 and 15 of the Andhra Pradesh Educational
Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (A.P. Act No. 5 of 1983) and in
supersession of the Andhra Pradesh Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission into
Under-Graduate Professional Courses through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 1993, issued in G.O.Ms.No. 184,
Education, dated 20-08-1993, the Governor of A. P. admission into the Under-Graduate Professional Courses in
Engineering (including Technology), Pharmacy and Architecture in University Professional Institutions.
1.
Short Title and Applicability and Commencement.
(a)
These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh University Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into
Under-Graduate Professional Courses through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2003.
(b)
They shall apply to the University Professional Institutions imparting under-Graduate Professional Courses in
Engineering(Including Technology), Pharmacy and Architecture, for which admissions shall be made through Common
Entrance Test held by the State or its agency as per the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry Into
Engineering, Architecture, Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental Rules, 2003.
(c)
These Rules shall come into force from then academic year 2003-2004.
2.
Definitions.
- (i) In these rules, unless the context to otherwise requires.
(a)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee)
Act, 1983 (A.P. Act No. 5 of 1983)
(b)
"Committee for Admissions" means the Committee nominated by the Competent Authority to select and make allotment
of candidates to University Professional Institutions offering Engineering (Including Technology), Pharmacy and
Architecture in the State for Admissions in accordance with the provisions laid down.
(c)
"Common Entrance Test" means EAMCET, the examination conducted for assigning rank or merit to candidates, which
will be the basis for admission of the candidates into the first year of concerned Under-Graduate Courses in various
University Professional Institutions in the State.
(d)
'ECET' means the common entrance test conducted for assigning the rank or merit to the diploma qualified candidates
which will be the basis for admission of these candidates into the first year Under-Graduate courses in various University
Professional Institutions In the State, against the 5% seats reserved for them.
(e)
"Competent Authority" means the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education.
(f)
"Convenor of Admissions" means the Commissioner/Director of Technical Education or any other officer of such rank,
nominated by the Competent Authority for selection and allotment of candidates for admission based on merit at
EAMCET and ECET.
(g)
"Convenor Seats" means the seats earmarked from out of the sanctioned intake of seats in each course to filled by the
Convenor of Admissions.
(h)
"Institutions" means, unless otherwise specifically mentioned, all the University Professional Institutions (including those
detailed as State-wide institutions) imparting Professional Courses in Engineering (Including Technology), Pharmacy
and Architecture.
Page 2/8
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh University Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
(i)
"Local area" means the territorial jurisdiction prescribed for identifying the local candidate:
(j)
"Local Candidate" means the Candidate in relation to the local area as specified in Rule 8.
(k)
"Qualified Candidate" means the candidate who has appeared for EAMCET or ECET for admission into the related
Professional Course and has been assigned ranking in the Common Merit List under Rule 5 of the A. P. Common
Entrance Test for entry into Engineering, Architecture, Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental Course Rules, 2003
and Rule 6 of the Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma Holders (ECET-FDH) Rules, 2003.
(l)
"Qualifying Examination" means the examination of the minimum qualification prescribed for appearance/passing of
which entitles one to seek admission into the relevant Professional Courses as per Rule 3 of the A. P. Common
Entrance Test for entry into Engineering, Architecture, Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental Course Rules, 2003
and the A. P. Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma Holders (ECET-FDH) Rules, 2003.
(m)
"State Council" means the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education, constituted under the Andhra Pradesh
Council of Higher Education Act, 1988 (A.P. Ad No. 16 of 1988).
(n)
"Univeristy" means the University concerned in which the particular courses are offered:
(ii)
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning assigned to them in the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983.
3.
Method of Admission.
- The general guidelines for the admission of candidates into University Professional Institutions offering Engineering
(Including Technology), Pharmacy and Architecture courses are laid down below:
(a)
The admissions shall be made in the order of merit on the basis of the ranking assigned in EAMCET as pen sub-rule (3)
of Rule 5 of Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry Into Engineering, Architecture, Pharmacy, Agriculture,
Medical and Dental Courses Rules, 2003.
(b)
The requirement of qualifying at the Common Entrance Test shall not be applicable to the candidates sponsored for
admission by Ministry of Human Resource Development; Government of India Rule 4(iv) of these Rules concerning
Eligibility for Admissions are not applicable to these candidates.
4.
Eligibility Criteria for Admission.
- The eligibility criteria for admission into Engineering (Including Technology], Pharmacy, Architecture Professional
Courses shall be as mentioned below:
(i)
The Candidate shall be of Indian Nationality.
(ii)
The Candidate should have completed 16 years of age as on 31st December of the Academic year for which the
admissions are being conducted.
(iii)
The candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or equivalent on the date of his/her Counselling for
admission in one sitting and secured the rank at Common Entrance Test conducted by the State and also satisfy other
conditions laid down in these Rules.
Provided further that the stipulation in para (iii) would apply from 2004-2005 as the EAMCET test for the year 2003-2004
has already been conducted.
(iv)
The Candidate should satisfy Local/ Non-Local status requirement us laid down in the Andhra Pradesh Educational
Page 3/8
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh University Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
Institutions (Regulation of Admissions) Order, 1974 as subsequently amended.
5.
Allotment of Seats.
- 95% of the sanctioned intake of seats in each course in University Colleges shall be the "Convener Seats". They shall
be allotted to eligible candidates under these Rules on the basis of rank obtained at EAMCET and by following Rules of
reservation laid down by the Government from time to time. The remaining 5% of sanctioned intake of seats shall be
filled on the basis of rank obtained at ECET.
6.
Authority of Admissions for Convenor Seats.
- All the Convenor seats shall be filled by the Convenor of Admissions under these Rules.
7.
(A) Procedure of Admissions to fill up Convenor Seats (95%).
- (i) Committee for Admissions shall be constituted with the following members to advise the Convenor of Admissions in
the matters relating to admission and on such other matters necessary for the smooth conduct of admissions.
(a)
Chairman of Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education
(b)
Secretary of Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education
(c)
Convenor of Admissions (Member-Convenor)
(d)
Convenor of Admissions of the Previous Year
(e)
Professor in-charge of Computer/ online systems in admission camp
(f)
Two nominees of Universities as nominated by the State Council
(g)
Commissioner/Director of Technical Education or his nominee
(h)
Commissioner of Intermediate Education
(i)
Special Invitee nominated by the State Council
(ii)
The Convenor of Admissions shall collect Rank lists of the qualified candidates of EAMCET prepared by the Convenor,
as per sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Engineering, Architecture,
Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental Courses Rules, 2003.
(iii)
The Convenor of Admissions, shall adopt on-line computerzied system of Counselling either by following centralized or
decentralized Counselling at various centres for the convenience of the Candidates and he shall obtain the seat matrix
prepared by University Professional Institutions. He shall prepare the programme of schedule for admissions, notify the
programme of admissions and shall make all the necessary arrangements for manpower. Admission venue, drawing
scrutiny officers from other departments, fee collection, networking, facilities for Online Counselling at various centres,
Mobilization of software etc., in consultation with the Admission Committee.
(iv)
Candidates shall be called for Counselling and provisional allotment of Courses/Institutions shall be made in the order of
merit assigned at EAMCET' by following the Rules of Reservation including G.O.Ms.No. 550, H.E. dated 30-7-2001
issued by the Government from time to time and such allotment is only provisional.
(v)
The selection of candidates and allotment of Courses/institutions in respect of University Professional Institutions, shall
be solely on the basis of merit as adjudged by the rank obtained in the Entrance Test subject to the condition that the
candidate should have passed the qualifying examination. However, mere appearance at the Entrance Test and
Page 4/8
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh University Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
obtaining rank in the merit list does not entitle a candidate to be considered for admission automatically into any
Course/Institution unless he/she also satisfies the rules and regulations of admission prescribed by the concerned
University/Government including marks to be obtained in the qualifying examination.
(vi)
Once a candidate secures admission into a particular College/Institution based on his/her option no more claim for
admission into other Colleges, to any other kind of seat or any other course, be entertained except as provided by the
Convenor of Admissions.
(vii)
The candidates admitted into University Professional Institutions shall pay at the time of admission the fees prescribed
by the Government and payable per student per annum.
(viii)
After completion of this stage of admissions the Convenor of Admissions shall hand over the remaining seats to the
competent authority to fill them.
The competent authority/Convenor of Admissions shall prepare the final list of candidates, admitted course-wise and
Institution-wise and send the same to various Universities. The competent authority in consultation with Committee for
admission shall fix the cut-off dates for each stage of Admission contemplated above.
(ix)
All the candidates called for Counselling shall produce the specified original documents along with duly attested
photocopies and the Convenor of Admissions shall be entitled to cause verification of all the documents produced by the
candidates.
8.
Rules of Reservation for admission.
- Seats shall be reserved to the following categories in Admissions to Professional courses:
(1)
Region-wise reservation of seats. - (a) Admission to 85% of the "Convenor seats" in each Course shall be reserved for
the local candidates and the remaining 15% of the "Convenor seats" shall be unreserved seats left over to open
competition as specified in the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulations and Admission) Order, 1974 as
subsequently amended.
(b)
In respect of State-wise institutions and State-wide Universities admission into 85% of seats, in each Course shall be
reserved for the candidates belonging to the three local areas in the State specified in this sub-rule namely, Andhra
University area (Andhra), Osmania University area (Telangana) and Sri Venkateswara University area (Rayalaseema) in
the ratio of 42:36:22 respectively and the balance of 15% seats shall be left for open competition.
Note. - The Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad and Sri Padmavathi Mahila University, Tirupati are
the State-wide Universities.
Explanation. - For purpose of these rules (i) "The Local Areas" means:
(a)
The part of the State comprising the districts of Adilabad, Hyderabad (including Twin Cities) Ranga Reddy, Karimnagar,
Khammam, Medak, Mahaboobnagar, Nalgonda.Nizamabad and Warangal shall be regarded as the Osmania University
Local area (Telangana).
(b)
The part of the State comprising the districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavri, West
Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam shall be regarded as the Andhra University Local area (Andhra).
(c)
The part of the State comprising the districts of Anantapur, Kurnool, Chittoor, Cuddapah and Nellore shall be regarded
as the Sri Venkateswara University Local area (Rayalaseema).
(ii)
"The Local Candidate" means: -
(A)
A candidate for admission shall be regarded as a local candidate in relation to a local area.
(a)
Page 5/8
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh University Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
if he has studied in Educational Institution or Educational Institutions in such local area for a period of not less than four
consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he appeared or as the case may be, first appeared
in the relevant qualifying examination
OR
(b)
where, during the whole or any part of the four consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he
appeared or as the case may be first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination he, has not studied in any
Educational Institutions, if he has resided in that local area for a period of not less than four years immediately preceding
the date of commencement of the relevant qualifying examination in which he appeared or as the case may be first
appeared.
(B)
A candidate for admission to the Course who is not regarded as local candidate under clause (A) in relation to any local
area shall.
(a)
If he has studied in Educational Institutions in the State for a period of not less than seven consecutive academic years
ending with the academic year in which he appeared or as the case may be first appeared for the relevant qualifying
examination be regarded as a local candidate in relation to....
(i)
such local area where he has studied for the maximum period out of said period of seven years; or
(ii)
where the period of his study in two or more local areas are equal such local area, where he has studied last in such
equal period;
(b)
If, during the whole or any part of seven consecutive academic years, ending with the academic years in which he
appeared or as the case may be first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination he has not studied in the
Educational Institutions in any local area but has resided in the State during the whole of the said period of seven years,
be regarded as a local candidate in relation to.........
(i)
such local area where he has resided for the maximum period out of the said period of seven years, or
(C)
The following categories of candidates are eligible to apply for admission to the remaining 15% of unreserved seats
(ii)
where the periods of his residence in two or more local areas are equal, such local area where he has resided last in
such equal periods.
(a)
All the candidates eligible to be declared as local candidates.
(b)
Candidates who have resided in the State for a total period of 10 years excluding periods of study outside the State or
either of whose parents have resided in the State for a total period of ten years excluding period of employment outside
the State.
(c)
Candidates who are children of parents who are in the employment of a State or Central Government, Public Sector
Corporations, Local Bodies, Universities and other similar quasi-public Institutions, within the State.
(d)
Candidates who are spouses of those in the employment of the State or Central Government-Public Sector
Corporations, Local Bodies, Universities and Educational Institutions, recognised by the competent authority and similar
quasi-Government Institutions within the State.
(D)
If a local candidate in respect of a local area is not available to fill any seat, reserved or allocated in favour of a local
candidate in respect of that local area, such seat shall be filled in as if it has been unreserved. In the order of ranking in
the common merit list.
Page 6/8
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh University Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
Note. - For details, see the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulations of Admission) Order, 1974 as
subsequently amended.
(2)
Reservation of seats for SC/ST/BC Communities. - SC-A-1% SC-B-7% SC-C-6% SC-D-1%
(b)
6% of seats in each course in each Institution shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to the Scheduled Tribes.
The seats reserved for Scheduled Tribes shall be made available to Scheduled Castes and vice-versa, if qualified
candidates are not available in the category.
If qualified candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes communities are not available the left over
seats reserved for them shall be treated as unreserved seats and shall be filled by the candidates of General pool.
(c)
25% seats in each course in each institution shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to the Backward Classes
and shall be allocated among the four groups of Backward Classes as shown below:
Group 'A' - 7%
Group 'B' - 10%
Group 'C' - 1%
Group 'D' - 7%
If qualified candidates belonging to Backward Class of a particular group are not available, the leftover seats can be
adjusted for the candidates of next group. If qualified candidates belonging to Backward Classes are not available to fill
up the 25% seats reserved for them, the leftover seats shall be treated as unreserved and shall be filled up with
candidates of General pool.
(d)
No candidate seeking reservation for admission under the above categories be allowed to participate in the Counselling
for admission unless he produces the Integrated Community Certificate prescribed by the Govt., and issued by the
Revenue Authorities in the Government (vide G.O.Ms.No. 58, Social Welfare (J) Department, dated 12-5-1997)
(3)
Reservation for Special Categories. - (a) Seats shall also be reserved in each course of an institution, for the following
categories, to the extent indicated against them.
(i)
Physically Handicapped (PH) -There shall be 3% (Three per cent) horizontal reservation in each category (OC, BC, SC,
ST) for visually handicapped/hearing impaired/orthopaedically Handicapped (each 1%) (one per cent)
(ii)
Children of Armed Forces Personnel (CAP) - 2% (Two per cent) for the children of armed persons i.e., Ex-Servicemen,
Defence Personnel including the Children of Border Security Force and the Central Reserve Police Force residing in
Andhra Pradesh for a minimum period of 5 years.
(iii)
National Cadet Corps (NCC) - 1% (One per cent) for National Cadet Corps candidate.
(iv)
Sports and Games (SP) - 1/2% (half per cent) for Sports and Games candidates":
If qualified candidates belonging to PH/ NCC/SP/CAP categories are not available, the leftover seats shall be filled up
with candidates of General Pool of the same local area.
Note. - The candidates claiming reservation benefits under the above categories shall produce original documents in
support of their claim to the Convenor of Admissions and he shall be entitled to refer the original documents of the
candidates claiming reservation for scrutiny and confirmation, to the following authorities:-
(i)
NCC-To the Director of NCC, Andhra Pradesh.
(ii)
Sports and Games - To the Vice-Chairman and Managing Director, Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP).
(iii)
Physically Handicapped - To the Director, Medical and HealLh Services, A.P.
(iv)
Page 7/8
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh University Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
CAP - To the Director, Sainik Welfare Board A. P.
(b)
The priorities in respect of the special categories mentioned above shall be in accordance with Government Orders
issued from time to time.
(4)
Reservation of seats for women. - There shall be a reservation of 33½% of seats in favour of women candidates in each
course and in each category (OC/SC/ST/BC/CAP/NCC/PH/SP) The above reservation shall not be applicable if women
candidates are selected on merit in each category even if it exceeds 33'/30/o.
If sufficient number of women candidates are not available in the respective categories, those seats shall be diverted to
the men candidates of the same category.
9.
Fees.
- The fee payable shall be:
(1)
The fee for candidates admitted in the Universities Professional Institutions in Engineering (Including Technology) /
Architecture and Pharmacy. Professional Courses shall be Rs. 8,000/- (Rupees Eight Thousand only) per student, per
annum. Fee structure of the course shall be reviewed once in two years by the Government.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 8/8