
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Under Graduate Diploma in Physical Educ...
Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Under
Graduate Diploma in Physical Education (UGDP.Ed.), Bachelor of
Physical Education (B.P.Ed.) Courses Rules, 2003
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/101894194/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Under Graduate Diploma in Physical Education (UGDP.Ed.),
Bachelor of Physical Education (B.P.Ed.) Courses Rules, 2003
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Under Graduate Diploma in Physical Education (UGDP.Ed.),
Bachelor of Physical Education (B.P.Ed.) Courses Rules, 2003
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-COMMON-ENTRANCE-TEST-FOR-ENTRY-INTO-UNDER-GRADUATE-DIPLOMA-IN-PHYSICAL
-EDUCATION-UGDP-ED-BACHELOR-OF-PHYSICAL-EDUCATION-B-P-ED-COURSES-RULES-2003 of 2003
Published on 27 March 2003
Commenced on 27 March 2003
[This is the version of this document from 27 March 2003.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Under Graduate Diploma in Physical Education (UGDP.Ed.),
Bachelor of Physical Education (B.P.Ed.) Courses Rules, 2003
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 39, Education (SE), dated 27th March, 2003
Page 1/8
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Under Graduate Diploma in Physical Educ...
Last Updated 13th August, 2019
R.S. to Part I (Extraordinary) A.P. Gazette, dated 31-3-2003.
No. G.O. Ms. No. 39. - In Exercise of the Powers Conferred by Secs. 3 and 15 of Andhra Pradesh Educational
Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 by the proviso to Article 309 of the
Constitution of India and in supersession of the Andhra Pradesh Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of
Admission through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 1993 issued in G.O. Ms. No. 161, Education (Rules) Department,
dated the 4th May 1989, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following Rules for the conduct of Common
Entrance Test for entry into Under Graduate Diploma in Physical Education (UGDP.Ed.). Bachelor of Physical Education
(B.P.Ed.) courses.
1.
Short Title Commencement and Applicability.
(1)
These rules may be called 'the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Under Graduate Diploma in
Physical Education (UGDP.Ed.), Bachelor of Physical Education (B.P.Ed.) Courses Rules, 2003.
(2)
They shall apply to Professional Courses in Physical Education for entry into the Under-Graduate Courses.
(3)
They shall come into force with immediate effect.
(4)
Rules of Admission into the above Courses in Physical Education shall be issued separately.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:
(i)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee)
Act, 1983, (Andhra Pradesh Act No. 5 of 1985).
(ii)
"Chairman" means the Vice-Chancellor of any University of the State nominated by the Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh
State Council of Higher Education for each academic year for conducting and discharging the functions, as specified
relating to Physical Education Common Entrance Test (PECET). He shall also be the Chairman of the Common
Entrance Test Committee.
(iii)
"Committee of PECET" means the committee empowered to conduct PECET for entry into Physical Education Courses
and to prepare the merit list of the candidates as per the marks obtained in the above test for enabling entry into
Physical Education Courses.
(iv)
"Competent Authority" means the Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education.
(v)
"Convenor" means a person, not below the rank of a Professor of Head of Department of Physical Education of a
University, or Director of Physical Education, appointed by the Competent Authority in consultation with Chairman for
conducting the Physical Education Common Entrance Test and performing such other functions relating to the said test
as entrusted to him by the Competent Authority.
(vi)
"Physical Education Common Entrance Test" (hereinafter called PECET) means examination conducted for assigning
ranks on merit to the candidates which will be the basis for entry into Physical Education Courses.
(vii)
"Qualified Candidate" means the candidate who has appeared for the PECET and has been assigned rank in the
common merit list.
(viii)
"Qualifying Examination" means the examination of the minimum Qualification prescribed appearance/passing of which
Page 2/8
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Under Graduate Diploma in Physical Educ...
entitles one to apply and appear for the common entrance test as laid down under Rule 3.
(ix)
"State Council" means The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education constituted under Andhra Pradesh State
Council of Higher Education Act, 1988 (Andhra Pradesh Act 16 of 1988).
(x)
"University" means the University concerned in which the particular courses are offered.
(2)
Words and Expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning assigned to them under the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (Andhra
Pradesh Act 5 of 1983).
3.
Eligibility Criteria for appearing the PECET.
- Candidates satisfying the following requirements shall be eligible to appear for PECET.
(1)
Candidates should be of Indian Nationality.
(2)
Candidates should belong to the State of Andhra Pradesh. The candidates should satisfy local/non-local status
requirements as laid down in the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission) Order, 1974 as
subsequently amended.
(3)
For UGDP.Ed. Course, -
(i)
Age Limit: Candidates should have completed 16 years of age on the date of commencement of admissions as
announced by the Entrance Test Committee or on such other date as may be notified by the Entrance Test Committee
and there is no upper age limit.
(ii)
Educational Qualifications: Candidates seeking admission should have acquired any one of the following educational
qualifications or should have appeared for the qualifying examination at the time of taking the application of the Common
Entrance test.
(a)
2 year Intermediate Course (10 plus 2 pattern).
(b)
Intermediate Vocational Course in any field by the Board of Intermediate Education, Andhra Pradesh:
OR
(c)
Any other examination recognized as equivalent to the above examinations by the respective bodies in Andhra Pradesh.
(4)
For B.P.Ed. Course, -
(i)
Age Limit: Candidates should have completed 19 years of age on the date of commencement of admissions as
announced by the Entrance Test Committee or on such other date as may be notified by the Entrance Test Committee
and there is no upper age limit:
(ii)
Educational Qualifications: The candidates seeking admission should have appeared for or passed the three year
degree examination in any faculty (10 plus 2 plus 3 pattern) or any examination recognised as equivalent thereto by the
Universities in Andhra Pradesh.
(5)
In the case of in service candidates for admission to B.P.Ed., Course only length of service is main criterion. They need
not appear for any Entrance Test but only a limited number of candidates to be nominated by the Director of School
Education each year for each course.
4.
Page 3/8
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Under Graduate Diploma in Physical Educ...
Scheme for the Common Entrance Test.
- The Scheme for the conduct of the Common Entrance Test for admission into various courses in Physical Education
shall be as follows:
(1)
Scheme for U.G.D.P.Ed. and B.P.Ed. courses: The Entrance Test for Admission of student into U. G. D. P. Ed. and
B.P.Ed. Courses shall consist of two parts, namely, Physical Efficiency Test and Skills in Games Test: They shall be
conducted as follows:
(a)
Physical Efficiency Test: 400 marks for each of the events marks shall be awarded taking into account the approved
conversion tables.
{|
For Men Candidates
For Women Candidates
i. 100 meters run - 100
i. 100 meters run - 100
ii. Broad Jump/High Jump - 100 with option to
choose any one the events
ii. Broad Jump/High Jump - 100 With option to
choose any one of the events
iii. Putting the shot (12 Lbs) - 100
iii. Putting the short (8 lbs) or ball through -
100
iv. 800 meters run - 100
iv. 400 meters run - 100
(b) Skills Test: 100 marks: The candidate should
have skills in one game of each of the following.
i. Foot Ball
vi. Tennis
ii. Basket Ball
vii. Badminton (Shuttle or Ball Badminton)
iii. Volleyball
viii. Kabadi
iv. Hockey
ix. Kho-Kho
v. Cricket
x. Hand Ball
(2) Scheme of a ward of incentive marks: The
candidate possessing the following distinction with the
certificates issued by the authorities/bodies mentioned shall be
entitled to additional incentive marks as mentioned against each
category and these marks shall be added to the marks scored in
Games Skill Test:
|-
| Sports Distinction
| Certificate issuing authority
| Incentive marks to be awarded
|-
| (a) Representing the Country it International
Meet
| All India Association and Federation in a
discipline affiliated to Indian Olympic Association
Page 4/8
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Under Graduate Diploma in Physical Educ...
| 100 marks
|-
| (b) Participation at National level meets
| All India Association and Federation in a
discipline affiliated to Indian Olympic Association
| 1st position 75 marks
2nd.
position 50 marks
3rd.
position 30 marks
|-
| (c) Participation at the State/Inter-versity
meets
| (i) Andhra Pradesh State Associations(ii) Heads
of Departments Physical Education of Universities (Countersigned
by Vice-Chancellor/ Registrar of the University wherever Zonal
Meets in between Universities are organized:
| 1st position 25 marks
2nd. position 20 marks
3rd. position 15 marks
|-
| (d) Participation in Open National meet/
Universities
| State Association in a discipline affiliated to
the State Olympic Association
| 15 marks
|-
| (e) For additional educational qualifications or
Technical Training certificates in Games and Sports
| National Institute of Sports or any other
Recognized body
| For Diploma - 5 marks
For certificate - 2 marks
|}
5.
Physical Education Common Entrance Test (PECET).
(1)
The PECET shall be conducted by the Convenor, appointed by the competent authority and shall be held on such date
and centres as may be specified by State Council in consultation with the PECET Committee.
(2)
The Convenor of PECET shall give a notification in the widely circulated daily Newspapers as decided by CET
Committee calling for the applications in the prescribed form from the candidates satisfying eligibility criteria as laid
down, in Rule 3.
(3)
The notification among other things, shall indicate the cost of application, Entrance Test Fee, the last date for receipt of
the duly filled in applications and the date of conduct of PECET.
(4)
The Date of the entrance test as notified above shall not be revised with out the prior approval of the Government.
(5)
The qualifying mark for ranking in the PECET shall be 30% of the aggregate marks provided that there shall be no
minimum qualifying marks for the candidates belonging to the category of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe for
Page 5/8
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Under Graduate Diploma in Physical Educ...
ranking.
(6)
There is no provision for re-totaling, re-valuation or Personal identification of Response sheets (Answer Scripts) of the
Entrance Test.
(7)
Mere appearance at the Entrance Test does not automatically entitle a candidate to be considered for admission into
Physical Education Courses unless the candidate satisfies the requirement of eligibility as laid down under Rule 3 and
other criteria laid down in the Rules for Admission that shall be issued separately.
(8)
If any ambiguity or doubt arises in the interpretation or implementation of any of rules, the decision of Chairman shall be
final.
6.
Preparation of the Merit list and assigning ranking.
- The Convenor shall follow the following rules in preparing the merit list and assigning the ranking.
(1)
The candidate who have secured qualifying marks in PECET and candidates belonging to the category of Scheduled
Caste and Scheduled Tribe to whom qualifying marks have not been prescribed, shall be assigned the ranking in the
order of the merit on the basis of the aggregate marks obtained in all subjects put together.
(2)
For the preparation of merit list, in case of more than one student scoring the same aggregate marks, the tie shall be
resolved to decide the relative ranking as follows:
(i)
By considering the marks scored in Physical efficiency test shall be taken into consideration.
(ii)
In case of further tie, total marks obtained in qualifying examination shall be taken into consideration.
(iii)
In case of candidates getting equal marks at the qualifying examination also, they shall be bracketed for the purpose of
award of rank. At the time admission age shall be taken into consideration for relative ranking among the bracketed
candidates and older candidate ! shall be given priority.
(3)
The following rank lists shall be prepared by the Convenor:
(i)
State-wide Common Merit List: The list shall include candidates 1 irrespective of whether one belongs to any category of
reservation quota or not, basing on the marks obtained in the PECET.
(ii)
Local area-wise Common Merit List: The list includes candidates belonging to the particular local area irrespective of
whether one belongs to any category of reservation quota or not basing on the marks obtained in the PECET.
(iii)
Concerned Minority Community Merit Lists: They include merit lists, containing the candidates belonging to the different
Minority Communities arranged in the Merit ranking assigned in the PECET, both State-wide and Local area-wise.
(iv)
Community-wise Merit Lists. - There shall be separate Community-wise merit lists for the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled
Tribes and Backward classes Communities, both as State-wide and Local area-wise; and
(v)
Merit list for other categories of reservation: There shall be separate lists for other categories of reservations as per the
orders in force for physically handicapped, NCC, Games and Sports, Children of ex-servicemen and for women both
State-wide and Local area-wise.
(4)
Every candidate who has been assigned rank in the merit list shall be issued Rank Card by the Convenor. The Rank
Card, among other things include the details of the category of course to which the candidate is qualified viz.,
U.G.D.P.Ed./B.P.Ed./M.P.Ed., the rank assigned in the State wide/Local area-wise,lists and the category-wise
Page 6/8
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Under Graduate Diploma in Physical Educ...
reservation lists, if any.
7.
Constitution of PECET Committee.
- The competent authority shall constitute the PECET committee to deal with the matters connected with the test. The
composition of the Committee shall consist of the following.
(1)
Chairman, who shall be the Vice-Chancellor of any University nominated by the competent authority for each academic
year for the purpose of conducting PECET.
(2)
One representative belonging to the Physical Education Department, of each of the University to be nominated by the
Competent Authority in consultation with the Vice-Chancellor concerned.
(3)
The Commissioner of School Education A. P. or his nominee not below the rank of Joint Director.
(4)
One representative of Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education nominated by the competent authority.
(5)
Convenor of the Entrance Test of the preceding year.
(6)
Convenor, who should be the rank of a Professor or Head of the Department of Physical Education of the University
concerned be appointed by the competent authority in consultation with Chairman of the PECET Committee.
(7)
One Principal, of a private Physical Education college to be nominated by the competent authority for each academic
year by turn.
8.
Functions of the PECET Committee.
- The PECET Committee shall take decisions on the following issues relating to the PECET.
(1)
Cost of the application and fee to be collected from the candidates of PECET.
(2)
Norms for the payment of remuneration for different items/services undertaken in connection with PECET work.
(3)
Date of announcement of results
(4)
Date of Test
(5)
Such other issues as may be referred by the Chairman of the committee and competent authority.
9.
Functions of the Chairman of the Committee.
- Chairman of the Committee
(1)
Shall preside over all the meetings of the committee in his absence he may nominate one of the members of the
committee to preside over the meetings.
(2)
Shall appoint paper setters, moderators for the PECET and decide upon the printing press or presses where the
confidential material of the Test shall be printed.
(3)
May appoint a competent officer to assist the Convenor.
10.
Functions of the Convenor of the Committee.
- The Convenor of the PECET shall subject to such directions as may be issued by the Chairman to discharge his duties
in the matters relating to the PECET. The Convenor, is specifically responsible for discharging the following functions:
Page 7/8
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Under Graduate Diploma in Physical Educ...
(1)
The printing of application form of PECET.
(2)
Issuing the notification inviting application for the Entrance Test.
(3)
Sale of application forms and issue of Hall-Tickets.
(4)
Appointment of Coordinators/Chief Superintendents/Observers of various Test Centres.
(5)
Payment of remuneration for various items/services utilized for the purpose of PECET.
(6)
Maintenance and submission of accounts to the APSCHE
(7)
Publication of results and dispatch of Itank Cards to the qualified candidates.
(8)
Such other duties as entrusted by the Chairman.
11.
Funds for the conduct of the Test.
(1)
The amounts that are collected from the candidates towards cost of the application and the examination fee shall be
directly credited into the account of the Secretary, Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education, Hyderabad.
(2)
The Convenor shall draw advances from the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education necessary expenditure
for items/Services connected with the PECET and submit for audit to the Local Fund Audit and report thereof be
submitted to the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education.
12.
Special Direction from the Government.
- In the event of any malpractice or leakage of question paper/ in any other circumstances leading to the stopping of
PECET as scheduled the Government may for the reasons to be recorded in writing direct the conduct of a
reexamination of the PECET. In such a event the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education or any other body
so nominated by the Government shall cause the Re-examination conducted by appointment, nominating such
functionaries or committees as considered necessary.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 8/8