
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Study of Languages in School Education Rules, 2003
Andhra Pradesh Study of Languages in School Education Rules, 2003
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/100579795/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Study of Languages in School Education Rules, 2003
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Study of Languages in School Education Rules, 2003
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-STUDY-OF-LANGUAGES-IN-SCHOOL-EDUCATION-RULES-2003 of 2003
Published on 2 July 2003
Commenced on 2 July 2003
[This is the version of this document from 2 July 2003.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Study of Languages in School Education Rules, 2003
Published vide Notification G.O.Ms.No. 86, Education (SE-C & TBP), 2nd July, 2003 Published in Andhra Pradesh
Gazette R.S. to Part-1, dated 24-7-2003.
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 7 read with Section 99 of the Andhra Pradesh Education Act, 1982
(Andhra Pradesh Act
1 of 1982
) and in supersession of the existing rules/proceedings/instructions/orders on the subject, the Governor of Andhra
Pradesh hereby makes the following rules relating Three Language Formula.
1.
Short title, application and commencement:
(1)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Study of Languages in School Education Rules, 2003
These Rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Study of Languages in School Education Rules, 2003.
(2)
They shall apply to all the Schools in the State.
(3)
They shall come into force with effect from the academic year 2003-2004.
2.
Study of Languages in Schools:
- In pursuance of three language Formula, the students in the schools shall study the Languages from Class I to Class X
as specified below:–
(I)
Telugu Medium Schools -
(a)
First Language  -  Classes I to X-Telugu
(b)
Second Language  -  Classes VI to X-Hindi
(c)
Third Language  -  Classes V to X-English
(II)
English Medium Schools;
(a)
First Language:
Class I to Class X
(i)
Telugu in case of the students whose mother tongue is either Telugu or English.
(ii)
Telugu or Mother tongue in the case of students whose Mother tongue is other than Telugu or English.
(b)
Second Language:
Classes VI to X
(i)
Hindi in the case of the students who have taken Telugu as first language.
(ii)
Telugu in the case of the students who have taken other than Telugu as first language.
(c)
Third Language.
Classes I to X - English
(III)
Other Media Schools: (other than Telugu & English Mediums)
(a)
First Language.
Classes I to X - the Language of the Medium of instruction concerned.
(b)
Second Language.
Classes VI to X - Telugu.
(c)
Third Language.
Classes V to X - English.
3.
Implementation of Three Language Formula:
- All the new schools which are going to be permitted from the academic year 2003-2004 onwards shall follow the
"Three Language Formula" as is being implemented in the State.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Study of Languages in School Education Rules, 2003
4.
Certain Prohibition on the Management of the School:
- On and from the date of commencement of these rules, no management of the schools shall,
(i)
allow any student to study the languages in deviation of Rule 2;
(ii)
teach any language in addition to the languages prescribed in Rule 2.
5.
De-recognition of the Schools:
- Any Management of the school which violates the clause (i) of Rule 4, shall be de-recognised and the permission
granted to the school shall be withdrawn after giving an opportunity to it.
6.
Ineligibility to hold the post of the head of the School:
- Any head of the schools/institutions, who commits the prohibition specified under Rule 4 shall, after giving an
opportunity, be declared as ineligible to hold the post and also further appointment as head of another recognised
school/ institution and shall also be removed from the post held by him.
7.
Exemption:
- It shall be competent for the District Education Officer concerned basing on the report of the school concerned to
exempt any student, whose mother tongue is not Telugu and who migrates from other States of India or from other
countries or of foreign nationals to join in VI Class and above, from studying Telugu as Second Language and however
the Student shall take "Special English" as Second Language.
To become eligible for the above exemption a student from other States of India shall submit to the school, wherein the
student is seeking admission, the Original Transfer Certificates issued by the Institution, where the student had studied
the previous class; and a student from other countries or a foreign national, who intends to study in this State shall
submit a certificate or certificates indicating the standard or the class or the course studied by the student and statement
of marks or grade obtained by the student and or; whether the student passed or failed in the said standard or class or
course. The equivalency of any class to be admitted in this State to the Standard or class or course studied in foreign
countries shall be determined by the Director of School Education.
Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 128, Secondary Education (Prog I), dated 31-10-2009.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3